1 2012-11-01 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday's selection includes Airbnb trying to help people in places affected by Hurricane Sandy, Marissa Mayer introduces her baby, Macalli...
2 2012-11-01 Several U.S. universities are extending their early admission deadlines for all students, including those affected by Hurricane Sandy....
3 2012-11-01 Analysts say it is too early to speculate how many vehicles have been damaged by Hurricane Sandy but the number could exceed the about 300,000 affected by Hurricane Katrina....
4 2012-11-01 In a storm-disrupted week that caused a two-day shutdown of the stock market, Restoration Hardware Holdings has managed to pull off a long-awaited initial public offering....
5 2012-11-01 Net income was $24.4 million, up from $19.7 million a year earlier and beating analysts' estimates. Revenue was $186.3 million, up about 16 percent from $160.8 million in the year-earlier quarter....
6 2012-11-01 Dragged down by advertising and circulation declines,  Everyday Food will no longer be a stand-alone magazine, and Whole Living is being put up for sale....
7 2012-11-01 The play, which was scheduled to open Thursday night, will be performed as a reading by flashlight as a pay-what-you-can benefit....
8 2012-11-01 The automaker says its electronic steering system is safer than a mechanical steering system....
9 2012-11-01 Companies are starting to warn investors about the harsh effects of the coming fiscal cliff of federal spending cuts and tax increases, which would begin to take effect after Dec. 31....
10 2012-11-01 In response to Carl C. Icahn’s announcement that he had built up a roughly 10 percent stake in Netflix, the company said it is open to his perspective on how to build success....
11 2012-11-01 Microsoft’s focus on forming patterns and predictions with computers could make machine learning a core part of all its businesses....
12 2012-11-01 Carl C. Icahn will probably push for a sale of Netflix, which the company may try to defend even if shareholders want a sale to happen....
13 2012-11-01 Also, Sony reports that it has slowed its losses, and now expects a full-year profit....
14 2012-11-01 Steven P. Jobs pushed Apple's software designers to use virtual doodads that mimic the appearance and behavior of real-world things, like wooden shelves for organizing newspapers. But the company's management shake-up is likely to mean that Apple ...
15 2012-11-01 Those owners who do want to grow have to develop the ability to create capital for growth. They also have to learn tools and techniques for running a larger company. It's not for everyone....
16 2012-11-01 A drug producer linked to the pharmacy at the center of a national meningitis outbreak announced a recall of all of its products Wednesday after federal regulators found that it had not provided enough assurance that all the medicines it made were sterile.

The company, Ameridose, which is based in Massachusetts and is a major supplier of sterile injectable medications to hospitals across the country, underscored that there had been no reports of impurities in any of its products and said that it had announced the recall “out of an abundance of caution.”

The company sells more than 2,200 blended drug products, including tranquilizers, anesthetics and antibiotics, according to its Web site. The drugs are pumped into both injectable and oral syringes, as well as intravenous medicine bags. It said it would post the precise list of all the products on its Web site, ameridose.com.

The announcement represented another blow to the family behind Ameridose and its sister company, the New England Compounding Center, whose fungal-tainted steroid medication was responsible for the deaths of 29 people. Ameridose has taken pains to emphasize that it is legally distinct from New England Compounding. But the companies are owned by some of the same people. Federal officials have said Ameridose is part of the investigation because of concerns that it had some of the same business practices as New England Compounding.

Federal and state regulators have suspended operations at Ameridose until Monday. The Massachusetts Department of Public Health said Wednesday that the agreement with the company was “under review.”
17 2012-11-01 Justice Scalia told the defendant’s lawyer, Howard K. Blumberg, that he had been “misguided to concede” that even a police officer without a dog was entitled to conduct an olfactory inspection of a front door.

Mr. Blumberg quickly adopted the point but later made a second argument that Justice Scalia found insufficiently aggressive.

“Again, I think you’re wrong to accept that,” Justice Scalia told Mr. Blumberg about the relevance of a police officer’s state of mind in approaching a front door.

“If he’s going on just to knock on the door to sell tickets to the policeman’s ball,” Justice Scalia said of the hypothetical policeman, “that’s fine. If he’s going on to conduct a search, that’s something else.”

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said there was no precedent for that distinction.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked if there was anything to prevent the police from routinely using dogs to “sniff in front of every door, or go into an apartment building.”

Gregory G. Garre, a lawyer representing the prosecutors, said “they could do that” but might be deterred by “the restraint on resources and the check of community hostility.”

Justice Ginsburg asked whether a “no dogs allowed” sign on the front lawn would be effective, and Mr. Garre said yes. “That’s a way in which the house is different than a car,” he said.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor said that the court’s eventual decision in the case, Florida v. Jardines, No. 11-564, might therefore in essence “tell all the drug dealers, put up a sign that says, ‘no dogs.’ ”

Without such a sign or something similar, Mr. Garre said, “There is an implied consent for people, visitors, salesmen, Girl Scouts, trick-or-treaters, to come up to your house.”

There was a dispute about how long Franky had spent sniffing around, and Justice Stephen G. Breyer suggested that the answer might affect his analysis.

“Would a homeowner resent someone coming with a large animal sitting in front of his front step on his property and sitting there sniffing for five to 15 minutes?” he asked, indicating that it would not be plausible to assume consent in that situation.

Justice Elena Kagan seemed to agree. “This dog is there for some extended period of time, going back and forth and back and forth, trying to figure out where the greatest concentration of the smell is,” she said, adding that it seemed to be “a lengthy and obtrusive process.”

On the other hand, Justice Kagan later said, a brief visit to the front door might be different.

“The dog comes up, takes a sniff, barks, sits down,” she said. “And, you know, to make it even more, the dog is not a scary-looking dog. The dog is a cockapoo.”

Mr. Blumberg said nothing would turn on those distinctions.

“Whether it’s a cockapoo or Franky, who, from all the pictures, appears to be a very cute dog,” Mr. Blumberg said, “it’s not what the dog looks like, it’s what the dog is doing on the front porch.”

The second argument, in Florida v. Harris, No. 11-817, concerned Aldo, a German shepherd who helped his human partner find chemicals used to make methamphetamines in a pickup truck that had been pulled over near Bristol, Fla. The questioning was sedate, and the defendant’s lawyer, Glen P. Gifford, seemed to gain little traction for his argument that Aldo’s reliability had not been adequately established.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the issue should be left to trial judges.

Joseph R. Palmore, a lawyer for the federal government, which supported the prosecutors in both cases, said police dogs did invaluable work.

“There are 32 K-9 teams in the field right now in New York and New Jersey looking for survivors of Hurricane Sandy,” he said.

Chief Justice Roberts asked whether dogs that were good at one task were necessarily good at another. “Can they be good at bombs,” he asked, “but not good at meth?”

Mr. Palmore said he did not know because dogs tended to specialize. “I think once a dog kind of chooses a major,” he said, “that’s what they stick with.”
18 2012-11-01 Apple’s software has been designed to simulate real-world objects....
19 2012-11-01 Axel Roesler, associate professor and chairman of the interaction design program at the University of Washington, says Apple’s software designs had become larded with nostalgia, unnecessary visual references to the past that he compared to Greek columns in modern-day architecture. He said he would like to see Mr. Ive take a fresh approach.

“Apple, as a design leader, is not only capable of doing this, they have a responsibility for doing it,” he said. “People expect great things from them.”

Apple’s customers do not seem to have serious qualms about the design choices the company has made as they continue to buy iPhones and iPads at a healthy clip. But within the circles of designers and technology executives outside Apple who obsess over the details of how products look and work, there has been a growing amount of grumbling in recent years that Apple’s approach is starting to look dated.

The style favored by Mr. Forstall and Mr. Jobs is known in this crowd as skeuomorphism, in which certain images and metaphors, like a spiral-bound notebook or stitched leather, are used in software to give people a reassuring real-world reference.

In contrast, Microsoft, not known as a big risk-taker, has been praised recently for taking greater creative risks in the design of its software than Apple has. It has come up with a visual style that is now used throughout its computer, mobile and game products. It relies heavily on typography and sheets of tiles that provide access to programs and are updated with photos and other online information. It is not yet clear whether this approach will be a hit with people who do not spend time thinking about design.

Bill Flora, a former Microsoft designer who created the earliest prototypes of its new visual style, said Apple had not been innovative enough in the design of its software. “I have found their hardware to be amazing and sophisticated, and I have found their software to be kind of old school,” said Mr. Flora, who now has his own design firm, Tectonic, in Seattle. “Their approach really wasn’t what I was taught as a designer in design school.”

Even internal critics of Apple’s software designs say that some references to physical things are still useful. The trash bin on the Mac, for example, is a much-used metaphor for deleting files, one that is unlikely to go away soon. There is also a function in the new Passbook app that runs deleted loyalty and payment cards through something resembling a paper shredder. Some Apple designers see that as a good way of reinforcing the idea that potentially sensitive information has been wiped from the device.

But Apple causes conniptions among designers when its visual metaphors seem outdated or downright archaic. Apple’s Podcasts app for its mobile products displays a reel-to-reel tape machine, a product probably few people under 40 have ever seen.

Apple’s use of textures representing physical materials is also often ridiculed. In addition to linen, Apple has found opportunities to decorate the borders of its software, including the Calendar app on the iPad and the Find My Friends app on the iPhone, with a tan faux-animal skin that some critics have sarcastically called Corinthian leather, after the upholstery used in Chrysler cars in the 1970s.

The allusions to the past also affect how certain parts of its software function. Its iBooks application organizes electronic books on a set of wood-grained shelves, and the books are thumbed through with a page-turning animation. Some designers see that and similar functions in Apple’s software as silly throwbacks to the past, plopped into advanced devices.

“It’s like putting horses in front of a car, basically,” said Dr. Roesler of the University of Washington.

Handing decisions about software design over to Mr. Ive, who is known almost entirely for his work in hardware, could be risky. One former Apple employee who worked in software for several years said he had never seen Mr. Ive in a meeting and suggested that Mr. Ive would have to work to win credibility among Mr. Forstall’s loyalists. This person declined to be named discussing internal matters because he did not want to antagonize Apple.

But those who know him expect Mr. Ive — known to friends and colleagues as Jony — to waste little time in putting his own stamp on the look of the company’s software, including iOS for mobile devices and OS X for Macs.

“You can be sure that the next generation of iOS and OS X will have Jony’s industrial design aesthetic all over them,” said a designer who works at Apple but declined to be named as he is not allowed to speak publicly. “Clean edges, flat surfaces will likely replace the textures that are all over the place right now.”
20 2012-11-01 A person’s home is a place where the Constitution resolutely protects the right to privacy and the freedom from unreasonable government intrusion. That should include protection under the Fourth Amendment from the police using a dog to smell for drugs outside the door of a house without a warrant.

At the Supreme Court on Wednesday, the justices heard arguments in two Florida cases involving dogs used to detect illegal drugs. In the first, the police responded to a Crime Stoppers tip and took a dog named Franky to a house before getting a warrant. The dog gave the signal that there was a scent of contraband. Afterward, the police got a warrant, searched the home and found marijuana growing inside.

In the second, an officer and his drug-detection dog, Aldo, were on patrol. The officer stopped a truck after confirming that its license plate had expired. When the officer approached the truck and noticed the driver was shaking and could not sit still, he asked if he could search the truck. The driver said no, so the officer deployed Aldo, who did a “free air sniff” and “alerted” the officer to the presence of drugs. The officer found chemicals in the truck for making methamphetamine.

In a 2001 case, the Supreme Court ruled that the police cannot use a heat-seeking device to probe the interior of a home without a search warrant. Justice Antonin Scalia explained that “sense-enhancing technology” got information that “could not otherwise have been obtained without ‘physical intrusion into a constitutionally protected area,’ ” just as a sniffing dog did in the marijuana case.

The court has made a distinction between a vehicle and a home in earlier search-and-seizure cases. It has said the expectation about privacy is lower for vehicles, so a dog sniff outside a truck is not a search. But a search inside the truck without probable cause would violate the Fourth Amendment.

To show that they had a reliable basis for going ahead with such a search, the police must do more than show that a dog was properly trained and certified to detect drugs. Police must also be required to present enough information about a dog and a handler’s training and performance for a court to believe the dog gives accurate information.

The Florida cases might seem less than serious with Franky and Aldo as protagonists, but the outcomes for constitutional principles are significant. In the first case, the search in front of neighbors was intrusive and humiliating for the defendant. Unless the Supreme Court says that the Constitution forbids this kind of search, the sniff test at a private home without proof of wrongdoing will set a precedent for intrusion into any home.
21 2012-11-01 CAIRO — The Libyan Parliament voted overwhelmingly on Wednesday to approve the new prime minister’s cabinet, ending months of uncertainty about who was in charge of the government. The top officials of defense and security are now expected to take responsibility for investigating the attack on the American Mission in Benghazi on Sept. 11 of this year, as well as the larger challenge of controlling the militias that have dominated Libya since the death of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi more than a year ago.

The approval follows three weeks of confusion after the newly elected Parliament named an earlier prime minister and then removed him in less than a month. It had rejected his attempt to form a cabinet, leaving in place a lame-duck team criticized as weak from the moment it was named last fall.

The political paralysis had left the government in limbo as it scrambled to respond to the Benghazi attacks.

The new prime minister, Ali Zeidan, previously worked as a human rights lawyer in Geneva, where he was a leader of an exiled opposition group, the National Front for the Salvation of Libya.

Mr. Zeidan was chosen two weeks ago as prime minister with the backing of the Parliament’s two largest blocs of voters — the relatively secular coalition formed around the wartime civilian leader Mahmoud Jibril, and the moderate Islamist coalition formed by Libya’s Muslim Brotherhood. In Parliament, 105 of the 200 members voted to approve Mr. Zeidan’s cabinet; 9 voted against, and the rest were absent or abstained. (Many were traveling for a Muslim holiday or pilgrimage).

An initial attempt to vote on the new government was called off on Tuesday after protesters stormed the Parliament. Some demonstrators complained that certain regions were underrepresented in the proposed cabinet; ultraconservative Islamists charged that a religious affairs minister belonged to a mystical sect, and others accused certain ministers of having ties to the Qaddafi government. But on Wednesday, tight security prevented another protest from derailing the vote, and the lawmakers then exited quickly for their own safety.
22 2012-11-01 I keep track of a bunch of metrics to see how our sales process is working. Beyond the most important number (monthly sales volume), I look at Web traffic; the number of inquiries coming in each day, week and month; the number of proposals written; and how much each salesman contributes to these totals.

My records are kept on various spreadsheets, which are on Google Docs and are shared with my two salesmen. The Web stats are done through the AdWords campaign management screens, which I access by logging into my AdWords account. I keep track of enough information to form a statistical picture of what is happening. And I do this for many other aspects of our operation besides sales. It all adds up to something like Niagara Falls landing on my head. The challenge, of course, is to pick meaning out of all of the information.

As winter turned to spring this year, many of my statistics were looking good. But there was a worrisome trend to sales — the monthly total was falling. These sales numbers say it all: January: $193,154. February: $213,669. March: $135,732. April: $146,677.

I also noticed a change in our mix of inquiries. After our successful product introduction, we were seeing more calls for low-priced modular tables. These were coming from schools, municipal governments and nonprofits. But there was a noticeable slowdown in both large corporate clients and what I call “boss-driven” transactions, our bread and butter. These clients are not as price-sensitive as others, and they tend to make buying decisions quickly.

Maybe I’m unusual, but I like to have a story to tell myself about what’s happening at any given moment in my business. As sales fell in the spring, I put together one of these stories in my mind. The sky was falling again, I concluded, just as it had in 2008 — bosses and corporations everywhere were scaling back on spending. I was about to be victimized by vast forces beyond my control.

That’s what I told the members of my Vistage business group. We meet once a month, and a portion of each meeting is devoted to analyzing the business issues faced by members. When a member presents a problem, the others listen, ask questions and suggest solutions.

Through the spring, I kept the group updated as my sales collapsed, and in May, I told everyone that I felt like the victim of a bad economy. The thing was, nobody else in the business group was having such a hard time. One of the members told me bluntly: “I don’t want to hear any more about the euro or health care or whatever excuses you come up with. This is YOUR problem, and YOU have to solve it.”

It was excellent advice. Complaining hadn’t helped, so I had to keep trying things until we either recovered or went under. But if it wasn’t an outside problem, what could it be? It had to be something about my marketing, and that meant the problem was in AdWords. I went back to the basic issue: no more calls from bosses looking to spend their own money. Where had they gone? Looking at the data again, I spotted a pattern I had overlooked. After I had introduced those modular tables, we started getting more calls for them from schools and nonprofits. These calls tended to come in the morning or middle of the day. Unfortunately, neither schools nor nonprofits have much money, so these inquiries weren’t generating much revenue.

Bosses, who actually have decent budgets, tend to call late in the day. I started tracking to see whether the ads for our higher-priced tables were appearing throughout the day — and sure enough, by about 2 p.m., they had stopped running. My daily budget had not been exhausted, but Google was showing only the ads that got the most impressions and the most clicks, the ones for the inexpensive tables — even though their click-through rate was much lower than the rates for my more expensive tables. In other words, my budget was being wasted. It was putting ads in front of people who were not as interested in our products and could not really afford them. But Google’s algorithm saw the total number of clicks generated as evidence of success, regardless of whether we closed business.

So I started telling myself a new story — not that the economy was collapsing but that my AdWords spending was going to the wrong people. Fortunately, there is a simple fix for this. You can fragment a campaign into smaller campaigns and give each its own budget. That way, ads for one product won’t drain traffic from other products.

The first week after the changes included the Fourth of July, and we got few calls. But the following week there was a significant jump, and for the first time in a month, there was a nice sprinkling of boss calls. In July, our sales were $144,893 — not where I wanted them to be but not awful. At last, in August, we got back to our target, closing $200,607 in new orders. September was also strong: $220,361. And in October, we hit our target in the first three days of the month.

My cash is still way behind where it was at the beginning of the year, but if sales stay strong, I should recover before the year ends. I think my problem is fixed. That’s the story I’m telling myself, anyway.
23 2012-11-01 ALMOST every item in the Thomas Paul housewares collection features animals: horses, birds, whales, even octopuses, printed on throw pillows, bedding, decorative boxes, shower curtains.

Thomas Fernez, who owns the company and designs all the pieces, attributes his fascination with animals to growing up in Manhattan. “I didn’t have a lot of contact with nature,” he said. “I still get excited when I see a nondomesticated animal.”

Now 39, he lives in Hell’s Kitchen in an apartment filled with furnishings shaped like animals — but without any real animals. “I’m allergic to cats,” he said, “which is the only pet I’d want.”

Mr. Fernez, who describes himself as “obsessed with birds and horses,” has amassed his collection over the last decade and is always in search of more. A reporter recently accompanied him on a shopping trip and found enough to fill a menagerie.

His first stop was at Lladro on West 57th Street, where he said he occasionally “pops in” to look around because he’s a fan of “birds that perch” and is drawn to the store’s Parrot Parade collection. “I like that the base is modern and really simple,” he said, “juxtaposed with the more-complicated porcelain bird. It makes the bird stand out more.”
24 2012-11-01 Thomas Fernez, who attributes his fascination with animals to growing up in Manhattan, shops for a menagerie of interesting housewares.
25 2012-11-01 Bloomberg said that the decision to seek the postponement “was all up to me.”

Brett Yormark, the chief executive of the Nets and the arena, said by telephone that the mayor’s “further due diligence and assessment of the damage made it clear that there were higher priorities than hosting the first Nets game in Brooklyn, and we agreed that was the case.”

He added, “The mayor delved a little deeper and boy, there are a lot of people suffering out there and we needed to pause.”

Silver said the league was also swayed by traffic reports that it was extremely difficult to maneuver in Downtown Brooklyn. “But ultimately, it was the mayor’s call.”

Yormark said that there was “overwhelming feedback” from fans on e-mail, Twitter and Facebook that they wanted the game to be played. At dinner Tuesday night in a Manhattan restaurant, he said that three season-ticket holders approached him to ask that the game not be postponed. Those encounters occurred shortly before the N.B.A. said the game would be played, which Yormark said, “was the right thing to do” at the time.

The N.B.A. prefers not to postpone games; it has previously postponed 11 regular-season games since 2000, primarily because of severe weather or weather-related travel problems. Generally, if the teams and officials can reach an arena, the game goes on, even if only a few thousand fans are in attendance. On Tuesday, the officials and the TNT broadcasting crew were advised to plan as if the game were to be played.

In an e-mail, Marv Albert, who was to call the Knicks-Nets game for TNT, said that he was informed of the postponement as he was boarding a plane in Miami.

The storm has created some problems for the Nets and the Knicks. The Knicks’ practice facility in Greenburgh, N.Y., had a power outage for an hour on Wednesday, while the Nets’ facility in East Rutherford, N.J., has been without power since the storm hit, with its first floor flooded. Nets Coach Avery Johnson in an ESPN radio interview Wednesday said the facility might not be available for two weeks.

The Nets practiced, instead, at Barclays Center on Wednesday and expect to be there again on Thursday, giving them more of a local Brooklyn vibe, with some players staying at nearby hotels, rather than at homes in Manhattan and New Jersey.

Johnson moved to a hotel in Manhattan on Sunday before the storm from his apartment in a Jersey City high rise, which now has no elevator service.

Tyshawn Taylor, the Nets’ rookie point guard, has been virtually trapped in his Hoboken apartment because of flooding in the city and could not make practice.

Nets General Manager Billy King said that the team was more concerned with survival than playing its first home game at Barclays against the Knicks.

“I think a lot of guys were in that survival mode,” he said, and added, “even though we had a game on our mind, I think today was a good day for them to just exercise and get out of the house.”

Deron Williams, the Nets’ star point guard, said: “We were disappointed that we can’t play, but there’s a lot more important things going on right now. A lot of people displaced from their homes, a lot of people lost love ones. So in the grand scheme of things, a basketball game really doesn’t mean much right now.” He added, “I think it’s better to open the building with a good buzz and good atmosphere. That would be hard to do if people can’t really get to the games.”

Yormark said he would try to reschedule the game for a date before the end of the year. Now, his focus is on Saturday’s game against the Toronto Raptors, which will be the team’s regular-season debut at Barclays.

“Hopefully,” he said, “more rail will come on line and we’ll have a robust bus program to get fans to the game.”

Meanwhile, the Knicks will open their season Friday night against the Miami Heat at Madison Square Garden, where more fans might be able to reach from within Manhattan without encountering severe transportation problems.
26 2012-11-01 The five-person Queiroga Construction is hoping to meet demand with longer hours and subcontractors. Many construction companies along the East Coast, though, say they expect to hire, although the magnitude of the work and the number of additional laborers are still to be determined.

“There is going to be so much manpower required, and we are already spread so thin,” said Bill O’Connell, president of Elite Public Adjusters, which runs both an insurance adjustment company and a restoration and construction business in North Wildwood, N.J. He expects at least a million dollars of work from this storm. “I’m a little worried about being overwhelmed. The phones are ringing off the hook and we won’t be able to get to a lot of people.”

Some companies expressed concern about finding enough workers quickly, given that the slowdown in construction over the last few years has caused workers to seek their fortunes elsewhere.

“Over the course of the recession, 60 to 75 percent of construction workers left the area because there was no work to keep them busy,” said Pat Broom, owner of Phoenix Restoration, a 15-year-old company in Kill Devil Hills, N.C., on the Outer Banks. “That’s the first thing we worried about this morning when we got in: Where do we get the people?”

Even in areas where people are desperate for work, some companies say they have trouble finding workers with the skills and motivation for hard physical labor.

“The challenge is going to be finding help,” said John Scotti of Scotti Brothers Custom Home Renovation in Cumberland County, N.J. “The phone doesn’t stop ringing with people looking for jobs, and then you bring them in and they don’t want to work. The only ones that want to work are those who are here illegally.”

Businesses are hoping that the burst of construction work will draw back workers to their areas. Last year, the rebuilding efforts from Hurricane Irene attracted construction workers and insurance adjusters from as far away as Texas.

So far, though, companies said they have been inundated with more calls for work than job applicants. Some expect workers to start flowing into affected areas later this week when transportation returns to normal.

While some pleas for service are coming in steadily and urgently, it will probably take awhile for the bulk of the construction jobs to get going in earnest.

First, the areas need to dry out sufficiently for crews to begin work, which could take days to weeks. After Tropical Storm Ernesto in 2006, said Ms. Broom of Phoenix Restoration in the Outer Banks, it took two weeks for the standing water to dry in some areas. In the meantime, septic systems overflowed and bacteria festered, making the jobs more complicated and expensive.

Many homeowners are also waiting for insurance companies to come through with money or at least an assessment, a process that can take days or months.

“Especially with the way the economy is, people don’t have money just sitting in the bank to pay for a $20,000 or $30,000 job,” said Victor Rosado, owner of Professional Home Builders in Milford, Conn. And often, people struggle to come up with the costs that insurance does not cover.

“No one’s ever whole after something like this,” Mr. Rosado said. “They tend to think that the insurance company will come in and make everything whole, but that never happens.”

He said that money from the Federal Emergency Management Agency may help hasten the pace of reconstruction, since President Obama authorized federal aid for parts of the country struck by the storm.

The other reason reconstruction may drag on over the next year is that many of the affected areas — like the Jersey Shore or the Outer Banks — are vacation areas, and the vacation season is over. Some owners have started calling construction companies and claims adjusters to survey the damage. Others are hundreds of miles away and out of touch.

Even those in the affected area or somewhere nearby may not have power and are having difficulty contacting contractors, insurance companies and other services.

While construction companies and their new hires may profit from the destruction, homeowners and companies are out billions of dollars for their physical damages and lost business hours, which can ripple through local economies. But one longer-term benefit might be new building stock that is better than what was swept away, as was the case in rebuilding along the Outer Banks in North Carolina after previous storms.

“When government authorities facilitate rebuilding quickly and effectively, the process of economic renewal, in many tangible ways, can leave communities better off than before,” said Peter Morici, an economics professor at the Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland.

He estimated that the economic losses from Sandy would be $35 billion to $45 billion, but that economic benefits from reconstruction and its ripple effects would total about $27 billion to $36 billion, not including gains of about $10 billion “from a more modern and productive capital stock.”
27 2012-11-01 The dozen or so staff members at the ramp, an important nerve center on the floor of the exchange, scanned a wall of monitors to check on market activity but they showed a relatively normal amount of activity.

As far as the investor reaction to the shutdown, panic did not seem to sweep the markets. The Dow ended the day down 10.75 points, or 0.08 percent, at 13,096.46. The Nasdaq closed down 10.72 points, or 0.36 percent, at 2,977.23. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, meanwhile, ended fractionally higher, closing at 1.412.16, up 0.02 percent.

As may have been expected, shares of insurers were down. The Travelers Companies, for instance, whose stock had been trending down for several days, closed down 0.87 percent to $70.94.

Prices of Treasuries, which investors normally buy in a flight to safety, were stable. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note closed up 8/32, pushing its yield down to 1.69 percent.

Trading volume was average, with about 6.3 billion shares exchanging hands. The daily average for 2012 through last Friday was 6.51 billion shares, according to Thomson Reuters.

The relatively flat close of the markets was an improvement on opening days after previous unplanned market closings. The S.& P. 500 fell nearly 4.9 percent after markets reopened after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ. However, it rose 0.79 of a point the day after the Big Board closed because of Hurricane Gloria in 1985, the last market closing because of weather.

Investors will now most likely focus on macroeconomic factors like the economy. On Friday, the monthly unemployment data as well as other delayed government economic reports will be released, which may have an impact on the presidential election. In an indication that the economy could be losing some of its steam, the Dow was down 2.5 percent for the month of October, while the Nasdaq was off 4.5 percent and the S.& P. was down 2 percent.

For their part, exchange officials were pleased with the trading on Wednesday. Lawrence E. Leibowitz, NYSE Euronext’s chief operating officer, wandered about the floor, checking on operations.

“There have been very few, very isolated problems,” Mr. Leibowitz said. He pointed to blank monitors that were shut off because the data provider, Thomson Reuters, was delivering incorrect market data.

“If that’s the worst of our problems,” he added, “we’re in good shape.”

The specialists who handle market orders for the Big Board were back as well, darting about the trading pits in their usual colored jackets. Many gathered outside — not to smoke, but to try to grab a cellphone signal that was impossible to find inside. But getting to the relative calm of Wednesday’s open took significant work. For days, exchange officials traded lengthy conference calls with trading firms, regulators, and city and state officials about how best to resume trading in the nation’s financial heart.

Originally, the officials had planned to open the electronic exchange but not the trading floor on Monday, after having consulted with regulators, city officials and other exchanges. But, Mr. Niederauer said, the trading industry quickly asked for a full trading halt, citing the potential danger to employees called into work.

Still, preparations were well under way days before the storm hit. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall Street’s main trade group, ran multiple calls throughout the weekend to coordinate plans for reopening the markets. An executive of the group was stationed at the city’s command center in Brooklyn, along with Bloomberg administration officials.

The group dispatched emergency fuel to firms in Jersey City that needed to jump-start their generators on Tuesday night in preparation for trading on Wednesday.

Staffing was a concern for Big Board officials, too. The exchange dispatched 20 cars on Tuesday to bring in critical personnel before the opening. Others, like Mr. Niederauer, dialed in remotely but went in Wednesday morning at 5:15 a.m.

Jonathan D. Corpina, a senior managing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, came armed with a flashlight to navigate the darkened streets of Lower Manhattan. But he found it easy to find the exchange, which was illuminated by power from backup generators.

“We’re here filling orders, and it’s business as usual,” he said.

Some hiccups emerged, however. One issue was the reliability of member firms’ data connections, something that had been tested repeatedly Monday and Tuesday. At about 8 a.m. on Wednesday, Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, held a call with exchange officials to discuss potential problems with Verizon’s network.

Ultimately, both sides concluded that the problems were not severe enough to delay trading.

“The connectivity testing gave us comfort,” Mr. Niederauer said. “There was always concern that it may not work.” Verizon technicians were on hand to patch spotty communications and network connections, while many trading firms resorted to sharing working Internet and phone lines.

The day ended with relatively little pomp. To recognize their work during Hurricane Sandy, Mr. Niederauer asked members of the exchange’s facilities and security teams to ring the closing bell.
28 2012-11-02 Readers weigh in on what, if any, personal financial failings should be disqualifying for politicians who ask for our vote....
29 2012-11-02 That's what keeps going through my mind, even days later: how the baby would have gone first. If the firefighters had arrived later, maybe the rest of us would have been fine, but Luka would have died in his sleep....
30 2012-11-02 A look at how the job losses and subsequent gains of the last five years compare with job numbers during and after previous downturns....
31 2012-11-02 Maybe we've misunderstood him all along....
32 2012-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
33 2012-11-02 President Obama, returning to full-throttle campaign mode after a week upended by the East Coast storm, accused Mitt Romney on Friday of dishonesty in saying that the auto bailout had resulted in jobs moving to China....
34 2012-11-02 Everyday Food will be cut from 10 issues a year to five and will no longer be sold as a stand-alone publication....
35 2012-11-02 Dree Hemingway performs with Besedka Johnson in a scene from “Starlet,” directed by Sean Baker.
36 2012-11-02 On Friday, the Japanese bank said it was likely involved in a new insider trading case, months after the firm's chief executive, Kenichi Watanabe, resigned following similar allegations....
37 2012-11-02 You might think that the increased availability of health insurance would make it easier for entrepreneurs to quit jobs and start businesses — but it’s not easy to prove....
38 2012-11-02 The Royal Bank of Scotland said on Friday that it would probably face financial penalties connected to the rate-rigging investigation, as the British bank reported a net loss in the third quarter of the year....
39 2012-11-02 The skateboard entrepreneur and filmmaker Stacy Peralta fills out another chapter in the annals of his native subculture with the tirelessly mythologizing “Bones Brigade.” Years after the sport’s 1970s origin stories were told in the skate documentary “Dogtown and Z-Boys” (which was followed by Catherine Hardwicke’s feature film “Lords of Dogtown”) Mr. Peralta reconvenes the exceptional skate team he fielded in the 1980s for history primers, airborne archival footage and general victory-lapping.

In Mr. Peralta’s hyperbolic Southern California chronicle his innovative team, called the Bones Brigade, ramped up to new heights in the depleted competitive sport of skateboarding and then rose from the ashes in the 1980s after an inadequately explained cratering in popularity. The running oral history is provided by Tony Hawk (who is called skateboarding’s Wayne Gretzky), Rodney Mullen, Alan Gelfand, Steve Caballero and the lovable goofball Lance Mountain, as well as by Mr. Peralta’s marketing designer Craig Stecyk. These and other highly individual individuals recount the raddest years of their lives in what looks like a colorful skate shop.

Mr. Peralta, who helped the team make money as part of his skateboard business Powell-Peralta, devotes screen time to the signature styles, reputations, personal demons and from-the-vault highlights of each skater. These ace skaters (today apparently mostly millionaires) marvel over who pioneered fundamental moves, from the ollie to the flatland ollie to the 540. It’s an education in the physical and attitudinal vocabulary of the sport, and the explanation of skateboarding’s mid-1980s acceptance as a street sport is downright lovely.

But the nearly two-hour “Bones Brigade” gradually becomes an echo chamber of personal dramas and exploits, not to mention propulsive soundtrack cues — all within a sport already nursing a penchant for self-documentation. Mr. Peralta, who himself appears to urge the story along, may be pushing the consumption tolerance of a general audience with his latest installment on this American subculture.
40 2012-11-02 Mary Wittenberg, chief executive of New York Road Runners, the marathon organizer, made her way to the entrance and greeted employees and volunteers working at the event.

“This isn’t about running,” she said. “This is about helping the city.”

She added: “We’re dedicating this race to the lives that were lost and helping the city recover. We want to raise money and awareness.”

Lt. Larry Quinn, of the New York Firefighters Burn Center Foundation, said he left Long Island at 5:30 Thursday morning and arrived at the Javits Convention Center at 9 a.m. After battling traffic into the city, he and other volunteers unpacked cardboard boxes of T-shirts, sweatshirts and baseball hats to sell. The proceeds go to the charity, which supports treatment for burn victims and research.

“We got guys sleeping on cots and working long hours,” Quinn said. “A lot of firemen live in Breezy Point, and their homes are gone.”

He paused, holding a T-shirt in his hand. “But we’re a nonprofit,” he said. “We need the money that we raise here for the foundation. We support the marathon.”

Many runners wanting to show their support for the event faced significant travel hurdles, as the area’s airports slowly restored service. Martin Kraenzlein and his wife, Bettina, arrived Wednesday from Munich and said they were surprised when their rescheduled flight arrived in time for them to make it to the expo Thursday morning.

“It’s a very difficult discussion,” Kraenzlein, who will run his ninth marathon this weekend, said about the debate over whether to stage the race. “But I understand why it must go on. The marathon is part of the city.”

Marie Wickham, a resident of the Upper East Side who collected her 22nd bib for the New York City Marathon at the expo, said: “It’s always emotional at the end. You can’t help that. It’s always special, but I think it will be different. This will be a marathon I’ll remember.”

By early afternoon, some of the empty vendor booths had filled up, and lines for bibs were nearly empty. A man with a headset, a blender and a plastic baggie of carrots demonstrated how to make tortilla soup to a dozen transfixed onlookers. A shoe company had a treadmill up and running, to give runners the full effect when they tried on shoes.

Much of the crowd arrived bleary-eyed, but grateful, speaking of fellow runners who were still stranded, family members who called off trips or tales of locals who had evacuated because of the storm’s destruction.

“We’re definitely sympathetic to the New York Road Runners and the decision they had to make,” Dave Humphreys, with the Dublin Marathon, one of the exhibitors at the expo, said. “But I really believe you go ahead and run. You have people all over the world who train for months to make it here.”

Among them is Frank LaDonna, a 60-year-old retired school psychologist who said he hoped to hit a time of 3 hours 47 minutes Sunday. In the two years leading up to the race, he said, he has lost 35 pounds. “Even though I lost that weight, my date of birth didn’t change,” he said.

LaDonna, who drove in for the expo from Fort Lee, N.J., said he was not directly affected by the storm and said he approved of the decision to go forward with the marathon.

“The strange thing is, the weather on Sunday could be great for running,” he said.
41 2012-11-02 Four days after Hurricane Sandy, the effort to secure enough gas for the region moved to the forefront of recovery work. In New York, the Taxi Commission warned of a thinner fleet....
42 2012-11-02 The game against the Knicks has been rescheduled for Nov. 26 at 7 p.m. In the meantime, the Nets are simply trying to find a sense of normalcy.

Most of the Nets’ players have relocated from New Jersey to Brooklyn for now, to be closer to the arena for practice, and to avoid the traffic tying up Manhattan and the East River crossings. Several players had to move anyway, because their New Jersey homes were either flooded or without power.

No one seemed happier to be back on the court Thursday than Tyshawn Taylor, the Nets’ rookie point guard. Taylor was virtually trapped for two straight days at his Hoboken, N.J., apartment, which was surrounded on all sides by several feet of water.

Taylor is a Hoboken native, and he is accustomed to seeing its streets fill with water in a heavy rainstorm. But he had never seen anything like the flooding that engulfed his city this week, when the rising Hudson River began spilling into town.

“It was crazy,” Taylor said, recalling the scene as he viewed it from his eighth-floor balcony. He added, “Every side of my building was flooded, like 5 or 6 feet.”

The building lost power Monday afternoon and, like most of the town, is still without electricity. Taylor spent the last few days meeting neighbors, watching movies on his laptop computer, dribbling his basketball around the apartment and catching up on sleep. Residents were able to recharge their phones and computers on a downstairs generator.

“I got real friendly with a couple people,” Taylor said.

Taylor said he saw residents kayaking through town, and older women wading through the streets with water up to their chests. With enough food and water to last a few days, he decided to stay put.

“I’m like, That water is waist-deep, it’s dirty, it probably stinks,” he said. “There’s no hot water in sight. I’m like, Where am I going?”

Then the National Guard started knocking on doors, warning residents of another coming storm. Taylor was more concerned for his family, many of whom live in a nearby public housing project.

“They’re in the housing projects, where it’s not as safe and it’s pitch black down there,” he said.

Taylor finally left Wednesday afternoon, after missing that day’s practice, checked into a Brooklyn hotel and took what he called “the best shower of my life.” He has one duffle bag of clothing and does not know when he will see Hoboken again. It will take time for the water to recede and power to be restored.

On his left wrist, Taylor wore a white band that read: “Brooklyn! Gotta go to work.”

Nets fans will surely be pleased to finally see their new team on the court Saturday, although the postponement of opening night had some fans grumbling. Many paid top dollar on the secondary ticket market to attend Thursday’s game against the Knicks, in part to witness history.

The average price for the Knicks game was $440 on the secondary market, according to Mike Janes, the chief executive of FanSnap. The average price for Saturday’s game against Toronto is $220, Janes said. Before the postponement of Thursday’s game, tickets to the Toronto game were averaging $154. The prices currently range from $35 in the upper level to club seats that run $2,100 to $4,500.

City officials postponed the Nets’ opener in part because of transit concerns. They are now optimistic that most of the city’s public transportation will be running by the time the Nets finally celebrate their new home.

“I’m sure the intensity is going to be high,” Johnson said. “I’m sure these fans are ready and eager, just as well as we are, to get in this building, man, and get some fire going.”
43 2012-11-02 Having dealt a fierce blow to trees among other things, here’s a guide as to what visitors are likely to find at some major parks and recreation areas this weekend....
44 2012-11-02 The campaign, which is by the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, also includes billboards and in-hotel marketing materials on key cards and on mirrors in guest rooms. A commercial will be shown online, on seat back video screens on Delta airplanes and in about 10,000 elevators in office buildings through the Captivate Network, a Gannett company.

The ads were introduced in travel trade journals like Meetings & Conventions and Successful Meetings in 2011, and on Thursday they began appearing in publications including The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. An ad for the program also is in the November issue of Runner’s World.

The lending program is part of a broader campaign called “The Elements of Well Being” introduced in 2011 by Westin, which is owned by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide. That broader effort enumerates restorative features of the hotels, like their trademarked Heavenly bed and menu items developed in a partnership with the SuperFoodsRx brand.

Bob Jacobs, vice president for brand management at Sheraton & Westin North America, said that guests who have tried the program so far have liked not only that they can spontaneously decide to go for a run, but also that they can pack lighter.

“Packing running shoes can lead you to choose a bigger bag, so people have valued the program because of the fact that it allowed them to move from checking their bags to carrying bags on,” said Mr. Jacobs, referring to airline travelers. “For a lot of people it’s a big deal to pay $25 or more to check a bag, so it becomes a real economic advantage for them.”

Westin also has worked with New Balance, which often has retail stores in the same cities as the hotels, to map three- and five-mile runs from the lobby that gravitate to pedestrian-friendly parks and paths. Many properties have hotel employees who act as what Westin calls run concierges, and lead runs from three to seven days a week.

Hilary Keates, director of global marketing and brand management for New Balance, said that because the partnership with Westin is symbiotic, neither party is writing the other a check.

“It’s a great opportunity for us to expose our products to guests around the world,” Ms. Keates said. “Westin aligns strongly with the New Balance brand because Westin, like New Balance, has a core brand philosophy that really is rooted in wellness.”

While runners might be squeamish about borrowing used gear from some places, Ms. Keates said a hotel brand like Westin assuages such concerns.

“Westin is an expert on how to get sheets and towels clean, so as a result consumers feel very confident that the products that they’re wearing are clean,” Ms. Keates said.

Shoes are sprayed with a disinfectant between uses, and insoles are replaced at least once a month, Ms. Keates said.

In October, Fairmont Hotels & Resorts announced that members of its President’s Club loyalty program were eligible to borrow shoes and clothing from Reebok. The program is being introduced gradually, and it will be available at all of Fairmont’s more than 60 properties beginning in January 2013.

To promote the lending program, Westin and New Balance began a weeklong international cause-marketing program on Thursday, with more than 1,000 associates from Westin and New Balance running the mapped five-mile routes near hotels.

The promotion also includes collection drives for Soles4Souls, which provides shoes for impoverished people across the world. (The promotion at the Manhattan Westin location has been postponed because of Hurricane Sandy.)

According to Westin, 5 to 10 percent of guests borrow New Balance gear a day, depending on the property.

“I think it’s great and it definitely fits right in with the brand of Westin, which is all about health and wellness,” Mr. Botts said. “As a frequent business traveler who just started running, it’s a pain to bring shoes” because they take up precious space in a carry-on bag, he added.

It behooves hotels to pile on amenities, even when only a minority of guests take advantage of them, he said.

“With product differentiation in the hotel industry it gets played on the fringes at this point,” Mr. Botts said. “If they get a couple extra guests a night on this feature, it’s a huge home run — it doesn’t take much to move the needle.”
45 2012-11-02 Hurricane Sandy severely damaged 44 buildings that house public schools in New York City, forcing some students to attend class at other locations....
46 2012-11-02 “Greek people have known for two years now that there is a list of people who are rich, rightly or wrongly, and they are untouchable,” Mr. Vaxevanis told the court. “At the same time, the Greek people are on the other side, they are suffering cuts.”

“The political system has been hiding the truth for so long,” he said.

At times, the courtroom took on a chaotic atmosphere, with a court-appointed interpreter botching the Greek translation for a British journalist testifying for the defense, and Mr. Vaxevanis’s lawyers shouting in protest. Cellphones rang and cigarette smoke wafted through the standing-room-only chamber as the judge, sitting beneath a Greek Orthodox painting of Jesus, banged the table with her hand to restore order.

The prosecutor, Iraklis Pasalidis, called no witnesses and sat stone-faced during most of the trial. He submitted a blank witness list to the judge, a move that one lawyer deemed “an analogy of the blank nature of the allegations.”

Mr. Pasalidis nevertheless argued strongly that Mr. Vaxevanis should be found guilty for defaming people without determining their guilt. “These are the culprits, take them and crucify them,” Mr. Pasalidis told the court. “Is this a solution to the country’s problems? Cannibalism?”

The argument did not prevail.

To support his case, Mr. Vaxevanis cited one of those named: Lavrentis Lavrentiadis, a Greek oligarch and the former chairman of Proton Bank.

Proton received a bailout of $129 million arranged by Evangelos Venizelos, a former finance minister.

A financial prosecutor is now examining whether Mr. Venizelos and George Papaconstantinou, another former finance minister, told Greek tax authorities not to investigate those on the list. On Thursday, the prosecutor asked Parliament to investigate whether any politicians should face criminal charges for failing to determine whether any of the individuals on the list were guilty of tax evasion.

Defense lawyers disputed the charges that Mr. Vaxevanis violated privacy laws, noting that none of the people named had filed a complaint over privacy violation.

At stake, Mr. Vaxevanis’s lawyers argued, was the larger issue of whether the Greek public’s right to know about potential tax evasion that harmed the Greek state overrode concerns about privacy.

One of the lawyers, Harris Ikonomopoulos, said the trial could be seen as a warning shot to news organizations considering publishing articles that might embarrass the government — especially as other European nations press Athens to be fiscally responsible and to go harder on tax cheats. As it is, Greek newspapers and television stations have provided scant coverage of the case.

Frank Vogl, one of the founders of Transparency International and the author of “Waging War on Corruption,” said the trial would likely tarnish Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government. “Internationally, the case will serve as a blunt reminder to Greece’s international official creditors that it is hopeless to accept the pledges of the Greek authorities that they will sharply curb their budget deficit so long as they fail to act meaningfully against corruption and tax evasion,” he said.

Mr. Papaconstantinou, the ex-finance minister who received the list from Ms. Lagarde, said he passed the names to the chief of Greece’s financial crimes unit, who later gave it to Mr. Venizelos, the current leader of the Socialists.

The tax chief, Ioannis Diotis, said Mr. Venizelos had not instructed him to investigate it, a contention Mr. Venizelos disputes.

The trial also came as several other Greek journalists found themselves in trouble for questioning the government’s handling of delicate political issues. Earlier this week, Spyros Karatzaferis, a broadcast journalist, was arrested on charges of libel after he threatened to reveal what he said were classified documents obtained by hackers involving the bailout agreement between Greece and its so-called Troika of lenders: the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission.

He said the hackers broke into the Finance Ministry’s accounting system to obtain e-mails between the Greek authorities and foreign banks. The ministry has not confirmed any such breach, and a prosecutor has opened an investigation.

On Monday, two prominent news show presenters were suspended by state-run television after they broadcast a report backing allegations of police torture and suggested that Greece’s public order minister, Nikos Dendias, resign.
47 2012-11-02 “The performance of each company’s exploration and production business lagged expectations,” said Philip H. Weiss, a senior energy analyst at Argus Research Group. “Natural gas prices, particularly in North America, have been weak, driving the underperformance.”

Exxon Mobil, the largest American oil company, became the country’s biggest gas producer three years ago when it bought XTO Energy for $41 billion. The purchase gave Exxon Mobil experienced personnel in exploring and drilling in shale formations, but gas drilling in the United States has become increasingly unprofitable the last couple of years and few analysts expect gas prices to increase much over the next year.

Both companies in recent months have shifted more American production to oil from gas, with Shell acquiring West Texas oil fields from Chesapeake Energy for nearly $2 billion and Exxon Mobil spending $1.6 billion to acquire acreage in the Bakken shale oil field in North Dakota from Denbury Resources.

Shell began drilling in Alaskan Arctic waters over the summer, though equipment problems and thick ice delayed operations. The company had hoped to complete up to five wells but was only able to begin drilling two wells. Nevertheless, the start of drilling culminated six years of legal and regulatory struggles and appeared to assure more exploration next summer.

Exxon Mobil was hurt by production problems in Kazakhstan and the North Sea, while Shell’s oil production was hurt by theft, flooding and political instability in Nigeria.

Exxon Mobil reported a decline of 1.8 percent in oil production for the quarter and a 1.3 percent gas production decline, excluding the impact of divestitures, production-sharing contracts and quotas set by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Shell’s production of oil and gas was down about 1 percent.

David Rosenthal, Exxon Mobil’s vice president for investor relations, said he was not overly concerned by the decline in production. “We are only slightly below” previous expectations, he said, adding: “Most of that production is pretty much back up,” referring to Kazakhstan and the North Sea.

Exxon’s stock price closed at $91.69 on Thursday, a 43-cent increase, while Shell’s price jumped $1.51, to $69.99.

A bright spot for both companies was improving results in their refining businesses. Exxon Mobil’s downstream earnings, mainly from refining, were nearly $3.2 billion, up $1.6 billion from the third quarter of 2011. But Simon Henry, Shell’s chief financial officer, noted in a conference call that improved refining margins were more the result of supply shortages than stronger demand.

“We’re seeing evidence of a weak economy all around us in our downstream, marketing and our chemicals business,” Mr. Henry said, “so the downstream rally over all could be short-lived.”

Quarterly financial results have been mixed in the oil patch. Total, the French oil giant, reported on Wednesday that its third-quarter profit jumped 20 percent, largely because of improved refinery margins. Conoco Phillips reported that its net income fell 30 percent in the quarter, with revenue declining 10 percent.

But many energy analysts say they believe that global oil demand could revive in the coming months, particularly if the Chinese economy strengthens. A Barclays research note this week predicted that in 2013 Chinese oil demand would increase 340,000 barrels a day, based on an expected rebound in manufacturing and truck sales.
48 2012-11-02 But it was a growing traffic nuisance in southern municipalities like Maastricht, where Belgians and Germans drove to buy drugs, that proved the tipping point. The Dutch government announced two years ago that sales to nonresidents would be prohibited nationwide on Jan. 1, 2013. Only Dutch residents who registered with a coffee shop would be legally allowed to go to the coffee shops, which were to be turned into members-only clubs.

The first phase of the ban, affecting only the south, took effect on May 1. The results have been mixed, with Maastricht reporting an increase in the number of street dealers, but less car traffic. A plan to require buyers to have a “weed pass” to buy soft drugs was dropped as the number of drug tourists fell sharply.

The law has always been controversial in major Dutch cities outside of the south, where officials have warned that they would lose control of the situation if the trade were driven underground.

The central government has not withdrawn the planned prohibition of drug sales to foreigners, so Michael Veling, the spokesman for the Dutch Cannabis Retailers Association, said the mayor “might have spoken out of turn to provoke a reaction in the government.”

He noted, however, that the incoming cabinet of Prime Minister Mark Rutte had begun backing away from the government’s previous stance, saying now that the ban on foreigners buying cannabis would remain intact but that local councils could be allowed to have the last word.

“I’m guessing that behind the curtains, it’s already been arranged,” Mr. Veling said.

Sentina van der Meer, a spokeswoman for the Dutch Justice Ministry, quoted a ministry statement saying, “Changes to the new policy have not been finalized.” She said she expected the new cabinet to give the final word after its installation next week.

Mayor van der Laan’s office said he had assured the government “that criminality and related problems around coffee shops will be strongly addressed and that marijuana use among young people will be further countered.”

In the newspaper interview, Mr. van der Laan denied that he was acting as “an errand boy for coffee shop owners,” and promised that he would strictly enforce rules regarding sale to minors and the strength of the soft drugs sold.

It is not, he added, a question of the potential loss of tourism revenue from the international visitors to the city’s coffee shops.

“Flat economic motives” play absolutely no role, he said, adding, “The 1.5 million tourists are not visiting only the coffee shops.”
49 2012-11-03 With their new hometown still recovering from Hurricane Sandy, the Nets played their first home game at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on Saturday....
50 2012-11-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
51 2012-11-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
52 2012-11-03 Notre Dame came from behind against Pitt to remain unbeaten, and L.S.U. plays host to Alabama while U.S.C. hosts Oregon....
53 2012-11-03 In the Soviet era, the health of Kremlin leaders was regarded as a state secret. Now, under the presidency of Vladimir V. Putin, an official has criticized the press for asking too many questions about the Russian leader's sore back....
54 2012-11-03 And other supply-side myths....
55 2012-11-03 A mission is considered a rite of passage and a duty for able Mormon men. It prepares the men, known as elders, to serve as clergymen in a church that is run by its own lay members Men serve two years, often overseas. Women serve 18 months, and service for them is encouraged but optional. Mormon missionaries learn how to preach the Gospel to often unreceptive audiences, with the goal of making new converts.

Elder Jeffrey R. Holland, a church leader who serves on the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, said at a news conference that the reason for the change was “to get the Gospel to more people in more distant places than we’ve ever gone before.”

“God is hastening his work, and he needs more and more willing and worthy missionaries to spread the light and the truth and the hope and the salvation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to an often dark and fearful world,” Mr. Holland said.

On the same day the change was announced, Oct. 6, Ms. Tenguerian and four of her housemates at Southern Virginia University went to the office of their bishop to begin the application process.

“They wanted to get started right then and there,” said Bishop Scott A. Dransfield, who is also an English professor at Southern Virginia University. “I think that women have always felt that their obligation is to get married, and if they’re not married by 21, then they go on a mission.

“Now young women consider going on a mission as a real opportunity to serve,” he said. “It doesn’t have anything to do with their marriage prospects, and I know a number of young women who, when they heard this announcement, started weeping openly, just bawling, because it touched them that profoundly.”

Annalise Tanner, a junior majoring in business at Brigham Young University, a Mormon college in Provo, Utah, said that after hearing the announcement, she prayed about the decision and then rushed to apply. She completed the process in 10 days — a process that often takes about three months. She has already received her “call,” informing her that she will serve in Perth, Australia. Her cousin, who is 19, is also going to Australia, she said.

“I really feel strongly that this is something the heavenly father wanted me to do,” said Ms. Tanner, who is 20 and from Centerville, Utah. She is dating a fellow college student who is 24 and has just returned from his mission. She said that it was a hard decision to leave but that her boyfriend had encouraged her to become a missionary.

“He loved his mission, and he’s really excited that I could have the same opportunity that he had,” she said. “He could definitely be married when I get back, but I feel this is what the Lord wants me to do.”

Michael Purdy, a spokesman for the church, said that typically about 700 new applications for missionary service were initiated each week. Since the announcement, the number has jumped to about 4,000 applications each week, and slightly more than half of the applicants are women.
56 2012-11-03 The Red Bulls do not normally travel for an away game more than a day ahead of the scheduled start, even if the match is on the West Coast. But this is no normal time.

In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, the games do go on, and so it is with the Eastern Conference semifinals of the Major League Soccer playoffs. The difference for the fourth-seeded Red Bulls is that instead of first hosting No. 3 D.C. United on Saturday night at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J., as originally scheduled, the club left for Washington on Thursday to play the game Saturday at Robert F. Kennedy Stadium.

“We left early mostly to get out of the area because everyone is without power,” said Red Bulls Coach Hans Backe, who lives in flooded Hoboken, N.J., but was out of town in his native Sweden most of the week tending to personal business. “And today we got to practice on United’s field, so I actually think we’re better prepared.”

On Wednesday, officials from M.L.S. and the two clubs agreed to swap home dates for the two-game, total-goals series. The Red Bulls are now scheduled to play the return match, what is considered the home-field advantage, on Wednesday night at a stadium that had power restored only in the last day.

The team’s new general manager, Jérôme de Bontin, said there were contingency plans in the works, but the club is now confident the match can be played as it is scheduled. However, the Red Bulls do face the prospect of their fans from Manhattan not having access via the PATH line, which was flooded by the storm.
57 2012-11-03 The South Ferry subway station is dark, the tracks are 20 to 25 feet underwater and rubble and items swept in from outside litter passages....
58 2012-11-03 On Friday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced that New York City and four suburban counties were eligible for disaster unemployment relief, which covers a broader spectrum of workers than regular unemployment benefits, including the self-employed like taxi drivers and street vendors as well as those who were unable to get to work.

New Jersey has also declared people in 10 counties eligible for disaster unemployment assistance. In Connecticut, residents of four counties and the Mashantucket Pequot Indian Reservation are eligible.

A New York Department of Labor spokesman emphasized that workers who lost wages should call to apply because the program is flexible and many eligibility issues would be determined on a case-by-case basis.

But the program might not help people whose commute simply lasted longer or cost more, like Ibezim Oki, a cabdriver who spent $50 on a cab to get from his Brooklyn home to Manhattan on Friday, rather than risk long bus delays, and “now I don’t know how long I’m going to have to wait for gas.”

The commute alone represented a hardship for workers whose jobs require a physical presence, while neighborhood coffee shops in the boroughs and suburbs overflowed with those who needed nothing more than a laptop and Wi-Fi to stay connected to work.

Ms. Sainvilus estimated that on Thursday, she had traveled eight hours to work for five, making her effective pay less than $4 an hour.

Others could not work because their place of business was closed. At a food distribution center in Chelsea, Mike Samuel, 55, a delivery man for a florist, was feeling the pain of five days of lost income. “We don’t work, we don’t get no tips, we don’t get no pay,” he said.

Muta Prather said the chemical company where he works in Newark was flooded, causing him to miss three days of work. He worked part of the day on Thursday helping to clean up, but worried about how he would pay for damage to his own roof.

“It hurts, you know,” said Mr. Prather, who is 49 and lives in West Orange, N.J. “I looked up at my roof, and it’s going to cost me like seven grand. I don’t make that kind of money.”

But at a playground in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, Damien Carney stood with his baby daughter strapped to his chest and his toddler on a nearby swing, enjoying a surprise week off. For Mr. Carney, a salaried portfolio manager for a wine distributor that was closed because it had no power, the storm was amounting to something like a paid vacation with time for cooking and rearranging the living room. “They basically said, ‘Don’t worry about it,’ ” Mr. Carney said of his employers.

Federal labor laws include more protections for salaried workers than hourly workers when a disaster hits. Employers must continue to pay salaries if the worksite is closed for less than a week, even though they are allowed to require employees to use vacation or paid leave for the duration of the closure. Hourly workers, on the other hand, do not have to be paid if the worksite closes. If the workplace is open but salaried workers cannot get there, their pay may be reduced.

Of course, policies vary from workplace to workplace, and some hourly workers were luckier than others. Cassandra Williams, 54, waiting for the bus from Brooklyn to Manhattan with her 6-year-old granddaughter, said the family for whom she keeps house would pay her full wages despite her missing three days of work. Tinash Makots, a 24-year-old salesman at the Nike store in Midtown Manhattan, said he would be paid for the days missed as well.

One nanny in the bus line said she would be paid her regular wages, while another said she would not be compensated for hours missed.

A financial district worker who would identify himself only as William S. said he did not strictly need to go into Manhattan to do his job, but felt that he should make an appearance after one of his staff members showed up every day at 6 a.m. and another paid $40 a day to get to a distant office in Queens.

But Anthony Howell, a 42-year-old hair stylist in Chelsea, said he hadn’t worked all week because his salon, like his high-rise apartment, has no electricity.

“That’s the brutal part,” he said. “The hair industry is like that. You don’t do the work, you don’t get the money.”
59 2012-11-03 Four days after Hurricane Sandy, the major carriers — AT&T, Verizon Wireless, T-Mobile USA and Sprint — were still rebuilding their networks in the hardest-hit areas....
60 2012-11-03 With mass transit still being restored and a number of uncertainties surrounding New York and New Jersey after Hurricane Sandy, the Nets may not sell out their opener in Brooklyn....
61 2012-11-03 Jerzy Janowicz, a qualifier, continued his remarkable run at the Paris Masters, reaching the semifinals when eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic retired while trailing, 3-6, 6-1, 4-1. Janowicz next faces Gilles Simon in the semifinals.
62 2012-11-03 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said there was “no reason to panic” about gas shortages caused by Hurricane Sandy, which forced the temporary closing of New York Harbor....
63 2012-11-03 Bravo to Thomas L. Friedman for a much overdue challenge to the “pro-life” label for the anti-choice people (“Why I Am Pro-Life,” column, Oct. 28).

As he notes, how can you be genuinely pro-life when you champion the death penalty and reducing gun control, while denying or shrugging off climate change, potentially the greatest threat to human life?

If one looks at the greatest threats to life — poverty, malnutrition, disease, lack of medical coverage and care, wars and imperialism, ecological dislocations — it is the pro-choice people who by far have the best track record on pro-life issues.

Although Thomas L. Friedman points out the hypocrisies in the “pro-life” Republican Party, he should consider the same contradiction between the Democratic Party values and its own “pro-choice” platform.

This is the party that cares for the poor, but won’t call out the tragedy that roughly a third of women choose an abortion because of poverty and economic necessity. This is the party that wants to protect the handicapped and sick, but won’t acknowledge the horror that 90 percent of babies diagnosed with Down syndrome are aborted.
64 2012-11-03 One of the most beautiful and surprising shows had been next door at Casey Kaplan: a four-decade survey of the paintings of Giorgio Griffa, a little-known Italian artist born in 1936 who had not shown in New York since the early 1970s. His sparse, plain-spoken works constitute a kind of visual counting: simple brush marks, lines or bands of radiant color applied one after another to expanses of raw, unstretched canvas. They expanded history on several fronts for me, adding to my understanding of European abstraction of the late 1960s, speaking to the efforts of American painters as disparate as Alan Shields and Agnes Martin, and presaging the low-tech painting of younger artists like Sergej Jensen.

I had left Chelsea, as I often do, feeling a little high at the sight of different kinds of art made at different points in artists’ lives: starting out, continuing, approaching the end. Whatever you think of the actual art on any given day in Chelsea, regulars to the neighborhood are privy to a lot of human endeavor on the part of artists and art dealers. It is a gift.

That point was brought home with special intensity when I returned on Wednesday and then again on Thursday, witnessing devastation everywhere, and also the purposeful reaction to it. On Wednesday, to the thunderous clatter of water pumps and generators, ashen-faced, sometimes teary-eyed art dealers, along with their staff members and often their artists, were pulling sodden furniture, computers and irreplaceable archival documentation and artworks from their dark, water-blasted galleries.

There were huge piles of wet, crumpled cardboard on the street. “You know, most people look at this and think it’s just cardboard,” said Michael Jenkins, a partner in Sikkema Jenkins & Company, on West 22nd Street. “They don’t realize that all of it was wrapped around works of art.”

At Bonakdar, there was no sign of the Eliasson photographs, just the long, Donald-Judd-style wooden table and bench that have become friendly landmarks on the ground floor, severely warped by water. At Kaplan, the front desk had already been removed, and the Griffa paintings were, I was told, at the restorer.

Everywhere there were signs of water’s relentlessness, but also odd exceptions. At Guided by Invoices, which sits as far west as you can go on 21st Street, on the corner of the West Side Highway, the Vega show was still hanging, and the gallery was almost completely dry. Something — perhaps unusually watertight gates — had saved it.

Anton Kern was locked when I went by, but through the window there were no Havekost paintings to be seen, only what would become the increasingly familiar sight of works on paper spread out on tables and the floor for drying.

I ventured north to find that the floods had not touched the galleries on West 29th Street, and then back down to 27th Street, between 11th Avenue and the West Side Highway, where the string of small galleries nestled in the south side of the old Terminal Warehouse building — Derek Eller, Wallspace, Winkleman, Foxy Production and Jeff Bailey — had lost huge amounts of art when the building’s common basement flooded.

At every turn there was evidence of salvage and conservation, as well as rebuilding. Even on Wednesday workers were cutting away ruined drywall in galleries so it could be replaced; on Thursday trucks from lumber yards were delivering drywall and plywood. At CRG at 548 West 22nd Street, a floor that had been slick with water on Wednesday was a day later arrayed with tables for drying works on paper. Upstairs, where the Artist’s Book Fair was to have been held this weekend but had been canceled, the space had been converted into a kind of art hospital for drying out.

For all these efforts, it was easy to wonder, on first encounter, if Chelsea would ever come back as an art district. And when I talked to dealers about what they thought, reactions were mixed. Asya Geisberg, whose 23rd Street gallery was flooded, said: “I worry about the longevity of Chelsea for smaller galleries. We don’t have the staff or resources to deal with this.”

“My artists are helping me out,” she added. “Other people are helping me out, but it’s not enough.”

On 22nd Street Andrew Kreps confirmed that he had lost most of his inventory in his flooded basement, and my next, perhaps undiplomatic, question to him was “Will you close?”

But his immediate reaction was “No.” James Yohe, another 22nd Street gallerist, put it more romantically, “We’re here because we’re true believers.”

Mr. Kaplan said he was determined to reopen and to continue his Griffa show when he did. “I have to do this for him,” he said, referring to Mr. Griffa. “He’s been kind of written out of art history.”

“We won’t come back in the same way — we might be on one leg financially,” he added. “But we will.”

His commitment was echoed on 19th Street, where David Zwirner was overseeing an immense conservation effort spread, in his case, through three large spaces. He said his faith in Chelsea was unshaken. Referring to both the density of Chelsea’s galleries and their lack of entrance fees, he said, “It’s the craziest freebie in the world.” He sounded as if he didn’t want to miss a minute of it.
65 2012-11-03 GENEVA — The top human rights official of the United Nations took China to task on Friday over the suppression of Tibetans’ rights that she said had driven them to “desperate forms of protest,” referring to about 60 self-immolations by Tibetans protesting Chinese rule that have been reported since March 2011, including seven since mid-October.

The official, Navi Pillay, the high commissioner for human rights, said in a statement that she was disturbed by reports of detentions, disappearances and the excessive use of force against peaceful demonstrators, as well as curbs on Tibetans’ cultural rights. Ms. Pillay said “serious concerns” had been raised over the claims of torture and ill-treatment of detainees and about the standards of their trials.

Ms. Pillay said she had had “several exchanges” with the Chinese government on the issue, and her rare public criticism of China’s conduct on human rights appeared to reflect a measure of frustration.

“We felt the time had come to talk publicly about that,” a spokesman for Ms. Pillay, Rupert Colville, said Friday in Geneva. Self-immolations are evidence of how serious the situation in Tibet has become, Mr. Colville said, and “we don’t see any visible signs of progress.”

In the statement, Ms. Pillay said, “More needs to be done to protect human rights and prevent violations,” urging China to release Tibetans who had been detained merely for exercising fundamental rights like freedom of expression, association and religion. “Social stability in Tibet will never be achieved through heavy security measures and suppression of human rights,” she said.

As examples of that suppression, Ms. Pillay cited the case of a 17-year-old girl who was reported to have been severely beaten and sentenced to three years in prison for distributing fliers that called for freedom for Tibet and the return of the Dalai Lama. She said others had been sentenced to jail terms of four to seven years for writing essays, making films or circulating outside China photographs of events in Tibet.
66 2012-11-04 On NBC's Facebook page, the naming of Erica Hill to Jenna Wolfe's co-host spot on "Weekend Today" raised hackles reminiscent of the anger over Ann Curry's departure from the "Today" show....
67 2012-11-04 For what they're worth....
68 2012-11-04 With the opening of Barclays Center in Brooklyn, it was easy to wonder what might have been had a plan to build a stadium for the Dodgers across the street from the Nets’ new arena not been scuttled 55 years ago....
69 2012-11-04 Erin Colleen McCaffrey and Geoffrey Evan Rogow were married Saturday at the Holly Hedge Estate in New Hope, Pa. Ruthann Disotell, a World Christianship minister, led the nondenominational ceremony.

The bride, 30, is keeping her name. She is a radiology nurse at NYU Langone Medical Center in New York. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received master’s degrees in public health and health management from the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia.

She is the daughter of Loretta McCaffrey and Gerald E. McCaffrey of Flemington, N.J. Her father is a consultant at Gem Tech Service, a networking and information technology consultancy in Flemington. Her mother retired as a project director for Merck in Rahway, N.J., where she oversaw the development, marketing and release of prescription drugs.

The groom, also 30, is an assistant news editor for Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal in New York. He graduated from Washington and Lee University.

He is the son of Winnie R. Rogow and Bruce J. Rogow of Marblehead, Mass. His mother retired as a partner at the Boston office of KPMG, the accounting firm, where she specialized in information technology. His father is an independent information technology consultant in Marblehead.
70 2012-11-04 Marissa Ann Piropato and Stephan Mark Rodiger were married Saturday at the St. Andrew Ukrainian Orthodox Cathedral in Silver Spring, Md. The Rev. Volodymyr Steliac, the church’s pastor, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Rodiger, 37, is a lawyer in the environment and natural resources division of the Justice Department in Washington. She graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth and received her law degree with honors from the University of Chicago.

She is a daughter of Olga Piropato and John L. Piropato of Franklin Lakes, N.J. The bride’s father is a vice president at International Appraisal Company, a real estate appraisal company in Upper Saddle River, N.J.

Mr. Rodiger, 43, is a vice president for Kettler, a residential real estate development company in McLean, Va. He manages the company’s projects, working on acquisition, development and design. He graduated from Cornell and received a master’s in city and regional planning at the University of North Carolina.

He is the son of Donald and Sandra Rodiger of Homosassa, Fla. The groom’s mother retired as an independent dietitian in Utica, N.Y. His father retired as an electrical engineer and manager in Utica for the aerospace division of General Electric .
71 2012-11-04 Molly Ingrid Mandell and Moody McCarthy are to be married Sunday evening at the Foundry, an event space in Long Island City, Queens. Jon D. Fisch, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, is to officiate.

The bride, 37, will keep her name. She is the managing director in Manhattan for Shift Communications, a Boston-based public relations and social-media marketing firm. She graduated from McGill University in Montreal.

She is the daughter of Ilene K. Mandell of Manhattan and the late Dennis G. Mandell. Her mother is the medical outreach manager of the Make-a-Wish Metro New York and Western New York Chapter. Her father was a partner in the Manhattan law firm Mandell & Mandell.

The groom, 45, is a New York-based stand-up comedian who appeared on “Late Night with David Letterman” in July. He has also appeared in 2006 on “Last Comic Standing IV,” on NBC, and in 2004 on “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” He graduated from Regents College in Albany.

He is a son of Margaret A. McCarthy and J. Mark McCarthy of Syracuse. His mother, who worked in Syracuse, retired as a computer programmer for Empire Blue Cross. His father is a partner in the Syracuse law firm Coulter, Ventre & McCarthy.
72 2012-11-04 Lindsey Marie Bewley and Ryan Thomas McCann were married Saturday at St. Thomas of Villanova Church in Villanova, Pa. The Rev. David Cregan, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

The couple met at Villanova, from which they graduated and the groom received a master’s degree in accounting and professional consultancy.

Mrs. McCann, 30, is the science writer for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. She writes for the foundation’s Web site, jdrf.org, as well as its printed marketing and communications materials. She received a master’s degree in science journalism from New York University.

She is a daughter of Janice M. Bewley and Robert D. Bewley of Liverpool, N.Y. Her father is a physical education teacher at Christian Brothers Academy, a private Roman Catholic school in Syracuse. Her mother is a medical assistant at Industrial Medical Associates, a provider of occupational medical services in Syracuse.

Mr. McCann, also 30, is a senior accountant for Louis Dreyfus Highbridge Energy, an energy commodities trading firm in Stamford, Conn.

He is the son of Susan McCann and Thomas McCann of Merrick, N.Y. His parents provide technology consulting services to the financial industry.
73 2012-11-04 Jacqueline Michele Polce, a daughter of Joy L. Polce and Victor M. Polce of Old Tappan, N.J., was married Saturday to David Alan Stockel, a son of Susan J. Stockel and Neil H. Stockel of Greenwich, Conn. The Rev. Patrick Mulewski, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in New York.

Mrs. Stockel, 28, is a fashion account director in New York for Brides magazine, where she works on the magazine’s advertising. She graduated from St. Joseph’s University. Her father is an owner and managing partner of Customized Mortgage Solutions, a mortgage services company, and VMPolce Investment Advisors, a financial planning business, both in Old Tappan. He has also been the mayor of Old Tappan since 2000. Her mother is the office manager at Fortis Title Group, an insurance agency in Old Tappan.

The groom, also 28, is an associate director at Cushman & Wakefield, the New York commercial real estate services firm, where he works in the brokerage division and focuses on office leasing. He graduated from Boston University. His father is the president of BWP Distributors, an automotive parts distributor in Armonk, N.Y.
74 2012-11-04 The skeptics will note that Oregon allowed almost as many points as it delivered, that its defense, thought to be better than in recent years, did not really defend much. But on a night when Alabama and Notre Dame needed late comebacks to remain undefeated, the Ducks (9-0, 6-0 Pacific-12) would take a victory that never really seemed in doubt.

To the people who question whether Oregon can play defense, Coach Chip Kelly said, “Fortunately, I don’t talk to those people.”

This game, once billed among the year’s best, regained some of the luster in Saturday’s offensive explosion. Luster it lost when the Trojans, the last Pac-12 team to beat the Ducks, stumbled twice earlier this season.

The first half featured a dizzying display of offense and the corresponding absence of any resistance. Defense may win championships, but it did not win much of anything here Saturday. This was a shootout, less old-fashioned, ground-and-pound football, more football meets basketball meets track and field. Fans’ heads snapped back and forth as if they were at a tennis match.

The teams combined for 864 yards and 8 touchdowns. For Oregon, quarterback Marcus Mariota tossed three touchdown passes and Barner scampered for 169 yards and 2 scores. For Southern California, quarterback Matt Barkley threw for 303 yards and 3 touchdowns of his own, including two of at least 75 yards.

These were, it should be noted, first-half totals. Not game totals. Not two-game totals. Somewhere, Buddy Ryan surely turned off his television in disgust.

“We knew coming in we were going to have to score,” Mariota said.

The game’s opening possession proved something of a harbinger. The Ducks ran five plays on that drive. They gained 75 yards. When De’Anthony Thomas hauled in a 16-yard score from Mariota, all of 65 seconds had elapsed.

The game continued in this fashion. Barkley set the Pac-12 career completion record in the first quarter with No. 931. He favored the big play and the long drive. Oregon instead ripped off large chunks.

The Ducks ran their offense like Arkansas once ran its famous college basketball press. It was 40 minutes of hell, the football version. The Ducks never paused for trivial matters like huddles, or to catch their breath or to strategize. They paused only when they reached the end zone.

Perhaps Barner, a Duck who enjoys pedicures and ballet class, deserves some Heisman consideration after he spent another Saturday cutting left and jutting right and strutting in for scores. Early into the second quarter, he broke up the middle, slid right and darted 27 yards for a touchdown and a 21-3 lead.

This marked something of another day at the offense, er, office, for Barner and the Ducks. It also marked Barner’s fifth straight 100-yard game, and he passed 1,000 rushing yards this season and 5,000 all-purpose yards in his career.

The Trojans cut the halftime deficit to 34-24 and received the ball first after the break, too. They employed the best strategy to limit Oregon’s powerful offense — keep it off the field. The ensuing score made it 34-31.

Before Saturday, the Ducks had not yet been tested, had not yet played a legitimate opponent, in a close game, with those national championship hopes at stake. This qualified, even if U.S.C. is not exactly Alabama.

The Coliseum, once silent, all but exploded in jubilation. The stands shook. The band played. The crowd jumped up and down.

Oregon fed Barner, ran him right and left and up the gut, on tosses and stretch plays and dives. He converted a fourth-and-1 in the third quarter, then recorded his third touchdown three plays later. Oregon led, 41-31, and it felt as if both teams could — and would — score until time ran out. Which is pretty much what happened.

The biggest surprise, though, came late in the fourth quarter. That is when something foreign happened.
75 2012-11-04 “We know we’re not going to shoot the ball that well every night, but if we can buckle down and defend like we did, we’ll be fine,” said Carmelo Anthony, who made only 4 of his last 18 shots against the Heat. He scored 30 points in the game to lead all scorers.

At Woodson’s pregame news conference Friday, he addressed the Knicks’ puzzling situation at off guard by saying he had three point guards (Raymond Felton, Jason Kidd and Pablo Prigioni). Woodson started Felton and Kidd together in the season opener, and all three facilitated crisp ball movement that consistently left Heat defenders appearing a step or two slow.

“Offensively, the ball flowed,” Woodson said after the win. “It moved side to side, and guys were making the plays. I thought Jason and Raymond were great early for us in terms of getting the ball moved.”

Kidd, who is in his 19th N.B.A. season, said: “Sometimes, it’s all right to make an extra pass. If you get criticized for passing the ball too much, it’s not a bad thing in this league.”

Anthony said he did not think there was a smarter player in the league than Kidd, and Woodson praised Kidd by saying: “I’m glad that he’s on our ball club. And a lot of our players are going to benefit when he’s on the floor.”

Woodson added: “He’s unique. I wouldn’t call him a freak, but he is unique in his own way. He’s one of those players that comes along in a lifetime and can play forever, and he can walk away on his own terms.”

The Heat’s Shane Battier may have offered the Knicks the most lavish praise of all by saying: “They’re doing things very similar to what we’re doing. We’re trying to create space on the floor. And when you have shooters and really good attackers, that’s the best way to play basketball.”

Battier said Tyson Chandler (the one Knicks starter who did not hit a 3-pointer) was a huge key to their success.

“That’s what you try to do,” Battier said. “Chandler’s a key to open 3-point shooting because when he rolls to the basket, he really draws attention. Because when he rolls to the basket, you have to put a body on him. And if you’re not precise in your defensive spacing, you’re going to give up open looks.”

Chandler had a similar effect on the Knicks last year, when his presence inside and his ability to stifle drives to the basket helped transform the team.

Woodson said Chandler was dealing with flulike symptoms and was “probably probable” for Sunday’s game against Philadelphia.

With Chandler’s status for the game unclear and the 76ers now without Andre Iguodala, the linchpin of their perimeter defense, who was traded to the Nuggets, it will be interesting to see how pass-happy Sunday’s matinee will be.
76 2012-11-04 Not long after, a taxi driver in New Haven confided to me that he was a high-school dropout. When I asked if we should tax the rich more, he replied with an emphatic “No!” He saw himself as a small-businessman who happened to be in the taxi business, and he identified strongly with the rich.

The pursuit of wealth is a real source of identity in America. We are accustomed to seeing ourselves chasing riches, even if we’re not in business the way Mr. Romney was.

Still, Americans haven’t elected many businessmen as presidents. The principal examples come from the Roaring ’20s, a time of huge stock market gains, when faith in business reached all-time highs. Consider our presidents in that decade: Warren G. Harding had been a newspaper publisher in Ohio. Calvin Coolidge, trained as a lawyer, was once a vice president of the Nonotuck Savings Bank in Northampton, Mass., and was known for saying that “the chief business of the American people is business.” And Herbert Hoover was a mining expert who traveled to Australia in its 1890s gold rush and became a mine manager.

But businessman presidents disappeared after the market crash of 1929 and during the Great Depression of the 1930s, when many Americans believed that the business world had failed the nation. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who came from a wealthy family but was never a businessman and never talked like one, handily defeated both Hoover in 1932 and Alf Landon, a banker and independent petroleum producer, in 1936.

Not until the Bush presidencies did businessmen, in the suit-and-tie sense of the word, retake the White House — though it otherwise could be argued that Jimmy Carter, a peanut farmer, was a businessman, too. George H. W. Bush was elected during a soaring stock market, and his son George W. Bush won during a real estate boom. Both men were oil venture entrepreneurs.

You might think that the current economic slump would drain support for businessmen, as it did in the Great Depression. But there are differences. Back then, the United States hadn’t yet reached the pinnacle of economic power. Today, many people worry about an apparent crumbling of American economic growth as emerging markets surge around us. There is a widespread fear that the American wealth machine is faltering — and, as a result, many people are aiming to rediscover the nation’s traditional strengths.

In Connecticut, the typically “blue” state where I live, Linda McMahon, the Republican candidate for senator, is campaigning on a story of self-made riches, and is presenting a serious challenge to the Democrat, Representative Christopher S. Murphy.

Ms. McMahon lacks legislative or governmental experience, but she cites her success in managing World Wrestling Entertainment as evidence that she can be an effective legislator. Her life story — involving an early bankruptcy, then redemption through earning millions running staged wrestling bouts — is a rags-to-riches tale, and she says it demonstrates her capacity to succeed as a senator. Americans have long heard stories of how entrepreneurs from John D. Rockefeller to Steven P. Jobs have achieved phenomenal success, and many derive a sense of identity from seeing themselves as having the qualities that could lead to riches, too.

FOR many voters this year, a central question is how to maintain what they consider as America’s greatness, its exceptionalism. They are concerned with both lowering the unemployment rate and creating good jobs — jobs that are exciting and can create substantial wealth. This attitude may be improving the odds for businesspeople seeking office.

If elected, Mr. Romney wants to enforce a general pro-business mandate and to bolster business confidence. That is quite possible. Still, any such confidence boost will most likely be offset by his promise to drastically cut government spending. The weight of evidence from studies of fiscal austerity indicates that, at least in times like these, it is very costly to economic activity. Big cuts now could easily plunge the country back into a recession.

Yes, many Americans admire business success and believe that business experience is a plus in a president. But Americans have usually also understood that other factors — like wise policies and strong leadership ability — are much more important.
77 2012-11-04 Friday night, some agents scrambled to see if they could place their runners in another marathon. There is a women’s race in Yokohama, Japan, on Nov. 18 and a men’s race in Fukuoka, Japan, on Dec. 2. But the rosters and budgets are set. And it seems unlikely that a large number of elite runners would be invited at the last minute, some agents said. They seemed resigned to half-marathons for their clients and the likelihood of waiting for the next major marathons in April in Boston and London.

“It’s back to the drawing board,” said Merhawi Keflezighi, Meb’s brother and agent.

Two runners with perhaps the most to lose financially by Friday’s cancellation were from Kenya — Edna Kiplagat, the 2011 world marathon champion, and Sharon Cherop, winner of the 2012 Boston Marathon. A victory by either woman Sunday would have secured a $500,000 bonus in a kind of grand slam event called the World Marathon Majors. Prize money and appearance fees would have pushed the total race-day earnings well beyond $600,000.

“I was a little disappointed when there was no race, but we saw on TV that there was a lot of destruction and loss of life,” Kiplagat said. “We understand.”

Brendan Reilly of the United States, who is Kiplagat’s agent, noted that many of the world’s best marathon runners grew up in meager circumstances, living without electricity and facing other hardships in developing nations. And so the runners could sympathize with the cancellation of the race, Reilly said, adding, “They are not money grubbers.”

He said that agents might ask organizers in Yokohama to consider inviting elite female runners who intended to compete in New York as a gesture of solidarity. The 2011 London Marathon similarly invited Japanese women on short notice after that year’s Nagoya Marathon was canceled in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan. “It’s a way to show sympathy,” Reilly said.

One thing that remained unclear Friday night was whether elite runners would receive any portion of the appearance fees they had negotiated beforehand. Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, the group that organizes the marathon, said that organizers would be fair, given how important one race was to the runners’ annual income.

“One payday counts for a half a year,” Wittenberg said. “We’ve got a lot to figure out.”

Meb Keflezighi said in a statement that he respected the decision to cancel the race. He asked his supporters to contribute to storm relief efforts. “Any inconveniences the cancellation causes me or the thousands of runners who trained and traveled for this race pales in comparison to the challenges faced by people in NYC and its vicinity in the aftermath of Sandy,” Keflezighi said.

Wilson Kipsang of Kenya, winner of the 2012 London Marathon and the Olympic bronze medal, said: “This is terrible, but it’s part of life. I’m not angry. People suffered misfortune.”

Stars like Keflezighi and Kipsang should not be financially undone by losing a payday. But second-tier runners like Ian Burrell of Tucson faced more uncertainty. Burrell finished third at the 2012 United States half-marathon championships, which brought a small appearance fee to run the New York City Marathon. He hoped to have a breakthrough performance Sunday that would earn a shoe contract and supplement a racing income of about $20,000 a year.

“This is the last six months of my life,” said Burrell, who is married and has a 1-year-old daughter. While he understood the decision to cancel the race, Burrell said, “It’s devastating.”
78 2012-11-04 But what about Vernon Gholston versus Jake Long?

The scout smiled and said, “I hear what you’re saying.”

Gholston was a defensive end for Ohio State in 2007, and he had a spectacular game that season against Michigan and Long, the Wolverines’ all-American left tackle. Gholston had three sacks in Ohio State’s 14-3 victory, and he beat Long for one sack, the first time all that season Long had given up a sack.

Scouts gushed over Gholston, and he charged up some mock draft boards. He had an N.F.L.-ready body and tested well in strength and speed at the N.F.L. combine. The Jets made Gholston the sixth pick over all.

Gholston, in the parlance of scouts, was a bust. He did not have a sack for the Jets in three seasons and was waived.

The scout in the press box at Alabama’s Bryant-Denny Stadium nodded his head and said, “A game like Alabama versus L.S.U. is important; it will show you a lot, and the tape will be dissected, but it’s still one game. But, yes, there is Gholston versus Jake Long.”

L.S.U. free safety Eric Reid (6-2, 212) is considered talented enough to be a first-round pick, and he will be evaluated on run support when he comes down to tackle Alabama running backs Eddie Lacy and T. J. Yeldon if they burst into the second level of the defense. Tharold Simon, L.S.U.’s 6-3 junior cornerback, who is an N.F.L. prospect, will be watched to see if he can run with the Alabama freshman flyer Amari Cooper, a 6-1, 198-pound wide receiver.

“The competition will be so good, the scouts don’t have to guess who can play; the players will evaluate themselves for scouts,” said Phil Savage, the executive director of the Senior Bowl and a former N.F.L. general manager and scout.

Combined, Alabama and L.S.U have had 24 draft picks the last two drafts. By contrast, Oregon and Southern California, who also played Saturday, have had 17 draft picks the last two seasons and 3 No. 1 picks (all U.S.C.).

“There will be some good players in Oregon versus Southern Cal,” said Gil Brandt, a former Cowboys executive and an NFL.com analyst, “but there will not be as many as Alabama-L.S.U. This is a valuable game to scouts.”

Where one game could be a really valuable tool is breaking up the debate in the draft room next spring.

“When you get down to talking about three or four guys that are equal and each scout has their guy, you just say, let’s throw the tape in, let’s look at the cutups of each guy,” Brandt said. “If it is a guy from Alabama or L.S.U., you want to look at L.S.U.-Alabama and see him against a good player. In that case, one game does carry some weight.”

Barrett Jones, the Alabama center, is considered heavy on intangibles: leadership, poise, energy. Scouts want to see him get out of his stance quickly and cut off the backside angle of L.S.U. defensive left tackle Anthony Johnson (6-3, 304), a sophomore who is already projected as a first-round talent.

What scouts have to be mindful of is fast-forwarding through eight games to get to Game 9, L.S.U. versus Alabama, and seeing their guy play spectacularly and letting that obscure the body of work. Suppose his opponent that night had a sore ankle and did not move well?

“Some scouts, they see a guy and say if he can do it one time, he can do it all the time if he gets the right coaching,” Savage said. “Scouts can get stuck on a guy. You have to consider the body of work.”
79 2012-11-04 “I told them to jump into cabs,” recalled Mr. Kirschner, explaining that the initial idea was for each of them to take a taxi to try to find her, an approach they soon realized would never work.

Instead, the three returned to Park Avenue, where they decided that the best strategy would be to post fliers within a one-mile radius of where Zoey was last seen and hope that someone would spot her. Mr. Kirschner’s son, Philip, designed a flier that included two small photographs of Zoey, a brief description and a message:  “Lost Dog-Zoey $5000 REWARD,” “family is devastated.” They made 1,000 copies.

By now it was time for Dr. Kirschner to report for work at the emergency room, which she did, while her parents, her brother and her boyfriend, Nicholas Schwartzstein, set off for the streets of East Harlem to post their mountain of fliers on every lamppost and in every storefront they could.

On  Monday, the day after Zoey vanished, the Kirschners received a call from Capt. Jessica E. Corey of the Central Park Police Precinct, who told them that on the morning Zoey disappeared someone had called 911 at 8 a.m. to report a black dog limping along the West Side Highway near the George Washington Bridge. Could it be Zoey? Initially elated, the Kirschners studied a map and concluded that the distance between East Harlem and the bridge would have been impossible for the dog to traverse in just an hour.

Nevertheless, they decided to expand the search, lugging sacks of fliers to the upper reaches of Manhattan’s West Side.

Their mission took them to Fort Tryon Park, Morningside Park and the neighborhoods of Inwood and Washington Heights, through vast boulevards, playgrounds, and dog runs. Still there were no leads. Calls came in, but they were mostly from New Yorkers they had met along the way, hoping for news.

Then a boy who sounded about 13 called, saying that he had seen the dog in the park but that it had run away. When Nancy Fisher, Dr. Kirschner’s mother, asked to talk to his father, the boy hung up. Had he really seen Zoey, or was it a prank call? A man who said he lived in Brooklyn called and said that he had  Zoey in his backyard, but that he would not give any further information to the Kirschners unless they could identify the numbers on her collar. Zoey did not have a collar.

A man got in touch by e-mail through Craigslist, saying “hey I know where your dog is ...>same exact dog!!” He claimed that the dog had been found by his daughter’s neighbor “around a train station in Harlem” and that he could “take the dog away without her knowing.” Skeptical, Dr. Kirschner requested further details. The man wrote again: “I can get your dog back,” he said, “but I would like to remain anonymous.” He explained that he could not send a photograph because he did not want to create “suspicion.” When he called and told the family to wire him the reward money, the Kirschners realized that they were being scammed and stopped answering.

Days passed. The temperature dropped. There was heavy rain. The Kirschners spent hours inspecting the long rows of cages at the city’s animal shelters, calling veterinary hospitals, speaking repeatedly with Stray From the Heart, the agency from which Dr. Kirschner had adopted Zoey, which finds homes for dogs that have been abandoned in Puerto Rico. It was Saturday, and almost a week had passed. Dr. Kirschner was supposed to attend a wedding in Texas, but she stayed in New York to continue her search.  That night, after talking to a trainer who had worked with Zoey and who urged her not to give up, she printed another 1,000 fliers.

Early the following morning, exactly one week after Zoey went missing, she headed back to East Harlem with her parents.  It was just after 9 a. m. when her mother’s cellphone rang. Dr. Kirschner answered.

“I think I have your dog,” said a woman with a thick Russian accent. Dr. Kirschner asked the woman to send a photograph to her cellphone. She did.

The Kirschners raced in a taxi to the address they had been given on the telephone, a white brick building in Washington Heights.  As they left the cab, a man with a baby stroller yelled to them from across the street: “Hey, I’ve got your dog.” But the man was  clutching a 100-pound Siberian husky. It was someone else’s lost dog. Mr. Kirschner remained behind on the street to help as his wife and daughter raced upstairs to find Zoey.

Elena Blank and Julia Grossman, both originally from Moscow, had been walking their own small black dog in Fort Washington Park near the George Washington Bridge that morning when they noticed another small black dog in the distance. It was limping and did not seem to belong to anyone. Earlier in the week, they had noticed a flier about Zoey and Ms. Grossman said she had wondered “why someone who had lost their dog in Central Park would advertise all the way up here.” The lone dog headed in their direction and came to a stop. As Ms. Blank reached down to stroke its head, the dog buried its nose in her knees. She took her own dog’s leash, attached it to the stray and, plucking one of the many fliers posted on lampposts along Fort Washington Avenue, proceeded home.

Zoey suffered a broken pelvis on her odyssey — the Kirschners will never know how, or whether the limping dog first spotted a week ago had really been Zoey, or whether the boy who called had really seen her in the park. They just know they have their dog back.

“This is like a Woody Allen movie,” Ms. Grossman said, adding that she and Ms. Blank had not realized that they would receive a reward. “People from different cultures. Brought together by a dog and our love of animals. It is a beautiful experience. New York at its best.”
80 2012-11-04 Without a link to the subway, Clason Point seems isolated. But it also has a quirkiness derived from its early 1900s past as a resort.

One vestige of that is Harding Park, a subneighborhood along the waterfront, made up of 236 former summer bungalows, now weatherized for year-round living.

Of course, no amount of weatherizing could have protected against the recent stormwaters, and Elbin Mena, the president of the homeowners association for Harding Park, noted on Tuesday that about a dozen homes in its southernmost section had been flooded.

Elsewhere in the larger neighborhood, trees were down and there was scattered power loss, he said, adding that neighbors were doing what they could to help one another in the aftermath.

According to census data on the population of Community Board 9, of which Clason Point is a part, almost 58 percent are Hispanic and 30 percent are black or African-American, with whites and Asians splitting the rest.

Harry Rodriguez, a court officer in Criminal Court in the Bronx, moved into his Harding Park bungalow with his wife, Angie, four years ago after originally searching in Warwick, a community in Orange County where the properties are big and the prices lower than those in New York City.

Mr. Rodriguez said he fell for the locale right away. But when he took his wife for the first time, “she said absolutely not.” The house needed a lot of work and was very small.

Then she saw what Mr. Mena, of the homeowner association, had done with his property, and she changed her mind.

She was impressed with his back deck — a wide wooden expanse with a bar, umbrellas, a fountain, a dock, and Manhattan’s skyline in the distance.

Since the Rodriguezes bought the bungalow a few doors down from Mr. Mena’s place, they have slowly updated it and are now adding a room.

Homes in Harding Point do not come up for sale often because families tend to hold onto them, brokers say. Just outside Harding Park is a newer development, Harbour Pointe at Shorehaven, a private gated community of 488 modest condos and 156 two-family homes built on the site of a former beach club.

This development started to go up in the late 1980s and has continued in phases. Most recently, ground was broken for 71 two-family homes near Clason Point Park, where Soundview Avenue dead-ends at the water.

Rafael Torres of Team Tower Realty, the exclusive broker for Harbour Pointe, said people who bought there are teachers, nurses, police officers and other civil servants who like the security and resortlike amenities that the development offers.

Contrasting the Bronx’s vibrant, busy reputation with Shorehaven’s quiet, insular one, Mr. Torres said, “A lot of people talk about the Bronx, but life here is not like that.” Each unit comes with a parking spot; visitors must be announced at the gatehouse; and residents have access to basketball courts, a gym, a swimming pool and a day care center, he said.

Outside of Harbour Point and Harding Park, the housing consists mainly of brick duplexes and single-family homes on side streets that intersect with Soundview Avenue and White Plains Road.

Ariel Pena, a real estate agent at Re/Max Voyage, says two-family homes are in demand because they provide rental income to defray mortgage costs. Buyers are often young couples looking for their first home or people who have rented in the area and who now want to own, he said.

Reasonable real estate prices are what draw people to Clason Point, said Luis Fernandez, an agent with Keller Williams Realty, who sees potential buyers from Brooklyn and other parts of the city.

“Its selling points are that it is still affordable for the average person and, perhaps, you could get something that is newer than the rest of the Bronx for almost the same price,” Mr. Fernandez said.

He has a listing for a two-unit attached home in Shorehaven built in 2002. It has a two-bedroom apartment over a three-bedroom duplex and is priced at $500,000. He said a similar property in the Throgs Neck neighborhood of the Bronx would probably sell for $700,000.

According to the real estate Web site Trulia.com, which aggregates multiple listings, 218 properties were for sale in Clason Point the last week of October. An overview of market trends on the site said the average sale price of houses for a two-month period ending Sept. 12 was $334,000, a decline of 33.4 percent when compared with average sales in the neighborhood in 2007.

But Mr. Fernandez has noticed the market picking up. “Inventory is being consumed faster than even a year ago,” he said. “It now moves in four to six months, which is almost a real market, while we used to see 10 to 12 months.”

“It’s urban but not as urban as the rest of the Bronx,” Mr. Fernandez said. “You don’t see high-rises, and it’s not like you’re in the middle of the Grand Concourse and you can’t park. Living here, you find parking everywhere.”

Mr. Rodriguez bought his Harding Point bungalow for $250,000 four years ago. After renovations, he said, it recently was appraised at $370,000.

At Harbor Pointe, two-bedroom condos sell for $340,000 to $375,000, three-bedrooms for about $475,000, Mr. Torres said. Owners also pay a monthly condo fee ranging from $275 to $359.

WHAT TO DO

For residents with direct water access like Mr. Mena and Mr. Rodriguez, kayaking is a favorite pastime. People also fish from the rocks at Clason Point Park or off a jetty that can be reached from the Harding Point area.

Clason Point encompasses Soundview Park, which is at the confluence of the Bronx and East Rivers. The park has sports fields and more places to fish.

For shopping, Bruckner Plaza, with big retailers like Kmart, Old Navy and Toys ‘R’ Us, is a short bus ride or drive up White Plains Road.

A longtime neighborhood institution is the Holy Cross Parish Elementary School, which serves students through eighth grade. Public School 69 New Vision School, with 575 students, received an A on its most recent city progress report. The larger P.S. 182, which has 900 students, scored a B.

A nearby option for older students is the Adlai E. Stevenson educational campus, which houses two middle schools and seven small high schools.

With no direct subway service, residents who take public transportation rely on two bus lines. The BX27 takes riders to the 6 train at the Morrison/Soundview Avenues stop, while the BX39 connects to the 6 at the Westchester Avenue/E 177th Street stop. At rush hour, it can take about an hour to get to Grand Central Terminal.

In the early part in the 20th century, Clason Point had dance halls, bathing piers and Kane’s Casino, according to the Encyclopedia of New York City. Its popularity waned when the last ferry service from College Point, Queens, ended during World War II.

After the war, the casino property was converted into the Shorehaven Beach Club, a private club with a saltwater swimming pool, tennis and handball courts and live entertainment. Pat Loehmann, 68, who has lived in Clason Point her whole life, remembers sneaking into Shorehaven to swim in the pool and later working there as a teenager.

She said children used to play outside until the streetlights came on. These days, she said, it is quieter. Looking out the window of her Beach Avenue home, which was once her grandmother’s, she said, “The kids don’t go out.”
81 2012-11-04 IN these financially trying times, colleges need to be creative in finding new revenue sources. Purchase College, of the State University of New York, has gone into the airport parking business.

Bill Guerrero, executive director of the Purchase College Association, saw opportunity in an underutilized parking lot on campus. His entrepreneurship class polished the business plan for a park-and-shuttle service for nearby Westchester County Airport. The service broke even in 2011, its first year, and is projected to make a $200,000 profit by July.

Auxiliary services generate $40 billion a year nationally, or nearly 8 percent of college revenues, according to the latest Department of Education figures. In the last few years, “due to the extreme funding issues,” says Jeff Pittman, former board president of the National Association of College Auxiliary Services, “auxiliary service units have had to become increasingly entrepreneurial.” That means alumni cemeteries, rec centers open to the public — and Purchase Park 2 Fly.

“Ultimately,” Mr. Guerrero says, “any money this new operation brings will help with student scholarships and bring capital back to the college.”

And he has more big ideas: SUNY carwashes and oil changes.
82 2012-11-04 Credit: Nathan Weber for The New York Times
83 2012-11-04 I thought your cover illustration told the whole story of Paul Ryan. Like a perfect koan, nothing more could have been added — the boy is a cartoon. The entire presidential campaign has become an exchange of non sequiturs in place of serious argument. A cartoon campaign is not worthy of a democratic society. EMANUELE CORSO, Penasco, N.M.

Beneath Ryan’s aw-shucks Midwestern bonhomie and earnest policy-wonkish demeanor beats the heart of a hard-core trickle-down plutocrat. He cannot hide his penchant for privatizing Medicare and Social Security. But what makes the prospect of a Romney-Ryan victory truly frightful is the presence of the foreign-policy adviser Dan Senor and his Straussian ilk. The United States can ill afford another war of choice — against Iran, Syria or any member of the fungible axis of evil. Fifty years ago, J.F.K. chose jaw-jaw over war-war in defusing the Cuban missile crisis. Détente and diplomacy appear to be missing from the gospel according to Representative Ryan and Governor Romney. ROSARIO A. IACONIS, Adjunct Professor of Economics and Political Science, Briarcliffe College, Bethpage, N.Y.

That Ryan is a “professor” is a big part of the hype that Mark Leibovich bemoans between the lines. And Congressional Republicans are more than happy to feed the hype. National Review’s Robert Costa, for instance, wrote in August that Ryan’s fellow members, especially the Tea Party-rich freshman class of 2010, are like “students.”. . . Paul Ryan is a “professor” to the extent that his “students” are woefully and comically underinformed. And it is on the back of this ignorance that Paul Ryan the ideologue may ride into the U.S. Naval Observatory. SCOTT GALUPO, in the State of the Union blog on theamericanconservative.com

Regarding Ryan’s PowerPoint on the national debt, the importance lies not with citing concepts that are beyond the grasp of “fifth graders” but in taking the matter seriously. We do; the left doesn’t. And yes, it is mathematically and politically possible to remain revenue neutral by leaving effective tax rates in place while broadening the base and lowering marginal rates. Of course, all clamor for details on which deductions, credits or incentives will be eliminated. Those items get negotiated in committee and caucuses, do they not? Finally, some of your characterizations of Ryan, when juxtaposed with his rivals, are striking. You write of a “full-faced smirk” coming from Ryan, yet Joe Biden’s debate behavior merits only a euphemistic label of “amped-up mannerisms.” JOHN J. MADDENTE, Delafield, Wis.

THE WHITE-HOT MIDDLE OF NOWHERE

Excellent reporting from Afghanistan, but the headline focuses on the negative. The important part of this article is the security chief who is trying to maintain order, the old man who oversees the water distribution and the hospital staff that soldiers on despite few supplies. It is the ability of so many people to do the right thing in such a fierce environment that most impresses me. STEPHEN LANDRIGAN, West Roxbury, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

When Bush proclaimed his axis of evil, Iran was a possible ally in the struggle against the Taliban. In fact, Iran had a better record in opposing the Taliban than the United States at that time. Iran-backed political leaders like Ismail Khan were the ones fighting the Taliban. Luke Mogelson shows the possible costs to the United States and to the anti-Taliban movement of persistence in foolish ideology. Iran was — and perhaps still is — the natural ally in fighting the Taliban. IAN BEDFORD, Sydney, Australia, posted on nytimes.com

‘IF YOU FIX CITIES, YOU KIND OF FIX THE WORLD’

We just returned from Las Vegas, where we spent a good amount of time downtown. Tony Hsieh’s vision is working — restaurants are sprouting up, arts festivals are happening on a regular basis, there’s a thriving farmers’ market and the area seemed safer than the last time I was there. It’s a nice break from the strip — people are friendlier, the vibe more relaxed. SAMUEL MORGENSTEIN, Toronto, posted on nytimes.com
84 2012-11-05 Nest, the sleek learning thermostat, is officially sold in only two countries, the United States and Canada. But it is being used in 65 countries. Its maker looks at the gray market as a market research opportunity....
85 2012-11-05 Picholine, the popular Michelin-starred Lincoln Center-area restaurant that has been in business for 19 years, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday. It cited assets between $100,000 and $500,000 and liabilities exceeding $500,001. It owes money to fewer than 49 creditors.

The restaurant closed for renovations in July and reopened in October.

"Because we were closed for several months, we fell behind," said Robert Leinwand, the attorney representing the eatery. He said that financing has fallen through and that the restaurant needs additional financing to take care of vendors and its landlord.

According to an affidavit accompanying the filing, Picholine is facing possible eviction from its landlord.

The restaurant is owned by chef Terrance Brennan, president of Brennan Restaurant Group Inc., who also owns another Manhattan restaurant, Artisanal Bistro.
86 2012-11-05 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes questions about why students take phone photos in class, common search queries about the presidential candidates...
87 2012-11-05 New York City's other grid, natural gas lines, allowed some places to stay warm and bright despite Sandy....
88 2012-11-05 Nike is nearing a deal to sell its Cole Haan brand to Apax Partners for about $500 million as the athletic shoe-and-apparel giant looks to streamline its product offerings....
89 2012-11-05 Apple has long promoted the simplicity of its products -- the hardware design, the software interface, the names, the packaging. But with the addition of the iPad Mini, its tablet family has become more complicated....
90 2012-11-05 Is there anything you wish you had done differently?...
91 2012-11-05 The cash-strapped council of the Borough of Tower Hamlets in London's East End is expected to decide on Wednesday whether it will proceed with plans to sell a valuable Henry Moore sculpture despite opposition from Sir Nicholas Serota, director of ...
92 2012-11-05 Lynda Clarizio joined AppNexus, New York, in a new post, executive vice president for corporate development and operations. She had most recently been president and chief executive at Invision and before that held several posts at AOL.

John Copeland joined the Chicago office of Rosetta, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, managing partner and co-leader of the marketing strategy and insights practice; the practice was formerly known as the Rosetta Consulting Group. He will be teamed up with Jay Lichtenstein, who is the other co-leader of the practice. Mr. Copeland had been co-leader for the North America consumer and shopper insight practice at McKinsey & Company.

Sveta Doucet joined the New York office of M&C Saatchi as chief strategy officer, as part of plans to re-establish the office, which was reopened early this year. Ms. Doucet had most recently been head of strategy at the New York office of Profero.

Amy Figliuolo and Brendan McGeever are joining Yext, New York, in new posts. Ms. Figliuolo becomes national account director, to be based in San Francisco; she had most recently been vice president for sales at Position Technologies, San Francisco. Mr. McGeever becomes vice president for enterprise sales at the Yext New York headquarters; he had most recently been vice president of sales for the East and Midwest at Context Optional, New York, which was acquired by Adobe Systems.

David Kaplan joined My Damn Channel, New York, in a new post, director for advertising sales. He had been an account executive at Demand Media.

Mark Kaplan joined Cambridge BioMarketing, Cambridge, Mass., in a new post, director for digital strategy. He had been an associate planning director at Rapp, New York, part of the Omnicom Group.

Silvia Lagnado, who joined Bacardi Ltd., Hamilton, Bermuda in 2010 as chief marketing officer for Bacardi and president for Bacardi Global Brands, will leave in the next few months, the company said, “to pursue other interests.” A successor is to be named later.

Gregg Liebman joined the New York office of Telemundo Media in a new post, senior vice president for advertising sales insights and strategy. He had been senior vice president for advertising sales and sports research at the New York office of Turner Broadcasting System, part of Time Warner, where he was recently replaced by Howard Shimmel.

MDC Partners is closing the Toronto office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, which was opened in July 2010 when MDC merged Zig, an agency based in Toronto, with Crispin Porter & Bogusky to form Crispin Porter & Bogusky Canada. Fifteen of the estimated 45 people who had most recently been working at the office are being laid off. The office in Toronto was unable to compete for many accounts in the Canadian market because of conflicts with accounts that are handled by Crispin Porter & Bogusky in the United States. To minimize those conflicts, MDC has decided to open an agency in Toronto, named Union, that is not affiliated with Crispin Porter & Bogusky or any other American agency owned by MDC. Union will be led by Subtej Nijjar, who had been president of Crispin Porter & Bogusky Canada; Lance Martin, who had been executive creative director at Taxi 2, Toronto, part of the Taxi division of Young & Rubicam Brands, owned by WPP; and Dave Carey, who had been senior vice president for client services at Lowe Roche, Toronto, part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Crispin Porter & Bogusky will now operate three offices — in London, Los Angeles and Gothenburg, Sweden — in addition to its co-headquarters in Boulder, Colo., and Miami.

Meredith Xcelerated Marketing, New York, part of the Meredith Corporation, expanded its social media practice, called New Media Strategies, by hiring four employees. They are James Clark, strategy director; Tom Donnelly, vice president for public affairs; Megan Malli, senior account director; and Gayle Weiswasser, vice president for engagement.

Okemo Mountain Resort, Ludlow, Vt., hired KSV, Burlington, Vt., as agency of record. The assignment had previously been handled by Milk, South Norwalk, Conn. Billings were not disclosed.

Karyn Pascoe joined Deutsch New York as senior vice president and group creative director. She had been executive creative director at Organic, part of the Omnicom Group. Deutsch New York is part of the Deutsch unit of Lowe & Partners, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Savor PR, Washington, was opened by Charissa Benjamin, who had been regional director for restaurant public relations at Kimpton Hotels and Restaurants, Washington.

SecurityPoint Media, Tampa, Fla., hired four executives in its Los Angeles and New York offices as part of expansion plans. They are Richard Anastasio, national sales, based in New York; David Askew, senior vice president for strategic partnerships, Los Angeles; Craig Ferber, national sales, Los Angeles; and Tom Green, midmarket sales, New York.

SK&G Advertising, Las Vegas, hired 10 employees and promoted five. The newcomers are Brooke Bushong, account coordinator; Melissa Gonzalez, account executive; Jillian Joyce, public relations account coordinator; Trisha Kirk, broadcast producer; Amanda Rhett, production artist; Melina Robinson, data analytics specialist; Joe Sampson, desktop support; Michael Urban, progress coordinator; Jason Wright, assistant account executive; and Nicole Zabriskie, account executive. The employees being promoted are Marc Coppell, who becomes senior production artist; Travis Culp, prepress manager; Jessica George, senior designer; Camille Mumpower, junior designer; and Marivic Ulep, senior production artist.

Squaw Valley Ski Resort, Squaw Valley, Calif., named MeringCarson, Sacramento, to develop a campaign for the coming ski season and the new resort partnership with Alpine Meadows. There was no previous agency. Billings were not disclosed.

Heather Stern joined Lippincott, New York, in a new post, chief marketing and communications officer. She had been vice president for marketing at Millward Brown, part of WPP. Lippincott is part of the Oliver Wyman unit of the Marsh & McLennan Companies.

Todd Townsend joined Logan’s Roadhouse, Nashville, a unit of LRI Holdings, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been chief marketing and sales officer at Time Warner Cable, where he led marketing and sales efforts for the Eastern states, and before that worked at, among other places, Leo Burnett and Sonic Drive In.

Brian Tucker joined Genesis Media, New York, in a new post, vice president for national sales. He had been vice president for sales at Clickable and Syncapse, which acquired Clickable during his time at the company.

Arielle Worona joined M3 Creative, Burbank, Calif., as director for development. She assumes duties from Victoria Mercado Guinto, producer, who left, the company said, for family reasons. Ms. Worona had been manager for development at 44 Blue Productions.
93 2012-11-05 The iPad Mini costs a bit more than competing tablets of a similar size, but Apple said on Monday that it sold three million new iPads in the first weekend that both the smaller iPad and the fourth-generation iPad went on sale. That matches the nu...
94 2012-11-05 At Rockaway Beach, residents are increasingly cold and scared. | Storm-battered supply chains threaten holiday shopping. | Media gear up to avoid gaffes on election night....
95 2012-11-05 Netflix announced that its board had adopted a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, just days after the activist investor Carl C. Icahn disclosed he had acquired a 9.98 percent stake....
96 2012-11-05 The Stifel Financial Corporation agreed on Monday to buy the investment banking firm KBW Inc., acquiring a 50-year-old concern known for its role as an adviser to the financial services industry....
97 2012-11-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
98 2012-11-05 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
99 2012-11-05 Even with the storm, confidence rises and the jobs numbers improve. Does your start-up need a public-relations firm? Is the iPhone financially irresponsible? And what will you do differently before the next storm?...
100 2012-11-05 Where has a gasoline shortage added to the hardship of recovering from Hurricane Sandy?...
101 2012-11-05 Buildings along the waterfront in Lower Manhattan remain weeks or months away from being able to reopen and invite their tenants back....
102 2012-11-05 ¶Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, part of Anheuser-Busch InBev, selected AKQA, part of WPP, for a new assignment, digital agency of record for the Budweiser, Bud Light and Stella Artois beer brands. Spending has not been determined. AKQA will work with the brands’ marketing agencies of record, which are: Anomaly, for Budweiser; Translation, for Bud Light; and Mother, for Stella Artois.

¶NPR, Washington, formerly National Public Radio, hired two executives as part of a reorganization. Emma Carrasco joins as chief marketing officer; she had been executive vice president at República, the Miami advertising agency. And Loren Mayor becomes senior vice president for strategy; she had been vice president for strategy and ventures at PBS.

¶Paran Johar resigned as chief marketing officer at Jumptap, based in the Los Angeles office, to devote energy full time to serving as chief executive at Mobile Media Summit, the company he started in 2007 that produces the Mobile Media Summit and Mobile Media Upfront conferences.

¶Disruptions from Hurricane Sandy will cost the advertising industry about 1 percent, or $500 million, in revenue during the fourth quarter, according to a research note from Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at the Pivotal Research Group. Mr. Wieser also reduced his forecast of growth in ad spending next year, to a gain of 1.2 percent from 2012, compared with his previous estimate for an increase of 1.7 percent.

¶Internet users watched 9.4 billion online video ads and more than 39 billion online video content clips in September, according to the comScore Video Metrix report from comScore, compared with 9.5 billion online video ads and 37.7 billion online video content clips in August. Google Sites, which includes YouTube, provided the most online video ads in September, at 1.76 billion, followed by the BrightRoll Video Network, 1.35 billion, and Hulu, 1.17 billion.
103 2012-11-05 The events have cast a shadow over his tenure at the BBC and have forced his new boss, the Times publisher and board chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr., to defend him even before he starts work on Nov. 12.

Mr. Thompson has said he knew nothing of the Savile investigation before it was canceled by the editor of the BBC’s “Newsnight” program. As for what he knew afterward, his statements have evolved: He first said he was unaware of the investigation, but then acknowledged he was subsequently told of its cancellation by a reporter at a cocktail party. He said while he “may have formed an impression” about possible areas of a Savile investigation, including his charity work, he was unaware of child-sexual-abuse accusations.

Interviews with former BBC executives and officials here in London show that in the months after the investigation was canceled, Mr. Thompson and his top executives repeatedly missed opportunities to pursue a fuller picture of the “Newsnight” reporting, the fate of the program and, perhaps, of Mr. Savile.

In the two months after the inquiry’s cancellation, seven reports appeared in the British press about the scuttled investigation and the accusations against the longhaired, cigar-chomping Mr. Savile, who died last year at age 84. The headline in The Daily Mail Online read: “BBC axes exposé into Jimmy Savile teen sex allegations.”

According to former executives, at least some of those articles were part of a packet of press clippings sent each morning to the network’s top executives. Mr. Thompson’s daily 9:15 a.m. conference call with his top executives often included discussions from the clippings file.

Whether through a series of near misses or a more deliberate avoidance, the executives failed to confront questions about Mr. Savile and the possibility that, in decades past, the BBC was somehow complicit in his behavior.

Beyond reverberating at the BBC, the broadcast last month of a documentary by a rival network led to a police investigation of hundreds of accusations that, primarily during the 1970s, Mr. Savile abused teenage girls and some boys at schools and hospitals where he performed charity work and, in some cases, on BBC premises.

Mr. Thompson, 55, said in an interview last week that when he eventually heard the accusations this fall he felt “that mixture of shock and sadness.”

Mr. Thompson, who as the BBC’s director general was both chief executive and editor in chief, partly attributes his lack of knowledge about the “Newsnight” inquiry to the BBC’s enormous size. In fact, its 23,000 employees provide news and entertainment across eight television channels, 50 radio stations, a Web site and a host of other outlets — all with their own chains of command.

But after he learned of the scuttled investigation late last December, he said he raised it with his news chiefs, who told him that the editor of “Newsnight” stopped it for journalistic reasons. “I wasn’t told any specific lines of inquiry and certainly not anything related to the BBC,” he said, adding that amid the flood of business, he was willing to be assured there was nothing to worry about.

“It didn’t occur to me that there was a contemporary corporate interest to defend,” Mr. Thompson said. “You can say it’s a lack of imagination.” But he pointed out that Mr. Savile’s heyday was decades ago — he retired in the mid-1990s — and that his association with him was watching him on television as a child.

Mr. Thompson came to the top BBC job by way of scandal.

The previous director general resigned in 2004, after a controversy over a BBC report concerning accusations that British authorities had “sexed up” intelligence on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. Mr. Thompson was a natural choice as successor, having spent most of his career rising through the BBC ranks after arriving from Oxford as part of a highly selective trainee program.

“He was one of the Brahmin class at the BBC that they usually got from Oxford and Cambridge,” said Steve Hewlett, a former BBC journalist who worked with Mr. Thompson.

By age 30, he was the editor of the main evening news and two years later was named head of the investigative show “Panorama.” He eventually became director of all nonnews television, overseeing a panoply of cultural and entertainment programming.

When he became director general, said Mr. Hewlett, “so much had to be done to right the ship and he did it brilliantly.”

While Mr. Thompson has been criticized in the Savile case, after other programming controversies flared, he had ordered internal inquiries, fired people, tightened policies and instituted training on ethics and standards.

The vast array of BBC outlets delivered a full complement of on-air problems: the “Queensgate” scandal in which doctored footage made it appear that Queen Elizabeth was storming out of a photo session; a 2008 episode in which a comedian and host left a lewd message on an actor’s phone; a discovery of irregularities in call-in competitions on several shows, including for the naming of a cat on the show “Blue Peter.”

“Letting down the children who watch ‘Blue Peter’ and who trust it implicitly is a truly terrible idea — even if all that is at stake is the difference between calling a cat ‘Cookie’ or ‘Socks,’ ” he wrote in a companywide message, adding, “the simple fact is that the public expect the highest possible standards of us.”

One of Mr. Thompson’s signature accomplishments was helping transform the BBC for the Internet era — experience that made him attractive to The Times. In a speech to a press association in Brazil last month, Mr. Sulzberger praised his new hire: “When Mark joins us next month, he will bring with him a track record of success in a truly global organization in the digital age.”

Beyond the BBC’s heavily trafficked Web site, Mr. Thompson headed the production of the enormously successful BBC iPlayer, which offers television and radio content on demand.

One thorny issue for Mr. Thompson was the revelation in financial disclosures that at least 37 BBC employees were earning more than the prime minister. Mr. Thompson’s salary and benefits reached as high as $1.3 million — six times the prime minister’s pay.

Mr. Thompson defended his policies to Parliament, saying that the BBC needed to be competitive with private companies and that by 2010 he had cut 100 of the network’s 700 senior managers, with more to come. He also cut executive pensions and his own pay fell to about $1 million in his final year.

The executive pay issue hardly enhanced his image among the BBC’s rank and file, many of whom were angered by a deal he cut with the government to keep a steady stream of public license fees flowing to the BBC. The National Union of Journalists objected because the deal led to reduced programming money and another round of job losses.

It did not help that Mr. Thompson was “not a sort of warm and cuddly person,” as one former executive put it.

But the executive said he had a “very, very good strategic brain and has the ability to deal with a crisis in an unflappable way.” And several people who know him said that while his quick intellect and self-confidence might have sometimes come across as argumentative, he used it to defend the BBC.

Andrew Graystone, the director of the Church and Media Network, recalled that Mr. Thompson, a practicing Catholic, appeared at his group soon after the BBC drew protests for broadcasting “Jerry Springer — The Opera,” a blasphemous comedy featuring Jesus, Mary and God as guests on the Springer show.

“I remember someone saying to him ‘50,000 Christians have asked you not to air this. How many people have to write to you before you pull a program off the air?’ ” Mr. Graystone recounted. “He said, ‘One. But they have to be right.’ ”

For the moment, the Savile case has shaken the solid reputation Mr. Thompson had when he left the BBC on Sept. 14.

He said he first learned details of the Savile case several days later when he was vacationing in Italy and his former spokesman called to tell him about articles previewing the Oct. 3 Savile documentary on the rival network.

But some of those same details had been known to a group of Mr. Thompson’s employees for more than a year. “Newsnight” reporters had begun investigating Mr. Savile days after he died. After hearing accusations for some time, they waited until Mr. Savile’s death because Britain’s strict libel laws would no longer apply, making it more likely that victims might talk, according to BBC employees familiar with the case.

Exactly how far along and substantiated the “Newsnight” reporting was when it was halted is likely to be central to an independent inquiry now under way at the BBC, and a key to understanding who may have acted improperly. But the BBC employees familiar with the case say that reporters had filmed one victim telling her story, had plans to film a second and had others giving their accounts off camera.

At the same time “Newsnight” was pursuing its project, the BBC’s nonnews television division was preparing elaborate tributes to Mr. Savile, scheduled to run over Christmas.

But Mr. Thompson said he knew little if anything about this activity.

It was not for lack of opportunity. His 9:15 a.m. daily conference call, which focused on corporate issues, included the heads of news and television, the two executives involved in the conflicting Savile projects. Mr. Thompson also led management board meetings of top executives once or twice a month and one item distributed to that group was the “Pan-BBC Managed Programme Risk List” of sensitive reporting projects in the works. Paul Mylrea, a BBC spokesman, said on Friday that the Savile inquiry was not included.

If Mr. Thompson was not informed, it is partly because of strict programming divisions within the BBC, a point illustrated in recent Parliamentary testimony by George Entwistle, the current director general.

Mr. Entwistle, who was previously head of nonnews television programming, said that before the “Newsnight” effort was halted, Helen Boaden, the head of news, told him of the investigation, saying it might force him to rearrange the Christmas schedule and the Savile tributes.

He said that the conversation, which occurred at a Women in Film and Television lunch, was brief and that he did not ask the nature of the investigation. “I didn’t reflect on it,” he said. “This was a busy lunch.”

He said his respect for the independence of the news division accounted for “my determination not to show undue interest.”

His explanation why none of this had reached Mr. Thompson suggested an almost ritualized BBC bureaucracy.

Mr. Entwistle said that while the director general had “responsibility and accountability” for programming, control lay with program editors, who report to managers and ultimately to division directors. Given the volume of programming, only the rarest program issue reaches the director general.

An incredulous member of Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport committee, Damian Collins, said “if this doesn’t qualify, you wonder what the bar is.”

He asked, “Would not a program being made by one of the BBC’s flagship news programs bringing forth very serious criminal allegations about someone who was an icon for children in this country, created as an icon by the BBC for very vulnerable people as a result of his celebrated BBC status, would the creation of a program like that or even the preparation for broadcast of a program like that not routinely have gone to the editor in chief?”

The investigation was canceled in mid-December by the “Newsnight” editor, Peter Rippon. Mr. Thompson has said he learned of it only when a BBC reporter, Caroline Hawley, approached him at a party and asked why the Savile inquiry had been killed. She said in a statement that she gathered from his reaction that he knew nothing about it.

When news executives then told him it was abandoned “for journalistic reasons,” Mr. Thompson said in the interview, “I got no sense they themselves were holding anything back, and there was nothing to discuss.”

So when articles began appearing in the daily “cuttings,” BBC executives either did not notice or assumed there was not a problem.

Mr. Thompson said he did not read all of the clippings and did not remember seeing those about Mr. Savile among the packets, which sometimes ran over 100 pages.

Some executives noticed. “You’d get the cuttings related to the BBC every day and there was the story about ‘Newsnight,’ ” said Caroline Thomson, the former chief operating officer who worked for Mr. Thompson.

Ms. Thomson, who participated in the director general’s morning conference call, said “it must have been raised in that phone call,” but she does not remember a specific discussion or ever discussing it with Mr. Thompson.

Ms. Thomson said that, at the time, it did not seem particularly significant that rumors persisted about Mr. Savile or that the BBC, like other media outlets before it, could not confirm them. “It wasn’t surprising that the story hadn’t stood up because no one had written it before,” she said, adding that “there was always a sense that he was a bit weird.”

In retrospect, Ms. Thomson said, “no one quite thought of it as a story about the BBC.” Or apparently imagined the scope of the abuse accusations.

“I look back now and say, ‘Why didn’t I think it was a problem?’ ” she said. “But I didn’t.”

In April, with The Times looking for a new chief, Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Thompson met for drinks at the St. Pancras hotel in London. Mr. Thompson wrote an eight-page essay about his ideas for The Times, and just before the Olympics began in late July, flew to New York for interviews with the Times directors.

A background check was performed and, said one Times executive, “he was clean.” Apparently, no reference to the Savile case emerged.

That came in early October, in the form of screeching headlines in London. Asked about it by reporters on Oct. 13, Mr. Thompson released a statement saying: “I was not notified or briefed about the ‘Newsnight’ investigation, nor was I involved in any way in the decision not to complete and air the investigation.” He added, “During my time as director general of the BBC, I never heard any allegations or received any complaints about Jimmy Savile.”

Several days later, after news reports about his cocktail party conversation, he wrote a fuller explanation in response to questions from Parliament, acknowledging the conversation and his subsequent questions to news executives.

Mr. Thompson, who is due to report to work next Monday in New York, insists his version of events has not changed. “I honestly believe I did nothing wrong,” he said.

Two weeks ago, with tentacles of the Savile scandal touching The Times, Mr. Sulzberger wrote in a statement to employees that he was convinced that Mr. Thompson had nothing to do with killing the ‘Newsnight’ investigation and that he “possesses high ethical standards and is the ideal person to lead our company.”
104 2012-11-05 The rate of suicide in the United States rose sharply during the first few years since the start of the recession, a new analysis has found.

In the report, which appeared Sunday on the Web site of The Lancet, a medical journal, researchers found that the rate between 2008 and 2010 increased four times faster than it did in the eight years before the recession. The rate had been increasing by an average of 0.12 deaths per 100,000 people from 1999 through 2007. In 2008, the rate began increasing by an average of 0.51 deaths per 100,000 people a year. Without the increase in the rate, the total deaths from suicide each year in the United States would have been lower by about 1,500, the study said.

The finding was not unexpected. Suicide rates often spike during economic downturns, and recent studies of rates in Greece, Spain and Italy have found similar trends. The new study is the first to analyze the rate of change in the United States state by state, using suicide and unemployment data through 2010.

“The magnitude of these effects is slightly larger than for those previously estimated in the United States,” the authors wrote. That might mean that this economic downturn has been harder on mental health than previous ones, the authors concluded.

The research team linked the suicide rate to unemployment, using numbers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Every rise of 1 percent in unemployment was accompanied by an increase in the suicide rate of roughly 1 percent, it found. A similar correlation has been found in some European countries since the recession.

The analysis found that the link between unemployment and suicide was about the same in all regions of the country.
105 2012-11-05 The proposal calls for a council of some 50 members, at least 15 from the Syrian National Council.

Western powers hope to create an alternative to the government of President Bashar al-Assad. Ideally, it would set up shop in firmly opposition-held territory inside Syria. But no such territory has been gained yet. Mr. Seif said the new council might make Cairo its headquarters.

The weeklong political jamboree in Doha has two parts. The Syrian National Council, trying to head off its demise, is meeting first to enact reforms meant to make it more inclusive. Starting Wednesday, a broader group critical of the council and endorsed by the United States will try to create a larger opposition umbrella group.

Once agreement is reached, Mr. Seif said, it would forge a government in exile of technocrats and hold a conference in Morocco to gain international recognition.

Many Syrian opposition figures and foreign governments have grown disenchanted with the Syrian National Council. They say that its leaders have been consumed by infighting rather than forging a strategy to topple the government, that military commanders fighting on the ground have made it irrelevant, and that it is basically a tool of the Muslim Brotherhood.

But some of its staunchest critics have attacked Mr. Seif and his new council, known as the Syrian National Initiative, as an American puppet.

In Doha on Sunday, Mr. Seif said that the new council was not meant to be a vehicle for his personal ambitions. He said he would not be a candidate to lead the government in exile given that he was 66 and faced health problems. “I will stick to helping form a political leadership which will satisfy the Syrian people and the world,” he said.

The main initial aim of the Americans and others who back the change is to create a stronger link between the commanders leading the fight in Syria and the exile groups. There is growing concern in Western capitals that as the fighting drags into its 20th month, radical jihadists are hijacking what started as a peaceful protest movement.

Members of the S.N.C. counter that Western powers are at fault because the jihadists’ Persian Gulf Arab backers provide the kind of money and weapons that Western countries have refused to offer to the opposition.

While the political bickering gathered steam, the fighting inside Syria continued apace.

A car bomb exploded in Damascus, near key military and other government offices, sending a plume of smoke high above the capital visible in reports broadcast by Arab satellite channels. The bombing wounded 11 people and caused serious damage to the headquarters building of the General Federation of Trade Unions in Damascus, reported SANA, the official news agency. The government blamed “terrorists” for the attack.

On the capital’s southern outskirts, the Syrian army shelled rebel positions inside the Palestinian refugee camp of Yarmouk, killing at least 20 people, opposition activists told Reuters.

Three days of heavy fighting with mortars and rocket-propelled grenades ended with rebel forces capturing Al Ward oil field in the eastern province of Deir ez-Zour, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the conflict from abroad.

The International Committee of the Red Cross said it had been able to bring aid to the old city of Homs over the weekend, reaching the besieged neighborhoods of Khalidiya and Hamidiya for the first time.
106 2012-11-05 You know, four years ago I said that I’m not a perfect man and I wouldn’t be a perfect president. I kept that promise.

And yes, we’ve been through tough times. But you’ve never seen me quit. And you know what? You know me. You can trust that I say what I mean — and I mean what I say.

I told you I’d end the war in Iraq. I did.

I said we’d end the war in Afghanistan. We are.

I said we’d go after those who actually attacked us on 9/11. I kept that promise.

I promised to preserve Medicare; we have.

All of those things will make a difference, so the point is the commitments I’ve made, I’ve kept.
107 2012-11-06 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
108 2012-11-06 Citizens in China, Egypt, France, South Africa and Brazil on Obama vs. Romney -- and The New York Times's Susan Chira on what the outcome of the election will mean for U.S. relations with China and Syria....
109 2012-11-06 On Monday, the Internet radio service sued Ascap, one of the United States' major performing rights organizations, to lower royalty rates....
110 2012-11-06 The British publisher Pearson is entertaining offers for The Financial Times that could lead to a much-anticipated sale, Bloomberg News reports. But Pearson has moved to try to discredit the report....
111 2012-11-06 The show's producer says the unusual delay is a matter of logistics, not an effort to sell more tickets before critics weigh in....
112 2012-11-06 The Frugal Traveler set out to take the cheapest all-inclusive Caribbean vacation he could find. Here's where he went, what it cost and what he thought of the trip....
113 2012-11-06 In seeking to prevent a sale of the company on the cheap, Netflix tries to be noncontroversial. But its battle with the activist investor Carl Icahn is far from over....
114 2012-11-06 A damaged crane and lack of utilities had halted performances since Oct. 28....
115 2012-11-06 Nokia’s new flagship smartphone, the Lumia 920, will cost $100 with a two-year contract on AT&T — an aggressive price for a brand-new handset with high-end features....
116 2012-11-06 A disclosure requirement might be one way to address the "empty creditor" problem that comes up in times of financial distress....
117 2012-11-06 You can make your own animated GIF files on your computer, the Web or even your smartphone....
118 2012-11-06 The council of the Borough of Tower Hamlets in the East End of London is expected to decide on Wednesday whether it will sell a Henry Moore sculpture despite opposition from art-world figures, who say the sale “goes against the spirit of Henry M...
119 2012-11-06 Army prosecutors offered the first details of a rare criminal case against a general, alleging in a military hearing at Fort Bragg on Monday that he committed sex crimes against five women, including four subordinates and a civilian. Brig. Gen. Jeffrey Sinclair faces possible courts-martial on charges including forcible sodomy, wrongful sexual conduct, violating orders, engaging in inappropriate relationships, misusing a government travel charge card, and possessing pornography and alcohol while deployed. The sex-related accusations range from forcing a female officer to perform oral sex to having an extramarital affair with a civilian woman. General Sinclair is married and adultery is a crime under the military code of justice. In one case, prosecutors said that General Sinclair threatened one woman’s career, as well as her life and the lives of her relatives, if she told anyone about his actions.
120 2012-11-06 A 2-year-old boy who fell into an exhibit of African wild dogs was killed by the animals, not the fall, the president of the Pittsburgh Zoo said Monday. The boy’s mother had picked him up and put him on top of a railing at the edge of a viewing deck late Sunday morning when he lost his balance and fell, said Barbara Baker, C.E.O. and president of the Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG Aquarium. There was a safety net below the railing, but it failed to catch him and the boy dropped more than 10 feet into the enclosure, she said. The animals attacked the child so violently and quickly that by the time a veterinarian and other zoo staff members arrived seconds later, they determined it would have been futile to try rescuing the boy, she said. The medical examiner’s office has not yet publicly confirmed its findings or released the boy’s name.
121 2012-11-06 The American Suzuki Motor Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday evening and said it would cease selling automobiles in the United States as part of a plan to reorganize its business.

The company, based in Brea, Calif., is the sole distributor of Suzuki vehicles in the continental United States.

American Suzuki said it would focus on selling Suzuki motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles and marine outboard engines.

It said it was exiting the car business in the United States because of slow sales, unfavorable foreign exchange rates and the high costs of complying with state and federal regulatory requirements. American Suzuki sold just 2,023 cars in the United States last month.

The bankruptcy does not involve the company’s parent, Suzuki Motor of Japan.

In documents filed with the Federal Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California in Santa Ana, the company estimated that its debts and liabilities ranged from at least $100 million to $500 million. It also said it had 1,000 to 5,000 creditors.

American Suzuki said it had enough cash to operate during the reorganization and intended to honor all car warranties and buyback agreements. It will work with its car dealerships to help them make the transition to parts-and-service operations. In some cases, the dealerships will be closed, it said.
122 2012-11-06 The N.B.A. issued flopping warnings to Minnesota’s J. J. Barea and Cleveland’s Donald Sloan, the first under a new policy. Barea threw his upper body backward after contact while defending Sacramento’s Jimmer Fredette on Friday. Sloan tumbled wildly to the court a few feet from contact after a pick set against him against Chicago on Saturday.
123 2012-11-06 A federal judge on Monday threw out Apple’s lawsuit against Google’s Motorola Mobility unit that claimed patent abuse, a setback for the iPhone maker in its efforts to gain leverage in the smartphone patent wars.

The two rivals were to square off in Federal District Court in Madison, Wis., on Monday over the library of patents that Google acquired along with Motorola for $12.5 billion in May. Apple contended that Motorola’s licensing practices were unfair.

But Judge Barbara B. Crabb questioned late last week whether she had the legal authority to hear Apple’s claims, and on Monday she dismissed the case.

In an earlier legal brief, Apple claimed the judge had that authority. Apple declined to comment Monday; a Google spokeswoman said it was pleased.

Apple has filed lawsuits in courts around the world against Google and its partners like Samsung Electronics, which use the Android operating system. Apple contends that Android is a copy of the iOS smartphone software used in the iPhone.

In its lawsuit in Wisconsin, Apple accused Google of demanding too high a royalty for some of its so-called standard essential patents. Judge Crabb had said that she might decide what a fair royalty for Motorola’s patents should be. In a court filing last week, Apple argued that it would not consider itself bound by Judge Crabb’s rate if it exceeded $1 per iPhone.
124 2012-11-06 The hacking has raised questions about whether South Carolina was unprotected or simply unlucky. Most of the stolen credit cards were encrypted, but the Social Security numbers were not. The computer system that was hacked did not have a free layer of security monitoring offered to all South Carolina agencies, according to the State Budget and Control Board.

In a lawsuit filed last Wednesday, a former state senator, John Hawkins, said the state had failed to protect taxpayers and had not reported the attack promptly. The tax agency detected the attack on Oct. 10 and, after notifying federal authorities, alerted the public on Oct. 26.

“Obviously these hackers picked South Carolina because it was vulnerable,” Mr. Hawkins said. “I equate it to a burglar going into a neighborhood. He’s going to break into the house with no alarms and the door open.”

But South Carolina is hardly the first state to suffer a large-scale security breach. In Texas last year, Social Security records for 3.5 million people were inadvertently disclosed to the public on a computer server.

In Georgia in 2007, a computer disk containing personal information on 2.9 million people disappeared. At the federal Veterans Affairs Department in 2006, an employee lost a laptop and an external hard drive containing the Social Security records of 26.5 million active-duty troops and veterans.

Gov. Nikki R. Haley said that South Carolina had a state-of-the-art security system but that the hacker nevertheless found a way around it. Her office said on Friday that it was encrypting all tax files to reduce the harm if any were stolen, and that the process would be completed within 90 days. The state is paying up to $12 million to provide a free year of credit monitoring and identity theft prevention to anyone affected.

Last Wednesday, the state disclosed that tax records for 657,000 businesses had also been hacked.

Anyone who has filed a tax return since 1998 has been urged to contact state law enforcement officials. By last Thursday, 653,000 people had called the state’s emergency hot line, and 521,000 had signed up for identity protection.

Within state governments, tax agencies face the highest risk for hacking, said Larry Ponemon, the founder of a security research firm, the Ponemon Institute. If stolen, their data can be used for tax fraud, credit card fraud and identity theft.

“This is the crown jewel for a cyberattacker: having the Social Security numbers, personal information and credit card for the same person,” he said.

After the attack, state tax agencies, including in California, said they were monitoring their security particularly closely.

Michael Hicks, the director of the Maryland Cybersecurity Center at the University of Maryland, said states needed a clearer understanding of the attack in South Carolina.

“The only way states can raise the level of vigilance,” Mr. Hicks said, “is if they really get to the bottom of what really happened in this attack.”
125 2012-11-06 Polio will never be eradicated in Pakistan until a way is found to persuade poor Pashtuns to embrace the vaccine, according to a study released by the World Health Organization.

A survey of 1,017 parents of young children found that 41 percent had never heard of polio and 11 percent refused to vaccinate their children against it. The survey was done in Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city and the only big city in the world where polio persists; it was published in the agency’s November bulletin.

Parents from poor families “cited lack of permission from family elders,” said Dr. Anita Zaidi, who teaches pediatrics at the Aga Khan University in Karachi. Some rich parents also disdained the vaccine, saying it was “harmful or unnecessary,” she added.

Pashtuns account for 75 percent of Pakistan’s polio cases even though they are only 15 percent of the population. Wealthy children are safer because the virus travels in sewage, and their neighborhoods may have covered sewers and be less flood-prone.

Pashtuns are the largest ethnic group in next-door Afghanistan, where polio has also never been wiped out. Most Taliban fighters are Pashtun, and some Taliban threatened to kill vaccinators earlier this year. Two W.H.O. vaccinators were shot in Karachi in July.

Rumors persist that the vaccine is a plot to sterilize Muslims. But the eradication drive is recruiting Pashtuns as vaccinators and asking prominent religious leaders from various sects to make videos endorsing the vaccine.
126 2012-11-06 The effort to reopen schools shut by Hurricane Sandy presented officials with a tangled puzzle and New York City’s 1.1 million students with a drastically altered landscape....
127 2012-11-06 KAMPALA, Uganda — South Sudan, which gained independence from Sudan last year after decades of civil war, has expelled a United Nations human rights officer after the government objected to a report raising allegations of atrocities by South Sudan’s army.

Hilde F. Johnson, the head of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan, described the expulsion as a “breach of the legal obligations” of South Sudan’s government “under the charter of the United Nations.”

Human rights monitoring “must be protected,” Ms. Johnson said in a statement on Sunday. “Human rights violations and discrimination were at the core of the South Sudanese struggle during decades of civil war.”

The report, published by the United Nations in June, said South Sudan’s military had committed widespread abuses while trying to disarm civilians in Jonglei State after a surge of ethnic violence. South Sudan condemned the report as one-sided.

According to the United Nations statement, one of its human rights officers was recently given 48 hours to leave the country.
128 2012-11-07 The New York Times correspondent Andrew Jacobs discusses China’s record on human rights.
129 2012-11-07 Some owners of Hyundai Motor Group cars were not surprised when the company admitted it had overstated the fuel economy of 900,000 vehicles sold in the United States....
130 2012-11-07 Shares of the nation's biggest banks and financial firms fell on Wednesday, as the prospects of a second term for President Obama mean tougher regulations for Wall Street are here to stay....
131 2012-11-07 Is it the chaos? The domino-effect procession of events? The if-it-can-happen-to-a-tiger-then-somehow-it’s-O.K.-if-it-happens-to-me?

Whatever the reason, there’s something both amusing and reassuring about a pack of animals getting themselves into a mess. Whether it’s a “Tumble Bumble” or a “Zoo Ah-Choooo” or “If All the Animals Came Inside,” a story in which one animal after another barrels its way into a minor calamity and then finds its way out is endlessly appealing to young children.

This squealing enjoyment is to be found in “Oh, No!,” the first book in which Candace Fleming, the author of picture books (“Clever Jack Takes the Cake”) as well as serious nonfiction (“Amelia Lost”), collaborates with Eric Rohmann, the Caldecott Medal-winning author-illustrator of “My Friend Rabbit.” What a match!

Fleming’s text reverberates with onomatopoeia: a hapless frog tumbles into a deep pit while fleeing a tiger with a “ribbit-oops!,” and a tiny mouse attempts to assist with a worried “pippa-eeek!” Lots of rhythmic repetition makes this a winner for 3- and 4-year-olds. They’ll also enjoy Rohmann’s lush woodblock prints and beat-by-beat panels. A monkey swings from vine to vine before gleefully pointing down into the hole and then — whoops — loses his grip, the final panel on the page showing a dangling vine and a glimpse of tail plunging below.

Ideally, “Oh, No!” should be read aloud by the kind of grown-up who doesn’t redden easily while making silly noises and growling at high volume.

There is one tiny mismatch between story and art. After a title-page chase in which a galloping tiger nearly captures a leaping frog, the following image shows the tiger with his eyes closed while the frog yells from within a nearby hole. Surely the tiger would be watchfully crouched — not sleeping on the job!
132 2012-11-07 Tregurtha has introduced wild colors, eco-friendly tanning and fair-wage practices to a nearly 100-year-old Namibian shoe brand....
133 2012-11-07 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
134 2012-11-07 When you own a microbusiness, burning time is just like burning money....
135 2012-11-07 Government intervention in the gasoline market made a hard situation worse....
136 2012-11-07 Missouri Senator Claire McCaskill won a second term on Tuesday, beating Representative Todd Akin in a remarkable turnaround for a lawmaker once believed to be the Senate’s most vulnerable Democratic incumbent....
137 2012-11-07 The L line has operated at only a handful of stations in Brooklyn, from Broadway Junction to Rockaway Parkway. Officials said flooding in the line’s 14th Street tunnel has proved especially difficult to address because the tunnel crossed the river at a wider point than some other East River subway tubes.

The authority said the L had been pumped dry by Tuesday, finally allowing workers to assess any damage to switches or other equipment. The G’s Greenpoint tube has also been pumped, but the authority said “extensive work remains” to repair the signal system.

Joseph J. Lhota, the authority’s chairman, said he was hopeful that the G would be restored by Wednesday. He said he would push to bring back L service on Wednesday, too, but acknowledged that this had “a lower probability of happening.”

“Those are two lines that have had not just water but an enormous amount of silt,” Mr. Lhota said in a telephone interview.

For the G train, said Adam Lisberg, the authority’s chief spokesman, a simple math problem also loomed.

“The average weekday ridership is 125,000,” he said of the G train. “The average weekday ridership of the Lexington Avenue line, the 4/5/6, is 1.8 million. We do our repairs in order of getting as many people as possible back online.”

The absence of subway service has forced G and L train riders to find alternatives to get to work or school. Some have used bicycles or ferries; others have tried the extra buses that the transportation authority has offered to patch gaps in service.

But for longtime residents, the holes in service also called to mind an era, not so long ago, before neighborhoods like Williamsburg and Greenpoint became magnets for the hip.

Ed Veneziano, 57, the owner of Cato’s Army and Navy, a clothing store in Greenpoint, said he was reminded of his early days at the store, which his parents founded, when he often stayed with friends in Manhattan rather than braving a trip home on the perilous L train.

“You’ve completely stranded north Brooklyn,” he said of the post-storm transit system. “There’s no way anyone can get anywhere.”

Jonathan Ames, the novelist and memoirist whose HBO series “Bored to Death” chronicled the misadventures of a Brooklyn private detective, recalled using the L in the mid-1990s, “at the very beginning of Williamsburg’s renaissance.”

“I’m surprised the L isn’t getting loved,” said Mr. Ames, adding that he used to drive a tattered car to Williamsburg, park it, then take the L into Manhattan. “The G train still is much maligned, which is a good word since the ‘G’ is silent.”

A study last year found that ridership on the L had grown at three times the systemwide rate since 1998. In June, the transportation authority said it was adding 98 weekly round trips on the line, in a bid to ease overcrowding and waiting times.

“I’m willing to do cartwheels and a headstand and splits if the L train or at least the G train starts running,” said Chris Oh, 32, who has lived in Williamsburg for over four years. “I refuse to take buses.”

Many have turned to ferries, despite what some residents described as 90-minute waits. Some said they had shifted their work schedules to arrive and leave early, before the ferries were full.

Jenna Perry, 26, a hair stylist who lives and works near the L train, said she had been hitching rides into Manhattan with her boyfriend since the storm, until his car ran out of gas.

Her friend, Jenna Maceroni, 24, said that she tried biking into the city over the Williamsburg Bridge, but that “it’s getting too cold now.”

On Tuesday, change.org said more than 2,700 Brooklynites had signed a petition asking the authority to install shuttle bus service along the affected routes.

“Because these 2 lines are the lifelines of Williamsburg and Greenpoint,” one person wrote on the petition.

“Because my son is walking two hours to work at minimum pay,” another said.

“Because I am pregnant,” a third wrote, “and it is dangerous for me to take Q62 because people keep pushing me.”

Matt Kerestesy, 32, who recently moved to Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, after living in Williamsburg and Greenpoint for about eight years, said the absences were particularly vexing because the trains had become more reliable in recent years, relatively speaking.

“The G has actually been decent the last few years,” he said. “The L has had its moments where it’s been kind of efficient.”

As a result, Mr. Kerestesy joked, the presidential race in New York State included an unlikely write-in candidate.

“I thought about voting Obama/Biden,” he wrote on Twitter on Tuesday morning, “but went with L train/G train at the last minute.”
138 2012-11-07 The chief pharmacist at the New England Compounding Center in Framingham, the company linked to a deadly meningitis outbreak, has received a subpoena to appear before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The pharmacist, Barry J. Cadden, is an owner of the company, which surrendered its pharmacy license after the outbreak sickened more than 400 people and killed 30. “Since Mr. Cadden has indicated he will not appear voluntarily, we are left with no choice but to issue a subpoena,” the committee chairman, Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, and the ranking Democrat, Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, said in a statement on Tuesday.
139 2012-11-07 Roger Federer won his record 40th match at the ATP final, defeating Janko Tipsarevic, 6-3, 6-1, in his opening match in London. Federer lost only eight points on his serve while converting four of his nine break points in the event, which features the top eight players in the world. In the day’s other match, David Ferrer beat Juan Martín del Potro, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4.
140 2012-11-07 Regulators on Tuesday approved Pfizer’s Xeljanz treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, one of the company’s potentially most lucrative experimental drugs, which is now poised to compete with Abbott Laboratories’ top-selling Humira.

The Food and Drug Administration said it had approved Pfizer’s pill for patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who did not benefit from or were unable to tolerate the standard oral treatment, methotrexate. Xeljanz can be used by itself or in combination with methotrexate and certain other treatments.

Industry analysts have predicted that Pfizer’s drug, which works differently from current treatments and is better known by its chemical name, tofacitinib, could eventually capture annual sales of up to $3 billion. The revenue is sorely needed, as sales fall of Pfizer’s Lipitor cholesterol fighter and other Pfizer medicines face cheaper generics.

As a twice-daily pill, Xeljanz may be preferred by some patients over Abbott’s $8 billion-a-year Humira, which is given by injection every other week.

But Abbott has said Humira sales will continue growing by leaps and bounds, despite competition from Xeljanz.

The F.D.A. approved a 5-milligram dose of Xeljanz, given twice a day.

But the agency said further safety data was needed to assess a 10-milligram, twice-daily dose, that Pfizer had also put before regulators.
141 2012-11-07 Thomas K. McCraw, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian who used biography to explore thorny issues in economics, died on Saturday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 72.

He had been treated for heart and lung problems, his wife, Susan, said.

Professor McCraw, who taught from 1976 to 2007 at Harvard Business School, won the Pulitzer for history in 1985 for “Prophets of Regulation: Charles Francis Adams, Louis D. Brandeis, James M. Landis and Alfred E. Kahn.” The book focused on those men, of different eras, to illustrate how government regulation of industry affected the American economy from the late 19th to the late 20th centuries.

Adams was president of the Union Pacific Railroad in the 1880s; Brandeis, the lawyer and Supreme Court justice, worked to curb the power of banks and corporations in the late 19th and early 20th centuries; Landis was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission during the Depression, and Kahn was chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board, which deregulated airline fares in 1978.

The book was recognized for melding scholarship and engaging prose.

“Mr. McCraw explains sophisticated economic theory in accessible terms,” The New York Times Book Review said, “and he has a historian’s knack for isolating such basic American traits as a mistrust of big business and for showing how regulators manipulated these traits to implement their policies.”

In “Prophet of Innovation: Joseph Schumpeter and Creative Destruction” (2007), Professor McCraw examined capitalism through the life story of its leading 20th century advocate, with his Darwinian theory of “creative destruction”: that businesses must be rendered obsolete and extinct by other, better businesses if an economy is to move forward.
142 2012-11-07 The centerpiece of the response announced by Mr. Ayrault is a payroll tax cut that will lower the cost of labor for French companies. In theory, that would encourage new investment and reinvigorate exports. The first stages of the tax break will be applied to businesses’ 2013 taxes when they file in 2014.

By 2016, the 20 billion euro tax break would be fully in place and offset by 10 billion euros of yet unspecified spending cuts and at least 3 billion euros in environmentally focused “green taxes,” as well as money from the higher sales tax.

The size of the payroll tax reduction is in line with the recommendation of the government-commissioned report prepared by the panel led by Mr. Gallois, a former chief executive of European Aeronautic Defense and Space. The report offered proposals meant to revive the French economy. But its prospects for success remain to be seen.

The government chose to phase in the reduction over three years, rather than the one or two years Mr. Gallois said was necessary for the full impact. And it rejected his proposal that the share of payroll taxes paid by employees be cut by 10 billion euros.

Mr. Ayrault said the tax credit would work out to a 6 percent reduction in social security charges on workers who make up to 2.5 times the minimum wage, which is now 9.40 euros an hour.

Paying for the measures will require the government to break a vow by Mr. Ayrault in September that there would be no increase in sales taxes during Mr. Hollande’s five-year term.

The decision could prove highly unpopular on the left because sales taxes are among the most regressive levies a state can impose, with the burden falling disproportionately on the poor, who spend a higher portion of their income than the rich do.

The main sales tax, the value-added tax, will rise in January 2014 to 20 percent from 19.6 percent, but the minimum value-added tax, on basic needs like food, will fall to 5 percent from 5.5 percent.

The “intermediate tax,” which covers things like restaurant meals and home renovations, will rise to 10 percent from 7 percent.

Mr. Hollande won the French election in June, and the confidence of many investors, with a promise to bring France’s 2013 budget deficit down to 3 percent — the standard set by the European Union — from about 4.5 percent this year.

But many economists and some of his allies on the left have argued that cutting spending and raising taxes could weaken the economy further at a time when the euro zone is in recession and the global economy is faltering.

The focus on cutting labor costs “is an economic misdiagnosis, it’s a social error,” Jean-Claude Mailly, secretary general of Force Ouvrière, a relatively militant union, told Europe 1 radio on Tuesday. It will lead to “social dumping,” he said, because the Germans will feel obligated to cut their own labor costs. “It will never end,” he added.

France’s welfare state, one of the world’s most generous, is largely financed by payroll taxes. And the so-called social wedge — the reduction in workers’ take-home pay that results from the taxes paid by them and their employers — is among the largest in the world, according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

Unions and others on the left fear that reductions in financing for the system could lead to pressure for reduction in benefits for workers that include universal health care and solid pensions.

Jörg Krämer, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, noted that Germany had gone through its own labor-market restructuring over the last decade. A core element of that program, he said, was a sharp reduction in benefits to the long-term unemployed and a wider availability of temporary work, which put pressure on the unemployed to take any job. The result was a more flexible labor market and more moderate wage demands.

The International Monetary Fund forecast on Monday that the French economy would expand 0.4 percent in 2013, after 0.1 percent this year. Mr. Moëc of Deutsche Bank said the government’s action would probably have little immediate economic effect.

“I don’t want to diminish the symbolic significance of what they’ve announced today,” Mr. Moëc said, “but the impact will probably be less than what the government would like to communicate.” For one thing, he noted, businesses are already facing a tax increase next year, “and this will partially offset that.”

To some extent Mr. Hollande’s government is giving back what it has already taken away. It raised business taxes in July as part of a supplementary budget. The 2013 budget that was introduced in September ended the full deductibility of interest payments, a de facto tax increase.

Mr. Hollande also alienated many of the country’s elite in September by announcing that he would raise the tax rate on all income exceeding $1 million a year to 75 percent from the current 41 percent.

Raising taxes on households to ease the burden on corporations is also tricky for the Socialists because they opposed a similar effort by former President Nicolas Sarkozy.

Speaking Tuesday on TF1 television, Mr. Ayrault denied that the government had gone back on its promises, saying, “The situation is quite serious and I’m looking at it straight on. We’re facing our responsibility.”

The tax cut would have an important impact, he said.

“A company with 20 employees, half of whom are earning the minimum wage, is going to see its taxes cut by about 30,000 a year,” Mr. Ayrault said. That, he added, would encourage the business to invest more and take on more workers.

He estimated that the tax cut would add half a percentage point to economic growth and generate as many as 300,000 or 400,000 jobs by 2017.
143 2012-11-07 NYSE Euronext, the operator of the New York Stock Exchange and other stock markets, said Tuesday that its third-quarter profit fell 46 percent on a decline in trading volumes.

For the quarter ended Sept. 30, the company said it earned $108 million, or 44 cents a share, down from $200 million, or 76 cents a share, in the comparable quarter last year.

Revenue dropped 28 percent to $902 million from $1.26 billion. Accounting for transaction-based expenses, revenue fell 21 percent to $559 million.

Analysts, on average, had forecast earnings of 41 cents a share on revenue of $569.5 million, according to a poll by FactSet.

NYSE Euronext attributed the decline in revenue to lower average daily trading volumes, mainly related to its derivatives business. Derivatives revenue fell 27 percent to $164 million.

The company noted that its results a year earlier were helped by extreme market volatility in Europe and the United States because of debt worries. Volatility has declined significantly since, reaching multiyear lows in August 2012, the company said.

NYSE Euronext operates the New York Stock Exchange and European stock exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon, among other exchanges.
144 2012-11-07 WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — A former Swiss banker pleaded guilty on Tuesday to helping Americans hide millions of dollars from tax authorities, and a judge noted the banker had aided in a broad federal investigation of tax evasion that has put Swiss banks on the defensive.

The former banker, Christos Bagios, previously employed by the Swiss financial giants UBS and the Credit Suisse Group, changed his earlier plea from not guilty in the United States District Court for Southern Florida. The change of plea had been expected.

A Greek citizen and Swiss resident, Mr. Bagios was sentenced by Judge Kenneth Marra to time already served, including 37 days in prison and nearly 19 months under house arrest in Miami.

In a sign that Swiss banks may come under further pressure, the judge cited the former banker’s “substantial” assistance in a broad federal investigation by the Justice Department of Swiss and Swiss-style banks.

Matthew Menchel, a lawyer for Mr. Bagios, described his client as “relieved.”

Mr. Bagios, 47, worked at UBS from 1999 to 2005. He was a senior banker at Credit Suisse when he was arrested in New York in January 2011. He was later charged with helping 150 Americans hide as much as $500 million during his time at UBS.

Switzerland’s long tradition of banking secrecy has been under pressure for some time from the United States and other countries. Burdened by deficits and debt, many countries are trying to collect more taxes from well-to-do citizens.

Last month, Mr. Bagios pleaded not guilty. But at the same time, he arranged for a change-of-plea hearing, leading some tax lawyers tracking his case to speculate that he was cooperating with United States officials in the investigation of Swiss banks.
145 2012-11-07 But from Shifang in the west to the port of Ningbo in the east, where a week of sometimes violent protests forced the suspension on Oct. 28 of plans to expand a chemical plant, more projects are running into public hostility. In many cases, they are running into opposition not just from farmers who do not want their houses and fields confiscated, but also from a growing middle class fearful that new factories will lead to more environmental damage.

In response to this and other worries about the economy, a number of influential officials and business leaders in China have stepped up their calls for changes aimed at increasing the efficiency of investment and simultaneously shifting the country toward a greater reliance on consumption.

But China’s leaders, including the outgoing prime minister, Wen Jiabao, have been talking about such a transformation for years with little sign of success, as state-controlled banks continue to lend huge sums to politically powerful state-owned enterprises and local governments.

Frenzied construction of roads, bridges, tunnels and rail lines over the last decade has left China with world-class infrastructure. But it has also produced deeply indebted local governments that are struggling to finance more projects.

At the same time, vast unused capacity in practically every industrial sector has crippled profitability and left manufacturing firms straining to repay their borrowings, a problem that has been partly masked by banks in the habit of simply rolling over loans rather than recognizing losses.

“All Chinese industries are like that — can you dig out which area of Chinese industry is not in overcapacity?” said Li Junfeng, a longtime director general for energy at China’s top economic planning agency.

Investment reached 46 percent of China’s economic output last year. By comparison, Japan’s investment rate peaked at 36 percent, which it reached in the early 1970s; South Korea topped out at 39 percent in the late 1980s.

Growth in Japan and South Korea started to slow and eventually tumbled after investment peaked. The big question now is when China will run into the same limits, and how rapidly change will take place, said Diana Choyleva, an economist at Lombard Street Research in Hong Kong. “The potential for a big crisis is always there,” she said.

Even experts who strongly favor fundamental policy changes, like moving to a more market-oriented system for allocating bank loans and setting interest rates, doubt that China’s leaders are preparing to move quickly. Conversations at senior levels of the Communist Party appear to have focused so far on reducing the state’s role in the day-to-day management of many state-owned enterprises rather than selling them or breaking them up.

But a few hints have surfaced that sentiment for reining in the excessive reliance on business investment might be strengthening even among those segments of the Chinese elite — executives at China’s big state-owned enterprises — that benefit the most from the status quo.

Zhu Fushou, the chief executive of the Dongfeng Motor Corporation, one of China’s largest car and truck manufacturers, startled executives at an industry conference in September when he said that China might have almost all the cars it needs, at least for the near-term, and that the government should discourage further investment in the sector.

Mr. Zhu called for greater reliance on the free market to determine the winners and losers in major industries, chastising other auto executives for complaining too much about competition.

Such griping “is not objective — it’s irrational, incompetent and immature,” Mr. Zhu said at the Global Automotive Forum in Chengdu, the main annual conference for executives from Chinese automakers and the China units of global car companies like General Motors and Volkswagen.

Mr. Zhu’s remarks were especially striking because of Dongfeng’s longstanding close ties to Beijing as a pillar of Chinese heavy industry ever since Mao ordered its founding in 1969. Mr. Zhu’s predecessor at Dongfeng, Miao Wei, is now the minister of industry and information technology, leading an office that has long favored government-organized oligopolies of state-owned enterprises in many industries.

The auto industry in China is operating at about 60 percent of capacity this year, typical of Chinese industries these days, according to a report this summer from the International Monetary Fund.

By contrast, United States auto factories and those in other industries usually operate at a much higher rate; even during the worst days of the economic crisis in 2009, capacity utilization in American industry fell no lower than 66.8 percent and then only briefly, according to Federal Reserve data.

For many years, economists inside and outside of China have recommended a shift toward more reliance on consumption to sustain growth over the longer run. Progress has been slow, in part because the government has set a cautious pace in offering more medical insurance and pensions, forcing many Chinese to maintain high savings rates to provide their own safety net.

But the rising tide of protests against big investment projects may put pressure on Beijing to move faster. Almost every region of China has been affected within the last year or so, starting with a protest against a large chemical plant in northeastern China in August 2011; the local government promised a crowd it would close that plant but after the crowds went home, the plant has continued to operate.

Just in the last two weeks, there have been numerous demonstrations against a proposed coal-fired power plant on the southeast coast of the island of Hainan and against the expansion of the petrochemical plant in Ningbo, a port near Shanghai.

Shifang, the site of the canceled copper smelter, is a town full of retirees that had hoped to create more jobs for its young people, instead of sending them off to factories in Chengdu, a 90-minute bus ride to the south, or even to Guangdong in southern China, a 30-hour train ride. Yet many youths joined the protests here in July, with some even traveling from nearby towns, and the recent Ningbo protests also attracted many youths.

The re-emergence of youth protests is surprising because in a nation of one-child families, Chinese parents often seek to stop their offspring from participating in political activity because they worry that it will harm their future careers. The Chinese authorities have shown scant tolerance for anyone who travels to another town to participate in a protest.

It is not clear whether Beijing officials will heed further protests around the country or decide instead that they see no other way to stimulate economic growth than to keep fostering ever more heavy industry projects. They appear to be keeping all options open.

On the outskirts of Shifang, there was no sign of work at the smelter site, but a uniformed soldier stood near a heavy steel barrier painted in bright red and white. Large signs warned visitors not to enter.

And about 100 yards past the barrier sat a dozen troop carrier trucks, to make sure no one did.
146 2012-11-07 “People from around the world come to my bar to taste history,” he said. “You can see history, read about it, touch it, so why not taste it?”

So, are they, in fact, tasting history? Does liquor (the juice or its formulas) change over time, or is it the same as it ever was?

The standard line at most spirits companies is that they have made an immutable product throughout the decades, if not centuries. (One even turned it into a slogan: “Dewar’s never varies.”)

Certainly, an effort to be consistent may be there. But the quality of grains used varies over time, as does the access that Scotch blenders have to particular single malts. If botanicals are in play, they may not be identical from season to season. Other changes are more deliberate. Certain liquors, it has widely been acknowledged, have altered their recipes in response to shifting consumer tastes. Perhaps most significant, alcohol levels fluctuate.

All this makes attempts to create cocktails using old recipes and new liquors a crapshoot at best. When Nicolas de Soto, the head bartender at the Experimental Cocktail Club, sees bartenders pore over the 1930 “Savoy Cocktail Book” as if it were the Bible, he shakes his head. “The ingredients aren’t the same anymore,” he said. “You can’t use the same recipe.”

The vintage stinger made at the club, however, may come closer to the target. It combines a 1960s-era Hennessy Cognac and a crème de menthe from the 1940s. Both are noticeably less sweet that their contemporary counterparts. The resulting drink is restrained and elegant. As for the Gordon’s gin, the club’s 1950s specimen is rounder and maltier than the product sold today. (Though only vintage cocktails are listed on the menu, individual spirits can be ordered on their own.)

All the same, making cocktails with older ingredients doesn’t necessarily mean getting exactly what your forebears drank. There’s the matter of what happens when that old spirit sits in a bottle for a generation or two.

“If there’s a primary thread to these old spirits and cocktails,” said Jacob Briars, director of trade advocacy for Bacardi, who has sampled his share of aged libations, “it’s that each of them has become more round. There is a softness. The sharp, bright notes have faded over time, and instead you have this wonderful integration of all the flavors.”

Troy Sidle, the partner at Pouring Ribbons who oversees the Chartreuse collection, has grown philosophical about the differing flavor profiles he finds in various bottles of the classic liqueur. “Chartreuse is always the same,” he said. “What changes is the expression of it. Chartreuse is really the collection of 130 herbs and spices, not so much the product sold that is the combination of all those flavors.”

These bars acquire their bottles, for the most part, through private collectors. The Experimental Cocktail Club drew its stock from two or three collections. Vintry’s whiskered whiskeys come from Harry Poulakakos, who used to own Harry’s at Hanover Square and began buying old whiskeys and brandies in the 1960s. “Once in a while Harry invites me to his cellar and says, ‘Maybe you see something else you like,’ ” said Ivan Mitankin, a partner at Vintry.

The private collector Pouring Ribbons tapped was Mr. Sidle himself, who has an abiding interest in Chartreuse. He came upon a few of his acquisitions in curious ways. He spotted bottles of 1980s yellow and green Chartreuse in a liquor store on Avenue C, where they had been gathering dust. “They clearly didn’t know what they had,” Mr. Sidle said.

These liquid history lessons cost. The most expensive Chartreuse at Pouring Ribbons, from the 1940s, is $125 an ounce. The vintage cocktails at the Experimental Cocktail Club run from $150 to $200. Most of Mr. Calabrese’s vintage cocktails go for a few hundred pounds.

“The demand is not super high,” Mr. de Soto said. “There are people who are very interested in spirits and want to try it. And then there are people who see it’s expensive and say, ‘I’ll take it.’ ”

But to him, sales are not the whole point. “It’s more like an experience,” he said. “If you can give something different to people, it makes me happy.”
147 2012-11-07 A scholar with high-level ties to Mr. Bo and the ministry said Mr. Bo had known of the ministry’s official suspicions before Mr. Heywood’s death, as had other leaders.

Separately, a political analyst with high-level party ties said Mr. Heywood was on the ministry’s watch list, possibly for years, as a result of his relationship with the Bo family.

“When a minister-level cadre has such relations with a foreigner, they’ll definitely be watched,” the analyst said.

The suspicions may help explain the growing paranoia in the entourage of Mr. Bo’s wife. Mr. Heywood had business ties with Ms. Gu and had helped the couple’s son apply to British schools. Toward the end, however, their relationship chilled. Mr. Heywood told friends that someone in Mr. Bo’s inner circle had grown suspicious of his ties with Mr. Bo, and Ms. Gu insisted that her friends swear loyalty to her.

It is unclear, however, whether Ms. Gu suspected Mr. Heywood of spying on her family. A lawyer for Ms. Gu’s family said it was never mentioned to him that she thought Mr. Heywood was a spy.

“I have never heard from Gu’s family or anyone else that Heywood had any connection with intelligence departments, as a source or a spy,” the lawyer, Li Xiaolin, said in an interview. “Nothing that links Heywood to intelligence work was presented at Gu’s trial either.”

Adding to questions about the importance of espionage in the case, friends said Mr. Heywood had become estranged from the powerful family in the year before his death in November 2011. He also openly cultivated the image of an inside operator, driving around Beijing in a sports car with “007” license plates. Mr. Heywood had done work for the private intelligence firm Hakluyt, founded by former officials with MI6, helping prepare due-diligence reports on Chinese companies for investors. That association had given rise to longstanding speculation that he was a spy.

Reports have varied as to the motives behind the murder of Mr. Heywood. Ms. Gu contended that she had been trying to protect her son. According to the testimony presented at her trial, Ms. Gu claimed that Mr. Heywood had threatened him over a bad real estate deal.

At her trial, according to state media reports, Ms. Gu admitted poisoning Mr. Heywood after he came to visit her in Chongqing, the city-state that her husband ruled. Mr. Heywood had vomited after drinking too much and requested water. Ms. Gu admitted pouring potassium cyanide down his throat.

Initially, the cause of Mr. Heywood’s death was listed as a heart attack; a murder investigation began after Mr. Bo’s police chief fled to the American Consulate in a nearby city early this year. He told American diplomats of his suspicions and provided evidence of Ms. Gu’s involvement in Mr. Heywood’s death. They informed the British authorities.

When the matter came to light on Chinese Web sites and in Western media reports, Mr. Bo’s opponents within the party hierarchy were able to force his dismissal from his posts and engineer his ouster from the Politburo. He had been considered a serious contender to win a position on the top-level Standing Committee at this week’s party congress.

He was recently expelled from the party and faces criminal prosecution on charges of corruption, abuse of power and tampering with the investigation into Mr. Heywood’s death. Ms. Gu and the police chief, Wang Lijun, have been sentenced to prison.
148 2012-11-07 Remarks by David Cameron, the British prime minister, that Mr. Assad might be granted safe passage out of his country as a means to end the fighting also caused a stir, with his office quickly stressing that he did not mean Mr. Assad should avoid prosecution.

Lakhdar Brahimi, the international envoy to the conflict, warned that unless there was a greater international effort, Syria risked descending into becoming another Somalia — which as a failed state became a font of international piracy and other terrorist problems for 20 years. In an interview with the pan-Arab newspaper Al-Hayat, Mr. Brahimi said the main effort should be a binding Security Council resolution on a political transition.

In Damascus, gunmen assassinated the brother of the Syrian Parliament speaker in broad daylight in a central neighborhood, the official Syrian news agency, SANA,  reported.

The victim, Mohammad Osama al-Laham, was felled by bullets fired into his car in the Midan neighborhood while en route to work, SANA said.

The agency attributed the attack to terrorists, the government’s standard description for the opposition, and said the motive was to deprive Syria of skilled loyalists needed in the country. Mr. Laham, the brother of Jihad Laham, the speaker of the People’s Assembly, held a doctorate in agriculture.

The assassination came one day after the funeral of Mohamed Rafeh, 30, a television star who was abducted and killed, apparently by government opponents, over the weekend. Mr. Rafeh had been outspoken in his support for the fierce government suppression of armed opponents. An online statement from a rebel faction called him an informant.

Other mayhem in the capital and throughout the country included three bombs that exploded late in the day in Qudsiya, a working-class suburb of Damascus, according to SANA and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a group based in Britain with contacts inside Syria.

At least 10 people died and 40 were wounded, the group said. The bombs exploded in crowded Zahra Square, near an area heavily populated by the Republican Guards, an elite military unit whose members are drawn from President Assad’s minority Alawite sect that controls Syria. The guards are among the main units used to suppress the opposition.

On Monday, opposition members vowed to step up attacks in the city center to try to draw government units away from extended assaults on other outlying neighborhoods.

“We are planning to escalate our attacks on the areas of the government thugs,” said one member of the Jundullah Battalion, a unit of the Free Syrian Army full of Sunni Muslim fundamentalists.

In Amman, Jordan, Mr. Lavrov held a rare meeting between a senior Russian official and the opposition, saying he wanted to glean their thoughts on ending the conflict.

“The idea of the meeting was to get an agreement or a road map on how to deal with opposition forces and save the Syrian people,” Mr. Lavrov told a news conference. At the same time, he warned that any alternative to the Assad government might visit further chaos on Syria.

Mr. Hijab rejected that assessment, saying that replacing Mr. Assad was the sole way out of the uprising, which started as a peaceful protest movement in March 2011.

“Russia is searching for a political solution in which Bashar al-Assad stays,” he said in an interview with Al Arabiya, an Arabic satellite television station. “We told Lavrov frankly that there could be no political solution at all with the presence of Bashar al-Assad.”

On a visit to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf, Mr. Cameron told Al-Arabiya in an interview that if safe passage and possibly immunity for Mr. Assad would end the bloodshed, it might be negotiated.

“I am certainly not offering him an exit plan to Britain, but if he wants to leave he could leave, that could be arranged,” said Mr. Cameron. “Of course I would favor him facing the full force of international law and justice for what he’s done.”

Mr. Assad has shown no intention of going anywhere. Indeed, analysts have long said that the fact that he inherited the presidency from his father prompted him to destroy Syria rather than abandon his legacy.

The lack of a cohesive Syrian opposition has been blamed for preventing a more robust international effort on Syria. Attempts to create a more unified coalition sputtered along Tuesday in Doha, Qatar, where a meeting was scheduled for Thursday to try to implement an American-backed plan to broaden the opposition to include more factions, including more representatives of the military units doing the fighting.

On that front, news agencies in Turkey reported that seven Syrian Army generals arrived with their families through the border town of Reyhanli in Hatay Province, escorted under tight security.

The generals were sent to the Apaydin military camp, home to high-ranking military officers and their families who have fled Syria.

The Turkish newspaper Zaman reported on its Web site that the latest defections brought the total number of Syrian generals who have defected to 42.
149 2012-11-07 DEPENDING upon who is making it, gumbo has smoked sausage (or not), shrimp (or not), chicken (or not), crab (or not), tomatoes (or not), okra (or not) and filé powder (or not).

The main point is that it be hearty, flavorful and Southern. If that’s not quite clear enough, then let’s just say there are legendary gumbos out there, and that is the aim.

Gumbo (some older cookbooks call it gombo) is associated with Creole cooking, but its roots are more tangled than that. This main-course soup has evolved from and been influenced by indigenous tribes, as well as cooks from France, Italy, Africa, the Caribbean, Spain and others who ended up in Louisiana. Now it is ubiquitous, and the variations endless.

Most cooks agree that gumbos must have the vegetable trinity of chopped bell pepper, onion and celery, and that they should be highly seasoned.

Some gumbos do contain sausage, shrimp and chicken, but there are humbler ones that are made with only salt pork, onions and greens.
150 2012-11-08 M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber on Thursday night apologized to fans for Wednesday night's postponement of the Red Bulls-D.C. United playoff match in Harrison, N.J....
151 2012-11-08 In his second term, President Obama can demonstrate that "the choice between our safety and our ideals" is false....
152 2012-11-08 Now that we've destroyed America....
153 2012-11-08 Hillary Clinton describes new tactics, including the use of intelligence agencies, in the fight against global wildlife trafficking....
154 2012-11-08 Priceline, a travel company from an earlier Internet age, is buying Kayak, its younger rival, for $40 a share....
155 2012-11-08 If KiOR, a start-up venture, actually begins shipping gas and diesel, It would be a first in the cellulosic biofuels field....
156 2012-11-08 Writing rules for Wall Street doesn't afford much opportunity for artistic license. Unless, that is, you're Bart Chilton of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
157 2012-11-08 With gas lines in New York City still stubbornly long and no relief for gas shortages in sight, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg imposed an odd-even gas rationing rule that goes into effect at 6 a.m. Friday....
158 2012-11-08 The bank also disclosed in its quarterly filing that it had come to an agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to wrap up two investigations into mortgage-backed securities....
159 2012-11-08 Autumn is traditionally the time of year when people start snapping up Apple products - and investors, in anticipation of another blockbuster holiday season, do the same with Apple shares. But this year, Apple's stock seems headed straight for the...
160 2012-11-08 The French and Belgian governments said on Thursday that they would inject an additional $7 billion into the troubled bank Dexia....
161 2012-11-08 That the demands of gay rights activists in Argentina are now so broad and vague is proof of how far they've come....
162 2012-11-08 Blame election fatigue or a reaction to the stock market, which tumbled more than 300 points on Wednesday, or the fierce northeaster that was pounding Manhattan. Or simply blame the anemic results of Christie’s Impressionist and modern art auction on the art itself. In the first of the fall’s important evening auctions, the atmosphere was lifeless and the results were mediocre, with examples of artists including Picasso, Miró, Chagall and Leger failing to get even a single bid.

“There were too many fillers with optimistic estimates,” James Roundell, a London dealer, said after the sale. “It was an auction that was not edited.”

The auction’s biggest star, which came late in the evening, was a 1905 version of one of Monet’s “Water Lilies,” about as classic an Impressionist painting as any trophy hunter could ever want. It excited three telephone bidders, but only so much. The painting ended up selling for $39 million, or $43.7 million including Christie’s fees, within its estimate of $30 million to $50 million. After the sale, several dealers said the price was strong, considering that the painting had been on the market privately for some time with an asking price of $50 million.

The other top seller was a modern painting, Kandinsky’s 1909 “Study for Improvisation 8,” a brightly colored depiction of kneeling pilgrims and a man wielding a sword before the cityscape of old Kiev, the medieval district of the Ukrainian capital. Over the years, it had been on display at several museums, including the Tate Modern in London and the Kunstmuseum Basel in Switzerland.

Estimated at $20 million to $30 million, it sold to another telephone bidder for $20.5 million, or $23 million including fees, a record price for the artist at auction. (“Fugue,” a 1914 Kandinsky, set the previous record in 1990, when it sold for $20.9 million including fees at Sotheby’s.)
163 2012-11-08 At least four Tibetans set themselves on fire Wednesday to protest Chinese rule in Tibetan areas, according to reports by Free Tibet, an advocacy group, and Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government. Since March 2011, nearly 70 Tibetans have self-immolated, and the number on Wednesday was the highest in a single day. Three of those were teenage boy monks in Aba County, known as Ngaba in Tibetan. One, Dorje, died on the scene, and the other two were taken to a hospital, according to the reports. Elsewhere, a 23-year-old woman set fire to herself and died. Radio Free Asia also reported a fifth self-immolation that took place at night in the Tibet Autonomous Region, but the details remain vague.
164 2012-11-08 A civil court judge for the city of Buenos Aires ordered nearly all the assets of a local subsidiary of Chevron frozen, a lawyer for the plaintiffs told reporters Wednesday. The assets will remain frozen until the court rules on whether it will enforce a judgment of more than $18 billion against Chevron in Ecuador. A judge in Ecuador last year found Chevron responsible for environmental and other damages caused by Texaco, which was acquired by Chevron in 2001, during nearly 30 years of oil production in the Amazon. Because Chevron says it has no assets in Ecuador, the plaintiffs — including indigenous peoples — are sueing the oil company in Argentina, Canada, Brazil and Colombia. The company issued a statement calling the ruling unenforceable, according to Reuters.
165 2012-11-08 “I think the real answer here is: We should reform this system,” he said. “It should not be two parties and county leaders picking their buddies to supervise the basis of our citizenship.”

“We don’t have a system for the 21st century,” he continued. “It’s just a disgrace.”

Susan Lerner, the executive director of Common Cause New York, a watchdog group, said New York should move to a nonpartisan system.

“There are these really well-intentioned people who are chosen because of who they know, not what they do, and they can’t run an election in the best of circumstances,” she said. “In the worst of circumstances, they are just hopelessly overmatched.”

Changing the system, however, would require state legislation, if not an amendment to the State Constitution. And not everyone agrees that a nonpartisan system would be an improvement.

“Some people have said we should have the mayor and the City Council appoint the members of the board,” Assemblyman Brian Kavanagh of Manhattan, said. But, he added, “when the mayor and City Council have an interest in the outcome of the election, how is that any better?”

Mr. Kavanagh has sponsored a Constitutional amendment that would allow the Legislature to set qualifications — like experience in administering elections, for example — for members and for essential employees of the elections boards in the state.

“I don’t want to say that this particular legislative proposal is the silver bullet,” he said, but “we obviously need to change things.”

Many officials have put forward smaller-bore proposals to overhaul the: Tprocess.

The speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, said Wednesday that the state should “seriously examine” allowing early voting to relieve the problem of the long lines on Election Day.

The New York City public advocate, Bill de Blasio, and the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer also endorsed early voting, as well as legislation allowing same-day registration.

Mr. Kavanagh has sponsored bills that would require that ballots use a larger font and that would simplify the process of closing the polls and counting votes at the end of the night. Both bills have passed the Assembly, and Mr. Kavanagh said he was hopeful that they would pass the Senate in the coming session and be signed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.

In the meantime, the City Council plans to hold a hearing on Dec. 5 to examine the problems that occurred on Election Day, which, in addition to long lines, included jammed or broken ballot scanners, and poll sites that ran out of affidavit ballots for voters displaced by Hurricane Sandy. It was the first presidential election in which New York City had used scanned paper ballots, instead of voting machines with mechanical levers.

Gale Brewer, a city councilwoman from the Upper West Side and the chairwoman of the government operations committee, said people were “definitely disenfranchised” as a result of the long waits at polls Tuesday. She said the chaos had made her worry about how things would go in next year’s local elections, in which New Yorkers would be electing not only a new mayor, but also other citywide officials and many new members of the Council.

“It makes me very concerned,” she said. “The silver lining was: This is a wake-up call to do something about it.”
166 2012-11-08 Many New York City gas stations rely on distribution terminals in Brooklyn and Queens that were damaged by the storm, or lost power, and have not come back fully, the experts said. Similarly, a major fuel terminal for Nassau County located in Inwood, N.Y., has been operating at reduced capacity.

“It’s a lot of logistics behind the scenes that will determine why the shortage is better in some areas than in others,” said Patrick DeHaan, who works for Gasbuddy.com, which has been tracking which stations have fuel in the New York region. By Wednesday, 75 percent of New York City’s gas stations were still without gas, compared with a regional average of 24 percent, according to the site.

Mr. DeHaan added that such logistical problems had been made worse by panic buying among drivers who saw the lines and felt the need to stock up themselves. Drivers, he said, have shown “a sudden, insatiable demand for gasoline. That’s placing the system under enormous stress.”

Michael Green, a spokesman for AAA, pointed out that many gas stations initially could not sell gas because the power failure had cut off their pumps. But as power has been restored to more stations, he said, the continuing gas problems have focused attention on the gas distribution network.

“This week, it is shifting more to being a supply-system problem: getting gasoline from storage to distribution terminals to gas stations to the car you drive,” he said.

At a Getty station in the Bronx, an attendant sat glumly behind the counter on Wednesday because he had no gas to pump. The attendant, Kofi Osobaye, said that the station never lost power after the storm, but that its distributor had not brought any more gas despite his repeated pleas.

“I’m still waiting; I don’t know when it’s coming,” said Mr. Osobaye, who has been turning away more than 30 customers a day. “It’s very bad for business.”

Federal energy officials reported that 9 of 57 petroleum terminals affected by the storm remained shut on Wednesday. Of those, seven were in New Jersey, one in Brooklyn and one on Long Island.

Still, industry experts said that the gas shortage had abated more quickly in New Jersey because most terminals in the southern part of the state were not damaged, and gas stations there are closer to major refineries and transportation routes than, say, their New York City counterparts. In addition, state officials adopted a rationing system that helped control demand, the experts said.

Even though New York distributors have been trying to find alternatives to damaged terminals, they are still transporting less gas to stations than they normally do, said Ralph Bombardiere, executive director of the New York State Association of Service Stations and Repair Shops. He estimated there were about 800 distributors in the state.

Mr. Bombardiere said federal and local efforts to address the gas shortage had been slowed by a lack of understanding about the gas distribution system. For instance, he said, barges carrying oil were unable to dock at regional terminals for days after the storm because New York Harbor remained closed.

“Someone in a tie should have said, ‘Where are the barges?’ ” he said. “It must have taken 10 to 15 telephone calls to get that message out. In case of a crisis, they have to start at the beginning.”
167 2012-11-08 In Syria on Wednesday, insurgents escalated attacks on targets within earshot of President Bashar al-Assad’s hilltop Damascus palace, killing a prominent judge with a car bomb and lobbing mortar shells at a neighborhood that houses central government offices and a military airfield. The assassination of the judge, reported by the official news agency, SANA, was the second high-profile killing of a top Assad loyalist in the Syrian capital in two days and added to the impression of an intensifying insurgency in the 20-month-old conflict.

The plan for safe zones would deter Syrian bombers from flying over the areas, which in the north would stretch from the Turkish border town of Kilis into Syria south of Aleppo, Syria’s largest city. In the south, the missile batteries would be placed in Jordan and cover areas around the Syrian city of Dara’a.

“This kind of passive no-fly zone, if combined with a political and arming strategy with the opposition, could work,” said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria expert at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Mr. Tabler added that the effort could give the Syrian rebels their “Benghazi pocket,” a reference to the area of eastern Libya that was a base for rebel operations in the Libya uprising.

The divided and ineffective Syrian political opposition gathered in Doha, Qatar, in an attempt to forge a more cohesive political force to coordinate with the myriad rebel fighting units on the ground, who fight under the banner of the Free Syrian Army. Those talks came after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton recently criticized the Syrian National Council, currently the main opposition group, as out-of-touch exiles who needed to absorb more representatives from Syria.

For weeks, Turkish officials, including Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have voiced frustration over the West’s unwillingness to take a more muscular approach to Syria, saying that the inaction has let Mr. Assad prosecute a bloody counteroffensive that has killed thousands and sent a surge of refugees to neighboring countries.

At the same time, there has been an expectation among Turkish officials and rebels here and in Syria that the end of the American presidential campaign could result in a greater effort on the part of the Americans to end the war, no matter who won.

“I believe that the U.S. should handle the issue differently from now on,” Mr. Erdogan said Wednesday, according to the semiofficial Anatolian News Agency.

In Doha, some Syrian opposition figures agreed. “Now that the elections are over, the U.S. gets to put Syria on its priority list,” said Mulham al-Droubi, a member of the Syrian National Council who is affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood. “Obama is liberated in his second term from pressures of getting re-elected, so he can take bolder decisions.”

There were other indications on Wednesday that Western allies would act more forcefully in the wake of the American election. Britain’s prime minister, David Cameron, visited a refugee camp in Jordan and was quoted by The Associated Press as saying that the international community should do more to “shape the opposition,” and that Britain would open direct talks with rebel military commanders.
168 2012-11-08 The decline has followed a sequence of seemingly unrelated events, including a broader-than-normal overhaul of its product line that is expected to hurt profit margins in the near term and a rare shake-up in Apple’s senior ranks.

“It has just been wave after wave of bad news,” said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray.

The events also do little to diminish the questions reflecting longer-term concerns with which investors pepper analysts like Mr. Munster. How much bigger can Apple — with a $525 billion market value, the biggest of any corporation — get? Won’t Apple soon run out of people to sell iPhones, iPads and Macs to?

Those concerns have been one of the biggest reasons Apple’s stock has long traded at a discount, strange as that may sound, to its peers in the tech business. Apple’s forward price-to-earnings ratio — the value of the company’s stock divided by its expected earnings per share for the coming year — is just under 10.

That figure is 14 for Google, 32 for Facebook and 131 for Amazon. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, said the company generally did not comment on its share price.

Apple executives have said they still see huge opportunities for the company and it is still growing at a remarkable clip for a company its size. During its last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 29, Apple’s revenue jumped 45 percent to $156.51 billion and its profits rose 61 percent to $41.73 billion.

While Apple’s most recent financial report was mostly in line with Wall Street forecasts, the company warned that its profit margin would most likely decline in the holiday quarter because of a sweeping refresh of the company’s iPad, iMac and MacBook laptop lines.

Apple products often cost more to make during their first months on the market, but those costs come down as the process becomes more efficient and volumes increase. The company said its new iPad Mini would be among those products with low profit margins, raising concerns that Apple will make less money as it competes in lower-priced segments of the mobile market.

Apple’s worrisome financial report came just days before Apple announced the departure of Scott Forstall, the head of its mobile software development, in a move that it said was aimed at increasing collaboration between departments at the company. Apple split the responsibilities of Mr. Forstall, who was a divisive figure at the company, among an array of other Apple executives.

The surprise firing of Mr. Forstall was unusual for Apple, where turnover in its senior ranks is rare compared to other big technology companies.

Then late last week, the research firm IDC reported that 75 percent of smartphones shipped in the third quarter were Android phones, the main rival to Apple in mobile software. A year earlier, Google, the maker of Android software, had market share of 57.5 percent. The iPhone’s share rose at a much slower pace, jumping to 14.9 percent of shipments from 13.8 percent, IDC estimated.

But Apple is still making huge profits from the mobile market, far more than Google is. Even with the recent decline in its shares, Apple’s stock is still up 38 percent for the year.

David Rolfe, chief investment officer at Wedgewood Partners, which counts Apple as its biggest stock holding, said he remained confident that Apple was one of the best investments around.

“The bears think Apple is in the eighth inning,” Mr. Rolfe said. “We think they’re still in the fourth or fifth inning.”
169 2012-11-08 Passed by the state’s Republican-led Legislature in March 2011, Public Act 4 replaced an older emergency manager law from 1990 and granted more control to those sent by the state to resuscitate local communities on the brink of bankruptcy.

Among the voices that have vehemently opposed the law, labor unions were livid because it gave emergency managers the authority to tear up contracts that cities had already agreed on. Critics called the law undemocratic and an example of “state bureaucrats” overstepping their bounds.

“People are used to electing folks to represent them,” said Greg Bowens, a spokesman for Stand Up For Democracy, a group that pushed for the ballot measure on the law. “That duty of elected officials is sacred and cannot just be wiped away because of a credit rating. People found that offensive.”

The possibility that an emergency manager might take over Detroit, Michigan’s most populous city, was narrowly averted last spring. The consent deal granted state officials a role in guiding the city’s finances and used, at least in part as a legal underpinning, the emergency manager law that voters rejected Tuesday. State officials said Wednesday that the deal would remain intact and that the election outcome had no effect on the city. But others disagreed.

Stand Up for Democracy, backed by labor unions like the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, began circulating ballot petitions to revoke the emergency manager law in June. The more than 200,000 valid signatures that the group collected were easily enough to put the question on the statewide ballot on Tuesday.

As the dust settled on Wednesday, Mr. Snyder and other state officials said emergency managers around the state would remain in place under the older emergency manager law, though they no longer have the ability to undo the provisions of labor contracts. All consent agreements established while the law was in effect would remain valid, said Terry Stanton, a spokesman for the State Treasury Department.

In a statement on Wednesday, Mayor Dave Bing of Detroit, who had opposed the emergency manager law, also said that Tuesday’s vote would not alter the city’s new initiatives. “I am confident that my administration, in cooperation with the Detroit City Council and the State of Michigan, will find the right path for continuation of our much-needed reforms,” he said.

But Al Garrett, the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 25, said he planned to meet with lawyers in the coming days to discuss potential legal action that could void the state’s consent agreement with Detroit.

“There’s no question that there’s going to be litigation,” he said, adding that without the pending threat of an emergency manager takeover, the agreement would not exist. “We know there’s still going to be some legal battles.”
170 2012-11-08 A student protest at the University of Mississippi against the re-election of President Obama turned disorderly on Wednesday morning, with some students chanting racial epithets and two arrested for disorderly conduct.

The university said in a statement that a crowd of 400 people formed at the student union shortly before midnight after reports of a riot spread on social media. Some students yelled racial slurs and profanity in anger over Mr. Obama’s re-election, the statement said. Photographs posted online showed students lighting Obama campaign signs on fire.

The university’s chancellor, Dan Jones, said, “All of us are ashamed of the few students who have negatively affected the reputations of each of us and of our university.” No one was injured, and no property was damaged, but Dr. Jones said the campus police were investigating.

Mr. Obama lost to Mitt Romney in Mississippi by a wide margin. But after Mr. Obama was declared the winner in the national race, 30 or 40 people began protesting on the campus, and a rumor spread through Twitter that it was a riot. “The gathering seems to have been fueled by social media, and the conversation should have stayed there,” Dr. Jones said.

On Sept. 30, the university marked the 50th anniversary of the riots that followed its racial desegregation. In recent years, it has taken steps to address complaints of insensitivity, changing its mascot to a black bear from a Confederate soldier and dropping “Dixie” as its unofficial fight song. Students elected the first black homecoming queen this year.

Margaret Ann Morgan, a senior who is white, said the protests cast the university in a bad light. Both black and white students will march across campus holding candles, she said.
171 2012-11-08 Other salons, like Frédéric Fekkai, let downtown stylists set up shop at their uptown locations. And on Sunday and Monday, Bumble and bumble opened its Upper East Side studio (usually closed those days), specifically to tend to displaced habitués of the company’s 13th Street salon.

“People are totally desperate,” said Eric Mancuso, the salon manager at Fekkai’s flagship salon at Henri Bendel. “It has been a challenge to accommodate them all.”

“Desperate” is a relative term. But while much of Manhattan stayed home (or decamped to the apartments of charitable friends and family) after the hurricane hit, many uptown cultural institutions were back to normal operations by midweek.

As a result, working stylists were forced to play catch-up with eager customers who still had plans to go out. Carrie Hill, who works at Bumble and bumble on East 56th Street, said nearly half the people she saw in the past week were clients from Bumble’s downtown salon, including three men on Saturday morning. “Our male clients are particular about their hair,” Ms. Hill said. “They are looking for a specific haircut. It was a bit of a challenge.”

Several people who had rushed to have their hair done were reluctant to discuss it with a reporter, worried that they would seem superficial. But there seemed an obvious self-soothing element, as well as a sociable one, in returning to the normal grooming ritual.

At Fekkai’s Henri Bendel salon, Mr. Mancuso said stylists there had a 25 percent increase in business from Wednesday to Thursday of last week, many of the new customers being from downtown salons or tourists forced to spend extra days because they missed their flights. They also had a 15 percent increase in people asking for manicures and pedicures, Mr. Mancuso added. “I think people were so crazy from being cooped up in their apartments doing nothing,” he said.

That salon, as well as the Fekkai studio in the Mark Hotel, which has a loyal local clientele, also made room for the company’s SoHo stylists who needed to see their clients. And some made house calls, Mr. Mancuso said.

Many salons struggled to reach clients after power and cellphone service were knocked out, and resorted to updates on Twitter or Facebook. At Butterfly Studio, a chic salon on Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron district, managers could not access their database to see which clients had scheduled appointments. Adlin Palencia, Butterfly’s general manager, said the salon was forced to send daily e-mail status updates to its 4,000 customers instead. “We didn’t want to be insensitive,” she said. “Some people might not think hair was that important right now. But all we had was e-mail.”

Indeed some clients chafed at the daily e-mails (some of which were quite effusive) and have opted out of receiving them entirely, Ms. Palencia said. And with a closed salon (Butterfly stylists, many of whom had left their scissors at their stations, were barred from entering), customers sought help at rivals. “One client called and said she booked elsewhere,” Ms. Palencia said. “She felt bad, but what else could she do?”

The biggest losers, though, seemed to be the blow-and-go salons that have proliferated downtown in recent years, specializing in cheap blowouts. Alli Webb, the founder of Drybar salons, which offer a $40 blowout and see as many as 100 clients a day, said her company’s stylists in New York City could not see clients last week. Not only were the company’s Manhattan salons closed because of Hurricane Sandy, but even if they had remained open, many of Drybar’s stylists do not live there and could not have gotten to work, Ms. Webb added. At one point, Drybar considered sending stylists to clients’ homes. “But it was difficult to get around the city,” she said. “What used to take 20 minutes was now two hours.”

But Mr. Fugate turned the transportation foul-ups into a kind of reverse house call. On Halloween, two days after Hurricane Sandy landed, a friend who had stayed at his apartment the night before offered to drive downtown clients to Mr. Fugate’s apartment uptown, free. Several happily agreed.

“He brought them to me,” Mr. Fugate said with a laugh. “It doesn’t get better than that.”
172 2012-11-08 TUESDAY afternoon in the street-level headquarters of Showroom Seven, in the Terminal Warehouse building in the heart of flood-damaged West Chelsea, three dozen employees and volunteers huddled over card tables, sitting in the dark, sorting, cleaning, washing and drying countless piles of crystal beads — each tiny, shiny one by hand.

There had to be thousands. Tens of thousands. Probably a million, all damaged when the company’s design studio in the basement was flooded with at least five feet of water from the hurricane. Strings of beads were hanging from the pipes and railings to air out like spaghetti.

“Are we going to ship one order late?” asked Karen Erickson, who nearly three decades ago started the jewelry line Erickson Beamon, which spawned a large showroom and, in 2007, a store after the family business moved to this building. There was a halfhearted response from the workers.

“Are we going to get it together?” Ms. Erickson asked.

While Lower Manhattan was widely impacted by the storm, a handful of stores were so seriously damaged that they are struggling to reopen. On West 22nd Street, the Balenciaga and Comme des Garçons stores, each beautifully designed, were badly flooded. Adrian Joffe, the husband and business partner of Rei Kawakubo, the Comme des Garçons designer, said that more than three feet of water had rushed into the store but that after some repairs, it would reopen on Thursday. Balenciaga, its store now unrecognizable, is looking for a temporary space, at least until its new SoHo store opens in the spring.

Showroom Seven has temporarily closed its store, called Beyond 7, to make room for recovery operations, and because power had not been restored. The basement was starting to dry, thanks to the designer Elie Tahari, who donated a pump and a generator. And Ms. Erickson was trying to keep her spirits up, pointing to a beaded vest that Gwen Stefani had just worn in a video, and that had been rescued after the storm. It was now displayed on a mannequin amid the mess.
173 2012-11-08 In another sign of shifting attitudes, a drive by social conservatives in Iowa to unseat David S. Wiggins, one of seven State Supreme Court justices who voted unanimously in 2007 to legalize same-sex marriage, fell short. Only two years ago, three other justices who faced similar electoral challenges were voted out as conservatives, supported by out-of-state donations, argued that the court had overstepped its role.

Maine voters, who three years ago rejected a law to authorize same-sex marriage, also reversed themselves. With 85 percent of the ballots counted, the tally stood at 53.2 percent voting yes to 46.8 percent saying no.

Opponents of same-sex marriage, noting that they had been outspent three to one in the state ballot campaigns, vowed to carry on with what they call the defense of traditional marriage. “Though we are disappointed over these losses, we remain faithful to our mission and committed to the cause of preserving marriage as God designed it,” said Brian S. Brown, the president of the National Organization for Marriage.

“We knew long ago that we faced a difficult political landscape with the four marriage battles occurring in four of the deepest blue states in America,” Mr. Brown said in a written statement. “As our opponents built a huge financial advantage, the odds became even steeper.”

In Baltimore, supporters of the measure cheered Tuesday night for Gov. Martin O’Malley, a Democrat who had strongly promoted it. Mr. O’Malley said that the people of the state had come together to say “that every child’s home deserves to be protected equally under the law.” With nearly all of the votes counted, the tally was 52.1 percent for same-sex marriage and 47.9 percent against it.

Derek McCoy, the president of the Maryland Family Alliance, which opposes same-sex marriage, said in a videotaped conversation with the Family Research Council that “we have to concede this issue to the other side at the moment.”

“But that does not mean we’ll go away, or that people do not believe in natural marriage between a man and a woman.”

Until Tuesday, opponents of same-sex marriage had consistently repeated that the issue had lost every time that voters had a voice in the matter. Same-sex marriage has also been blocked in referendums like the Proposition 8 campaign in California in 2008, which only added to the challenge.

Then, when the legislatures in Washington and Maryland approved same-sex marriage bills this year, opponents gathered enough signatures to force the measures on the ballot Tuesday. Gay rights advocates in Maine, still hurting over their loss in 2009, used one-on-one conversations in attempts to change minds. And for the first time anywhere, they brought their own proposal to voters this year. Their victory seems likely to inspire similar campaigns.

Gay rights groups also applauded the election of Representative Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin as the first openly gay senator and the victories of several openly gay members of the House of Representatives.

Opponents of marriage rights were helped in the final weeks of the campaigns by money from the National Organization for Marriage and the Roman Catholic Church. That financing allowed opponents to advertise extensively and organize telephone appeals in all four states. They argued that “redefining marriage” would force schools to “teach gay marriage” and require businesses and churches to violate their religious principles.

Rights groups said they were not seeking to redefine marriage, but simply hoped to end discrimination, and they labeled the opponents’ attacks as scare tactics.

Advocates of same-sex marriage had a threefold advantage in fund-raising nationwide, and they unveiled advertising campaigns of their own in which straight supporters said that their gay and lesbian friends deserved the same chance to marry that others enjoyed.
174 2012-11-08 While acknowledging that China’s wealth remains unbalanced among regions and unequally distributed, Mr. Hu told the congress that his decade as top leader had brought robust economic growth and the makings of a “moderately prosperous society.”

“Over the past five years, there have been major achievements in every aspect of work,” he said. “Reform and opening up have gained major advances, and the people’s standard of living has clearly risen.”

Mr. Hu’s congress report is a major part of the public ceremony that accompanies China’s leadership transitions. But the real decisions about who will succeed him and his cohorts have been made in secretive negotiations involving senior officials and party elders.

In a show of unity, Mr. Hu earlier entered the assembly hall accompanied by the dominant party elder, former President Jiang Zemin, who shuffled gingerly to his seat. But party insiders have said Mr. Jiang, 86, played a major role in shaping the next leadership circle and voiced frustration with the record of Mr. Hu and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.

Contrary to some observers’ predictions, Mr. Hu did not play down the founder of the People’s Republic of China, Mao Zedong, whose revolutionary heritage sits increasingly awkwardly with urban middle-class wealth and values. Mr. Hu also repeatedly mentioned the phrases “scientific development” and a “harmonious society,” which he has used to sum up his goals of a stable society under firm party control.

Officially, the new leadership team is to be selected in the coming week by the 2,268 delegates to this congress, the 18th in the party’s 91-year history. In fact, much of what will go on during the congress has already been decided. The delegates are voted on by lower-ranking members but based on guidance provided by higher-ups, a process known as “democratic centralism.”

Mr. Hu repeated vows of “political system reform” in his report to the congress. But officials have made clear that the party’s notions of political change do not embrace any idea of full-fledged electoral democracy.

On the contrary, at a news conference on Wednesday, the congress’s spokesman and deputy head of Communist Party propaganda, Cai Mingzhao, defended China’s current system.

“The leading position of the Communist Party in China is a decision made by history and by the people,” Mr. Cai said.

Still uncertain is who will be standing next to Mr. Xi when the top leadership is presented in a week. This group, known as the Politburo’s Standing Committee, essentially runs China. According to plan, it will include Mr. Xi and Li Keqiang, who is expected to take over as head of the government bureaucracy next year. Both men are current members of the Standing Committee.

It is also unclear how many members the committee will have. It now has nine posts and is expected to be cut to seven.

Nor has Mr. Hu indicated when he will give up his post as chairman of the Central Military Commission, which gives him continued influence over Mr. Xi’s policies and personnel choices.

In his report, Mr. Hu lauded China’s growing military strength, promising to continue modernizing the People’s Liberation Army forces, and calling them a defender of peace, a point sure to be questioned by regional neighbors, including Japan, that are embroiled in territorial disputes with Beijing.

Mr. Cai, the spokesman, also said the party had learned from the scandals surrounding two high-ranking officials: Bo Xilai, the former Politburo member, and Liu Zhijun, the former railway minister. Both have been accused of corruption, and Mr. Bo is also accused of covering up the murder of a British businessman. Mr. Hu did not refer explicitly to Mr. Bo in his report, but said corrupt officials should be punished “no matter how high or low in rank.”
175 2012-11-08 They planned to have offices and a small store there, too. It would be a big step for the two-and-half-year-old company, which started in the couple’s South Slope apartment and grew to $1.5 million in sales last year, including to big clients like Whole Foods.

All of that — and $5,000 in merchandise for a holiday market — was ruined by six feet of oily water. The company did not have flood insurance. Mr. Tice called the agent later to say, “Add it.”

The storm “wreaked havoc on the business,” Ms. Hadeka said. “We invested a lot of money in this space.”

They were just weeks from the start of the holiday season, when they expected to collect 75 percent of their revenue for the year. Mr. Tice said the company has business-interruption insurance, “but we haven’t stopped operating, so that hasn’t been an issue.”

With their 10 employees scattered — six in the city, the rest in upstate New York, where Ms. Hadeka’s family owns the quarry that produces the slate — the co-owners shouldered most of the work in the days after the storm.

Just getting to the new storefront proved taxing. With public transit suspended, Mr. Tice laced on his jogging shoes and ran the 11-mile round trip. Their New Jersey warehouse was still closed, and dozens of customers called and e-mailed, wondering when they would receive their orders.

With U.P.S. shipments halted, Ms. Hadeka said she had to work with the shipping company to issue new tracking numbers. A big shipment destined for Whole Foods in Massachusetts — 2,500 cheese boards — could not be found. After hours of calls, the couple discovered that the boards were on a truck parked in Elizabeth, N.J.

Ms. Hadeka wondered whether retail sales, and gift items in particular, would suffer. “People are devastated,” she said. “We rely so much on people buying cheese boards for Christmas and entertaining.”

But there is little time to dwell on such thoughts. Nor does the business plan to leave a waterfront neighborhood that is filled with young people running small craft businesses. “We have to keep going,” Ms. Hadeka said.

When faced with another hurricane warning, Mr. Tice said, “we’ll probably take everything valuable out of there and put it on a higher floor or a storage facility.”

In Sheepshead Bay, in southern Brooklyn, many mom-and-pop businesses were destroyed. A tidal surge flooded the bay and smashed into restaurants and stores at street level. Water gutted Istanbul Restaurant, a 17-year-old enterprise owned by Riza Atas.

The day after the storm, Istanbul’s interior looked like a scene from “Titanic.” Tables, chairs and settees were toppled. Plaster board and wallpaper hung from walls. No one could enter the kitchen; large industrial refrigerators and stoves had been thrown into the doorway.

Gawkers who entered the restaurant stood not on a floor once made of marble and granite tiles but on shards of wood and dishes. Mr. Atas lost a great deal of meat and fish. Worse, the storm destroyed the photographs, tiles and carpets from his native Turkey that he had lovingly displayed.

“We did not lose a restaurant,” Mr. Atas said. “We lose Turkish culture here.”

After the storm, the building’s owners sent 25 contractors and helpers to pump water from his basement and to clean, but the basement started filling again. Mr. Atas could not reach his insurance broker on Long Island, where thousands of customers had no power. His kitchen appliances, including the grill and the fryer, were filled with water. And he did not know how he would keep his 10 employees. “If we get something from the government, we have to help them, too,” he said.

Mr. Atas said he had not yet decided whether he would reopen. He estimated he would need $200,000 and three months to do so. “If the government or city helps, we can rebuild,” he said.

Considering what happened elsewhere in Brooklyn, Carl Manni, chief executive and co-founder of Linda the Bra Lady, said he got “kind of lucky.” Although the company headquarters and his home are in Dumbo, along the East River, neither place filled with water, and he did not lose power. But with subways halted, most of his 40 employees could not get to the office or to the company’s two Manhattan stores for several days.

Working solo for nearly three days, Mr. Manni said he was forced to let Web orders go unfilled. Several of his vendors’ warehouses were damaged badly, which meant the company could not replenish its stock and ship to customers.

In all, Mr. Manni figured the seven-year-old business lost $50,000 last week. “In a way, that’s the same thing as physical damage,” he said. “It’s really dollars at the end of the day.” He said the company had business-interruption coverage that began after 72 hours, so he expected to get some money, though he did not know how much.

In the meantime, with the business closed for nearly a week, cash flow has been a struggle. “We’re just not prepared for that,” he said. “We don’t run with a ton of cash in the bank. I’ve had to do incredible financial gymnastics to make sure we can pay rent and make our payroll.”

Frustrated by the transit shutdown, Mr. Manni also became creative with transportation. He dispatched the company’s delivery van, which is not made for passengers, to pick up employees throughout the city.

By the end of last week, operations were getting back to normal. “With the online business, people expect that you ship their packages and answer their e-mails,” he said. “We just can’t stop moving because of Sandy.”

Mr. Manni said he had prepared for the storm “as much as we could — and it helped.” Employees filled all of the vehicles with gas, and plumbers cleaned the storm drains.

“The rest is up to the utilities and government to make sure services don’t go offline for too long,” he said. “Hopefully, next time this happens, they will have new systems in place to get things back up and running more quickly.” That, he said, would minimize the economic damage.
176 2012-11-08 But a number of Republican strategists who have worked on recent presidential campaigns argued that demography is destiny, and that the party was falling out of step with a changing country.

John Weaver, a Republican strategist who worked on the presidential campaigns of Senator John McCain and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., has long argued that the party’s reliance on the votes of older white men was putting it on a demographically unsustainable path.

“We have a choice: we can become a shrinking regional party of middle-aged and older white men, or we can fight to become a national governing party,” Mr. Weaver said in an interview. “And to do the latter we have to fix our Hispanic problem as quickly as possible, we’ve got to accept science and start calling out these false equivalencies when they occur within our party about things that are just not true, and not tolerate the intolerant.”

Matthew Dowd, who was a top adviser in the re-election campaign of President George W. Bush, said on ABC’s “Good Morning America” that the Republican Party had become a “'Mad Men’ party in a ‘Modern Family’ America.”

And Mark McKinnon, another former strategist for President Bush and Mr. McCain, argued that the party “needs messages and policies that appeal to a broader audience.”

“This election proved that trying to expand a shrinking base ain’t gonna cut it,” Mr. McKinnon said in an e-mail. “It’s time to put some compassion back in conservatism. The party needs more tolerance, more diversity and a deeper appreciation for the concerns of the middle class.”

But not everyone was urging the party to run to the center. “No doubt the media will insist that Republicans must change, must sprint to the center, must embrace social liberalism, must accept that America is destined to play a less dominant role in the world,” Fred Barnes wrote on the blog of The Weekly Standard. “All that is hogwash, which is why Republicans are likely to reject it. Their ideology is not a problem.”

“But there is also a hole in the Republican electorate,” he continued. “There aren’t enough Hispanics. As long as two-thirds of the growing Hispanic voting bloc lines up with Democrats, it will be increasingly difficult (though hardly impossible) for Republicans to win national elections. When George W. Bush won a narrow re-election in 2004, he got 44 percent of the Hispanic vote. If Romney had managed that, he would have come closer to winning. He might even have won.”

And Erick Erickson made this plea at RedState.com: “Just please, G.O.P., please — in four years let’s not go with the ‘he’s the most electable’ argument. The most electable usually aren’t.”

Richard A. Viguerie, the chairman of ConservativeHQ.com and a pioneer in the field of political direct mail, released a statement saying that the party should never again nominate “a biggovernment establishment Republican” for president.

“Mitt Romney’s loss was the death rattle of the establishment G.O.P.,” Mr. Viguerie said in the statement. “Far from signaling a rejection of the Tea Party or grass-roots conservatives, the disaster of 2012 signals the beginning of the battle to take over the Republican Party and the opportunity to establish the G.O.P. as the party of small-government constitutional conservatism.”

But there were bright spots for the party. Aided by redistricting, Republicans kept their hold on the House, and Speaker John A. Boehner announced that he would be speaking Wednesday afternoon about the “fiscal cliff and the need for both parties to find common ground.”

Republicans extended their dominance in state government, picking up at least one governor’s seat Tuesday night and increasing the number of Republican governors to 30, the most there have been in more than a decade. Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, the chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said that the state-level gains Republicans made in “provides optimism for the future.”

And of course, even two years in politics is a long time. Just after Mr. McCain lost the 2008 elections there was similar hand-wringing in the party. Two years later, Republicans made historic gains in the midterm elections.
177 2012-11-08 Some industry sectors, like finance and managed care, were particularly hard hit on Wednesday amid worries they would be hurt by tougher regulations and other adverse policies in Mr. Obama’s second term. Some also pointed to concerns that taxes on dividends and capital gains were likely to increase, making stocks less attractive.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index recorded its worst performance since June, falling 33.86, or 2.4 percent, to 1,394.53. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 312.95 to 12,932.73. It was the Dow’s first close below the 13,000 level since August.

If history is any guide, the one-day loss does not necessarily bode poorly.The stock market has often sold off on the day after Democratic victories in presidential elections, particularly when there had been doubt going into the election over who would win. But the market has tended to perform better under Democratic administrations than Republican ones.

Since 1928, there have been four postelection days when the market did worse than it did this year, with the worst showing coming four years ago, when the index dropped 5.3 percent after Mr. Obama won. It fell 4.6 percent after Truman won in 1948, 4.4 percent after Roosevelt was elected in 1932 and 3.3 percent after he won a third term in 1940. But in each case, stocks rose in the following four years.

By contrast, the market climbed 1.5 percent the day after Roosevelt was re-elected in 1936, but lost value during the next four years. It rose 1.1 percent in 2004, after George W. Bush won a second term, but lost 12 percent the next four years.

Many market strategists expect that the market will remain volatile between now and mid-January. If Congress and the president cannot come up with a plan to cut the deficit, hundreds of billions of dollars in Bush-era tax cuts are set to expire in early 2013 and automatic spending cuts will sharply cut the defense budget and other programs.

The tax increases and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, could push the economy into recession in 2013, economists say they fear.

A Barclays analyst, Ajay Rajadhyaksha, said the “the worst outcome for the fiscal cliff negotiations was a status quo election,” because each party could see the result as a mandate for its own policies. “Unless one side softens its stance,” he added, “the chances of going off the cliff, at least temporarily, are higher” than markets were prepared for.

But Sherry Cooper, the chief economist of the BMO Financial Group, said she expected a compromise to be reached. “Obama is in a much stronger negotiating position now,” she said, adding that she expected a deal that included tax increases and spending cuts.

As share prices fell, Treasury bond prices rose, an indication of a flight to safety. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 1.64 percent from 1.75 percent the day before. Crude oil tumbled more than 4 percent.

After Mr. Obama’s re-election, companies in some sectors, like hospitals and technology, will see a short-term pop, said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist with Citi. Other areas, like financial services, and coal and mining, are likely to be hurt, Mr. Levkovich said.

Coal companies were among the worst hit Wednesday. The coal industry is particularly vulnerable to new environmental regulations, as Mr. Obama has in the past pushed for more investments in renewable energy and alternative energy sources that could reduce coal demand in the long-term. Shares of Alpha Natural Resources, a coal giant, were down 12.2 percent to $8.45. Arch Coal was off 12.5 percent to $7.58.

But HCA Holdings, a hospital operator, increased 9.4 percent, to $33.85 a share. As a result of Mr. Obama’s victory, Goldman Sachs said it upgraded its rating on HCA to buy from neutral, and raised its price target to $39 from $31. It also raised price targets for Tenet Healthcare and Community Health Systems, although both are still rated neutral.

A major owner of HCA — and therefore a beneficiary of the price increase — is Bain Capital, a private equity firm founded by Mr. Romney. Its 20 percent stake in HCA gained $261 million on Wednesday, to $3 billion.

Goldman warned that Humana and other managed care providers could be hurt as health care reform moves forward, especially new rules for health insurers that become effective in 2014. Shares of Humana fell 7.9 percent to $70.16.

Shares of Wall Street firms and big banks were also hard hit. Mr. Romney favored substantially altering the Dodd-Frank financial regulations passed in summer 2010 and easing many regulations, but Mr. Obama supported stricter rules for the financial sector. In addition, one of the industry’s fiercest critics, Elizabeth Warren, was elected to the Senate from Massachusetts, unseating her Republican opponent, Scott Brown.

Bank of America fell 7.1 percent to $9.23. Goldman Sachs dropped 6.6 percent to $117.98 and JPMorgan Chase sank 5.6 percent to $40.48.

The declines in finance and coal companies was exacerbated as traders unwound soured bets that these shares might rally in the hope of a victory by Mr. Romney, said Savita Subramanian, head of United States equity and quantitative strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch

“Some people had bet on these stocks,” she said. “This was a reversal of that trade.”
178 2012-11-08 The assassination of the judge, reported by the official news agency, SANA, was the second high-profile killing of a top Assad loyalist in the Syrian capital in two days and added to the impression that the Syrian insurgency had intensified in the face of sputtering international diplomacy aimed at resolving the conflict.

SANA said the judge, Abad Nadhwah, died instantly when a remotely detonated bomb exploded under his car. On Tuesday, SANA said gunmen assassinated Mohammad Osama al-Laham, a prominent agricultural expert and brother of the Syrian Parliament speaker, in a central Damascus neighborhood while he was driving to work. The news agency attributed both assassinations to terrorists, the government’s catchall term for Mr. Assad’s opponents.

Activist groups said the judge’s assassination was part of a particularly violent day in the capital, during which at least four mortar attacks shook the Mezze 86 neighborhood, a hilltop enclave populated by Mr. Assad’s minority Alawite sect near the presidential palace.

Activists said the attackers had been aiming for the palace but the mortar shells hit the administrative offices of the prime minister and a military airfield. It was unclear whether there were casualties. Still, the ability of rebels to strike so close to Mr. Assad’s center of power, despite his repeated efforts to rout them, appeared to reflect the tenacity of the insurgency, which began in March 2011 as a peaceful pro-democracy uprising.

The Houran Freemen Brigade, a unit of the Free Syrian Army, the main armed insurgent group in Syria, took responsibility for the mortar attacks on Mezze 86.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition group based in Britain with contacts inside Syria, reported on Wednesday that three civilians had been killed and more than two dozen wounded by shelling in the Hajar al-Aswad district in the Damascus suburbs, where clashes have been raging between rebel fighters and government forces helped by fighters from pro-government Palestinian groups. Two rebel fighters were also killed, the observatory said.

The latest fighting to convulse Damascus came a day after a top United Nations official, Jeffrey D. Feltman, warned the Security Council in a briefing that the situation inside Syria was “turning grimmer every day, and the risk is growing that this crisis could explode outward into an already volatile region.”

Underscoring that threat, over the weekend, Israel accused Syria of moving tanks into a demilitarized zone of the disputed Golan Heights region captured by the Israelis in the 1967 war, an area that had remained relatively quiet since the Syrian uprising began. On Monday, Israel asked Security Council members to address what it called “this alarming development.”

Mr. Feltman, the under secretary general for political affairs, told reporters at the United Nations that he was concerned about the new Golan tension and called it “another example of spillover from areas that had been previously immune from fighting.”

Mr. Feltman also expressed hope that “the Security Council can come together and act in a unified fashion on Syria, as this would be critical to any peace effort.”

There was no sign of that.

The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, held talks on Tuesday in Jordan with the highest-ranking defector from the Syrian government, former Prime Minister Riyad Farid Hijab, who attacked Moscow’s enduring support for Mr. Assad as unworkable for a political transition.

Remarks on Tuesday by Mr. Cameron, the British prime minister, that Mr. Assad might be granted safe passage out of his country as a means to end the fighting also caused a stir, with his office quickly stressing that he did not mean that Mr. Assad should not be prosecuted. Mr. Assad, whose family has dominated Syrian politics for four decades, has shown no intention of resigning or seeking to leave Syria.

Lakhdar Brahimi, the international envoy to the conflict representing both the United Nations and the Arab League, warned that unless there was a greater international effort, Syria risked becoming another Somalia — which, as a failed state, became a font of international piracy and other terrorist problems for 20 years. In an interview with the pan-Arab newspaper Al Hayat, Mr. Brahimi said the main effort should be a binding Security Council resolution on a political transition.

The lack of a cohesive Syrian opposition has been partly blamed for preventing a more robust international effort on Syria. Efforts to create a more unified coalition of anti-Assad groups sputtered along this week in Doha, Qatar, where a meeting was scheduled for Thursday to try to implement an American-backed plan to broaden the opposition to include more factions, including more representatives of the military units doing the fighting.
179 2012-11-09 Will Obama and Speaker Boehner be able to find enough mutual trust (and enough maneuvering room inside their respective parties) to reach a major budget accord before the fiscal world ends at year's end? Matt Bai thinks yes....
180 2012-11-09 AT&T's chief executive said that his biggest problem was not renewed competition from the likes of Sprint Nextel. Instead, he is focused on the need to improve the company's network and the uncertainty over the country's fiscal future...
181 2012-11-09 Jon Meacham discusses his new book about the founding father....
182 2012-11-09 Of current electric car owners, 44 percent said the top benefit of their vehicles was lower emissions....
183 2012-11-09 If the Speaker is trying to seem conciliatory, he's not doing a great job of it....
184 2012-11-09 Spy agencies are warned by a science panel over murky forecasts of conflict in a warming world....
185 2012-11-09 As people used to say during George W. Bush’s first term, unless the U.S.-Russia relationship goes up, it will go down. They were right then, and this lesson must be learned. Making the relationship strategic would mean protecting it from being overwhelmed by disagreements abroad and special interests at home.

Does Russia deserve a strategic status in U.S. foreign policy? Consider the following. An agreement on cooperative missile defenses in Europe would make sure that the country with a nuclear arsenal almost as big as America’s would no longer have to be counted as a potential military adversary. Expanding Washington’s vision for the Asia-Pacific to include the country which has a 2,700-mile long border with China and the longest shoreline in the Pacific would make the “pivot” more realistic. Making sure that the Arctic emerges as an area of cooperation par excellence would require dealing with Russia, the biggest of the five littoral states.

Dealing with Russia will not be easy. It is not America’s equal, but fiercely independent; it is not an ally, but not a willing adversary either. Russia, however, is critical for the 21 century’s global balance — and that should not escape Obama’s attention.

Dmitri Trenin is director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.

“I wish George W. Bush was still in power,” a leading Egyptian liberal politician said to me in Cairo earlier this year. “At least we knew what we would get with Bush.” Not just in Egypt, but in Syria, Israel, Bahrain, Iran and even Saudi Arabia there is a perception that President Obama and the United States cannot be relied upon. This weakens America’s allies, and strengthens its enemies. President Obama can change this perception in his second term by taking his domestic mantra of ‘'I mean what I say, and I say what I mean'’ to the world’s most volatile region.

He has been wise not to intervene militarily in Syria. In coming months, Syrian rebels, Turkey and Gulf countries will try to lure the U.S. into the jihadist battlefields by escalating violence and chaos. Will the U.S. maintain its sobriety?

Obama’s victory will be seen as an amber light in Tehran. To further isolate Iran, and be prepared for consequences of U.S. military options, Obama can’t ignore the Palestinians. His second term can see him belatedly deserve the Nobel Prize by bringing Israelis and Arabs to a settlement. He has made new friends in the Middle East, not least the region’s most powerful political force: the Muslim Brotherhood. They will expect leadership and reliability.

Ed Husain is a senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.

While Obama’s Mideast policies during his first term were occasionally misguided and unfocused, he certainly is better equipped to face these regional challenges than Mitt Romney.

With the complex situation followed by the Arab Awakening, America needs to reach out to the Muslim and Arab world. It should be adamant in opposing extremist religious fanaticism while being firm in protecting its strategic and economic interests: but it should not launch a war, ideological or strategic, against Islam as such.

Romney would have been incapable of such a differentiated approach. Obama has tried to suggest such opening in his Cairo speech; even if there was no follow up and his initial response to the demonstrations on Tahrir Square was confused, he understands how important this is. He is also well aware of the pitfalls of a more active involvement in the Syrian imbroglio.

Similarly, if it turns out that diplomacy will fail to stop Iran’s nuclear ambitions and more robust steps will have to be taken, Obama will have the legitimacy, internal and international, to do this. Unlike Romney, he cannot be branded as a gung-ho warmonger.

Obama has also learned how complicated is the road to an Israeli-Palestinian understanding: in his second term, he may try to learn from the failure of his initial attempts to achieve a quick fix. Despite disagreements between Obama and Netanyahu on Israeli settlements on the West Bank, the security cooperation between the two countries has reached unprecedented levels in the last few years. And in any case, it is good for the Jewish state to have even a sometimes critical friend in the White House.

Shlomo Avineri teaches political science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and is a former director-general of Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Sitting here in my hotel room in Ulan Bator the capital of Mongolia, one of the world’s fastest growing economies I am pondering the reactions across Asia to the U.S. election results and reflecting on a piece I wrote fours years ago about Barack Obama.

To most people in Mongolia the outcome is irrelevant. A couple of Americans here said they are happy to avoid the depressing state of politics in the United States, all too obvious during the election year. One even said “$6 billion we can’t afford and still no change.”

As other people talked about the Chinese hand-over of power this week, a European living in China pointed out that this is why the Chinese system is more efficient.

In my article of October 2008 I suggested that the global excitement over Obama was misplaced. After eight disastrous years of George W. Bush, the chattering classes wanted their faith in America restored, and how better than to have a black president who was promising a departure from the past.

Four years on it is safe to say that for the rest of the world Obama has not delivered on foreign policy promises. Obama promised much, and suggested that America would move beyond a foreign policy based on promoting American exceptionalism.

Across Asia, the reaction to the elections has been muted. Asians woke up sometime ago to the reality that exceptionalism driven by narrow national political agendas is at the core of American foreign policy, and they have to endure its global implications.

If Obama is to restore his credibility, he will need to do more than resort to rhetoric. He will need to convince people in Asia that he understands America must be humble and accommodate the realities of power-sharing in a rapidly changing world. He has many opportunities to do this in the way he deals with China, Iran, Syria, Russia — not to mention the mess in Afghanistan.

As for the herders in the steppes in Mongolia the main issue will be whether their animals will survive the harsh winter.

Chandran Nair is the founder and CEO of the Global Institute For Tomorrow, a pan-Asian think tank, and author of “Consumptionomics: Asia’s Role in Reshaping Capitalism and Saving the Planet.”

The sigh of relief in Berlin was palpable. It’s not that Germans and Europeans had balked at the thought of a President Romney. Sure, remarks like ‘'Russia is our No.1 geopolitical foe'’ had raised eyebrows in the Continent’s capitals, but it seemed clear that a Romney administration would, if elected, pursue a fairly centrist foreign policy agenda.

Senior Romney advisers like Robert Zoellick or Robert M. Kimmitt are respected in Europe. And — although most European policymakers ended up working well with the Obama administration — there have certainly been disappointments and disagreements: Guantánamo, missile defense, drone wars, stimulus-vs.-austerity, to name but a few. It’s also true that President Obama’s new mandate is narrow. America, if last night’s snapshot is a remotely accurate guide, remains divided. Congressional gridlock and the Jan. 1 “fiscal cliff” have lost none of their menacing urgency.

So why the relief? Simple. None of us can afford the luxury of new beginnings. The feared re-run of a whipsawing election nightmare was averted. Yes, there’ll be a new secretary of state in Washington, but a candidate like Senator John Kerry would be another pair of safe hands. And a new administration would have been bogged down by innumerable and endless confirmation hearings. (For Americans echoing Henry Kissinger’s complaint about there being no single phone number in Europe: try calling a midlevel bureaucrat in Washington in the first year of a new administration.)

The plain fact is: now that the sometimes appalling, occasionally entertaining, and only intermittently edifying spectacle of these U.S. elections is behind us, it’s time to get serious again. The crisis on both sides of the Atlantic is not just about banks or mortgages. What’s still at stake is nothing less than the resilience of our economies, the fairness of our societies, the stability of our democracies — and the preservation of a free and decent international order.

Leaders on both sides of the Atlantic have limited credit and leeway from their worried publics to devote resources abroad that might be used at home. All of which means: disagreements or no, Americans and Europeans need each other now more than ever. And, frankly, it’s time for Europeans to step up and say: “Yes, we can, too.”

Constanze Stelzenmüller is senior trans-Atlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.

Europe woke up with a deep sense of relief. “Their candidate” had made it again. The Continent may have almost disappeared from the American radar screen, but for Europeans, America has kept its emotional — if not strategic — centrality. America may not be what it used to be — the one and only indispensable power — but Europeans follow its presidential elections with keen interest.

Obama may have lost much of its magic, but fear of what a Romney victory could mean may has replaced the sense of hope that prevailed in 2008.

Nevertheless Europeans in their majority could not understand why Americans had such hesitations in their political choices.

Mitt Romney — not a bad man in reality — looked like a Don Draper who would not drink alcohol, a character from the “Mad Men” series, a “man of the past.” By contrast, Obama is still the colder version of “Let Bartlet be Bartlet” of the West Wing series.

There is a huge difference between the real and symbolic meaning of the results of the U.S. elections for Europe. The American president is no longer “President of the world.” But an Obama defeat would have been a symbolic blow not only for America, but for the entire Western democratic world. In electing a black president in 2008, the United States forced Europeans to ask themselves difficult questions; “Was a French, German or Italian Obama possible?” If Obama had been defeated in 2012 such questions, with their profound universal message of hope, would sadly have disappeared. In the same vein, Obama’s defeat would have been an encouragement for the tenants of social conservatism in Europe.

At a different level, the defeat of Mitt Romney in the United States after that of Nicolas Sarkozy in France is proof that if you loose the centrist votes by flirting too much with the most right wing forces you run the risk of being condemned to defeat. Obama’s victory may seem like a bitter pill for Sarkozy — it is possible to be re-elected in times of crisis — but it is definitely encouraging for Angela Merkel in Germany. If the leader of the West can make it, so can the leader of Europe.

Dominique Moïsi is a senior adviser at the French Institute for International Relations and a visiting professor at King’s College London.
186 2012-11-09 The 124-year-old Corbin Building in Lower Manhattan, at one point threatened with demolition during planning for the Fulton Street Transit Center, has been preserved and is coming out of its scaffold covering....
187 2012-11-09 Buses, taxis and livery cabs, emergency vehicles, commercial vehicles and cars with doctors' plates are all exempt....
188 2012-11-09 In just a few months, Kayak has gone from a privately held start-up to a public company. Now it is being acquired by Priceline for $1.8 billion in cash and stock....
189 2012-11-09 That’s a pretty old lesson, to be sure, but one that Americans have been particularly receptive to of late. The relevance of “Checkers” is undeniable. Its methods of instruction are shakier.

Though briskly paced and attractively packaged, “Checkers” (the name refers to the Nixons’ cocker spaniel and the confessional television speech in which said pooch was cited) often seems to float in stylistic limbo. It can’t decide whether it wants to exist in two or three dimensions.

Often it’s as flat as a comic strip, underscored by the ingenious line-drawing projections by Darrel Maloney, which signal changes of scene on Neil Patel’s single set. Then, abruptly and briefly, the play opens into a fuller emotional reality, usually when Ms. Erbe is center stage.

The story begins in 1966 in the Nixons’ Manhattan apartment. Having lost elections for president and governor of California, Nixon has sworn off politics. Or so he tells Pat. His old campaign adviser, Murray Chotiner (Lewis J. Stadlen, enjoyably smarmy and foul-mouthed) has come a-calling, hoping to persuade Nixon to run again for the presidency.

Chotiner’s visit inspires Nixon to recall “one of the blackest moments of my life.” That means it’s time for a flashback: suddenly it’s 1952, and Nixon is on the verge of walking “through fire” as the running mate of Eisenhower (John Ottavino).

What follows is the story of a younger, callower Nixon, doing battle not with the Democrats but with his fellow Republicans. Embodied here by the politicos Herbert Brownell (Robert Stanton) and Sherman Adams (Kevin O’Rourke), the G.O.P. establishment is eager to dump Nixon (someone it never much liked anyway), once he’s tainted by allegations of a secret fund that pays for personal as well as political expenses.

Nixon is forced, as many a politician would be afterward, to take to the television airwaves in his own defense. The play reaches its climax in the historic speech, the Checkers speech, with which he vindicated himself. Television would be less kind to him in later years, but on this occasion it was his image-shaping friend.

This tale unfolds in quick vignettes that tend to end in such obvious cliff-hanging lines that I wondered if Mr. McGrath, a film director (“Emma”) and essayist who began his career as a writer for “Saturday Night Live,” wasn’t deliberately sending up the political suspense genre. (Chotiner to Nixon: “I’ll handle all the details. All you have to do is write the speech of your career.”) I know that politics has reduced many a great thinker to expository sound bites, but they flow too glibly in the casual conversation here.

Mr. LaPaglia — best known for the television series “Without a Trace” and a seasoned and excellent stage actor — conveys Nixon’s force of will with a gut-grabbing physicality. But having to impersonate such an oft-impersonated figure sometimes seems to straitjacket his performance. He’s wrestling not only with the vivid ghost of Nixon — a complex creature, to put it mildly — but also with fairly recent screen and stage interpretations by Anthony Hopkins (in the Oliver Stone movie “Nixon”) and Frank Langella (in Peter Morgan’s play and film “Frost/Nixon”). And with Mr. McGrath’s synoptic script, he has far less to work with.

Anyway, Nixon isn’t the real hero of “Checkers,” though you might think he is for the first three-quarters of the play. It is Ms. Erbe’s Pat, an innocent victim of a vicious profession, who is allowed to assume near-heroic stature. As presented here, Mrs. Nixon is an honorable woman who in 1952 sees her husband as an utterly honorable man.

Since Nixon’s roles in the Communist witch hunt and in a smear campaign against Helen Gahagan Douglas had already occurred, such faith on Pat’s part seems a bit naïve. Would she really be as shocked as she is here that he’s bending the occasional biographical fact?

Yet Ms. Erbe — a member of the Steppenwolf Theater Company and a star of the dearly departed “Law and Order: Criminal Intent” — never patronizes her character, and her performance grows in strength and credibility through sheer force of emotional conviction. In the play’s final moments Ms. Erbe emanates the radiant pathos of a woman about to be swallowed by the black maw of politics, a patron saint for all the political spouses sacrificed on the altar of public life.
190 2012-11-09 BEIJING — Inflation slowed further in China last month, the Chinese government said on Friday morning, leaving further room for the Chinese government to continue heavy lending by the country’s state-owned banks to rekindle economic growth without stoking a broad increase in prices.

The National Bureau of Statistics here said that consumer prices were up only 1.7 percent in October from a year ago, compared with an increase of 1.9 percent in September. Western economists had expected inflation in China to stay steady in October instead of declining.

Producer prices were down 2.8 percent in October from a year ago, a slightly faster pace than the 2.7 percent decrease that economists had expected but not as fast a decline as in September, when they were down 3.6 percent.

The Chinese government was preparing to release a long list of economic indicators for October on Friday afternoon, and there were hints from Chinese officials that those might show the beginnings of an economic recovery after a summer in which growth slowed sharply.

“It has become increasingly clear that the Chinese economy is now moving in a better direction,” said Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, at a news conference on Thursday evening.

China has begun a once-a-decade leadership transition at its Party Congress, which began on Thursday and will continue through the middle of next week.
191 2012-11-09 “This is not a step that we take lightly,” the mayor said of the rationing. “But given the shortages we will face over the next few weeks and the growing frustrations of New Yorkers, we believe it is the right step.”

Mr. Bloomberg said that only about 25 percent of the city’s roughly 800 gas stations were open at any given time and that the shortage could last another couple of weeks.

He said the rationing rules would not apply to taxis and livery cabs, buses and emergency vehicles.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and other officials have warned repeatedly in the past week that panic buying and hoarding of gas by drivers who buy more than they need had only worsened the gas crisis in New York. The governor indicated that rationing in the city’s northern suburbs was not now planned.

Government officials and industry experts have said that the hurricane not only cut off power to many gas stations but also caused widespread damage to refineries and a distribution network of ports and terminals that delivers gas to the pumps. So even as power has been restored in the city and elsewhere, gas has remained in short supply because distributors are unable to tap into their usual sources.

The Web site Gasbuddy.com, which has been tracking fuel availability in the New York region, reported on Thursday that 77 percent of New York City gas stations had no fuel, and 68 percent of Long Island stations were dry.

“The severity of the gasoline problem in the New York metro area is unprecedented,” said Gregg Laskoski, a senior petroleum analyst for the Web site. “When there are infrastructure problems such as what occurred with Sandy, there are few alternatives available.”

In New Jersey, municipal officials and gas station owners said the rationing system adopted by Gov. Chris Christie cut lines in half almost immediately in some communities, curtailing demand on a system that will need at least several weeks to recover.

Industry executives said that as many as 20 regional terminals were still not operating, and that work to repair them had been slowed by the snowstorm and could take weeks to complete. They also cited continuing disruptions in barge traffic to docks in Brooklyn and on Long Island for distribution of gas to stations around the area.

“Things had been getting better, and then we were walloped by the second storm,” said Jon Pepper, a Hess vice president. “And they are starting to get better again.”

Mr. Pepper said Hess’s refinery in Port Reading and four other New Jersey terminals lost power and were flooded by the hurricane. Two of the terminals, in Edgewater and Woodbridge, resumed operations on Wednesday. Hess’s Bayonne and Newark terminals remained closed to barges; Hess executives could not say when they would reopen.

In imposing rationing, Mr. Bloomberg noted that federal and local officials had already tried other steps, like expediting the opening of regional ports to barges and tankers carrying petroleum products. In addition, federal officials have sent millions of gallons of fuel to the New York region.

“But once again, clearly it is not enough,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “Drivers are still facing long lines. Frustrations are only growing.”

Police officials said they had already assigned officers to all open gas stations to maintain order and would not require additional officers to enforce the rationing system.

Judy Jones, a teacher who was waiting for gas at a BP station at Second Avenue and First Street, said she supported the rationing. “It’ll make lines shorter, it’ll make it easier, you won’t have to wait in line for two hours,” she said. “New Jersey has it. We should’ve had it sooner.”
192 2012-11-09 On Election Day, Florida voters wisely rejected a proposed amendment to the State Constitution that would prohibit abortion coverage as part of health plans for state workers and Medicaid recipients (such coverage is already severely limited by law). Going further, the amendment would have cut back on existing state privacy protections for women by barring the State Supreme Court from granting “broader rights to an abortion than those contained in the United States Constitution.”

The clear intention of the amendment’s drafters was to open the door for further restrictions on abortions by curbing the authority of the State Supreme Court to strike down the most extreme restrictions.

The measure received only 45 percent of the vote — far short of the 60 percent required for a constitutional change. The defeat should send a strong message to politicians in Florida and elsewhere who might want to broadly attack women’s reproductive rights.

In Montana, however, voters approved a parental notification mandate that will require physicians to notify parents of minors under the age of 16 at least 48 hours before performing an abortion. The trouble with notification requirements is that not every young person has a parent with whom they have a trusting relationship. Legislating parental involvement can hurt young women in bad family situations, even when, as here, the law allows a judge to review a case and make an exception to the rule.

The Montana law, approved by 70 percent of voters, is bound to inflict harm even though it requires notification, not parental permission, and does not cover adolescents 16 and older, who are more likely to face an unintended pregnancy. But even passage of this measure does not mean that voters would support broader government interference with women’s reproductive choices.
193 2012-11-09 Wendy’s, the hamburger chain, said Thursday that its premium food offerings, such as the Son of Baconator and the Asiago Ranch chicken sandwich, helped lift revenue by 2.7 percent at restaurants open at least 15 months, producing the sixth straight quarter that figure has climbed. The improvement helped Wendy’s shares rise 13 cents, or 3 percent, to close at $4.39.

For the three months ended Sept. 30, Wendy’s reported a bigger loss, in part because of a charge related to the early payoff of debt.

It lost $26.2 million, or 7 cents a share. It posted a loss of $4 million, or a penny a share, a year ago when it incurred costs related to the spinoff of Arby’s.

Total revenue rose 4 percent to $636.3 million, which also fell short of the $640.6 million Wall Street expected.
194 2012-11-09 Sanofi executives argued that the price they had set was very similar to that of Avastin. “The intent was not to charge a premium,” Christopher A. Viehbacher, the chief executive of Sanofi, said in an interview last month.

Sloan-Kettering, he said, was basing its price comparison on a dose of Avastin that was half the dose Sanofi used in its own comparison.

On Thursday, Sanofi backed down. “We believe that Zaltrap is priced competitively as used in real-world situations,” it said in a statement. “However, we recognize that there was some market resistance to the perceived relative price of Zaltrap in the U.S. — especially in light of low awareness of Zaltrap in the U.S. market. As such, we are taking immediate action across the U.S. oncology community to reduce the net cost of Zaltrap.”

The move was first reported on Thursday by The Cancer Letter, a newsletter about cancer issues.

Sanofi said it would not change the official price for Zaltrap but would offer discounts of about 50 percent. Zaltrap, which is given intravenously, is not bought directly by patients but is sold to doctors or hospitals, which administer it. The cost is then reimbursed by Medicare or private insurers. Patients could be liable for a co-payment.

Dr. Leonard B. Saltz, chief of gastrointestinal oncology at Sloan-Kettering and one of the authors of the Op-Ed article, said Sanofi’s offer of discounts “doesn’t really address the problem from our perspective” because Medicare reimbursement and patient co-payments would still be based on the higher list price, at least for several more months.

Also, he said, the discounts could give doctors and hospitals an incentive to use Zaltrap because they could profit from the difference between the discounted price they pay for the drug and the higher price at which they are reimbursed by insurers.

Dr. Saltz said even at the lower price, he did not foresee Sloan-Kettering doctors using Zaltrap because it was no better than Avastin and might be more toxic.

Dr. Saltz is now a consultant to Genentech and has been one to Sanofi.

Zaltrap, developed by Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company in Tarrytown, N.Y., was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in August for use as a second-line treatment for colorectal cancer, meaning after an initial regimen had stopped working. Like Avastin, Zaltrap impedes the formation of blood vessels that nourish cancer cells.

Dr. Peter B. Bach, director of the Center for Health Policy and Outcomes at Sloan-Kettering and one of the authors of the Op-Ed piece, said the price of Zaltrap reflected a bigger problem — that over all there was little relation between drug prices and the value they provided.

“Normal markets wouldn’t behave like this,” he said on Thursday. “You couldn’t introduce something twice as expensive and no better and still sell it.”

Dr. Lee Newcomer, senior vice president for oncology at UnitedHealthcare, said it was the first time he could recall a company cutting the price of a cancer drug so much. “It was the first time physicians have stood up and said, “Enough is enough,’ ” he said. “And I think that was a watershed moment.”
195 2012-11-09 One fighter shot into the air when customers at a bakery did not let him cut into a long line for bread, Ahmed recalled. Another, he said, was enraged when a man washing his car accidentally splashed him. “He shot at him,” Ahmed said. “But thank God he wasn’t a good shot, so the guy wasn’t hurt.”

Twenty months into what is now a civil war, both supporters and opponents of the government are trapped in a darkening mood of despair, revulsion and fear that neither side can end the conflict. In recent months, both sides adopted more brutal — even desperate — methods to try to break the stalemate, but they achieved merely a new version of deadlock. To many Syrians, the extreme violence seems all the more pointless for the lack of results.

The most significant shift is among the rebels’ supporters, who chant slogans not only condemning the government but also criticizing the rebels.

“The people want the reform of the Free Syrian Army,” crowds have called out. “We love you. Correct your path.”

Small acts of petty humiliation and atrocities like executions have led many more Syrians to believe that some rebels are as depraved as the government they fight. The activist from Saraqib said he saw rebels force government soldiers from a milk factory, then destroy it, even though residents needed the milk and had good relations with the owner.

“They shelled the factory and stole everything,” the activist said. “Those are repulsive acts.”

Even some of the uprising’s staunchest supporters are beginning to fear that Syria’s sufferings — lost lives, fraying social fabric, destroyed heritage — are for naught.

“We thought freedom was so near,” said a fighter calling himself Abu Ahmed, his voice catching with grief as he spoke via last month from Maarat al-Noaman, a strategic town on the Aleppo-Damascus highway. Hours earlier, a rebel victory there ended in disaster, as government airstrikes pulverized civilians returning to what they thought was safety.

“This shows it was a big lie,” Abu Ahmed said of the dream of self-government that he said had inspired him to lead a small rebel fighting group from his nearby village, Sinbol. “We cannot reach it. We can’t even think of democracy — we will be sad for years. We are losing victims from both sides.”

A chain of calamities has fueled disgust and frustration on all sides, dozens of interviews with Syrians show.

In July, a rebel bombing killed four senior officials in a heavily guarded Damascus building, bringing new insecurity to government supporters. The rebels’ growing use of large bombs that kill bystanders spurred concerns on both sides.

Poorly executed rebel offensives brought harsh consequences. In September, rebels launched an offensive in Syria’s largest city, Aleppo, an ancient town that stood for centuries as the proud legacy of all Syrians. The fighting failed to achieve the turning point the rebels had promised.

The government, trying to curb soldiers’ defections and reduce the strain on the military, kept more forces on bases and turned to air power and artillery, flattening neighborhoods with abandon. But the change in strategy did not restore control or security.

After seeing a rebel bombing and small-arms attack on a downtown Damascus government building, a chauffeur for a wealthy businessman complained that conspicuous security measures made him “live in fear” — without being effective.

“I want someone from the government to answer me,” he said. “The government cannot protect its key military and security buildings, so how can it protect us and run the country?”

Even within Mr. Assad’s most solid base, his minority Alawite sect, discontent spilled over last month in a clash that began in a coffee shop in the president’s ancestral village, Qardaha. Some were shaken recently by heavy casualties in the disproportionately Alawite military and militias, according to Fadi Saad, who runs a page called Alawites in the Syrian Revolution.

On the rebel side, the Aleppo battle catalyzed simmering frustrations among civilian activists who feel dominated by gunmen. One Aleppo activist said she met with fighters to suggest ways to cut government supply routes without destroying the city, to no avail. “You risked the lives of the people for what?” the activist asked. “The Free Syrian Army is just cutting the nails of the regime. We want results.”

Nominal leaders of the Free Syrian Army say they embrace ethical standards, contend that the government commits the vast majority of abuses and blame rogue groups for bad rebel behavior.

But that did not ease the disgust after last week’s video. It shows men writhing on the ground, staring up and screaming in terror. Rebels stand over them, shouting a cacophony of orders and insults. They move like a gang, not a military unit, jostling and crowding, kicking prisoners, forcing them into a pile. Suddenly, automatic weapons fire drowns out the noise. Puffs of dust rise from the pile, now still.

“All the ugly stuff the regime practiced, the F.S.A. is copying,” Anna, a finance worker in Damascus, said of recent behavior.

She blamed the government for making society abusive, but she said the rebels were no better. “They are ignorant people with weapons,” she said.

In Maarat al-Noaman after the airstrikes, the disappointed fighter, Abu Ahmed, said Syrians would weep to see destruction in the city of “our famous poet and philosopher,” Abu al-Alaa al-Ma’arri.

The poet, a skeptic and rationalist born in the 10th century and buried in the town, wrote often of disillusion, and of the fallibility of would-be heroes: “How many times have our feet trodden beneath the dust / A brow of the arrogant, a skull of the debonair?”

Abu Ahmed said he found the town’s mosaic museum looted and littered first by soldiers, then by rebels. “I saw bodies of both rebels and regime forces, I saw beer bottles,” he said. “Honestly, honestly, words are stuck in my mouth.”
196 2012-11-09 During a meeting at his campaign headquarters in the North End of Boston a few hours after conceding to , Mr. Romney told his staff members that they had just witnessed his last political campaign.

But he vowed, in the words of two people in the room, that “I will not fall off the map.”

For now Mr. Romney, 65, seems profoundly absorbed by the present, turning over in his head a public rejection whose depth caught him by surprise.

At a breakfast on Wednesday for top advisers and donors, Mr. Romney marveled at the Obama campaign’s ability to turn out such a large volume of voters on Election Day, though at times by using strategies that he said had unfairly maligned him.

He did little to hide his frustration and pique: he bemoaned attempts by the president and his allies to characterize him as an enemy of women, singling out advertisements that claimed he opposed and in all cases. That, Mr. Romney said, is simply untrue, according to those at the breakfast.

He even took a gentle swipe at the news media, mocking what he said were inaccurate articles suggesting that his oldest son, , had staged an intervention to fix a tottering campaign and was playing a heavy role in shaping political strategy.

“He will be sifting through this for quite a while,” said Kirk Jowers, a Romney friend. “The question is when the sifting takes a couple of hours a day instead of being all consuming.”

Even his own aides said it was hard to know precisely how Mr. Romney, an unsparing self-critic, would respond to a loss that had such a personal dimension. It was his second run for the White House and he had believed, until the very end, that he was ever so close to fulfilling the dream of his father, George, whose own presidential aspirations fell short in 1968.

Few of them can imagine him following the path of, say, , who traded in the title of Republican nominee to become a lobbyist and a pitchman for . Or , who graciously accepted loss in public, then descended into a private slump, growing a beard and putting on weight before slowly finding his passion in environmental advocacy that won him a Nobel Peace Prize.

“The only door that is closed to Mitt Romney for the remainder of his life is being president of the ,” said , a campaign adviser to Senator in 2008. “He can do whatever else he wants to do.”

He had a warning, though: “Losing a presidential campaign is something you never get over. The question is whether you can move forward without bitterness or rancor.”

Bitterness, of course, may be inevitable. Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain made some halfhearted efforts at postelection comity four years ago, with phone calls and meetings, but have subsequently kept a chilly distance. It is unclear whether the president’s election-night promise to sit down with Mr. Romney was anything more than a polite gesture.

Mr. Romney’s eagerness to work with the president is equally uncertain. Just after conceding, Mr. Romney told those close to him that he was anxious about the nation’s financial health under Mr. Obama.

There will probably be no shortage of lucrative job offers for Mr. Romney, who has not taken a steady paycheck since 1999, when he left Bain Capital to run the Olympics, friends and colleagues said.

“He’s a hot commodity to me,” , a hedge fund titan, said in an interview not long ago.

Just how hot became evident in 2008, shortly after Mr. Romney quit his first bid for the White House, when Mr. Robertson offered him $30 million a year to run his firm, Tiger Management, according to people familiar with the discussions. Mr. Romney, who had his eye on a second run, politely declined.

Friends and family members said he had turned down equally eye-popping pay packages from the heads of firms.

Back then, several of Mr. Romney’s aides held an improvised career counseling session with Mr. Romney in his campaign office. They figured he would run for president again, but threw out a series of suggestions anyway.

Why not run an auto company like or , they asked. Or start a research group devoted to energy independence, an issue about which he is obsessed.

Today, the car company option seems unlikely, given Mr. Romney’s opposition to the federal bailout of American car companies. But aides said that he would be receptive to a high-profile job in the private sector, the advocacy world or academia.

“I know he will do something,” said Eric Fehrnstrom, a longtime Romney political adviser. “I just don’t know what it will be.”

Not on his list of likely jobs: punditry. Friends said Mr. Romney could not imagine following the well-worn path of defeated Republican candidates to .

But his friends can envision him pecking away at opinion articles for major newspapers, a passion for Mr. Romney, who is known to tap them out on his BlackBerry on the beach or on a plane whenever inspiration strikes.

Turning out a book has become a familiar ritual for Mr. Romney, a former English major who prides himself on his writing. He produced “Turnaround,” a look at his role turning around the Olympics, in 2004, and “No Apology,” a political manifesto, in 2010.

There will be a few vacations. During the brunch with donors and aides on Wednesday, Mr. Romney told an old friend, Fraser Bullock, that he was looking forward to in this winter.

For now, Mr. Romney has shown up at his campaign headquarters every day since the election, where he seems preoccupied with the futures of members of his campaign staff. He arranged for them to receive severance pay through the end of November.

His No. 1 priority, so far: establishing a system to organize the 400 résumés of those staff members whose paychecks will run out in 21 days.
197 2012-11-09 Raised in Nigeria, now living in the United States, the young sculptor Nnenna Okore makes a strong impression in this solo show of new work. Her primary materials are organic recyclables — burlap, jute rope, paper — along with small, cylindrical, fingerlike ceramic forms. In several cases she attaches the ceramic pieces to sheets of burlap that have been stiffened with resin and molded into undulating curves. The effect is decorative, the basic format a reminder that she spent an apprentice year working in El Anatsui’s studio in Nigeria around the time he was developing his pieced-together and draped metal “fabrics.”

More interesting, because more her own, are wall sculptures that take her closer to abstract natural forms. Some are open, seemingly fragile networks made from dye-soaked jute threads that twist and intertwine, like tendrils or root systems.

Other pieces, shaped from handmade paper, have the furrowed texture of tree bark or leathery skin. One extraordinary paper piece, dyed pink and brown, seems to burst from the gallery wall like a giant dried and withered rose. Like all of Ms. Okore’s best work, this is a tough, unlovely image, about when recycling passes into disintegration.
198 2012-11-09 “The European Commission has found that there is sufficient prima facie evidence to warrant the opening of an investigation,” it said in a statement.

The dispute has divided the E.U. and the U.S. solar industries.

A number of manufacturers, led by the German company SolarWorld, accuse the Chinese of decimating their businesses by pursuing unfair trade practices. They complained after about a dozen solar panel manufacturers went bankrupt or cut back production on each side of the Atlantic.

But some companies, including many that install and repair solar energy systems, say that punishing the Chinese will make it more difficult to generate jobs and to expand use of the solar power as a way to cut pollution and enhance energy independence.

“Thousands of E.U. jobs would be at stake following a misguided attempt to protect a few manufacturers that present just a small part of the solar value chain,” said Thorsten Preugschas, the chief executive of a German company called Soventix, which builds and operates solar plants worldwide.

Chinese manufacturers are also struggling because the Chinese industry is saddled with a glut of products, after state-owned banks financed a burst of construction over the past four years that left the country with more than two-thirds of the world’s solar manufacturing capacity.

The Union will be reviewing two cases of alleged Chinese dumping and subsidies, and will consider whether to impose duties that would last five years. A decision could be made within 13 months, according to an E.U. official, who briefed journalists on condition of anonymity following the formal announcement. The commission could impose provisional duties in both cases by spring 2013.

Even so, the official said, the anti-subsidy case was not “purely adversarial” and Europeans were “open to finding a solution” that could avoid sanctions.

The case is a highly sensitive matter for Europe. which wants to avoid a trade war with Beijing to ensure that increasingly wealthy buyers in China purchase European-made goods like Airbus aircraft and luxury items.

On Thursday, the commission emphasized that this was only the fifth investigation against Chinese subsidies undertaken by the Union and that it had imposed measures only in one — a case involving the paper industry. By comparison, the United States has already imposed 24 anti-subsidy measures against China, the commission said.

But the European case, if it exceeds €20 billion, would be four or five times larger by value than a similar investigation under way in the United States, partly because the Union is the biggest export market for Chinese solar panels. The Chinese solar equipment industry has boomed in large part because of the promotion of the industry in Europe, where many governments have put incentive programs in place to install panels in homes and offices.

The European case is also broader than the U.S. case, applying not only to fully assembled solar panels but also to imports of critical components like solar cells and wafers.

If the Union were to apply punitive tariffs on such a broad range of imports, Chinese companies would have trouble trying to avoid them by manufacturing components outside China or by shipping components to Europe and assembling them into finished panels there.

But the U.S. case is more advanced. The International Trade Commission decided unanimously Wednesday to allow the Commerce Department to impose tariffs of about 24 to 36 percent on most solar panels imported from China.

The European anti-subsidy case began with a complaint by EU ProSun, a group of European solar equipment makers, which asked the commission in September to investigate whether Chinese state banks and the central government offered support that was illegal under World Trade Organization rules.

EU ProSun also accused Chinese regions and localities of granting subsidies to companies by paying interest, electricity costs, transaction costs for land and value-added taxes, and by offering credit guarantees.

The group said Chinese solar companies were experiencing enormous losses but had not gone bankrupt, and that was because of unfair state support.

“Given the speed with which China is taking over the European solar market, we call on the E.U. to accelerate its investigation so that measures can be imposed at the earliest date possible,” said Milan Nitzschke, president of EU ProSun.
199 2012-11-09 Basting the top of this kugel with melted butter lets the sweet potato soften properly without the top drying out....
200 2012-11-10 Apple and HTC have brought an end to their lawsuits against each other, in the first settlement between Apple and a maker of Android smartphones....
201 2012-11-10 Eight people have been discovered drowned in Midland Beach on Staten Island since Hurricane Sandy hit, the highest concentration of deaths in the United States attributed to the storm....
202 2012-11-10 Kansas State remains unbeaten and, thanks to some help from Texas A&M, is in control of its destiny. Mike Huguenin has highlights, analysis and insights....
203 2012-11-10 Conservative Christian leaders said that they would intensify their efforts to make their case, but were just beginning to discuss how to proceed. “We’re not going away, we just need to recalibrate,” said Bob Vander Plaats, president and chief executive of The Family Leader, an evangelical organization in Iowa.

The election results are just one indication of larger trends in American religion that Christian conservatives are still digesting, political analysts say. Americans who have no religious affiliation — pollsters call them the “nones” — are now about one-fifth of the population over all, according to a study released last month by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life.

The younger generation is even less religious: about one-third of Americans ages 18 to 22 say they are either atheists, agnostics or nothing in particular. Americans who are secular are far more likely to vote for liberal candidates and for same-sex marriage. Seventy percent of those who said they had no religion voted for Mr. Obama, according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research.

“This election signaled the last where a white Christian strategy is workable,” said Robert P. Jones, chief executive of the Public Religion Research Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research and education organization based in Washington.

“Barack Obama’s coalition was less than 4 in 10 white Christian,” Dr. Jones said. “He made up for that with not only overwhelming support from the African-American and Latino community, but also with the support of the religiously unaffiliated.”

In interviews, conservative Christian leaders pointed to other factors that may have blunted their impact in this election: they were outspent by gay rights advocates in the states where marriage was on the ballot; comments on rape by the Senate candidates Todd Akin in Missouri and Richard E. Mourdock in Indiana were ridiculed nationwide and alienated women; and they never trusted Mr. Romney as a reliably conservative voice on social issues.

However, they acknowledge that they are losing ground. The evangelical share of the population is both declining and graying, studies show. Large churches like the Southern Baptist Convention, which has provided an organizing base for the Christian right, are losing members.

“In the long run, this means that the Republican constituency is going to be shrinking on the religious end as well as the ethnic end,” said James L. Guth, a professor of political science at Furman University in Greenville, S.C.

Meanwhile, religious liberals are gradually becoming more visible. Liberal clergy members spoke out in support of same-sex marriage, and one group ran ads praising Mr. Obama’s health care plan for insuring the poor and the sick. In a development that highlighted the diversity within the Catholic Church, the “Nuns on the Bus” drove through the Midwest warning that the budget proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, would cut the social safety net.

For the Christian right in this election, fervor and turnout were not the problem, many organizers said in interviews. White evangelicals made up 26 percent of the electorate — 3 percent more than in 2004, when they helped to propel President George W. Bush to re-election. During the Republican primaries, some commentators said that Mr. Romney’s Mormon faith would drive away evangelicals, many of whom consider his church a heretical cult.

And yet, in the end, evangelicals voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Romney — even matching the presidential vote of Mormons: 78 percent for Mr. Romney and 21 percent for Mr. Obama, according to exit polls by Edison Research.

“We did our job,” said Mr. Reed, who helped pioneer religious voter mobilization with the Christian Coalition in the 1980s and ’90s, and is now founder and chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition. He said that his organization outdid itself this year, putting out 30 million voter guides in 117,000 churches, 24 million mailings to voters in battleground states and 26 million phone calls.

“Those voters turned out, and they voted overwhelmingly against Obama,” Mr. Reed said. “But you can’t be driving in the front of the boat and leaking in the back of the boat, and win the election.

“You can’t just overperform among voters of faith,” he continued. “There’s got to be a strategy for younger voters, unmarried voters, women voters — especially single women — and minorities.”

The Christian right should have a natural inroad with Hispanics. The vast majority of Hispanics are evangelical or Catholic, and many of those are religious conservatives opposed to same-sex marriage and abortion. And yet, the pressing issue of immigration trumped religion, and Mr. Obama won the Hispanic vote by 44 percentage points.

“Latino Protestants were almost as inclined to vote for Mr. Obama as their Catholic brethren were,” said Dr. Guth, at Furman, “and that’s certainly a big change, and going the wrong direction as far as Republicans are concerned.”

The election outcome was also sobering news for Catholic bishops, who this year spoke out on politics more forcefully and more explicitly than ever before, some experts said. The bishops and Catholic conservative groups helped lead the fight against same-sex marriage in the four states where that issue was on the ballot. Nationwide, they undertook a campaign that accused Mr. Obama of undermining religious liberty, redoubling their efforts when a provision in the health care overhaul required most employers to provide coverage for contraception.

Despite this, Mr. Obama retained the Catholic vote, 50 to 48 percent, according to exit polls, although his support slipped from four years ago. Also, solid majorities of Catholics supported same-sex marriage, said Dr. Jones, the pollster.

Bishop Jaime Soto of Sacramento, who serves on the bishops’ domestic policy committee, said that the bishops spoke out on many issues, including immigration and poverty, but got news media attention only when they talked about abortion, same-sex marriage and religious liberty. Voters who identify as Catholic but do not attend Mass on Sunday may not have been listening, he said, but Catholics who attend Mass probably “weigh what the church has to say.”

“I think good Catholics can be found across the political spectrum,” Bishop Soto said, “but I do think they wrestle with what the church teaches.”
204 2012-11-10 Some members of the school’s Parent Teacher Association said they offered to buy space heaters for classrooms, but were told the heaters were a safety hazard.

A teacher in the school, which runs from kindergarten to 12th grade and is known as NEST+m, said it was hard to get students to concentrate.

She had been regularly checking the classroom temperature with a thermometer application on her cellphone and found that on Friday afternoon, temperatures were hovering at 48 degrees. “Hoods have been up the whole time,” said the teacher, who insisted on anonymity for fear of angering the principal.

On one of the school’s parent e-mail lists, emotions ran hot at times.

“I am wondering if any parent here will not send the kid(s) to school tomorrow because I am debating it in my own head but I cannot decide,” wrote one.

Another parent responded: “A 14 yo Pakistani girl took a bullet to the head because she advocated for education. I think I’ll bundle my daughter up, and be thankful for all of our blessings here.”

That prompted a third parent: “Was that really necessary? Lets not snap at each other here.”

Health officials say schools are safe to open without heat, even at these temperatures, if students are properly clothed. But according to Irwin Redlener, the director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, it may have been tough for students to focus inside some schools.

“Once you get below the low 50s, you get kids just trying to stay warm,” he said, adding that under these conditions students with certain types of asthma should be carefully watched.

Erin Hughes, a spokeswoman for the Education Department, said that the city had been diligent about informing parents about schools that had no heat, and urging them to dress their children warmly.

“We have also been providing warm meals at schools,” she said.

Attendance at NEST+m does not seem to have suffered; according to the Education Department, 93 percent of students attended Friday, just under the school’s average attendance rate. Leslie Converse, the mother of a kindergartner, said sending the children to a chilly school was still far better than having them “cooped up” at home. “If it were 30 below it would be a different story,” she said.

Ms. Seiden, an acupuncturist whose daughter is a kindergartner at Public School 234 in TriBeCa, which had its heat restored Friday, saw the week as an opportunity for her daughter to live a rugged existence. “It’s like being in the country,” she said.
205 2012-11-10 Top-ranked Novak Djokovic and No. 3 Andy Murray won their final group matches at the ATP finals in London, sending both into Sunday’s semifinals. Djokovic beat Tomas Berdych, 6-2, 7-6 (6). Murray, needing only to win a set to advance, defeated Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, 6-2, 7-6 (3).
206 2012-11-10 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
207 2012-11-10 Pictures From the Week in Business
208 2012-11-10 On Tuesday, voters re-elected a president who promised to fight for higher on the wealthy, for more public investment and for careful cuts in spending. Three days later, challenged Republicans to extend the for the middle class, right now, and said he would not accept a deal that does not require the wealthy to pay a bigger share.

The House speaker, , recycled positions that and already offered, and voters rejected. He suggested that Congress just put off dealing with the fiscal cliff, allow all the Bush tax cuts to remain in place, and then negotiate tax reforms to lower rates even further while closing unspecified loopholes.

These were the opening hands in negotiations that start next week: Mr. Boehner’s weak hand and Mr. Obama’s strong one.

Both sides have acknowledged the need to avoid the fiscal cliff — the tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect starting in January if Congress does not act and that will total nearly $700 billion next year alone. In a news conference on Friday morning, Mr. Boehner offered conciliatory words that made it sound as though his caucus was at last open to the obvious answers it has blocked for four years. But behind the words, his party’s immediate goal was, as always, to extend the Bush-era tax cuts for the rich.

Mr. Boehner did not rule out raising tax revenues altogether. But his talk of eventually lowering rates while closing unnamed loopholes ignores the fact that higher taxes for top earners are needed now to raise revenue for public investments that are vital to economic recovery. The most expedient and fairest way to do that is to allow the high-end Bush tax cuts to expire. Until the rich pay more, there will be no later consensus on spending cuts that eventually will be needed to curb long-term deficits.
209 2012-11-10 “The apathy is appalling,” said Zhang Boshu, a political philosopher who lost his job at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences three years ago for criticizing the government’s human rights record.

With a mounting toll of 69 self-immolations, at least 56 of them fatal, many Tibetans are asking themselves why their Han Chinese brethren seem unmoved by the suffering — or are at least uninterested in exploring why so many people have embraced such a horrifying means of protest.

The silence, some say, is exposing an uncomfortable gulf between Tibetans and China’s Han majority, despite decades of propaganda that seeks to portray the nation as a harmonious family comprising 56 contented minorities.

“It’s the elephant in the room that no one wants to talk about,” said Wang Lixiong, a prominent Tibetologist and social theorist whose writings have drawn the unwelcome attention of public security personnel, including a contingent of police officers who kept him sequestered inside his Beijing apartment this week as the party congress got under way.

Mr. Wang and others say a subtle undercurrent of antipathy toward Tibetans suffuses the worldview of educated Chinese. That sentiment, they say, has been nurtured by official propaganda that paints Tibetans as rebellious, uncultured and unappreciative of government efforts to raise their standard of living.

One prominent filmmaker, speaking more candidly than usual, but only under the condition of anonymity, noted that many Chinese are alternately fascinated and repulsed by Tibetans. “We Han love their exotic singing and dancing, but we also see them as barbarians seeking to split the nation apart,” he said.

Whether it be antipathy or apathy, many Chinese have been unconsciously swayed by government propaganda that describes the self-immolators as “terrorists” even as unrelenting censorship blocks any public airing of their grievances, which include complaints about restrictions on Tibetan Buddhism and educational policies that, in some areas, favor Mandarin over Tibetan.

“I think the authorities have deliberately created a barrier between the two cultures,” said Hu Yong, a professor at Peking University’s School of Journalism and Communication.

Mr. Hu said such attitudes were reinforced by China’s army of Tibet specialists, nearly all of whom are employed by government-affiliated institutions and who faithfully parrot the party’s official narrative on Tibetan history and politics.

Rigorous censorship has ensured that news about the protests rarely makes it onto the Internet, let alone into the mainstream news media. The Chinese media has reported only a handful of the self-immolations, and people who transmit news from Tibetan areas face harsh punishment.

The fear can be paralyzing for many Chinese intellectuals. “No one wants to be accused of being a separatist,” said Mr. Zhang, the former academy member.

But neither fear nor censorship fully explain the silence of Chinese liberals, most of whom are adept at skirting the great firewall and many of whom regularly step across imaginary red lines to lob verbal critiques of the Communist Party. Tsering Woeser, a blogger of mixed Tibetan and Han ancestry, said many Chinese see Tibetans as the “other”; she said even friends have been known to cite a well-known Chinese proverb to explain their indifference to Tibetan grievances: “If you are not of my ethnicity, you cannot share my heart.”

Ms. Woeser said that even her most open-minded friends are confounded by Tibetans, with their fierce religious devotion, their demands for greater autonomy and their aching for the return of the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing regularly dismisses as a “wolf in sheep’s clothing.”

Chinese intellectuals, she added, see Tibet as a forbidding, restive land, but also inseparable from China. “The Han are obsessed with issues of sovereignty,” said Ms. Woeser, who is married to Mr. Wang, the critic barred from leaving his home. “They want to claim Tibet as part of China, but they are not terribly concerned with the Tibetan people or their culture.”

Even if the self-immolations are confined to a region thousands of miles away, Beijing officials were taking no chances this week as party elders gathered for the once-a-decade change in leadership. During the opening day of the party congress on Thursday, several security guards inside the Great Hall of the People held fire extinguishers between their knees as they sat in the back row of the auditorium.

Outside on Tiananmen Square, firefighters stood at attention with fire extinguishers at their feet, even if the vast granite-clad plaza was devoid of anything flammable. A New York Times photographer who snapped pictures of the firefighters was confronted by the police, who forced her to delete the images.

At a session held on Friday by delegates from the Tibet Autonomous Region, Liang Tiangeng, a top party official, dismissed a foreign reporter’s question about whether the government had plans to address the self-immolations. After extolling the happiness of the Tibetan people, he noted that even developed and democratic nations were plagued by suicides.

“People kill themselves, they set fire to themselves, they shoot themselves every day,” he said. “I think some media organizations are trying to sensationalize the very few cases of self-immolation that have happened in Tibetan area because they have ulterior motives.”
210 2012-11-10 MOSCOW — The motive behind the 2006 murder of Anna Politkovskaya, a veteran reporter who was an unstinting critic of the Kremlin and its policies in Chechnya, was to instill fear in the country’s journalists, a top criminal investigator said in an interview published Friday. It was a bleak assessment of a case that remains unsolved six years after Ms. Politkovskaya was shot at point-blank range as she arrived home from grocery shopping.

“I believe the person who ordered this pursued not only retaliation against Anna Politkovskaya for critical publications,” Petros V. Garibyan, who headed the investigation, told the daily newspaper Kommersant. Referring to the killer, Mr. Garibyan said, “First and foremost, he sought a demonstrative and resonant act aimed at intimidating all of you — journalists — as well as society and the authorities.”

The official investigation into the murder was closed last month without identifying the person who ordered the killing, although five people suspected of involvement, including the person believed to be the gunman, are expected to go to trial. Mr. Garibyan said investigators never questioned a Chechen strongman, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, whom Ms. Politkovskaya had targeted in relentless investigative reporting, because there was no evidence implicating him.

“In the summer and fall of 2006, he was preparing to assume the post as Chechnya’s president, and a resonant murder targeted at a journalist criticizing him brought him more harm than good,” Mr. Garibyan said. He said the killer had been stalking Ms. Politkovskaya for five days but waited to kill her until Oct. 7, the birthday of President Vladimir V. Putin. Having examined Ms. Politkovskaya’s life “under the microscope,” investigators determined that the killer was motivated by her provocative reporting, Mr. Garibyan said. All other potential reasons, like business conflicts or a domestic dispute, were ruled out.

Sergei M. Sokolov, deputy editor of Novaya Gazeta, the newspaper at which Ms. Politkovskaya worked, told the radio station Ekho Moskvy on Friday that he continued to hope that “political will” would enable investigators to name the crime’s perpetrator.

“I suspect that the investigation now has the opportunity to track down this person,” he said. “The circle of suspects has sufficiently narrowed.”

Lyudmila M. Alexeyeva, head of the Moscow Helsinki Group, a rights organization, was not optimistic about the prospect of a breakthrough.
211 2012-11-10 “Our country’s positive birthrate and a population composed of mostly young people are the main players that fuel the economy,” said Jose Palma, the president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines.

Whether it is a bane or a boon, the birthrate in the Philippines — 24.98 out of 1,000 people, compared with 13.7 in the United States — is not a matter of statistics at Fabella. It is a matter of logistics.

The hospital, in a former prison between a public market and the city jail, delivers more babies than any other facility in the Philippines. Last year, 17,639 babies were born there.

The women are allowed into the hospital only when they are ready to give birth. After the birth, they sleep two to a bed in the maternity ward. If they have a healthy delivery without complications, they are sent home after one day.

“We don’t have the capacity to let them come in early or stay long after delivery,” said Dr. Antoinette Pacapac, a spokeswoman for the hospital. “Our delivery room fills up.”

The hospital averages about 60 deliveries a day in the summer and about 80 deliveries in a 24-hour period during the peak delivery season, September to December.

Fabella, which accepts pregnant women that other facilities reject, charges 3,000 pesos, about $70, for a normal delivery. Women who cannot afford that pay whatever they can. Some babies have been delivered for 100 pesos, about $2.40, while some expectant mothers show up at the hospital without a single peso, hospital officials said.

Most of the women who deliver at Fabella have never had any sexual or reproductive health education — which is rarely taught here — and many cannot afford to buy contraception, said Dr. Bituin, who noted that these issues would be addressed by the pending legislation.

“These women will use birth control pills, they will use condoms, but they can’t afford them,” Dr. Bituin said.

“If they received these things for free, they would use them, and fewer of them would end up here,” he said. “We are just the last step in the process. We need to advocate reproductive health in the community at the grass roots. The church is already there spreading their message through services every Sunday.”

The hospital does offer family planning information, but budget constraints prevent it from giving patients contraceptives, said Dr. Esmeraldo Ilem, the facility’s head of family planning services.

“Family planning in the Philippines is not about population control,” Dr. Ilem said. “It is a health intervention. We are focusing on women who are too young, too old, too poor or too sick to have babies but their situation does not allow them to stop.”

That description could be applied to Jelly Galia, a 44-year-old with seven children who was in the main ward after her eighth child died shortly after birth the night before.

Sitting on a bed surrounded by women nursing their newborns, Ms. Galia said she lived with her children in a slum. Her husband is an unemployed taxi driver, and her family has no income.

“I don’t want to have any more babies,” she said, wiping tears from her eyes. “I would take the pills, but we don’t have money to buy those. We’ll try ‘control,’ ” she said, using the local term for abstinence.
212 2012-11-11 When my son designed staplers, I proudly regaled the clerk at Office Depot. Now he designs vibrators, and it's a little harder for my pride to find words....
213 2012-11-11 Melissa Ann Oliver and First Lt. Jake Gregory Kohlman were married Saturday at Nationals Park, the baseball stadium in Washington. Judge Truman A. Morrison III of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia officiated.

Mrs. Kohlman, 28, teaches English at Rockfish Hoke Elementary School in Raeford, N.C. She graduated from Kutztown University in Kutztown, Pa.

She is a daughter of Jane E. Oliver of Alpha, N.J., and the late George Oliver Jr., who lived in Holland Township, N.J.

Lieutenant Kohlman, 30, serves in the Army in the 82nd Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, N.C. Until September he was stationed in Afghanistan. He graduated from Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.

He is the son of Elizabeth Herman and Gary Kohlman, both of Washington.
214 2012-11-11 Anthony David McCormac and Jeffery Kenneth Cook were married Saturday. The Rev. F. M. Stallings Jr. performed the ceremony at St. Bartholomew’s Episcopal Church in New York, where he is the priest-in-charge.

Mr. McCormac (left), 37, is the director for international business development in the test-preparation division of Kaplan, the educational company in New York. He graduated from Fordham and is a candidate for an M.B.A. from New York University.

He is a son of Virginia C. McCormac of University Heights, Ohio, and O. Theodore McCormac of Bradenton, Fla. The groom’s mother is a reading and language-arts teacher at Beachwood Middle School in Beachwood, Ohio. His father, a psychologist, retired from private practice in Solon, Ohio.

Mr. Cook, 33, is a lobbyist and political consultant involved in efforts to change estate-tax laws and other issues. He is also is a senior adviser to American Unity PAC, a political action committee that supports Republican candidates who favor same-sex marriage. He graduated from Washington & Lee University and received a law degree from New York University.

He is the son of Susan and James Cook, who live and work in Cape Girardeau, Mo. The groom’s mother is a counselor at the Charles C. Clippard School, a public elementary school. His father is the human resources director at Southeast Missouri State University.

The couple will use the surname Cook-McCormac.
215 2012-11-11 Only then, the critics argue, can the government start to address the array of issues facing China, including rampant corruption, environmental degradation, and an aging population whose demographics have been skewed because of the one-child policy.

“In order to build a real market economy, we have to have real political reform,” said Yang Jisheng, a veteran journalist and a leading historian of the Mao era. “In the next years, we should have a constitutional democracy plus a market economy.”

For now, however, party leaders have given no indication that they intend to curb their role in government in a meaningful way.

“We will never copy a Western political system,” Hu Jintao, the departing party chief, said in a speech on Thursday opening the weeklong congress.

The party’s public agenda, which Mr. Hu described in detail in his 100-minute address, was laid out in a 64-page report that is in part intended to highlight priorities for the new leaders, who will be announced later this month. Much of the document had retrograde language that emphasized ideology stretching back to Mao and had little in the way of bold or creative thinking, said Qian Gang, the director of the China Media Project at the University of Hong Kong.

Most telling, there was no language signaling that the incoming Politburo Standing Committee, the group that rules China by consensus, would support major changes in the political system, whose perversions many now say are driving the nation toward crisis.

While Chinese who are critical of the current system generally do not expect a wholesale adoption of a Western model, they do favor at least an openness to bolder experimentation.

“To break one-party rule right now is probably not realistic, but we can have factions within the party made public and legalized, so they can campaign against each other,” said Mr. Yang, who added that there was no other way at the moment to ensure political accountability.

Only in the last few years has the idea of liberalizing the political system gained currency, and urgency, among a broad cross-section of elites. Before that, as the West foundered at the onset of the global financial crisis, many here pointed to the triumph of a “China model” or “Beijing consensus” — a mix of authoritarian politics, a command economy and quasi-market policies.

But the way in which China weathered the crisis — with the injection of $588 billion of stimulus money into the economy and an explosion of lending from state banks — led to a spate of large infrastructure projects that may never justify their cost. As a result, many economists now say that China’s investment-driven, export-oriented economic model is unsustainable and needs to shift toward greater reliance on Chinese consumers.

Constant lip-service is paid to that goal, and on Saturday, Zhang Ping, a senior official, reiterated that stance. But it will not be easy for the new leaders to carry it out. At the root of the current economic model is the political system, in which party officials and state-owned enterprises work closely together, reaping enormous profits from the party’s control of the economy. Under Mr. Hu’s decade-long tenure, these relationships and the dominance of state enterprises have only strengthened.

“What happens in this kind of economy is that wealth concentrates where power is,” said Mr. Yang, the journalist.

The 400 or so incoming members of the party’s Central Committee, Politburo and Politburo Standing Committee, as well as their friends and families, have close ties to the most powerful of China’s 145,000 state-owned enterprises. The growing presence of princelings — the children of notable Communist officials — in the party, the government and corporations could mean an even more closely meshed web of nepotism. It is a system that Xi Jinping, anointed to be the next party chief and president and himself a member of the “red nobility,” would find hard to unravel, even if he wanted to.

“There are people who run state-owned enterprises who are Xi Jinping’s friends, relatives and old classmates,” said Zhang Lifan, a historian. “This group is part of his political energy and support base. If Xi Jinping is willing to reform, he must sacrifice the interests of these people for the long-term good.”

The rules have become so unbalanced against private entrepreneurs that even some who have benefited handsomely from China’s growth are denouncing the system. One is Sun Dawu, a party member and the millionaire founder of a rural food conglomerate. He was handed a suspended three-year prison sentence in 2003 for trying to raise capital from local residents. Mr. Sun stayed quiet after his trial, but is now openly critical again.

“The finance system is very corrupt,” he said in a telephone interview. “The country should allow private banks to do financing, especially for peasants and the rural population.”

China’s systemic problems are most evident in the countryside. Land seizures by officials looking to sell property to developers are the most common cause of the growing number of protests.

“Land, finances, medical care and education resources are too concentrated,” Mr. Sun said. “The majority of the nation’s resources are concentrated on welfare for party members and government workers.”

The growth-at-all-costs development model has also led to widespread environmental destruction and a surge of protests against industrial projects from middle-class urban residents. At a news conference on Thursday, the opening day of the party congress, Yi Gang, deputy governor of China’s central bank, acknowledged the problem: “After 30 years of development, there is no big difference from developed countries in what we eat and wear,” he said. “Where we lag behind is in the air and the water.”

But the only way to really address endemic problems like these, critics say, is to create a political system, with checks and balances, that is designed to benefit ordinary Chinese rather than officials and their cronies, and is able to meet the demands of a rapidly changing society.

“It is still possible for China to get on the right track while staying stable,” said Mr. Li, the scholar who observed the American vote. “It is also possible, however, for the party to miss the opportunity and devolve into chaos.”
216 2012-11-11 He was in a tie for 13th after completing nine holes.

“I’ll need to go out and try to make a few birdies in the morning and get myself within a couple shots of the lead, or a few shots of the lead, going into the fourth round — if it ever happens,” McIlroy said.

“The more golf we play, the better chance I have of winning.”

Phil Mickelson of the United States barely made the cut after the second round, holing a birdie on the 18th to salvage a 70.

Stormy weather has caused long delays for the second straight year. A year ago, rain forced organizers to shorten the tournament to 54 holes, and a playoff to decide the winner was still needed on Monday morning.

Bjorn made six birdies to shoot a 66 in the first round Thursday, then did not get on the course at all on Friday because of the rain.

But on Saturday he put together four more birdies, sinking a 20-foot putt on the par-3 14th for the last, in a bogey-free round.

Bjorn, 41, won three tournaments on the European Tour and finished fourth at the British Open last season.

“This course can very quickly bite you, especially if you don’t drive the ball well. The numbers can run up on this golf course, so you got to stay with what you’re doing,” he said. “I’ve got two good rounds in the bank, but there’s ways to go.”

Wood and Coetzee were in striking distance of their first wins on the European Tour.

Wood, 24, birdied four of his last five holes to finish his second round with a 65 in the morning and then added another birdie when he started the third round as the sun was setting.

“It’s been a long week, but obviously when you’re in contention that’s where you want to be, so however long it is, I don’t mind,” he said.

McIlroy still has a chance to clinch the European Tour money title this week. A third-place finish would all but assure he’ll finish the year atop the list, no matter how he fares at the Dubai World Championship.

He is trying to repeat Luke Donald’s 2011 feat of winning both the PGA Tour and European money titles in the same season. He has already clinched the PGA title with more than $8 million in winnings.
217 2012-11-11 Prioritization sounds like such a simple thing, but true prioritization starts with a very difficult question to answer, especially at a company with a portfolio approach: If you could only do one thing, what would it be? And you can’t rationalize the answer, and you can’t attach the one thing to some other things. It’s just the one thing. And I was struck by the clarity and the courage of his conviction. He felt it so deeply, and there wasn’t a person in the audience that day who did not take that with them as a lasting memory.

Q. What about mentors who had a big effect on the way you lead and manage today?

A. One is Ray Chambers. He essentially created the modern-day leveraged buyout, and he was on top of Wall Street with his firm, Wesray, and did that for several years and then basically gave it all up because he wanted to make a positive, lasting impact on the world and pursue a life of philanthropic activities.

Among many things that Ray has taught me are five rules for happiness. So the first one is living in the moment. The second is that it’s better to be loving than to be right, and if you’re in a relationship, you know how challenging that can be. The third one is to be a spectator to your own thoughts, especially when you become emotional, which is almost impossible to do. The fourth is to be grateful for at least one thing every day, and the last is to help others every chance you get. So I’m incredibly fortunate to have people in my life like that.

Q. What about the influences of your parents?

A. My mother is unusually and highly intuitive, to the point where it gets a little freaky from time to time. She’ll meet someone, and she’ll size them up after about 30 seconds, and she’ll say a few things to the person. Then the person will say, “How in the world did you know that?” But it’s not some sixth sense. A lot of it is pattern recognition, and I think pattern recognition can be an incredibly valuable asset, especially for leaders. What she’s learned to do is see certain patterns, listen to people a certain way, their voice inflection, their body language, and recognize and pattern-match certain kinds of behavior. From my father, I’ve learned about trusting instincts and the importance of values.

Q. Did you aspire early on to be a C.E.O.?

A. No. But it wasn’t that I couldn’t imagine myself in that role. It’s that I had no ambition to be in that role. I didn’t ever wake up and say I want to be a C.E.O. one day, ever, not a single time. As a matter of fact, based on some of the things I had seen along the way, I would actually think to myself that I do not want to be a C.E.O., and, in particular, I do not want to be a C.E.O. of a publicly traded company, because it can be challenging.

A. If there’s not a firm foundation underneath the company in terms of a company’s core, its culture, its values, its infrastructure, its processes, its talent, with people all going in the same direction, and understanding what it wants to accomplish, it can be challenging. At the end of the day, when you’re a publicly traded company, if you allow the narrative to get away from you, it can be really tough sledding.

But I was out to dinner with my parents about 10 or 12 years ago, and my dad said to me, “You’re going to be a C.E.O. one day.” And I said, “No, I don’t want to be.” He said, “No, you’re going to be.” And I said: “Dad, you’re not listening. I don’t want to be.” And literally we started arguing about this. But he was right.

Q. Are there certain expressions that you find yourself repeating at work?

A. Sure. The first one has essentially become the unofficial mantra of LinkedIn, and it’s not something I came up with. It’s something I read and loved and decided to use. And it’s two words: “next play.”

The person I borrowed it from is Coach K [Mike Krzyzewski] of the Duke Blue Devils. Every time the basketball team goes up and down the court and they complete a sequence, offense or defense, Coach K yells out the exact same thing, every time. He yells out “next play,” because he doesn’t want the team lingering too long on what just took place. He doesn’t want them celebrating that incredible alley-oop dunk, and he doesn’t want them lamenting the fact that the opposing team just stole the ball and had a fast break that led to an easy layup. You can take a moment to reflect on what just happened, and you probably should, but you shouldn’t linger too long on it, and then move on to the next play.

Q. Tell me about the culture you’re trying to foster at LinkedIn.

A. We take culture very seriously, and we do draw a distinction at LinkedIn between culture and values. Culture is who we are. It’s essentially the personality of our company — who we are and who we aspire to be. Values are the principles upon which we make day-to-day decisions. And of course your values are a subset of your culture, so they’re very much inextricably linked. Getting that right helps with recruiting. It helps with motivating. It helps with inspiring. It helps with productivity.

Q. Can you break that down for me in a bit more detail?

A. So our culture has five dimensions: transformation, integrity, collaboration, humor and results. And there are six values: members first; relationships matter; be open, honest and constructive; demand excellence; take intelligent risks; and act like an owner. And by far the most important one is members first. We as a company are only as valuable as the value we create for our members.

Q. A lot of people complain about the crush of e-mail in their lives. How do you handle it?

A. Like any other tool, e-mail is what you make it . It’s an incredible tool of productivity, collaboration and knowledge-sharing for me. That’s not to say I haven’t struggled with it like everybody else. But one thing I realized is that if you want to reduce the amount of e-mail in your in-box, it’s actually very simple: you need to send fewer e-mails. I know it’s kind of a self-evident truth. Because every time you send an e-mail, what’s going to happen? It’s going to trigger a response, and then you’re going to have to respond to that response, and then they’re going to add some people on the “cc” line, and then those people are going to respond. You have to respond to those people, and someone’s going to misinterpret something. That’s going to start a telephone game, and then you’re going to have to clarify that stuff. Then you have someone in a time zone who didn’t get the clarification, so you’re going to have to clarify that clarification.

So I try to clearly identify who’s in the “to” line and who’s in the “cc” line. I’m going to be as precise as possible with every word I write. I’m going to try to convey the right information to the right person at the right time. And if you can hold to that, it can be an amazing tool.

Q. I’ve heard some C.E.O.’s say they insist that people talk in person or over the phone if it seems as if an e-mail exchange is becoming contentious.

A. I couldn’t agree more. As soon as you hit that trigger point, pick up the phone. Pick up the phone because you’re going to lose context and nuance. It’s going to end very badly. The phone is totally underrated.

Q. What career advice do you give to business school students?

A. The advice I give them about their career path and realizing their dreams starts with a very simple question. I say: “I’m going to ask you a question, and you’re going to have 15 seconds to answer it: Looking back on your career 20, 30 years from now, what do you want to say you’ve accomplished? Go.”

If they can’t answer it in 15 seconds, it probably means they haven’t thought about the answer before that moment, or they don’t have a definitive answer, which is fine, because for some people that’s a lifelong journey. But you’d be amazed how many people I meet who don’t have the answer to the question. They either never asked themselves that or they got swept up in a stream of opportunity that led from one thing to another — more titles, more money — and they just didn’t stop to ask themselves that simple question.

You can’t realize your goal if it’s not defined. It sounds so simple but it’s true. So the most important piece of advice I can give folks who are coming out of school, even people who’ve already begun their career, is to know what it is they ultimately want to accomplish. And if they don’t, there’s absolutely nothing wrong with that, but start thinking about what it is, because once you know it, the moment you know it, you begin manifesting it. You manifest it in explicit ways by virtue of knowing and then pursuing it, and you manifest it in implicit ways — just in the way you talk, in the way you think and the things that you say to others and the people you attract to yourself.

And if you don’t know the answer to the broader question, my advice is to optimize for two things: passion and skill, not one at the exclusion of the other. You have to optimize for both. So that’s the first piece of advice.

The second piece of advice is to surround yourself with amazing people, only the best. In this day and age, in this more global society, in this more networked, interconnected world we live in, it’s just all about the people you work with. I used to think it was all about the person you worked for, having the right mentor, the right leader, someone who believed in you, someone who would allow you to make mistakes and take risks and teach you and coach you. It’s not just about the person you report to, though. It’s about the people you work with and the people who report to you. It’s about everyone you’re associated with, day in and day out. Surround yourself with only the best you can find.

And the third piece of advice is to always be learning. Joi Ito, the head of the M.I.T. Media Lab, loves to refer to the word “neoteny.” It means a delayed state of adolescence. With animals, it’s not a good thing because the animal has not fully matured. But with regard to people, it can be an incredibly positive thing. Joi likes to talk about maintaining a childlike sense of wonder throughout your entire life, and it’s such a powerful concept.

One of my all-time favorite quotes is from Albert Einstein: “There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.” I like to lean toward the latter, and I’m definitely drawn to other people who do the same.
218 2012-11-11 The year after a storm, Mr. Strobl said, these areas typically rebounded by about 0.2 percent. The net economic impact of these events, therefore, is a decline of 0.6 percent.

That’s no small hit, he argued, because the average annual growth rate in these counties is around 1.68 percent.

As economic activity slows, of course, state and local debt issuers that rely on revenue — think bridge and tunnel authorities and transit systems — experience lower cash flows. While an analysis by Fitch Ratings of 23 such issuers in Sandy’s path concluded that most have enough cash to cover potential shortfalls, Fitch also noted that federal emergency money could not be tapped to cover costs of improvements beyond predisaster status. And insurance policies don’t necessarily cover flood damage.

MUNICIPAL finance experts say that larger cities and bigger debt issuers will be less imperiled by Sandy over the long term. But small towns could find it hard to bounce back because their tax rolls may be permanently reduced by the storm.

That’s the view of Richard P. Larkin, director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Company in Iselin, N.J. “In some of these smaller towns that really got whacked, it may not make sense financially for everyone to rebuild,” he said. “When a small town loses a significant portion of its tax base, you wonder what will be left for it to pay its bills. There’s nothing on the books that says if a city is destroyed the state will assume the debt.”

Municipalities clearly need all the help they can get right now. And John R. Mousseau, director of fixed income at Cumberland Advisors, an asset management firm in Sarasota, Fla., has three ideas for how to deliver much-needed assistance.

First, Mr. Mousseau said, Congress should bring back Build America Bonds, the temporary program created during the credit crisis to raise money for new infrastructure projects.

Almost $200 billion of these bonds were issued from April 2009 to the end of 2010 to build bridges, schools, public hospitals and housing. The federal government paid 35 percent of the interest on the bonds, and public debt issuers saved an estimated $20 billion in borrowing costs, the Treasury Department said.

“Post-Sandy, you’re building and rebuilding a lot of stuff,” Mr. Mousseau said. “Maybe you don’t do it at a 35 percent subsidy, but it’s an effective way to lower costs for municipal governments. And the economic multiplier is far larger than that of any transfer payment.”

Mr. Mousseau also urged Congress to lift the restriction barring issuers from being able to refund bonds now that mature in the years to come. This would let issuers shave costs by locking in today’s lower interest rates.

By law, issuers can raise money to refund noncallable bonds only once before those bonds mature. During the financial crisis, however, Congress relaxed this law, letting issuers pay off so-called refunding issues a second time.

“If the Port Authority years ago issued 5.5 percent bonds to refund an older 7 percent issue, those bonds may have years till they mature,” Mr. Mousseau said, referring to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. If Congress changed the law so that the Port Authority could refund that issue again today at 3 percent, it would save a significant amount in debt service costs.

FINALLY, Mr. Mousseau said the storm’s effect on public finance issuers underscored the appeal of municipal bond banks that allow small towns or school districts to raise money faster and less expensively than through usual channels.

States organize bond banks as independent authorities that combine numerous local debt issues into a single large deal. Bond banks have their own overseers, and ratings agencies analyze the banks’ creditworthiness, grading issues accordingly.

In pooled deals, smaller issuers don’t have to pay for their own bond counsels and underwriters, reducing their costs. The offerings can come to market more quickly as well.

Roughly a dozen states have bond banks — Maine, Vermont and Virginia are three. New Jersey and New York do not have a bond bank; if they did, smaller debt issuers would have an easier time raising money after Sandy, Mr. Mousseau said.

“In these last days of a lame-duck Congress, I hope we’ll see them reach across the aisle, not only on the fiscal cliff but also on this problem that needs addressing,” Mr. Mousseau added. “People have been wiped out by Sandy, and it should not be business as usual. If things need to be sped up, whether it’s issuing bonds or getting utility trucks in place, we’ve got to do it.”
219 2012-11-11 If anyone had dibs on adapting Hungary’s best-known drama into a feature-length animated film, it’s Mr. Jankovics, Hungary’s best-known living animator. In 1976 his film “Sisyphus,” a short-form masterpiece about the doomed, boulder-pushing king, was among the nominees for an Academy Award; the next year his “Kuzdok” (“The Struggle”) won the Palme d’Or for short film at Cannes.

“In Hungary people know him in the way they know Walt Disney,” said Paul Morton, who studied Hungarian animation in Budapest while on a Fulbright fellowship in 2008. “When I was on the street, and I told people what I was doing, they would immediately go, ‘Oh, have you talked to the great Marcell Jankovics?’ ”

By the time Mr. Jankovics first started working on “Tragedy,” in 1983, he had already directed two full-length films: “Janos Vitez,” Hungary’s first animated feature, and “Feherlofia,” which stars a horse-suckled hero, his two brothers and a combative hobgoblin who loves to eat piping-hot porridge atop the bellies of his defeated enemies. “I knew pretty well that I needed three years to make one movie,” Mr. Jankovics said. “Since this is an extralong movie, it counts as two, so that’s six years. So I basically spent six years making the movie.”

And the other two decades or so? “The rest of the time,” he said, “was spent raising funds.”

Production began in 1988, at the tail end of what is now considered the golden age of Hungarian animation. Filmmaking in that country was a state-run affair, and the Pannonia Film Studio financed by the Communist government, had become a mecca for many of the top animators, including Mr. Jankovics. A year later the government fell, forcing artists and directors to find other means of financing.

Mr. Jankovics worked a section at a time, starting with the shortest scene, in which Adam transforms into a giant robotic spaceship as he and Lucifer hurtle through the cosmos. As soon as one section was finished, he’d go about raising money for the next, applying for small grants from organizations like the Hungarian Motion Picture Foundation. In the meantime he wrote several books on art and mythology, directed films and television series, and served as president of the Hungarian Cultural Society.

The film crews he led as the “Tragedy of Man” director and writer changed substantially over the years, with animators retiring or dying. “The voice of God and Lucifer remained through the whole production,” Mr. Jankovics said. “But Adam and Eve grew old, so younger actors were brought in.”

The last bit of money to complete the film came in 2008, when Mr. Jankovics allowed General Motors to use “Sisyphus” in an ad for the GMC Yukon Hybrid. The commercial — which compared Sisyphus’ legendary stick-to-itiveness to that of the vehicle — was broadcast during that year’s Super Bowl.

“Tragedy” has now played throughout Hungary, where it has been praised by critics, as well as at festivals in Russia, Serbia and the Czech Republic. This month the film will screen at festivals in Poland, Portugal, Armenia and Canada, in addition to its American premiere. There are no plans at the moment for a commercial release.

“It’s a monumental, gigantic opus that Marcell Jankovics created,” said Marton Orosz, curator of photography and media arts at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest. “It’s the film he was preparing for his entire life.”

Near the end of the film, under Earth’s dying sun, one down-on-his-luck Eskimo asks Adam, whom he mistakes for a god, for more seals to eat, please, and fewer humans to share them with. After viewing eons of human misery in a single night, Adam wonders what the point of all this is, and viewers have to wonder along with him. The film ends with the timely return of Eve and God and this heavenly directive: Keep struggling, keep striving, no matter how lousy life gets.

It’s hardly a feel-good ending, but for Hungarians, at least, it’s a satisfying one. While in Budapest, Mr. Morton said, he heard a local woman explain one fundamental difference between Hungarian stories and American ones: “She told me, ‘You always end the story with “and they lived happily ever after.” We end our stories, “and they lived happily ever after ... until they died.” ’ ”
220 2012-11-11 At the Punchestown Racecourse in Dublin, Ireland, a real slop-in-the-face affair....
221 2012-11-11 The American health care system should take a few hints from the island of Ikaria. Direct medical care at the E.R. and costly prescription research are not making our country healthier. The Ikarian sense of community betters social and mental health. The irregular workweek allows ample rest and time to enjoy food. Universal access to food, in the backyard and at a neighbor’s kitchen table, would reduce the stress that many of our unemployed feel. We should encourage vibrant and connected neighborhoods with thriving centers and access to healthful foods. HAYLEY PICKUS, Portland, Ore.

I see the appeal of life on Ikaria. But I wonder if any of the islanders feel like they have a great book inside them. Or want to study painting or science or perhaps build a business. Do any of them yearn to do more than chitchat and gossip? Some people want to experience the great joy of achievement, not just the satisfactions of a stress-free life. BRAD DESCH, New York, posted on nytimes.com

I enjoyed the article about the Greek island of Ikaria, where people seem freakishly long-lived. . . . But when you think about it, there are an awful lot of smallish communities on the coastal Mediterranean. On average, those communities have a pretty high life expectancy. But you’d also expect there to be some random variance. And you’d expect one small community or another to simply be a statistical outlier. Only 8,000 people live on Ikaria. They might just happen to have unusually longevity-friendly genetics or have lived longer than your average Greek islander through dumb luck. . . . If you have a few hundred islands, then one of them is going to be the island where the people live the longest, and there isn’t necessarily going to be any particularly deep reason that’s the case. MATTHEW YGLESIAS, the MoneyBox blog on slate.com

The perfect Sunday read. Something that makes you reflect not just on the last week, but your entire life. @anandmahindra, via Twitter

I’m surprised by how afraid people are of the body, like it is some kind of neverland that is uncharted territory. Massage produces some fantastic results, but it’s still perceived as mysterious and second-class. HELOISA AGUIAR, Miami, posted on nytimes.com

Oh, I’m John Jeremiah Sullivan, I’m going to mention “Nacho Libre” and Lucian Freud in one paragraph but still make it actually work. ACB, Oregon, posted on nytimes.com

Activists like Dr. Susan Baker may have saved my life. It was 1968, and I was 16 and driving my first car. I slowly rolled through a stop sign and was hit by a bus doing 40 m.p.h. I have no idea what made me fasten my seat belt that foggy morning. It was just a lap belt as we didn’t have shoulder belts. The policeman thought for sure I was dead. I walked away from that accident without any serious injuries. I have always completely stopped at stop signs since. SUSAN LEVINE,

Chapel Hill, N.C., posted on nytimes.com
222 2012-11-12 Prosecutors say Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman were part of a conspiracy that made about $68 million illegally trading the shares of Dell and Nvidia....
223 2012-11-12 Steven Sinofsky is departing just weeks after the release of Windows 8, the biggest makeover in decades of the company’s flagship product....
224 2012-11-12 Douglas Schorzman, assistant foreign editor, discusses the trial of Staff Sgt. Robert Bales and the changed relationship between American and Afghan forces.
225 2012-11-12 If ever a weekend needed the sports version of Google Translate, it was this one. Nearly every headline seemed to be written in a foreign language, or at least needed some serious explaining. It started on Saturday with Texas A&M’s upset of Alabama, a huge Southeastern Conference clash that bizarrely left the S.E.C. on the outside looking in on the Bowl Championship Series fiesta, continued on Sunday with a series of forehead-slappers in the N.F.L., not to mention far more crushing hits to quarterbacks’ heads, a Nascar race that devolved into brawling pit crews and then the Lakers threw in the capper by pivoting from the potential eighth incarnation of Phil Jackson as coach to hiring Mike D’Antoni.

Feel free to sit down if that made you dizzy. You may want to fasten a seat belt or something.

The D’Antoni news came at the end of all this, following days of hearing of Jackson’s myriad contract requirements to emerge from guru retirement once again. Not only did the Lakers pivot from the old wise one — which, Billy Witz writes on Foxsports.com, both parties may come to regret — to D’Antoni, but they’ve cartwheeled from the Princeton offense experiment gone bad under Mike Brown to D’Antoni’s frantic style. While Kobe Bryant may end up being O.K. with all this, the biggest question is how well D’Antoni and Dwight Howard will mesh, J.A. Adande writes on ESPN.com, followed by how well D’Antoni’s newly replaced knee holds up in the mosh pit that is the world of the Lakers.

The twists of fate were already disorienting on Sunday, long before the Lakers chimed in, and not just for the quarterbacks who had their heads treated like piñatas — the Eagles’ Michael Vick, the 49ers’ Alex Smith and the Bears’ Jay Cutler. The last of those was the most damning example that the league has not done enough to protect players’ skulls, Greg Couch writes on Foxsports.com. Vick’s very well may have spelled the end of him for good in Philadelphia, as Rich Hofmann writes in The Philadelphia Daily News, because the one thing that surprised no one on Sunday was that the Eagles are still horrendous.

The Bears, though, didn’t look much more competent after Cutler landed in never-never land and might not be as good as their previous 7-1 record indicated, Michael Wilbon writes on ESPN.com. But hey, at least the Texans showed they can win outside in playoff (read: ugly) conditions, Don Banks writes on SI.com. The 49ers found themselves trapped in a weird game, a tie that left people wondering if replacement referees had snuck back into the game. Mike Pereira categorizes their missteps on Foxsports.com. But someone really needs to explain why San Diego’s latest collapse, to Tampa Bay, was the one that made Norv Turner finally snap, Eric Adelson writes on Yahoo.com, because, well, the Chargers have accomplished so many picture-perfect high dives even the Russian judge is giving them perfect scores.

We could use a little better explanation of why Ravens Coach John Harbaugh wasted a nifty little fake field goal when his team was obliterating the Raiders. And if anyone has any ideas what’s gone awry with Eli Manning’s arm, the Giants will accept your collect phone call, because they are in a total tailspin, writes Gary Myers in The Daily News. The Jets can offer them company in their misery, their quarterback woes now involving the idea that Pete Carroll might have been right all along about Mark Sanchez when he said his starter at Southern Cal wasn’t ready for the N.F.L. — and clearly still isn’t after Carroll’s Seahawks delivered a drubbing. Although to be fair, as Mark Cannizzaro writes in The Post, the entire Jets offense belongs on a milk carton.

If you flipped over to the Nascar race in Phoenix, you were treated to more chaos — Jeff Gordon and Clint Bowyer playing bumper cars during the race and their crews fighting each other after, as Lee Spencer writes on Foxsports.com.
226 2012-11-12 With the economic crisis roiling Europe, fears have been growing among cultural observers that cash-strapped countries could sell cultural treasures to avert financial insolvency. In Spain these concerns were fanned after it emerged that Catalunya...
227 2012-11-12 Capitol Records is promoting the release of new vinyl versions of the Beatles' music with pop-up stores in New York and Los Angeles....
228 2012-11-12 A statement from African science academies on climate change leaves out the biggest source of climate vulnerability....
229 2012-11-12 “It’s a strategy used regularly in the children’s marketing business, and when it’s well executed it can reinvigorate a property,” said Marty Brochstein, senior vice president for industry relations and information at the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers’ Association. Among the other examples he offered were Clifford the Big Red Dog and Thomas the Tank Engine.

The “approval and empathy” generated by the fact that parents and grandparents may remember Babar give the character “a seal of approval,” Mr. Brochstein said. “The classic nature of a Babar is a security blanket for retailers and licensees.”

Andrew Kerr, head of consumer products for North America and the Australia-Asia region at Nelvana, acknowledged the challenge, particularly in North America, of “taking a brand perceived to be an overseas brand and bringing it to life on shelf in retail.”

That process has been aided by a new animated children’s television series, “Babar and the Adventures of Badou,” in Canada and the United States. (Badou is a grandson of Babar’s whose age, 8, makes the character more relatable to its target audience.)

Nelvana and Ross are looking to sell Babar books and merchandise “across three strata of retail,” Mr. Kerr said.

The top tier is composed of stores like Saks and Books of Wonder, which are frequented by many older parents and grandparents.

Books of Wonder is representative of the “independent book retailer,” Mr. Kerr said, which is to be “rewarded for supporting the Babar brand over the last several decades.”

Peter Glassman, president and owner of Books of Wonder, is an admirer of Babar’s.

Babar has long been “one of the mainstays of our classic picture book section,” Mr. Glassman said, so when Nelvana approached him about the anniversary celebration, “we were flattered and thrilled to participate.”

“They’re working with us to transform the store into a Babar wonderland,” he added. In addition to Babar books, this “wonderland” will include products from Yottoy, like plush dolls bearing the Yottoy brand, and wooden toys made by a French company, Vilac.

Mr. Glassman said he was wary of overcommercializing Babar. “Nelvana shares a sensitivity to the Babar material,” he said. “If they had done Babar beer, or Babar ninja figures, I would have been upset. So far, everything is being done with a great deal of respect.”

The second retail tier consists of outlets like department stores, and the third tier of mass-market retailers like Target and Walmart. The Babar campaign’s initial efforts are focused on the top tier, Mr. Kerr said, and the others will follow in a year or two.

Yottoy supplies merchandise based on licensers’ classic and contemporary characters to all three retail tiers. Its customers include Books of Wonder and Saks on the high end, Barnes & Noble in the middle and Toys “R” Us on the mass-market level.

Yottoy specializes “in a lot of classic properties,” said Kate Clark, the company’s president and co-founder. She listed examples like Paddington Bear, Madeline and the Velveteen Rabbit.

In those instances, said Peter Doodeheefver, Yottoy’s creative director and co-founder, “we try to create a toy that evokes the feel of the time the character originated in.” So the Babar and Celeste plush toys “have a classic silhouette that represents the classic toys from almost 80 years ago,” he said, “like your grandmother played with them.”

Mr. Brochstein said he thought Nelvana and Ross were “doing all the right stuff” to stimulate interest in Babar, and added that having an upscale retailer like Saks as a partner was appropriate for a character born in France. “There, the European aspect of Babar works,” he said. “It makes total sense.”

Sometimes, though, Mr. Brochstein cautioned, licensers “catch bad luck” — as when, for instance, another character being introduced at the same time “pushes to the side” the one the licensers are bringing out.

Mon Dieu! Would anyone dare do that to the king and queen of the elephants?
230 2012-11-12 As Gazprom and a European Union commission go head to head over the Russian gas giant's aggressive moves in Eastern Europe, Russia may miss an opportunity to help itself....
231 2012-11-12 The gas rationing system in New Jersey was credited with shortening the lines for gas....
232 2012-11-12 Buntin Group, Nashville, hired five employees. They are Holly Coltea, management supervisor; Sharon Harms, vice president and group creative director; Holly Hixson, group account director; James Rowland, senior vice president and group account director; and Chesney Spivey, media planner.

Vladimir A. Castillo joined the Encima Group, Newark, Del., in a new post, vice president for client services. He had been responsible for patient marketing and health care professional multichannel and customer relationship marketing efforts on the Yervoy brand marketing team at the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Bristol-Myers Squibb.

Jill Erickson joined Gild, San Francisco, in a new post, chief revenue officer. She had been senior vice president for digital at the Chicago office of TMP Worldwide.

FingerPaint Marketing, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., hired three employees. Lauren Bo and Gwen Ivins join the creative team and Kristina Kulin joins the project management team.

Sergio Flores joined the New York office of Arnold Worldwide as senior vice president and creative director, serving as the creative lead on the Sanofi account. He succeeds Barbara Hamilton, who left, the agency said. Mr. Flores had most recently led branded content efforts and creative strategy for entertainment brands at Leroy & Clarkson, New York. Arnold Worldwide is part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas.

Margie Fox and Brian Maloney, co-chief executives at Maloney & Fox, New York, which they sold to Waggener Edstrom in 2003, joined Ogilvy Public Relations, New York as managing directors for the United States consumer marketing practice. Ms. Fox also becomes United States creative director for the practice and Mr. Maloney also becomes New York consumer marketing group head. Ogilvy Public Relations is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP.

Eric Gelman joined the Atlanta office of Eric Mower & Associates as a digital account director. He has worked for companies that include EarthLink, Megapath and Rare Medium.

Becky Hill joined the government and public affairs practice at R&R Partners, based in the Phoenix office, as deputy director for policy. She had run her own firm, Hill Advocacy, since 2007.

Jonathan Hughes, international president at GolinHarris, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will relocate to Hong Kong to lead the agency’s efforts across Asia.

Peter Jackson, chief executive at Volcano, Bryanston, South Africa, will also serve as regional director for the new sub-Saharan Africa region of Icom+IN, Rollinsville, Colo., the network of independent advertising agencies. Spearhead Africa, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, joined the network as its eighth agency member in the region and the first in Tanzania.

Patrick LaCroix joined Blitz Media, Boston, as group account director. He had been vice president and group media director at Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Matt Manning joined Mktg Inc., New York, in a new post, senior vice president for corporate development. He had been managing partner at Radar Sports and Entertainment.

Elinor Mills joined the Bateman Group, San Francisco, in a new post, director for content and media strategy. She had been a senior writer at CNET and before that worked for media companies like The Associated Press and Reuters.

Albert Ocampo joined RPA, Santa Monica, Calif., in a new post, brand experience director. He had most recently been a consultant at Digitas, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, on projects for American Express.

Pie Advertising, New York, was acquired by Brand Connections, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. Bradley Hajart, the founder of Pie who was creative director and managing partner there, becomes senior vice president and executive creative director at Brand Connections. And Paul Randon, who had been director for content at Pie, becomes vice president and creative director at Brand Connections.

Point of Purchase Advertising Institute, Chicago, known as Popai, has named two industry professionals to be inducted into the Popai Hall of Fame for 2012. They are Andy Edelman, chief experiential officer at Applied Merchandising Concepts, and Bill Smith, senior display manager for the Duracell brand at the Procter & Gamble Company. They will be feted at the organization’s annual Night of Honors, on Dec. 6 in Chicago.

Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, hired four employees. They are Clarence Bradley, associate creative director; Joey Crawford, creative director; Ryan Epp, interactive developer; and Kristin Filipovits, senior account manager.

Royal Dutch Shell expanded its relationship with JWT, part of WPP, by naming the agency’s Atlanta office as agency of record in North America for the Pennzoil and Quaker State brands, which had been handled by Doner, Southfield, Mich., owned by MDC Partners. Combined spending was estimated at $46 million. JWT Atlanta already handles the Jiffy Lube brand for Royal Dutch Shell. The worldwide Shell account is handled by JWT London and the assignment to create campaigns for Shell fuels and lubricants in North America is handled by JWT Houston.

Hilary Smith, senior vice president for communications and integrated media marketing at NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, was promoted to senior vice president of communications for entertainment and digital networks and integrated media. She succeeds Cameron Blanchard, who was recently named senior vice president for communications at NBCUniversal.

TagLine Partners was opened by two longtime creative directors, Emil Dispenza and Richard Levy. The agency will help other agencies seeking new accounts by creating in 48 hours five tag lines for prospective campaigns.
233 2012-11-12 Just because we know the identity of our president for the next four years and have uncertainty about the approaching budget showdown doesn't mean we should make a bunch of quick money moves....
234 2012-11-12 The United States has won re-election to its seat on the U.N. Human Rights Council, a body that can be a critic of Israel but lenient on countries like Sri Lanka, Sudan and Zimbabwe....
235 2012-11-12 The latest inquiry of HSBC, one involving accounts in the island tax haven Jersey, raises questions about whether the bank can settle all the investigations it faces at a reasonable price....
236 2012-11-12 Checking in on the second annual New York Times Comedy Challenge, where readers can vote on the rising comedian they find the funniest....
237 2012-11-12 You're the Boss is looking for businesses who will be affected by the president's plan to increase taxes on the wealthy....
238 2012-11-12 The playwright will direct a production that will be staged in London, Miami and New York....
239 2012-11-12 "To create a positive atmosphere, we have agreed to stop the clock," an official says....
240 2012-11-12 Metropolitan Diary: An iPhone user describes some horrors when trying to use Apple's new map application for a Manhattan address....
241 2012-11-12 Heart attack rates climb in the winter, though cold weather may be just one of several reasons....
242 2012-11-12 Fears that the architectural jewel in Barcelona might be put up for sale were allayed by the creation of a special foundation....
243 2012-11-12 Apple has shut down one front in what Steven P. Jobs once described as a thermonuclear legal war against Android, Google's mobile operating system. But a wider truce in the patent battles engulfing the mobile industry is most likely still a long w...
244 2012-11-12 With the widespread and growing desire to study abroad, an industry of agents (some ethical, some not) has sprung up to provide services to students and their families. Do you want an overseas education so much that you would pay an agent?...
245 2012-11-12 Obamacare lives, stocks plunge, and small businesses will need $2.5 billion to recover from Sandy. Would you buy a Surface for your business?...
246 2012-11-12 Whether dogs like Harley actually need a romantic curtained-off suite to breed seems beside the point. Some dog owners simply like the concept of a love motel for their amorous pets and are willing to pay about $50 for each session, which Animalle will happily arrange. If it does not work out as planned, some are prepared to pay even more for artificial insemination, another of Animalle’s services.

The beehivelike atmosphere at Belo Horizonte’s pet megastore, which employs a staff of 35 (not counting the veterinarians on call), points not only to Brazil’s surging pet dog population, now about 36 million, but also to major changes in Brazilian society after years of economic growth and shifting demographic patterns. Similar stores thrive in other large Brazilian cities; in São Paulo, a public hospital for dogs and cats has been opened; and some plastic surgeons provide Botox injections for dogs.

Since an economic stabilization program was put into effect in the 1990s, per capita income has risen sharply in Brazil, to about $10,700 a year, according to the World Bank, allowing people to spend more on pets. Families have gotten smaller, with Brazil’s fertility rate declining to less than 1.9 children per woman, from 2.5 in the 1990s, according to government statistics, giving pets new importance in many homes. And life expectancy has climbed to 73, from 67, in that time, adding to the years people may turn to pets as companions.

The emergence of a middle-class Brazil, in particular, has led to a rapid growth in services for dogs and their enthusiastic owners. In some niches, Brazil surpasses the United States and other high-income countries: the nation is No. 1 in per capita ownership of small dogs (weighing 20 pounds or less), with nearly 20 million, according to Euromonitor, a market research company.

“I was tired of practicing law and saw that the dog market was taking off,” said Daniela Guimarães Loures, 28, a Dalmatian owner who invested $1 million with her brother to open Animalle in July. Referring to figures published in Brazilian trade magazines like Pet Business, she said pet shops in the country generate more than $6 billion in total annual revenue.

To open the dog motel, the siblings leased a former children’s hospital in Gutierrez, a leafy area of Belo Horizonte. They now offer lodging for dogs and cats, a pet taxi that picks up and delivers animals, a dog cafe selling delicacies like beef-flavored muffins, and a store selling specialty products like Chic Animale, a perfume for dogs that is produced in Porto Alegre, a city in southern Brazil. It sells for $40 a bottle.

While parts of the establishment cater to owners of cats, fish and rodents like the Mongolian gerbil, the focus is clearly on dogs. Juliana Lima, 24, a psychology student who works at Animalle grooming and bathing dogs, said that demand for the dog motel was robust, even though it was not yet clear whether any of the coupling sessions were set to produce offspring.

“We’ve only been open for a few months,” Ms. Lima said, “and this is a new thing.”

The dog motel taps into a certain fascination in Brazil with short-stay accommodations for sexual activities. Brazil’s “motéis” (the singular in Portuguese is simply “motel”) are similar to American motels in that many are on roadsides and offer easy — and, some customers hope, anonymous — access. But in this country, they share certain features, like their architecture and thematic settings, with Japan’s renowned love hotels.

The dog owners filing into Animalle often cannot resist gawking behind the blinds of Motel Pet. “The ambience here is lovely,” said Teresa Cristina Carvalho, who showed her Shih Tzu puppy, named Mel (“Honey”), the accommodations. “We’ll return when Mel is in heat,” she said, adding that in the meantime she would buy her puppy a bottle of Dog Beer.

“Mel gets agitated with so much stimulation, and needs to relax a bit,” Ms. Carvalho said. “Come to think of it, I need some peace and quiet as well.”
247 2012-11-12 MOSCOW — The 90th birthday of a double agent from the height of the cold war has been made the occasion for extensive celebration in Russia, with a documentary film, a rare newspaper interview stressing his happy retirement in Russia and a personal birthday greeting on Sunday from President Vladimir V. Putin.

The spy, George Blake, betrayed British intelligence starting in the 1950s; he was found out in 1961 and sentenced to 42 years in prison. But he escaped five years later using a ladder of rope and knitting needles, made his way to the Soviet Union and has been living out his last years serenely in a cottage outside Moscow.

His story contrasts sharply with those of other Russian moles in British intelligence from around the same time, most notably Kim Philby, who defected to the Soviet Union in 1963. Mr. Philby was said to suffer from depression and alcoholism afterward, which some said stemmed from disappointment and disillusionment with the Communist state he found there. He died in 1988.

Mr. Blake, on the other hand, has lived well and apparently happily on his Russian pension, and over the years has rebuilt his contacts with his children in England, who traveled to Moscow for Sunday’s festivities.

“I am a happy person, a very lucky person, exceptionally lucky,” Mr. Blake told an interviewer from Rossisskaya Gazeta, the official government newspaper. Though condemned as a traitor in Britain, where he is believed to have caused the deaths of scores of British agents, he made it clear that he is not agonizing over the past.

“I do not believe in life after death,” he said. “In my childhood, I wanted to become a priest, but that passed. As soon as our brain stops receiving blood, we go, and after that there will be nothing. No punishment for the bad things you did, nor rewards for the utterly wonderful.”
248 2012-11-12 Daly told reporters that “contract rights issues are very important to the clubs” and that because of the wide gulf between the two sides on those issues, “I don’t know where to go.”

Fehr said he did not “see a path to an agreement” on contract rights.

But lost amid the gloom is the progress the league and union have made in six straight days of talks. They are fairly close on the critical issue of honoring existing contracts, according to the union delegate.

The issue of finding a way to pay players with existing contracts in full under a lower salary cap — or settling on a “make whole” provision, in the language of the negotiations — had been a stumbling block in previous weeks. But by Sunday, the two sides were $2 million to $3 million apart per team, per year, an amount the delegate described as “within spitting distance.”

The league and union are even closer to agreement on revenue sharing among clubs, with a plan described as basically done except for administrative details. The system will be significantly expanded compared with the N.H.L.’s current system, with more teams qualifying for revenue sharing and more money distributed.

The system will include a small fund, similar to baseball’s industry growth fund, that Bettman can specially earmark for the neediest franchises — presumably teams like Phoenix, the Islanders, Columbus and Florida.

But big obstacles remain on the issue of contract rights.

Under the collective bargaining agreement that expired Sept. 15, players whose contracts had expired were eligible for free agency if they were 27 or had seven years of N.H.L. service. The league is seeking to raise those thresholds to 28 and eight years of experience.

The league is also seeking to restrict players’ rights to go to salary arbitration, and to limit the term of contracts to five years. Under the previous system, there were no limits.

The union delegate characterized the league’s stance on player contract issues as “very draconian” and said, “We’re very, very far apart” in that area.

According to published reports, confirmed by those present at Friday’s bargaining session, Bettman told Fehr that no deal was possible unless the union agreed to all of the league’s proposed changes to player contract rights.

“The owners made it clear that there is no give with respect to any of their proposals,” Fehr told reporters after Sunday’s meeting. “That unless players are prepared to take — and this is my phrase, not theirs — down to the comma, that there’s nothing to do.”

But the union delegate also stressed the “very professional” tenor of the negotiations on both sides.

Reports emerged Friday of a shouting match between players and owners at the end of that day’s meeting. But the delegate said the exchange was “extremely brief” and stood out only because of its rarity.

The exchange was between the free-agent defenseman Chris Campoli and Winnipeg defenseman Ron Hainsey on one side, and the owners Murray Edwards of Calgary and Craig Leipold of Minnesota on the other.

The delegate called descriptions of the incident a “major exaggeration.”

“No one would have noticed it but for the fact that these meetings are very, very professional — no one even raises their voice,” he said.
249 2012-11-12 Apple has shut down one front in what Steven P. Jobs, the company’s late chief executive, once described as a thermonuclear legal war against Android, Google’s mobile operating system. But a wider truce in the patent battles engulfing the mobile industry is most likely still a long way off.

Late Saturday, Apple and HTC, the Taiwanese smartphone maker, announced they had agreed to dismiss a series of lawsuits filed against each other in a feud that started more than two years ago when Apple accused HTC of improperly copying the iPhone. The companies said their settlement includes a 10-year license agreement that grants rights to current and future patents held by both parties.

The companies declined to disclose the financial terms of the deal, though it is widely believed that HTC is paying Apple as part of the agreement. HTC doesn’t expect the deal to have “an adverse material impact on the financials of the company,” Sally Julien, a spokeswoman for HTC, said in a statement.

The deal was the first settlement between Apple and a maker of devices that use Android, an operating system that has rapidly swallowed most of the smartphone market and threatened Apple’s position in the mobile business in the process. Other patent lawsuits continue around the globe, including far more significant ones between Apple and Samsung, by far the biggest maker of Android smartphones.

Apple’s settlement of an Android-related lawsuit could be interpreted as a sign that Mr. Jobs’s successor at Apple, Timothy D. Cook, is eager to end the distraction and risks of patent fights. In the past, Apple executives had been hostile in their remarks about companies they believed were copying their innovations.
250 2012-11-12 The victims drowned as water from Lower New York Bay poured into Midland Beach, rising to more than nine feet in some places and swallowing entire blocks.

The deaths have raised questions about whether the city’s evacuation procedures need to be changed.

On Sunday, the Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, made her second visit to Staten Island since the storm hit.

Asked whether the Midland Beach deaths should prompt more scrutiny of evacuation procedures, Ms. Napolitano said: “We always go back and say, ‘What could have been done differently? What could have been done better?’ ”

She added: “The issue of those who either can’t or won’t abide by those orders, that is a question that we have to address.”

Of particular concern, she said, were people who were homebound.

“Those are the ones we really need to think about,” she said.

The most recent discovery of a body in Midland Beach came on Friday, nearly two weeks after the storm.

The victim was David Maxwell, 64, who lived in a pale yellow bungalow set back from Mapleton Avenue, half a block from the waterfront, said his landlord, Fred Fixsen. (The police have not publicly confirmed the victim’s name.)

Mr. Fixsen and other neighbors said they did not see or hear from Mr. Maxwell after the storm and grew concerned. Mr. Fixsen said his sister-in-law called 911 several days ago to ask the police to check on the bungalow.

During the storm surge, water had risen to the top of the bungalow’s front door, filling the structure.

The police entered the bungalow on Friday and found Mr. Maxwell’s body amid upturned furniture and other debris.

After the storm, search-and-rescue teams combed the neighborhoods hit hardest, including several on Staten Island. The teams, some of which had search dogs, went house to house, mostly relying on information from neighbors and other residents to certify that a house did not contain victims.

The units generally did not enter homes forcibly, though on occasion they entered through an open window or door. It remained unclear on Sunday which team had been responsible for Mr. Maxwell’s house and whether it had been searched.

But notices posted to the front door over the weekend indicated that Buildings Department inspectors had at least stopped by to evaluate the structural integrity of the house from the outside.

Mr. Maxwell had lived in the bungalow for the past three years, said Mr. Fixsen, who lives in a two-story house next door.

Mr. Maxwell was an early riser and former Marine who enjoyed cooking and watching television and movies from his large DVD collection, neighbors said. Until recently, he lived with a housemate, the landlord said. They hung an American flag from their porch and, on special occasions, a Marine Corps flag, neighbors said.

But last spring, the housemate had a stroke that left him partly paralyzed and he went to a nursing home, leaving Mr. Maxwell on his own for the first time in many years.

Forty-three people were killed in New York City as a result of Hurricane Sandy, Mr. Browne, the police spokesman, said on Sunday. Of those, 23 were on Staten Island, the most of any borough.

The latest death attributed to the storm came Saturday, Mr. Browne said.

The victim, Albert McSwain, 77, a custodian at the New York Police Academy, was found on Oct. 31 at the bottom of the steps of his apartment building on Rockaway Beach Boulevard in Queens with trauma to the head and body, and paralyzed from the neck down. Mr. McSwain died of his injuries on Saturday, Mr. Browne said.

Amid the cleanup and gutting of storm-ravaged homes on Staten Island and in other coastal areas of the region on Sunday, there were also flickers of renewal.

At St. Margaret Mary Catholic Church in Midland Beach, Father Erno Diaz conducted his first baptism since the storm. “This is a sign of life,” the priest said. “A sign of hope.”
251 2012-11-12 ¶The European Central Bank chose several units of Havas for a campaign across Europe to help introduce the second series of euro banknotes in the 17 countries of the European Union that use the euro currency. Spending has not been determined. Among the units are the Düsseldorf, Germany, office of Havas Worldwide, for mass media advertising; the Paris office of Havas Worldwide, for public relations and events; and Havas Media Frankfurt (MPG), part of Havas Media, for the media duties. In a coincidence, Havas Worldwide was known until September as Euro RSCG Worldwide.

¶Mike Fordyce joined JiWire, San Francisco, as chief executive, assuming duties from David Staas, who had served as interim president and chief executive since March; Mr. Staas, who had been senior vice president for marketing, has now been promoted to president. Mr. Fordyce had most recently been senior vice president for business development, publisher products and strategic partnership management at YP Holdings, formerly known as AT&T Interactive and AT&T Advertising Solutions.

¶Jack Klues, chief executive at VivaKi, part of the Publicis Groupe, will retire at the end of the year and remain with the parent through the first half of 2013 to work on plans to establish VivaKi as a separate business unit of the Publicis Groupe. Frank Voris, chief financial officer at VivaKi, will succeed Mr. Klues, who began his advertising career 35 years ago at Leo Burnett, Chicago, which is now a Publicis Groupe agency.

¶Matt Peterson, co-chief creative officer at Creature, Seattle, was named chief executive, assuming duties from Robson Grieve, president and partner, who is leaving to “pursue a new opportunity in the technology industry,” the agency said. Jim Haven, who had been the other co-chief creative officer, will now serve as the sole chief creative officer.

¶Rob Deichert joined the New York office of Tribal Fusion, part of Exponential Interactive, as global general manager, a new post. He had been head of data at LivePerson, New York.
252 2012-11-12 The Campaign to Fix the Debt, a new group with a $40 million budget whose backers include Jeffrey R. Immelt of General Electric and David M. Cote of Honeywell, will run more than a million dollars’ worth of advertisements. The spots take their cue from well-known ads by the likes of Nike and Dunkin’ Donuts and feature slogans like “Just Fix It” and “Time to Fix the Debt.”

Mr. Immelt and Mr. Cote also feature prominently in a more traditional campaign by the Business Roundtable, which represents Fortune 500 companies and is one of Washington’s most powerful lobbying groups.

The Business Roundtable’s effort, set to begin on Tuesday, has a budget of close to half a million dollars, and is focused on news media in the Washington area, including outlets like Politico as well as conservative talk radio shows.

“America’s C.E.O.’s have a message for Washington: don’t take our country over the fiscal cliff,” warns a Business Roundtable commercial, referring to the package of tax increases and automatic spending cuts set to go into effect in January if Congress and President Obama cannot agree on deficit reduction plan.

Experts say that combination would equal a half-trillion-dollar blow to the economy that could cause a recession in the first half of 2013 — a threat the Business Roundtable has made the centerpiece of its campaign. “If Congress does not act, growth will stall, jobs will be lost and our nation’s credit will be harmed,” the radio ad says.

The debut of the ads in Washington coincides with the return of Congress on Tuesday for a lame-duck session that will take up the fiscal issue.

John Engler, the Business Roundtable’s president and a former Republican governor from Michigan, said that whatever solution emerges, “the tax code changes have to be permanent and the budget cuts have to be real.”

“Even the president has said the corporate tax rate is too high and needs to come down,” Mr. Engler said. “We’re in the position of saying everything is on the table.”

The new campaign ups the ante in the fight over fiscal policy, which is set to dominate the agenda in Washington through the end of the year, and comes during an increase in lobbying by chief executives on Capitol Hill.

“My sense is that their primary motivation is avoiding recession,” said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “But I think the key to whether they are serious or just posturing is the question of taxes, and if they’re truly willing to support raising more revenues.”

Still, big business has plenty to gain if some elements of what the groups are pushing for were to become law.

The Fix the Debt campaign was created by Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, who were chairmen of a presidential commission charged with developing a blueprint for fiscal change and deficit reduction in 2010, and the group backs many of their recommendations.

Both the Business Roundtable and the Fix the Debt campaign suggest they could pay for the corporate rate reduction by “broadening the base,” closing loopholes and eliminating many deductions. Some critics say they doubt that would bring in enough revenue to pay for reducing taxes on corporations, eventually shifting some of the burden to smaller businesses and individuals.

Advocates for low-income and older Americans have also been harsh critics of the Simpson-Bowles plan, saying it would keep tax rates on businesses and wealthy Americans at levels below the historical average, and underwrite that by sharply cutting Social Security and Medicare.

Fix the Debt is also backed by Peter G. Peterson, a longtime deficit hawk who has advocated cutting Social Security and other elements of the safety net to pay for debt reduction. Other corporate backers include Mark T. Bertolini, the chief executive of Aetna, and Gregory Q. Brown, the chief executive of Motorola Solutions.

Maya MacGuineas, the head of the campaign, played down the suggestion that the Fix the Debt campaign had a particular agenda.

“We’re not advocating specific solutions,” she said. The executives backing the campaign, she said, want to “put in place a debt deal. I see this as people who are focused on what they see as a real threat to their businesses and employees.”

With the start of the ad campaigns, chief executives will soon find themselves in the middle of one of Washington’s toughest political battles in years.

Politicians from across the spectrum say they want to avoid the threat posed by the looming tax increases and budget reductions, but the thorniest issue is likely to be making changes in tax policy. Indeed, even as votes from last Tuesday’s presidential race were still being tallied in some states, President Obama and Congressional Republicans began signaling their positions.

The president favors extending Bush-era tax cuts for all but the top 2 percent of earners. House Speaker John A. Boehner said last week that the election was not a mandate for a tax increase, and he has insisted that tax cuts be extended for everyone.

Those positions are so far apart, and so deeply entrenched, that most in Washington expect some short-term extension of the Bush-era cuts to be passed, giving Congress and the White House more time to overhaul the tax system and take on the issue of spending cuts.
253 2012-11-12 How Lopez — their 7-foot consolation prize after the Magic determined he was not the big man to rebuild around and instead traded Howard to the Lakers — fares as a nightly front-line scorer will probably be the most telling factor.

That Lopez was an early difference-maker Sunday and finished with a team-high 20 points was one way of looking at the Nets claiming their first winning streak (two games) in Brooklyn. The antithetical view was that Lopez was largely invisible for the rest of the game; his inability to dominate at either end of the floor was evidenced by the Magic’s 48-30 advantage on points in the paint.

Beside a runner in the lane off a nifty pass from Deron Williams that helped quell a late Magic run, he was often outmaneuvered in the second half by Nikola Vucevic, the 7-footer acquired by the Magic from Philadelphia in the complicated four-team Howard deal.

What did that suggest about Lopez’s reputation — his lost 2011-12 season to a broken foot notwithstanding — that the Magic chose Vucevic, a relatively unknown second-year player from Montenegro, over him? Probably not as much as Vucevic’s paltry $1.7 million salary, compared with the four-year, $61 million contract the Nets gave Lopez as a restricted free agent last summer.

Still, a snub is a snub, though Lopez laughed off a question about extra incentive to leave Orlando feeling pangs of regret.

“I had nothing to do with that,” said Lopez, who never plays the role of the tough guy in the locker room or — unfortunately, according to his detractors — on the court.

The knock on Lopez, in his fifth season, has been that his playing personality matches his aforementioned shooting touch. His three rebounds — along with seven turnovers — would have been more of a postgame issue had Kris Humphries not cleaned up the glass with 21 rebounds.

“I’d box out and think I had position, and then he’d just go get it,” Lopez said, his unintentional commentary on teamwork.

It stands to reason that Lopez will never be an above-average rebounder or shot-blocker; the athleticism just isn’t there. It is actually on offense that the Nets would settle for him to work harder, be meaner.

“Scoring comes easy to him, but sometimes he settles for the outside shot when he can put more pressure on the defense by fighting for position on the block,” said Jerry Stackhouse, the Nets’ sagacious veteran. “Sometimes it’s not just about creating offense for you but for everyone else by posting up deep, by sacrificing, drawing the double team, and then just being in better position to go for the rebound.”

How much upside does Lopez really have? Shaquille O’Neal recently touted him as better than Howard, which was Shaq at his playful best or delusional worst. The Nets would still deal him for Howard in an eye blink, and don’t think their management hasn’t kept an eye on the Lakers’ situation out West.

Howard is unsigned beyond this season, and there can be little doubt that Mike Brown was fired to avert a Lakers meltdown that would have made Kobe Bryant impossible to live with — not the best means of keeping the sensitive Howard in an L.A. state of mind.

Of course, Howard’s leaving is still in the fantasy stage, and no one in the East wants to hear his name and free agency anymore in the same sentence. In Brooklyn, moving on for good would be much easier if Lopez could become an All-Star inside force. Or merely more forceful.
254 2012-11-12 TOKYO — Japan’s economy shrank at a pace of 0.9 percent in the three months through September, government data showed Monday, as sluggish imports compounded slowing demand and edged the nation’s economy toward recession.

The fall in gross domestic product came to an annualized 3.5 percent contraction. It was a reversal from Japan’s robust performance earlier this year, when it outperformed most of its peers in the Group of 7 industrialized nations.

But growth has since stalled, hurt by a slump in exports amid economic woes in Europe and a damaging territorial spat with China, both major trading destinations for Japan. A strong yen has also hurt competitiveness among Japanese exporters.

At home, the pace of reconstruction after last year’s destructive earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster appears to have slowed, with private consumption declining at the largest rate since early 2011.

Economists expect the Japanese economy to continue to shrink in the next quarter, pitching it into recession before conditions improve.

“Although the Japanese economy will face harsh challenges for the time being, the situation is likely to bottom out by the end of the year,” economists at the Mizuho Research Institute in Tokyo said in a note after the economic numbers were released.
255 2012-11-12 Mr. Barrow’s fascinations generally run toward mathematical, geometric and psychological models that shape modern life. (When he revisited his high school once and told his teachers he had become a painter, he said, “they were shocked and told me, ‘We thought you’d become a chemist.’ ”) But the technological beginnings of the paintings are medieval, if not older.

To make the fabrics that he transforms, Ms. Parke sits at one of her eight-harness Leclerc looms, pumping the treadles with her feet and pulling rhythmically back on a horizontal beam known as a beater bar to push the weft thread securely into the weave.

For the new paintings Mr. Barrow and Ms. Parke came up with formulas to weave fabric with varying ratios of red, blue and green threads. Mr. Barrow mixed red, blue and green paint in the same ratios as those of the fabrics, yielding shades of gray. Then he applied this paint, not all over but — in a technique that has defined his work — in tiny dots, as if pixelating the fabric, using the intersections of the thread in the weave as a grid.

“Together they’ve come up with something that they couldn’t have independently,” said Matthew Higgs, the director and chief curator of the alternative art space White Columns, which first exhibited Mr. Barrow’s work in a 2007 exhibition organized by Clarissa Dalrymple. “The paintings are genuinely quite peculiar objects that I don’t think could have come about another way.”

Karen Rosenberg, reviewing a 2010 show in The New York Times, described the work as the offspring of “some wonderfully complicated DNA: Americana, modernist geometry, feminism and Neo-Impressionism, to name just a few strands.”

Mr. Barrow, 30, and Ms. Park, 31, met at the Rhode Island School of Design, but signs early on did not seem to point toward a fruitful collaboration. He went on to pursue an M.F.A. at Yale, studying with the conceptualist pioneer Mel Bochner. She took a job to pay the bills at a home furnishing company known for bright, whimsical throw pillows.

“At some point, though, we kind of realized we were doing the same thing,” Mr. Barrow recalled. “I was painting colored dots all day, and she was filling in colored dots on a computer all day for loom patterns.”

The affinity went even deeper than it seemed. The Jacquard loom, an early-19th-century mechanical loom that helped revolutionize the textile industry, used punch cards to direct the weaves, a precursor of computer software. Mr. Barrow, whose father is a professor of biological and environmental history at Virginia Tech, began thinking about technological progress, fabric and the relationship of both to the history of painting.

This led to a kind of epiphany while looking at the minimalist paintings of Agnes Martin at Dia:Beacon in Beacon, N.Y. “Beneath her tiny grids there was another tiny grid — the weave of the canvas,” he said. “It was a really simple idea, but it opened up a lot of other ideas the more I thought about it.”

A visit to the couple’s apartment-studio, in a new building along Queens Boulevard with a CVS pharmacy on the ground floor, suggests how intermingled their obsessions seem to have always been. A baggy-looking early painting made from coarse Belgian linen, hanging on the wall, gives the impression that it was Mr. Barrow, not his wife, who was working in home furnishings. “It’s somewhere between a pillow and a painting,” he said, smiling.

Ms. Parke’s loom, with a bolt of chaotically colored fabric spilling out toward the floor, oddly resembles an industrial printer, the kind that the artist Wade Guyton, now the subject of a career survey at the Whitney Museum of American Art, uses to “paint” on the fine linen he forces through them.

Though neither Ms. Parke nor Mr. Barrow seem to mind being crowded out by their work and their machines, a measure of success is finally promising a little breathing room. They have plans to buy the apartment below theirs to live in, while maintaining the other one as a studio.

“Maybe we can get a couch,” Ms. Parke offered brightly.

Mr. Barrow agreed but, shrugging, added, “We pretty much just work all the time anyway.”
256 2012-11-12 The fragile coalition government led by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras had been expected to win parliamentary approval late Sunday for its 2013 budget, which prescribes spending cuts and tax increases worth €9.4 billion, as demanded by the troika.

Last Wednesday, the government narrowly won approval of a four-year program that attains €17 billion in budget savings through sharply reducing pensions and public-sector salaries and imposing a raft of structural reforms including an overhaul of labor laws and the opening of restricted professions to more competition.

The precarious finances of Greece will be in the spotlight again later this week when a €5 billion debt payment falls due, but the Greek public debt agency said last week that it should be able to make a special issue of treasury bills on Tuesday to cover the redemptions.

“It’s a no-brainer if I say there will be no accidental defaults,” a senior euro zone official said Friday, referring to the €5 billion payment due at the end of this week. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the financing for markets and governments.

The amount of progress that euro zone ministers make Monday may largely depend on the completeness of the troika report, which is expected to outline Greece’s additional funding needs but probably will not be in its final form.

Greece has made “enormous efforts” to implement the austerity and reform measures needed to get its next tranche of financial assistance, but “there is a very, very high degree of plausibility that there will need to be a second round of discussions in order to finalize everything,” the euro zone official said.

Other obstacles to rapid progress on Greece include disagreement among members of the troika on how soon the huge stock of Greek debt can be brought down and put on a sustainable path.

Many analysts agree that at some point, Greece’s official lenders will have to take politically unpalatable losses, or haircuts, on their holdings of Greek debt in order to keep the country in the euro area, even if a range of other measures is taken to reduce the size of the state deficit and reform the economy.

“The euro area is at a very critical juncture” over Greece, Zsolt Darvas, a research fellow at Bruegel, a research organization, wrote in a report issued Friday. “Policy makers have to recognize the impossibility of the trilemma of no additional funding, no restructuring of official loans, and no default and exit from the euro.”

Last week, Barclays estimated that giving Greece two more years, to 2016, to reach its deficit target of 3 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a deficit of 9.1 percent of G.D.P. at the end of 2011, could cost as much as €40 billion.

Barclays said half of the extra €40 billion would be the cost of running bigger deficits for longer, while the further delay in Greece regaining access to the markets would account for about €10 billion.

It said the remaining €10 billion would come from reduced earnings from the privatization of government assets. Income from privatizations has been overestimated, the bank said, and is likely to be revised down.

“In the long run, we believe that debt sustainability will require further official sector involvement in the form of haircuts or transfers in order to avoid an excessively long period of adjustment and austerity, which would trigger social unrest, and possibly political instability and a disorderly and costly exit from the euro area,” Fabrice Montagne, a senior European economist at Barclays, wrote in a briefing note.

On Tuesday, finance ministers from the 10 European Union member states outside the euro area are to join the meeting in Brussels and attempt to overcome sharp differences over how to operate a so-called banking union.

Agreed to by the Union’s leaders in June, the new system would eventually put all 6,000 lenders in the euro zone under the supervision of the European Central Bank, instead of leaving that role exclusively to national regulators.

Some of the most difficult discussions concern Britain, which has recoiled at the prospect of the 17 euro zone countries voting as a single bloc on future banking regulations that could diminish the pre-eminence of the City of London in European finance.

The new banking rules also are a sensitive matter for central and eastern European countries that remain outside the euro area and that could be more exposed to the threat of a run on banks that do not fall under the authority of a new pan-European regulator nor are backstopped by the European Stability Mechanism bailout fund.
257 2012-11-13 The diplomatically sticky part of President Obama’s trip to Southeast Asia will likely occur in Cambodia, where Hun Sen, the authoritarian prime minister, has held power for the better part of three decades....
258 2012-11-13 Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman are accused of conspiring with six others to earn roughly $70 million from illegal trading in technology stocks....
259 2012-11-13 New photographs appear to show Syrian rebels holding at least two new-generation Manpads -- shoulder-fired antiaircraft missile systems....
260 2012-11-13 On a day trip to Atlantic City, the Frugal Traveler discovers a resilient Boardwalk amid a broader post-storm recovery....
261 2012-11-13 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Tuesday's selection includes a look at Groupon's latest moves and possibilities, a collection of apps for simplifying complex data analysis ...
262 2012-11-13 The tunnel was the last of the city's major closings to remain closed to motorists in the wake of Hurricane Sandy....
263 2012-11-13 The flagship Greenmarket will return; disaster crews have displaced it since Nov 3....
264 2012-11-13 The father-and-son team behind a money market fund that nearly took down the economy can breathe a sigh of relief. | Goldman Sachs is set to announce its new partners. | Another insider trading trial gets under way. | Comparing J.C. Penney to Appl...
265 2012-11-13 Bart Chilton, a regulator at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, plans on Tuesday to urge financial firms and federal authorities to bolster coordination in the face of future calamities....
266 2012-11-13 Calvin Smith was convicted of two murders and two counts of conspiracy in 2005 as part of an organized drug enterprise in Washington. He is serving 25 years to life for his part in those crimes, but he is appealing the conspiracy convictions. The Supreme Court, which heard oral argument on this case last week, should reverse the conspiracy convictions on the ground that they violate Mr. Smith’s Fifth Amendment right to due process.

Mr. Smith introduced evidence at trial showing that for six years while the drug conspiracy was operating he was in prison for other crimes and was no longer a member of the conspiracy. By the time the government brought the conspiracy indictment against him, the five-year statute of limitations for conspiracy had run out. The issue is whether Mr. Smith should have to prove that he was not a member of the conspiracy while he was in prison, or whether, as he correctly argues, the government should have to prove he remained part of the conspiracy during that time.

The government argues that Mr. Smith must bear the burden of proof since it has already demonstrated that he was part of the conspiracy at one point and that the conspiracy continued. Mr. Smith contends that once he provided evidence showing that he quit the conspiracy, the government was obliged to prove him wrong.

Fairly allocating the burden of proof is imperative because, as Justice Robert Jackson once wrote, the overreliance on theories of conspiracy in criminal law can be “a serious threat to fairness in our administration of justice.”

One reason for caution is that membership in a conspiracy makes an individual liable for everything done by others in that conspiracy, even if the individual did not approve or know about a crime. For instance, a getaway driver in a robbery is held liable for a co-conspirator shooting a guard. To keep conspiracy law from favoring prosecutors even more than it does, the court should rule for Mr. Smith and place the burden of proof on the prosecutor.
267 2012-11-13 An unusually bold stand by doctors at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York has forced a big drug company to reduce the cost of an overpriced drug for treating colorectal cancer that was no better than a cheaper competitor and did almost nothing to extend a patient’s life. It is a heartening sign that alert and aggressive physicians can potentially play a major role in helping to reduce the escalating costs of health care for treatments of marginal value.

The drug is Zaltrap, which was developed by Sanofi, a large French pharmaceutical company, and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, a small biotechnology company in Tarrytown, N.Y. It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in August as a second-line treatment for colorectal cancer after initial courses of treatment have stopped working. It is used for treating colorectal cancer that has spread from the colon to other parts of the body and is administered intravenously.

Zaltrap was initially priced at about $11,000 a month, more than double the price of a competing drug, Avastin, made by Genentech, which is itself considered too expensive by many doctors for the minimal medical benefit it delivers. When added to standard cancer treatments, both drugs improve the median survival time of patients by a minuscule 1.4 months.

The doctors at Sloan-Kettering balked at the high price of Zaltrap and decided not to approve the drug for use in the hospital. Three of the doctors then wrote an Op-Ed article in The New York Times explaining their rationale and making a strong case that there is often little relationship between the prices of drugs and the value they provide. Companies often seem to charge what the market will bear for cancer drugs — as much as $35,000 a month and $100,000 a year in various cases.

The president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology recently praised Sloan-Kettering for addressing “the elephant in the room: unsustainable costs in cancer care.” With other doctors expressing support for Sloan-Kettering’s move, Sanofi announced last Thursday that it would effectively cut the price of Zaltrap in half. Sanofi is not changing the official price for Zaltrap but will offer discounts of about 50 percent to the doctors and hospitals who buy the drug and then administer it intravenously to patients.

There are few constraints on escalating cancer drug prices in the current health care market. That will need to change. Sloan-Kettering has shown what the medical profession can do to reduce costs if it has a mind to.
268 2012-11-13 Philadelphia 76ers center Andrew Bynum will miss at least five more weeks because of a bone bruise in his right knee and may not play in a game until early January. When Bynum was hurt in mid-September, the team initially hoped he would be ready for the season opener.
269 2012-11-13 The parents of Austin Tice, a 31-year-old American freelance journalist who has been missing in Syria for three months, said Monday that the Syrian government told them that it had no information about his whereabouts. The parents, Marc and Debra Tice, who traveled from Houston to Beirut, Lebanon, said at a news conference that they would travel to Syria if necessary to be reunited with their son. The missing journalist, a former Marine whose articles on the Syria conflict and the insurgent Free Syrian Army have been published by several news organizations, was last heard from on Aug. 13. A video that showed a person said to be Mr. Tice, apparently in the custody of Islamist militants in Syria, surfaced on Oct. 1, but its authenticity was never confirmed. American officials initially said they believed that Syria’s government had detained Mr. Tice, who entered Syria without official permission. Last week, a State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said she had been urging the Syrian government “to be more forthcoming” with any information it might have about Mr. Tice.
270 2012-11-13 You never expect a musically coherent program at the annual gala concert of the Richard Tucker Music Foundation, which was created in 1975 in honor of the great Brooklyn-born tenor to provide support to young American singers. This popular concert is a celebratory event where star singers contribute their services, rising vocal artists are showcased, and the latest winner of the Richard Tucker Award is introduced.

So it was during the gala on Sunday night at Avery Fisher Hall. If the program was a grab bag of arias, duets and scenes, 20 in all, there were some exciting performances. It was certainly substantial, lasting more than two hours without an intermission.

This year’s winner of the foundation’s top honor, the Rickard Tucker Award, is Ailyn Pérez, a fast-rising lyric soprano who was featured in three performances. Though Ms. Pérez has not yet appeared at the Metropolitan Opera, she has been thriving in major houses in Vienna, London, Berlin, Milan and at the Salzburg Festival.

Ms. Pérez opened the program with the scene from Massenet’s “Manon,” set on the Cours-la-Reine, a promenade along the Seine in Paris, after the innocent young heroine has been corrupted by jewels and finery from a wealthy older man. Performing with members of the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, conducted by Patrick Summers, and the New York Choral Society (David Hayes, music director), Ms. Pérez brought a gleaming voice and agile coloratura technique to Manon’s brilliant arioso and coyly seductive gavotte (“Obéissons quand leur voix appelle”). Her voice has a distinctive timbre, with plaintive richness blended into its youthful bloom. She may have needed some time to warm up. Her pitch wavered now and then. Still, Ms. Pérez, a beautiful woman who commands the stage, has the makings of a major soprano.

Later in the program she appeared with the tenor Stephen Costello, who won the Tucker Award in 2009 and also happens to be Ms. Pérez’s husband. They have performed together in some notable productions. That they displayed palpable chemistry in a tender duet from Mascagni’s romantic comedy “L’Amico Fritz” was no surprise. Mr. Costello was in his element, his voice virile and fresh, yet meltingly lyrical. There were also performances by other recent winners of grants and prizes from the Tucker Foundation, among them the mezzo-soprano Jamie Barton, whose big, free, earthy voice was well suited to “O Mon Fernand” from Donizetti’s opera “La Favorite.”
271 2012-11-13 Less well known is that the Obama campaign also had a panel of unpaid academic advisers. The group — which calls itself the “consortium of behavioral scientists,” or COBS — provided ideas on how to counter false rumors, like one that President Obama is a Muslim. It suggested how to characterize the Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, in advertisements. It also delivered research-based advice on how to mobilize voters.

“In the way it used research, this was a campaign like no other,” said Todd Rogers, a psychologist at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government and a former director of the Analyst Institute. “It’s a big change for a culture that historically has relied on consultants, experts and gurulike intuition.”

When asked about the outside psychologists, the Obama campaign would neither confirm nor deny a relationship with them. “This campaign was built on the energy, enthusiasm and ingenuity of thousands of grass-roots supporters and our staff in the states and in Chicago,” said Adam Fetcher, a campaign spokesman. “Throughout the campaign we saw an outpouring of individuals across the country who lent a wide variety of ideas and input to our efforts to get the president re-elected.”

For their part, consortium members said they did nothing more than pass on research-based ideas, in e-mails and conference calls. They said they could talk only in general terms about the research, because they had signed nondisclosure agreements with the campaign.

In addition to Dr. Fox, the consortium included Susan T. Fiske of Princeton University; Samuel L. Popkin of the University of California, San Diego; Robert Cialdini, a professor emeritus at Arizona State University; Richard H. Thaler, a professor of behavioral science and economics at the University of Chicago’s business school; and Michael Morris, a psychologist at Columbia.

“A kind of dream team, in my opinion,” Dr. Fox said.

He said that the ideas the team proposed were “little things that can make a difference” in people’s behavior.

For example, Dr. Fiske’s research has shown that when deciding on a candidate, people generally focus on two elements: competence and warmth. “A candidate wants to make sure to score high on both dimensions,” Dr. Fiske said in an interview. “You can’t just run on the idea that everyone wants to have a beer with you; some people care a whole lot about competence.”

Mr. Romney was recognized as a competent businessman, polling found. But he was often portrayed in opposition ads as distant, unable to relate to the problems of ordinary people.

When it comes to countering rumors, psychologists have found that the best strategy is not to deny the charge (“I am not a flip-flopper”) but to affirm a competing notion. “The denial works in the short term; but in the long term people remember only the association, like ‘Obama and Muslim,’ ” said Dr. Fox, of the persistent false rumor.

The president’s team affirmed that he is a Christian.

At least some of the consortium’s proposals seemed to have found their way into daily operations. Campaign volunteers who knocked on doors last week in swing states like Pennsylvania, Ohio and Nevada did not merely remind people to vote and arrange for rides to the polls. Rather, they worked from a script, using subtle motivational techniques that research has shown can prompt people to take action.

“We used the scripts more as a guide,” said Sarah Weinstein, 18, a Columbia freshman who traveled with a group to Cleveland the weekend before the election. “The actual language we used was invested in the individual person.”

Simply identifying a person as a voter, as many volunteers did — “Mr. Jones, we know you have voted in the past” — acts as a subtle prompt to future voting, said Dr. Cialdini, a foundational figure in the science of persuasion. “People want to be congruent with what they have committed to in the past, especially if that commitment is public,” he said.

Many volunteers also asked would-be voters if they would sign an informal commitment to vote, a card with the president’s picture on it. This small, voluntary agreement amplifies the likelihood that the person will follow through, research has found.

In a now classic experiment, a pair of Stanford psychologists asked people if they would display in a home window a small card proclaiming the importance of safe driving. Those who agreed to this small favor were later much more likely to agree to a much larger favor, to post a large “Drive Carefully” sign on their lawn — “something no one would agree to do otherwise,” Dr. Cialdini said.

Obama volunteers also asked people if they had a plan to vote and if not, to make one, specifying a time, according to Stephen Shaw, a retired cancer researcher who knocked on doors in Nevada and Virginia in the days before the election. “One thing we’d say is that we know that when people have a plan, voting goes more smoothly,” he said.

Recent research has shown that making even a simple plan increases the likelihood that a person will follow through, Dr. Rogers, of Harvard, said.

Another technique some volunteers said they used was to inform supporters that others in their neighborhood were planning to vote. Again, recent research shows that this kind of message is much more likely to prompt people to vote than traditional campaign literature that emphasizes the negative — that many neighbors did not vote and thus lost an opportunity to make a difference.

This kind of approach trades on a human instinct to conform to social norms, psychologists say. In another well-known experiment, Dr. Cialdini and two colleagues tested how effective different messages were in getting hotel guests to reuse towels. The message “the majority of guests reuse their towels” prompted a 29 percent increase in reuse, compared with the usual message about helping the environment. The message “the majority of guests in this room reuse their towels” resulted in a 41 percent increase, he said.

Salespeople have known the value of such approaches for a generation, and political campaigns have also used them before this election. Social scientists began offering their services to Democrats back in 2004, when President George W. Bush’s campaign was attacking the Democratic nominee, Senator John Kerry, as a flip-flopper and making the label stick.

Dr. Fox and others got an audience with someone in the Kerry campaign, but the meeting didn’t lead to any active consulting, he said. The group circulated a paper outlining its members’ expertise and proposals and in 2006 got a meeting with some senators, including Hillary Rodham Clinton and Harry M. Reid.

Consortium members said they knew of no such informal advisory panel on the Republican side. Efforts to contact the Romney campaign were unsuccessful.

The researchers said they weren’t told which of their ideas were put to use, or how. But sometimes they got hints. Dr. Fiske, the Princeton psychologist, said she received a generic, mass-market e-mail from the Obama campaign before the election.

“It said, ‘People do things when they make plans to do them; what’s your plan?’ ” Dr. Fiske said. “How about that?”
272 2012-11-13 But Mr. Zhou is the first to say that the cabinet, known as the State Council, has actually ordered that no more major projects be started without a social risk assessment, said Ma Jun, the director of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, one of the best-known environmental groups in Beijing.

Mr. Zhou also noted that effective Sept. 1, all government agencies in China had been ordered to make public all environmental impact assessments by posting them on the Internet, with a description of what the government planned to do about the assessments. The decision was announced at the time, but received limited attention.

Mr. Zhou said that mass protests tended to happen because of one or more of the mistakes that the government now intends to remedy. These mistakes involve projects that start without official approval, without proper environmental impact assessments and without an assessment of community sentiment, he said, and weak local governments may also be a factor.

He did not provide a description of how social risk assessments would be conducted, but he indicated that they would involve looking at the likelihood that a project would set off a public backlash.

Societies inevitably become more aware of environmental issues as they develop, and this is happening in China, Mr. Zhou said. He took a fairly sympathetic tone toward the protesters, changing tack only once, when he used a derogatory term for those who object only to the proximity of a project and not to its environmental fundamentals.

“We are beginning to see a ‘not in my backyard’ phenomenon,” he said.

Each new protest in recent months has set off frenzied national discussions on Sina Weibo, the popular Chinese microblogging site, soaring repeatedly to the top of the list of most-searched subjects.

China has led the world in economic growth for the past three decades, but it has paid a heavy environmental price. Acrid smog coats most large Chinese cities for much of the year, while many lakes and rivers are contaminated with heavy metals and toxic chemicals.

Thousands of young protesters fought with the riot police for two nights in early July in Shifang, in western China, prompting the local government to announce the cancellation of a giant copper smelter that was seen by the demonstrators as a pollution threat. The government also issued a public warning on the Internet that any further protests would be met with force.

But the next night, the largest crowd yet gathered to demand the release of dozens of protesters detained during the two previous nights, and the local government backed down and released them.

Many environmental officials in China want the introduction of social risk assessments because protests against industrial projects often involve broader issues than just the environment and may extend to questions like whether the land for the project was lawfully obtained with proper compensation for its previous owners, Mr. Ma said.

Powerful vested interests often have stakes in projects, and they have far more influence than local environmental officials. But when projects set off rioting, environmental regulators tend to be blamed for having allowed construction to begin.

“The environmental agencies feel they have been put under too much pressure, beyond the authority they’ve got,” Mr. Ma said.

At the news conference on Monday, other senior officials also described problems with surprising candor, although always careful to say how they planned to address the problems.

Zhu Zhixin, a vice chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, said that many citizens found it hard to afford medical care at big hospitals in large cities, despite rapid moves in the past decade to introduce at least some health insurance for 95 percent of the population. The government is trying to expand the availability of clinics and other medical institutions in smaller cities and towns, he said.

Jiang Weixin, the minister of housing and urban and rural development, said the government was not ready to relax its strict real estate regulations, which are aimed at discouraging speculation to improve housing affordability. Developers have been complaining that the rules, including limits on the purchase of second and subsequent apartments, have depressed demand and hurt the construction industry.
273 2012-11-13 Over the years, from behind bars, Mr. Perkins collected more evidence. In 1997, his sister Ronda Hudson gave him a sworn statement saying she had heard secondhand that Mr. Jones had bragged about the killing and described taking his bloody clothes to a dry cleaner. The statement was hearsay once removed, and the fact that Ms. Hudson was a relative of the prisoner also undermined its force.

Two years later, Mr. Perkins did better. In a second sworn statement, Demond Louis, an acquaintance of Mr. Jones, said Mr. Jones had confessed the killing to him shortly after committing it. Mr. Louis added that he had gone with Mr. Jones the next day to a dry cleaner, where Mr. Jones dropped off a pair of bloody orange pants.

Then, in 2002, an employee of the dry cleaning store, Linda Fleming, came forward to say that a man who looked like Mr. Jones had indeed dropped off bloody orange pants for cleaning.

Six years passed. In 2008, Mr. Perkins asked a federal court to throw out his conviction based on those three statements.

Magistrate Judge Timothy P. Greeley of the Federal District Court in Marquette, Mich., recommended that the request be denied because it was filed too late. Judge Greeley did not seem to give the matter much thought or care, as he mistakenly asserted in his opinion that Mr. Perkins “was convicted pursuant to a guilty plea” rather than after a trial at which he had maintained his innocence and testified in his own defense.

Mr. Perkins appealed, and Judge Robert Holmes Bell of the Federal District Court in Grand Rapids accepted the magistrate judge’s recommendation. Judge Bell did also briefly consider the new evidence. He was unimpressed, saying it was a variation on a theme presented at trial — that Mr. Perkins “was being framed by the prosecution’s lead witness, who himself was responsible for the murder.”

The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in , reversed that ruling. It ordered Judge Bell to consider whether the new evidence was credible enough to warrant full consideration despite the fact that Mr. Perkins had filed his petition after a deadline that would ordinarily have elapsed in 2003, a year after the last piece of evidence came to light.

Officials in Michigan appealed to the Supreme Court, saying that deadlines are deadlines. and nine other states filed a supporting brief cautioning that “unscrupulous prisoners falsely claim that they are innocent all the time.” The justices will probably hear arguments in the case, McQuiggin v. Perkins, No. 12-126, in February.

The lower courts in Mr. Perkins’s case, along with briefs in the Supreme Court, seem to take for granted that he should lose if there is a legal requirement that claims of innocence be pursued diligently.

But there is another way to look at it. Documents in the court file suggest that Mr. Perkins actually tried pretty hard given his circumstances. Just before one deadline, he told Judge Bell in a handwritten filing, “petitioner’s legal documents and much of his personal property was destroyed” by prison personnel “following petitioner’s involvement in inciting a riot.”

“After which,” Mr. Perkins continued, “petitioner was denied access to the law library and law materials while he was held in ” for almost five years. He said he continued to seek legal help and to work on his case “as much as one could have done being confined to solitary.”

The sworn statements Mr. Perkins gathered do not categorically establish that he is innocent. Except for DNA, most evidence of guilt or innocence tends to be suggestive, incremental and circumstantial. Had Mr. Perkins’s new evidence been presented at trial, it might have changed the result. Or perhaps not. The question now, two decades later, is whether there is reason enough for a fresh look at his case.

Justice Scalia will almost certainly say no.

“Like other human institutions, courts and juries are not perfect,” he explained in 2006. “One cannot have a system of criminal punishment without accepting the possibility that someone will be punished mistakenly. That is a truism, not a revelation.”
274 2012-11-13 “Let me be very clear: If this exercise does not deliver — and I hope it does — then needless to say we are back to where we are today,” she said.

The International Air Transport Association, an industry group, and Airbus, the European aircraft manufacturer, welcomed the decision. But some environmental groups and analysts suggested that Ms. Hedegaard had capitulated too quickly.

Europe “has moved further than necessary given the little progress made so far at I.C.A.O.,” said Bill Hemmings, a program manager at Transport & Environment, an environmental organization. He was referring to the International Civil Aviation Organization, an arm of the United Nations.

Ms. Hedegaard said her recommendation followed a meeting Friday at theI.C.A.O. at which member states decided to set up a policy group to agree on a global, market-based system for regulating airline emissions.

In reality, Ms. Hedegaard’s decision was a long-awaited retreat by the Union in the face of concerted international opposition, including the refusal to participate in the system by China Eastern, Air India and other airlines, and efforts by U.S. lawmakers to prevent American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and others from making payments.

A number of governments had threatened to review bilateral and “open skies” agreements on landing rights, market access and other matters and stop considering new routes or capacity.

Airbus had warned that Chinese carriers had halted some aircraft orders to signal their dissatisfaction with the European law.

On Monday, Airbus said it was “encouraged” by Ms. Hedegaard’s decision and said the talks at I.C.A.O. last week brought “the aviation industry one step closer to a coordinated, globally acceptable approach to better manage civil aviation emissions.”

The re-election of President Barack Obama last week may have made Ms. Hedegaard’s decision easier, because Mr. Obama is expected to help in the push for a global system.

The European emissions law was approved in 2008, and the system went into force on Jan. 1, 2012, requiring foreign airlines to comply with new registration and reporting procedures.

The system requires an airline landing or taking off in Europe to acquire permits corresponding to the amount of greenhouse gases emitted during the entire flight — regardless of where it originated or ended or the nationality of the airline.

Airlines faced fines of €100, or $127, for each excess ton of carbon dioxide emissions that they failed to offset by buying permits. Repeated breaches could have led to a ban from European airports.

The initial payments due on April 30, 2013, were expected to be modest. But airlines were furious because they could face big bills as the number of permits they needed to purchase was expected to rise in the coming years.

Airlines “will look to sell these allowances back, quite possibly at a loss,” said Andreas Arvanitakis, a director at Thomson Reuters Point Carbon. “So much for early-mover advantage. It looks like it’s the early worm that gets eaten by the bird.”

To halt the law, Ms. Hedegaard still must prepare additional legislation to modify the current rules. E.U. officials said they had already met with governments and with members of the European Parliament to ensure easy passage.

The decision means there will no longer be charges borne by airlines serving major international routes like Frankfurt-Beijing or London-New York next year. But the system would still apply within the Union for flights between airports within the bloc — and some European carriers called on Monday for Ms. Hedegaard to exempt them, too.

The system “will damage traffic, tourism, European competitiveness and jobs at a time when no other economic bloc is including aviation” in their emissions control systems, said Stephen McNamara, a spokesman for Ryanair, a low-cost airline.

Charging airlines serving European routes for pollution while exempting the rest of the world “is clearly an unsatisfactory situation in anything but the shortest term,” said the Association of European Airlines, which includes British Airways, Lufthansa and Virgin Atlantic.

The association warned that the I.C.A.O. was “notoriously slow-moving,” and it said countries including the United States, Russia, China and India — which have said the I.C.A.O., rather than Europe, should deal with the issue of aviation emissions — now “have the chance to show that they mean it.”

Ms. Hedegaard said that would give the negotiators at the organization the chance to reach a global agreement by next September or October. But she warned that failure to reach an agreement would mean the European system would be applied in full again after 2013.
275 2012-11-13 Federal spending cuts and tax increases are scheduled to begin with the new year, unless a divided Congress and the White House can find a compromise.

Some traders thought the tentative trading action was inevitable, because there has been no positive or negative news about the economy or the possibility of a deal to avoid the spending cuts and tax increases.

“Nothing good is going on,” said Scott Freeze, president of Street One Financial in Huntingdon Valley, Pa. “Everything forward-looking remains dreary.”

Last week, after voters returned a long-deadlocked and divided government to Washington, the Dow dropped 434 points in two days and had one of its worst weeks of the year.

Even if lawmakers work out a compromise, as they usually do, the political fight until then is sure keep investors on edge, pitching the stock market back and forth until the matter is resolved. Economists say the so-called fiscal cliff could cost the economy $800 billion and three million jobs and would steer the United States back into recession.

President Obama, a Democrat, and Speaker John Boehner, a Republican, have spoken of compromise but appeared to take firm stances on some issues. Mr. Obama will meet with labor representatives as well as other liberal groups on Tuesday. He will hold separate meetings with the business community on Wednesday.

The effect on the markets has been widespread. Fears about the American economy were blamed for keeping a lid on European markets and Asian markets, which closed mostly lower.

In Greece, lawmakers passed a new austerity budget, and the country’s international lenders drafted a report saying it had made progress in righting its finances. Greece is hoping the other euro countries will give it an additional $40 billion in bailout loans. The budget and the report are crucial steps toward that goal.

Still, the new bailout is no sure thing: some of the potential lenders must seek approval from their parliaments. Greece’s main stock market index closed down 3.6 percent.

Mr. Freeze of Street One Financial was among the underwhelmed. “At this point, all the Greek news is just noise,” he said. “None of these bailouts really solve the underlying problem. Now, if all of a sudden Spain became incredibly solvent and its unemployment rate went to 5 percent, then you’d see” a reason to buy.

Leucadia National announced it would buy the investment banking firm Jefferies Group. Jefferies’s chief will run the combined company. Stock in Leucadia, a holding company with investments in eclectic industries including beef processing and medical products, dropped 66 cents, or 3 percent, to $21.14. Jefferies shares soared $2, or 14 percent, to $16.27.
276 2012-11-13 When Shell discovered a gas field in an area called the Browse Basin off northwestern Australia in 2007, it thought it finally had the right place.

The Prelude field and one nearby called Concerto are big but not monsters. Each contains about three trillion cubic feet of gas reserves — about what Britain consumes in a year.

That figure is below the rule of thumb of five or six trillion cubic feet that has been thought to be the minimum to warrant constructing an onshore processing plant. Prelude’s distance from shore also argued for putting the processing on a ship rather than on land.

“The size and remote location makes an ideal development for floating L.N.G.,” says Marjan van Loon, a Shell vice president for liquefied natural gas.

When the hull and another huge piece of equipment called the turret, being built in Dubai, are finished, they will be towed to the gas field and fixed there by huge anchor cables. Prelude is expected to start producing by 2017; it could be beaten to market by other entries like one by Petronas, the Malaysian oil company.

The vessel, which will be able to house as many as 400 people, is expected to remain on the site for 25 years. Then, after refurbishment, it could be recycled for use at another field.

When oil companies and others first started thinking about building floating liquefied natural gas facilities, the idea was to build low-cost, relatively nimble machines. The thought was that they could be built and financed by third parties and rented out to oil companies.

But the creation that Shell is finally bringing into the world is more comparable to a land-based plant, with all the bells and whistles crammed onto the decks of a ship.

“They are effectively taking an onshore plant and putting it on a barge,” says Katan Hirachand, a banker at Société Générale in London who helps finance oil and gas projects. He said it was different from other floating liquefied natural gas projects “since others are more field-specific.”

Prelude is not coming cheap. Shell has not disclosed exact costs, but says the capital expenditure is in the range of $3 billion to $3.5 billion per million tons a year of capacity. By that measure, the cost of the Prelude vessel, with a capacity of about 3.9 million tons a year, would easily exceed $10 billion.

Still, Iain Pyle of Bernstein Research in London figures that Shell could make $1 billion a year in net profit. Prelude will produce a lot of gas — more than enough to supply the needs of Hong Kong, for instance, Shell says.

Assuming Prelude works, it should provide Shell with a persuasive talking point when it approaches governments.

“Having the first major floating L.N.G. facility is hugely important” to Shell, says Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec in London. “It is their unique selling point.”

Above all, Shell is an architect of huge and expensive oil and gas processing machines. In tiny Qatar, for instance, it is ramping up production of a facility called Pearl. Not a tiny jewel, Pearl is a sprawling $20 billion network of pipes and tanks designed to perform the alchemy of turning Qatar’s matchless natural gas resources into even more valuable diesel and jet fuel.

Shell argues that once it builds something like Pearl or Prelude it will be able to use the experience to build subsequent projects for less money. Shell hopes that there will be a clone to the Prelude vessel.

In fact, Ms. Van Loon says Shell wants to build a new floating liquefied natural gas project each year “for the foreseeable decades.”
277 2012-11-14 The central question in the constitutional debate on the Voting Rights Act is whether times have changed enough to make the law obsolete....
278 2012-11-14 Analysis of President Obama's first news conference since his re-election last week....
279 2012-11-14 An examination of President Obama’s first news conference since his re-election last week.
280 2012-11-14 The abrupt departure of Microsoft's Steven Sinofsky. David Pogue reviews fitness bands in 60 seconds. Integrating technology into the way children play....
281 2012-11-14 TimesCast Media+Tech: The abrupt departure of Microsoft’s Steven Sinofsky. | David Pogue reviews fitness bands in 60 seconds. | Integrating technology into the way children play.
282 2012-11-14 The new investors joined Goldman Sachs in a new round of financing that values the streaming music service at $3 billion....
283 2012-11-14 Excerpts from a broader MF Global report to be released on Thursday outlined a withering critique of Jon S. Corzine’s 19-month tenure at the brokerage firm, which collapsed more than a year ago....
284 2012-11-14 In recent years, big corporations have used their size to rewrite the rules for paying the small businesses that supply them. In many cases, terms have gone from 30 days to 90 days....
285 2012-11-14 The investment vehicle of Mikhail Prokhorov, the billionaire owner of the New Jersey Nets, will buy Renaissance Capital, a Russian investment bank that has struggled to become a global financial player....
286 2012-11-14 Thursday evening a woman walked into St. Mark’s Church and began telling the sparse crowd assembled there about her trip from California. As the woman, who looked to be in her 70s, talked serenely and informally, she traveled back and forth on a diagonal, her gesticulations exaggerating those that normally accompany speech. Her musings turned to the Moon, to the center of the Earth. As she related a Hopi folk tale about staying open to the universe as you make a name for yourself, her gestures mocked, as gently as possible, the notion of becoming famous.

Her name was Simone Forti, and she is famous. The presentation was part of Judson Now, Danspace Project’s season-long look at Judson Dance Theater, the 1960s experimental collective. Ms. Forti, born in 1935, was not a Judson member, but she participated in the composition classes led by Robert Dunn that instigated the Judson movement, and her works using children’s games, everyday movement and improvisation were central to the era’s redefinition of dance.

Rather than revive any of those historical works for Judson Now, Ms. Forti offered “That Fish Is Broke,” an example of a current practice she calls “News Animation.” In this improvisational exercise she gathers a friend or two and conducts a conversation, in integrated speech and motion, about the news of the day and whatever is on their minds and thus in their bodies.

Among Ms. Forti’s friends on Thursday was Brennan Gerard, who hadn’t yet graduated from college when Ms. Forti became eligible for Medicare. Where Ms. Forti seemed imperturbable, Mr. Gerard appeared anxious, chastising and correcting himself. He expressed anger toward the world, notably toward some of the empty seat cushions, which he gave a whacking.

If Mr. Gerard had the air of a disgruntled graduate student, Terrence Luke Johnson, closer to Ms. Forti’s end of the age scale, behaved like a professor. He brought on books and told a story about German political and religious philosophers, a long-winded story that fizzled at the end.

When Mr. Johnson shared some of his personal history he was on surer ground, as was Mr. Gerard. But their contributions to the conversation failed to get it going, and most of the topical references — Hurricane Sandy, Syria, the HSBC money-laundering scandal — felt forced.
287 2012-11-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
288 2012-11-14 A former Giants quarterback says the current one is not elite. It's an impossible debate, but it's one the Jets wish they were having....
289 2012-11-14 A business owner gets his annual health care renewal rates -- along with a rundown of the many changes to come....
290 2012-11-14 A drop in the supply of workers, as much as a drop in demand, can explain the high ratio of unemployed to available jobs....
291 2012-11-14 D’Angelo Harrison, who spent two exhibition games in Coach Steve Lavin’s doghouse, broke out in the Red Storm’s season opener, scoring 22 points as St. John’s rallied to beat visiting Detroit, 77-74.

In the preseason, Harrison had been kicked out of practice, played limited minutes in the first exhibition game and none in the second for not showing the leadership qualities that Lavin says he needs from the sophomore guard, the most experienced player on the youngest team in Division I.

Chris Obekpa, a member of Lavin’s highly regarded recruiting class, had 7 points, 11 rebounds and a team-record 8 blocked shots.

It was not a perfect opening day for the Red Storm, who trailed by 37-29 at halftime and by 60-53 with 9 minutes 20 seconds left. The Red Storm finished with a 24-14 run but wavered late as Detroit (1-1) took advantage of a couple of last-minute turnovers to make it a 3-point game. Juwan Howard Jr.’s 3-point try at the buzzer was short.

UCONN 67, VERMONT 49 Shabazz Napier scored 13 points and the freshman Omar Calhoun added 12 for No. 23 Connecticut (2-0), which was playing its home opener after returning from Germany and an upset win over Michigan State. The Huskies held Vermont (1-1) to 30 percent shooting and 15 field goals.

DUKE 75, KENTUCKY 68 Seth Curry scored 23 points and No. 9 Duke held off a late comeback by No. 3 Kentucky in Atlanta, beating the defending national champions in the first matchup between the programs since 2001.MICHIGAN 77, CLEVELAND ST. 47 Tim Hardaway Jr. had 17 points and 6 rebounds as No. 5 Michigan (3-0) advanced to the semifinals of the N.I.T. Season Tip-Off with its third straight 30-point victory.
292 2012-11-14 The man repeated, over and over, “I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry,” Mateo said.

When asked if he ever saw, or spoke, to the man again, Mateo said, “No, he did enough to me already.”

Mateo’s tale of an anxiety attack on the golf course was one of several that were heard during a random stop at the course in Van Cortlandt Park. None of the golfers interviewed had read about the PGA Tour player Charlie Beljan, who had had a panic attack last week, only to forge ahead to his first career victory.

But the golfers in the Bronx did not need much prompting. Told the details of Beljan’s harrowing experience, they shook their heads in recognition.

William Larkin, 44, the general manager of the golf course in Van Cortlandt Park, said he had an anxiety attack trying to qualify for a golf tournament in Westchester County about 15 years ago and had to be taken to a hospital.

“I was getting winded going up small hills, my mouth was dry, my left arm got stiff,” he said. “I started thinking I was having a heart attack, which made everything worse.”

He said he spent two days in the hospital having tests. His symptoms had been found to be psychosomatic except for one. His worry had caused his stomach to produce higher-than-normal quantities of acids, which rose up and caused his left arm to stiffen.

“I’ll never forget that day,” he said.

There was a chilly drizzle at the old city golf course. Not a soul had shown up to play. Mateo was there to pick up his clubs; others were there in case someone actually did show up looking to play.

Kevin Sheehan, 24, the assistant general manager, said he had an anxiety attack in 2007 while trying to compete for a national collegiate tournament. He was the first up, and on his first cut — with his parents, coach, friends and adversaries watching — he hooked the ball deep into the woods, where it vanished.

He said he could feel himself start to hyperventilate as soon as the ball started to curve.

“I didn’t want to embarrass myself; I was representing my school, my team and myself most of all,” he said.

When it was time to take his provisional shot, after the other competitors all stroked straight, arcing, beautiful drives, Sheehan found his hands shaking so badly he could hardly put the tee in the ground.

“It’s kind of like someone kicks you in the stomach,” he said. “Your wind is gone, your heart’s pounding, your hands clam up, you can’t keep them from shaking.”

He added, “I wish I could’ve had a cigarette.”

Thom Mangan, 60, the assistant course superintendent, offered an unusual twist on the anxiety attack tale. He said his most memorable panic attack on a golf course came when he played too well.

One day in 1990, he had carded three birdies in a row, something he had never done before, something he has never done since. Instead of reveling in the accomplishment, he instead suddenly felt his heart begin to hammer, and his arms shook.

He demonstrated the sensation, looking like an ape shaking the bars of a cage at a zoo.

“It’s like whatever you were doing before was an unexamined life,” he said, “and then suddenly you’re waiting for the wheels to fall off.”

On his fourth hole, he made a terrible shot, barely clearing a small pond on a simple hole he had played countless times before.

“It was like a dummy slap,” Mangan said.

The friends he was playing with found the spectacle hilarious.

“They were laughing; they’re my buddies, how do you think they’d act?” he said. “It was a reality check.”
293 2012-11-14 “It’s a strategy used regularly in the children’s marketing business, and when it’s well executed it can reinvigorate a property,” said Marty Brochstein, senior vice president for industry relations and information at the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers’ Association. Among the other examples he offered were Clifford the Big Red Dog and Thomas the Tank Engine.

The “approval and empathy” generated by the fact that parents and grandparents may remember Babar give the character “a seal of approval,” Mr. Brochstein said. “The classic nature of a Babar is a security blanket for retailers and licensees.”

Andrew Kerr, head of consumer products for North America and the Australia-Asia region at Nelvana, acknowledged the challenge, particularly in North America, of “taking a brand perceived to be an overseas brand and bringing it to life on shelf in retail.”

That process has been aided by a new animated children’s television series, “Babar and the Adventures of Badou,” in Canada and the United States. (Badou is a grandson of Babar’s whose age, 8, makes the character more relatable to its target audience.)

Nelvana and Ross are looking to sell Babar books and merchandise “across three strata of retail,” Mr. Kerr said.

The top tier is composed of stores like Saks and Books of Wonder, which are frequented by many older parents and grandparents.

Books of Wonder is representative of the “independent book retailer,” Mr. Kerr said, which is to be “rewarded for supporting the Babar brand over the last several decades.”

Peter Glassman, president and owner of Books of Wonder, is an admirer of Babar’s.

Babar has long been “one of the mainstays of our classic picture book section,” Mr. Glassman said, so when Nelvana approached him about the anniversary celebration, “we were flattered and thrilled to participate.”

“They’re working with us to transform the store into a Babar wonderland,” he added. In addition to Babar books, this “wonderland” will include products from Yottoy, like plush dolls bearing the Yottoy brand, and wooden toys made by a French company, Vilac.

Mr. Glassman said he was wary of overcommercializing Babar. “Nelvana shares a sensitivity to the Babar material,” he said. “If they had done Babar beer, or Babar ninja figures, I would have been upset. So far, everything is being done with a great deal of respect.”

The second retail tier consists of outlets like department stores, and the third tier of mass-market retailers like Target and Walmart. The Babar campaign’s initial efforts are focused on the top tier, Mr. Kerr said, and the others will follow in a year or two.

Yottoy supplies merchandise based on licensers’ classic and contemporary characters to all three retail tiers. Its customers include Books of Wonder and Saks on the high end, Barnes & Noble in the middle and Toys “R” Us on the mass-market level.

Yottoy specializes “in a lot of classic properties,” said Kate Clark, the company’s president and co-founder. She listed examples like Paddington Bear, Madeline and the Velveteen Rabbit.

In those instances, said Peter Doodeheefver, Yottoy’s creative director and co-founder, “we try to create a toy that evokes the feel of the time the character originated in.” So the Babar and Celeste plush toys “have a classic silhouette that represents the classic toys from almost 80 years ago,” he said, “like your grandmother played with them.”

Mr. Brochstein said he thought Nelvana and Ross were “doing all the right stuff” to stimulate interest in Babar, and added that having an upscale retailer like Saks as a partner was appropriate for a character born in France. “There, the European aspect of Babar works,” he said. “It makes total sense.”

Sometimes, though, Mr. Brochstein cautioned, licensers “catch bad luck” — as when, for instance, another character being introduced at the same time “pushes to the side” the one the licensers are bringing out.

Mon Dieu! Would anyone dare do that to the king and queen of the elephants?
294 2012-11-14 Critics have rejected these initiatives as half steps — they complain that the court, for example, is neutered because the king appoints its judges — and the monarchy has jailed dozens of activists on charges including incitement to change the Constitution and to overthrow the government, which can carry the death penalty. In October, the king dissolved Parliament and appointed Jordan’s fourth prime minister in a year.

Facing a $3 billion deficit, attributed largely to the disappearance of financial aid from gulf states, the government tried to reduce fuel subsidies — effectively raising prices — by 10 percent in September, only to reverse itself a day later after thousands took to the streets. Late Tuesday, the cabinet again announced a drop in subsidies that would result in increases of 14 percent on prices at the pump and more than 50 percent in gas used for cooking, leading to what Mr. Adailah said were more than 100 demonstrations across the kingdom.

Jordan is an important ally of the United States, helping to preserve its peace treaty with Israel and offering crucial intelligence support in Iraq and on terrorism. But its stability has long been precarious, with its population of six million divided between Palestinian refugees and natives, known as East Bankers, and frequent spillover from the fighting across its borders in Iraq and Syria.

About 200,000 refugees from the civil war in Syria have flooded into the country in recent months, further taxing economic and natural resources. Jordan’s divisions had for some time shielded it from the kind of unified opposition that brought down leaders in Egypt and Tunisia, but now, activists are saying, frustration has become a unifying force.

Nathan Thrall, an analyst with the International Crisis Group, a research organization that works to prevent conflicts, said that when the Arab Spring revolutions began in Tunisia, Libya and Egypt, he considered the chance of something similar happening in Jordan to be remote. Now, Mr. Thrall said, he and other experts see it as far more likely, if still a long shot.

“If people realize that things will develop in a negative way and they will not be able to make ends meet, they will take matters into their own hands,” said Labib Kamhawi, a political activist and analyst who is scheduled to appear in court this month on charges of sedition, defamation, threatening national unity and disrespecting government institutions, based on comments he made on television in July. “As things become more crucial and more challenging for the regime, the measures used will be tougher and more sinister.”

Zaki Bani Irsheid, vice chairman of the Muslim Brotherhood, long Jordan’s leading opposition force, said in an interview before the latest flare of discontent that throughout the past two years his faction had expanded alliances with the extremists known as Salafists, unions and the loose-knit, largely secular protest movement known as the Hirak.

“Is the regime waiting for an explosion in Jordan so his end will be like the Egyptian end or the Tunisian end?” Mr. Irsheid asked, referring to the king. “We are insisting on creating the Jordanian spring with a Jordanian flavor, which means reforming our regime and keeping our Hirak peaceful.”

Samih al-Maitah, Jordan’s minister of information — also speaking before gas-price protests broke out — made a parallel argument. “The Arab Spring is not one model, it’s not Mubarak in prison,” he said, referring to Hosni Mubarak, the deposed Egyptian president. “The Arab Spring gave us the opportunity to reform in Jordan. There were changes in the Constitution, new legislative laws and new elections that will open up the door for something more. There is success. Maybe not enough; we’ll always want more.”

Among the new laws was one passed in September that the government said was needed to organize Jordan’s robust online news industry, but that critics see as a crackdown on expression. The law requires Jordan’s more than 400 news sites to register with the government, hire a member of the journalists’ union as an editor, and keep reader comments on their servers for six months so they can be reviewed by the intelligence service. It also allows for lawsuits against both those who write comments and multiple editors for the content of the comments, which has led a dozen of the most independent sites to block reader feedback in recent weeks in protest.

“The comments give a spirit and soul to our articles, and some of them give very vital and important information,” said Basil Okoor, who runs one of the sites, jo24.net, and heads a group of 60 of them fighting the law. “It is a barometer. It could be a way to start to understand people, what makes them tick, and this is all in danger.”

Mr. Maitah, the information minister, said the online news industry had been “good for Jordan,” but that the law was needed “to give it support for its ethics and its professionalism and to institutionalize it,” particularly because “people were using comments to insult people.”

But a coalition of unions, political organizations and civil society groups that formed this fall denounced the law as an “outcast” that “puts Jordan on the list of authoritarian states that are hostile to Internet freedoms.”

Fadi Masamreh, 23, who reports on demonstrations for another of the news sites, Khabarjo, was arrested Sept. 12 at a sit-in at the Interior Ministry, and released along with 19 others on Oct. 24. The charges against him — cursing the king, gathering illegally, inciting against the Constitution and the government — are pending.

“The people will not be quiet,” he said in an interview a few days after his release. “Those who want to fight for change have to present sacrifices. If my arrest will be invested toward this change, I have no problem being in prison again 43 years, not 43 days.”
295 2012-11-14 Minnesota Timberwolves swingman Chase Budinger will miss the next three to four months while recovering from surgery to repair a torn lateral meniscus in his left knee. Minnesota is already playing without Kevin Love, Ricky Rubio, J. J. Barea and Brandon Roy because of injuries. Budinger is averaging 11.8 points and had helped fill in for Roy.
296 2012-11-14 A grand jury in Houston dismissed a misdemeanor resisting-arrest charge against Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson. Peterson was arrested in July outside a nightclub, was handcuffed and was briefly jailed after a confrontation with an off-duty police officer. Peterson said in court a week after the incident that he “didn’t push, shove, touch anything to anyone that night, especially an officer.” The case is expected to be formally dropped Wednesday, Peterson’s lawyer said.
297 2012-11-14 “It goes this way pretty much every time there’s some big political event in Beijing: the DVDs are gone, the prostitutes are gone, and the Internet’s slower,” said David van Meerendonk, an American who operates an information technology company here. “They’re struggling to find a balancing point.”

Over the past couple of weeks, partial blocking has crippled access to Google and other sites, at times completely. It has also disrupted programs that many people here use to circumvent surveillance and reach blocked overseas sites by other means. Some Internet providers have cut service for hours, citing “maintenance.” Democracy activists and foreign journalists have reported increased attacks on their e-mail accounts.

On domestic social networks, already vigorously policed, censors have fine-tuned their craft. Sina Weibo, the nation’s most popular microblogging site, has experimented with “semi-censorship,”as one blog termed it, filtering search results for once-unsearchable terms. One semi-censored term was the Chinese shorthand for the party congress itself: shiba da. Blocking it had prompted some of China’s more playful microbloggers to resort to a similar-sounding English substitute: “Sparta.”

Hu Jintao, China’s departing leader, in his report on the opening day of the congress last Thursday, gave no sign of any relaxation in controls. “We should strengthen social management of the Internet and promote standardized and orderly network operation,” he said.

The police and other agencies rely on legions of local censors, automated filtering and strict regulation of Internet service providers.

GreatFire.org, a Chinese-based blog that tracks government filtering, found in tests this month that Google e-mail was being partly blocked, and that blocking intensified after the congress began. One possible explanation for the strategy was that “authorities are nervous of fully blocking Gmail,” it said. “The government may be scared of a backlash from the urban, educated and young people who tend to use Gmail, not to mention the businesses that rely on it.”

In late summer, the police stepped up jamming on circumvention software, according to two party insiders with Chinese security ties. Students who use Freegate, free software backed by the banned spiritual movement Falun Gong, said that as early as August they experienced unusually frequent disruptions.

China says its online security policies are needed to fight pervasive fraud, cyberattacks, pornography and rumormongering.

But many of the controls seem aimed more at checking antigovernment activity. And the latest effort to enlist business represents a new front for the systems, already installed at many hotels, schools and coffee chains. Many corporations, especially foreign companies, use encryption and circumvention technologies to safeguard communications, allowing local employees to use blocked Web sites and skirt police surveillance.

This past summer, the Internet police in the provinces of Hebei and Shandong ordered three American companies to install the monitoring systems at local joint ventures, according to a spokesman for the Quality Brands Protection Committee, a foreign industry group representing more than 200 major corporations operating in China.

Elsewhere, American, Japanese and Korean companies received similar orders, executives said. They requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak for their companies and feared compromising local business relationships.

The orders, first reported by CNN, cited existing regulations and designated vendors. The police in the Hebei city of Qinhuangdao notified one company that it would face a fine of 15,000 renminbi, or about $2,400, and lose Internet service for half a year if it did not install the system by mid-August.

Technology specialists warned that foreign companies installing the devices could be directly exposed to intellectual property theft and cyberattacks.

“This box, in addition to being able to monitor any queries about Tiananmen Square or Tibet or the Dalai Lama, also would be able to intercept all network communications from the China operations back to headquarters,” said Thomas Parenty, an information security consultant for foreign companies in China.

The Quality Brands committee spokesman said he believed the initiative amounted to overzealous local enforcement rather than national policy. The group has raised its concerns with the police and commerce ministries.

The ministries did not respond to questions.

Sometimes, enforcement seemed superficial. “I said, ‘We don’t have a network, so I could not use the piece of equipment,’ ” said the manager of one Western company, recalling the day the Beijing police tried to carry out the directive.

“He said, ‘Just sign.’ So I did,” the manager added. “I did not buy any equipment. I think the idea was to create fear that they can and will check.”
298 2012-11-14 SAN FRANCISCO — California’s fledging market-based system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions makes its formal debut on Wednesday with its auction of state-issued pollution allowances.

More than six years in the making, the state’s so-called cap-and-trade program sets limits on carbon dioxide emissions for virtually all sectors of California’s economy, the ninth-largest in the world. Emissions allowances are allotted to polluters, and companies whose emissions exceed their allocations must either obtain extra allowances or buy credits from projects that cut greenhouse gas emissions.

Almost all of the 23.1 million allowances that California has given out to utilities and industry for complying with the program in 2013 have been free; the auction will measure how they are actually valued by the market. Some 39.5 million allowances covering emissions in 2015 will also be on sale Wednesday.

Sealed bids can be submitted over the Internet in the three-hour auction, with the results to be announced on Monday.

Depending on who is talking, the auction is a historic threshold in slowing climate change, or economic self-immolation that will cause refiners, cement makers or other companies to flee.
299 2012-11-14 But the study omits some major expenses, like college, and it cuts off at age 17, when adolescents have started driving and venturing into other life experiences that generally cost more. Also absent is an accounting of indirect costs, like forgone earnings. “We don’t include that because we don’t have good data on that,” said Mark Lino, the economist behind the study.

What’s more, those figures include only a fraction of the expenditures that might not be made if a family had no children, like buying a house in a neighborhood with better schools or getting a family pet.

For most of history, having children was a given, but the availability of contraception has made it a lifestyle choice, something you can plan for. Compared with previous generations, more women today are forgoing having children. The Pew Social and Demographic Trends report found that in 2008 the percentage of American women who did not have children by their early to mid-40s was double what it was in 1976.

Having children has enormous financial consequences, but anyone trying to determine just how high those are will have a difficult time. Tools to help you decide whether you can afford to have a child are harder to come by than retirement calculators. The books that I’ve found on the subject, like “Maybe Baby” and “Why Have Kids?” mention little more than the idea that money gets tighter when there are more mouths to feed.

“People who haven’t had children are completely unaware of the extreme financial impact it has on your life,” says Kristin Harad, a certified financial planner who founded VitaVie, a company that specializes in helping new parents. “They are absolutely shocked.”

Not only are children expensive, but any estimate of their lifetime cost has to include the often significant loss of income from becoming a mother, even if she continues working full time.

It’s important to remember that the costs don’t necessarily disappear completely once children leave the nest, or even after they finish college, get jobs or even marry and have children of their own. Thanks to wage stagnation and high unemployment and underemployment, more young adults are living with their parents, or accepting financial help to live on their own.

I cannot fathom how anyone could enter into this without a number of some sort in mind, so I decided to come up with a rough estimate of what it would cost my spouse and I to have a child.

I started with Dr. Lino’s figures in the Agriculture Department report. I then added housing, child care, health insurance, public university tuition and other expenses. You can see how I broke it down in a post on the Bucks blog.

If we were to have a child and do what most other parents around us do in trying to give a new life the very best start possible, we would probably spend over $1.7 million in today’s dollars.

The number is actually the easier part of all. Deciding whether to have children is so difficult because it requires evaluating benefits you simply cannot know or understand unless you experience them firsthand.

Some people have a profound emotional desire to have children. But I don’t. Young as we are, it would take a pretty big financial, practical and emotional shift for that to change.

My husband and I have good jobs, a supportive family and a happy home. We both enjoy being around children and find babies unfailingly adorable.

Still, financial security is a very high priority. My worry that I may not always be able to guarantee that for my family is a major factor in my decision-making, although it’s hardly the only consideration. And while I may never feel financially at ease enough to comfortably afford children of my own, I take heart in knowing that my husband and I will be able to give an extra boost to the young people in our lives we already know and love, and the others that we will grow to love.

Part of what I imagine makes parenting so hard is the challenge of making financial compromises, and the emotional fallout from those choices. It must be difficult to accept that no matter how you set aside your own interests, you cannot afford the very best of everything for your child.

And sometimes the interests of a parent and a child conflict head-on. Parents see their original financial goals derailed in favor of new ones. Saving money and paying down debt is even harder when earnings have diminished and expenses have increased because of the addition of a new stakeholder who is now the most important priority.

“But who will care for you when you are old and sick?” some well-intentioned people ask. I don’t believe in bringing people into the world for personal gain, and even if I did, swapping the supposed promise of elder care for the certain need for us to provide child care is not worth it.

I’ve learned from firsthand experience that the professional support that comes from good long-term care and health insurance policies is superior to what family can offer. When I was the primary caregiver for my father as he was dying of pancreatic cancer, it was painfully clear to me that regardless of how much I loved him and how hard I tried to care for him, a qualified professional would have done a better job.

Besides, children are not an insurance policy for eldercare. Health care providers will tell you that hospitals and nursing homes serve many parents and grandparents who don’t have regular visitors.

Parenting involves lots of sacrifices, and that is partly why I am disinclined to try it. But choosing not to have children does not reflect selfishness, or at least no more than parents display in having children in the first place. People don’t decide to have children because those hypothetical offspring need someone to care for them; those children’s needs don’t exist until they are brought into the world.

People choose to become parents for all kinds of reasons: because they crave the emotional connection that comes with loving and being loved and needed by a child, to pass on their genetic and cultural traits and to strengthen other family bonds.

And if we decide against doing so, it will partly be out of concern for the welfare of others. My husband in particular worries that creating more human lives strains an already overtaxed planet.

I tried to glean some insight from my discussions with women who are personal finance and parenting experts. I hoped they would help me reconcile the knowable and unknowable advantages and disadvantages of having children. Instead I was assured that a cost-benefit analysis was neither necessary nor helpful, and that one day I would feel the urge to procreate, and so I would.

The more compelling conversations were with other mothers — neighbors, friends and co-workers — to whom I casually mentioned that I was writing an article about considering not having children. Before I could even put it in a financial context, more than a few of them cut me off to say just three words: Good for you.
300 2012-11-14 The C.I.A. is suddenly without a permanent director at a time of urgent intelligence challenges in Syria, Iran, Libya and beyond. The leader of the American-led effort to prevent a Taliban takeover in Afghanistan is distracted, at the least, by an inquiry into his e-mail exchanges with Ms. Kelley by the Defense Department’s inspector general.

For privacy advocates, the case sets off alarms.

“There should be an investigation not of the personal behavior of General Petraeus and General Allen, but of what surveillance powers the F.B.I. used to look into their private lives,” Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said in an interview. “This is a textbook example of the blurring of lines between the private and the public.”

Law enforcement officials have said they used only ordinary methods in the case, which might have included grand jury subpoenas and search warrants. As the complainant, Ms. Kelley presumably granted F.B.I. specialists access to her computer, which they would have needed in their hunt for clues to the identity of the sender of the anonymous e-mails. While they were looking, they discovered General Allen’s e-mails, which F.B.I. superiors found “potentially inappropriate” and decided should be shared with the Defense Department.

In a parallel process, the investigators gained access, probably using a search warrant, to Ms. Broadwell’s Gmail account. There they found messages that turned out to be from Mr. Petraeus.

Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington, said the chain of unexpected disclosures was not unusual in computer-centric cases.

“It’s a particular problem with cyberinvestigations — they rapidly become open-ended because there’s such a huge quantity of information available and it’s so easily searchable,” he said, adding, “If the C.I.A. director can get caught, it’s pretty much open season on everyone else.”

For years now, as national security officials and experts have warned of a Pearl Harbor cyberattack that could fray the electrical grid or collapse stock markets, policy makers have jostled over which agencies should be assigned the delicate task of monitoring the Internet for dangerous intrusions.

Advocates of civil liberties have been especially wary of the National Security Agency, whose expertise is unrivaled but whose immense surveillance capabilities they see as frightening. They have successfully urged that the Department of Homeland Security take the leading role in cybersecurity.

That is in part because the D.H.S., if far from entirely open to public scrutiny, is much less secretive than the N.S.A., the eavesdropping and code-breaking agency. To this day, N.S.A. officials have revealed almost nothing about the warrantless wiretapping it conducted inside the United States in the hunt for terrorists in the years after 2001, even after the secret program was disclosed by The New York Times in 2005 and set off a political firestorm.

The hazards of the Web as record keeper, of course, are a familiar topic. New college graduates find that their Facebook postings give would-be employers pause. Husbands discover wives’ infidelity by spotting incriminating e-mails on a shared computer. Teachers lose their jobs over impulsive Twitter comments.

But the events of the last few days have shown how law enforcement investigators who plunge into the private territories of cyberspace looking for one thing can find something else altogether, with astonishingly destructive results.

Some people may applaud those results, at least in part. By having a secret extramarital affair, for instance, Mr. Petraeus was arguably making himself vulnerable to blackmail, which would be a serious concern for a top intelligence officer. What if Russian or Chinese intelligence, rather than the F.B.I., had discovered the e-mails between the C.I.A. director and Ms. Broadwell?

Likewise, military law prohibits adultery — which General Allen’s associates say he denies committing — and some kinds of relationships. So should an officer’s privacy really be total?

But some commentators have renewed an argument that a puritanical American culture overreacts to sexual transgressions that have little relevance to job performance. “Most Americans were dismayed that General Petraeus resigned,” said Mr. Romero of the A.C.L.U.

That old debate now takes place in a new age of electronic information. The public shaming that labeled the adulterer in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Letter” might now be accomplished by an F.B.I. search warrant or an N.S.A. satellite dish.
301 2012-11-15 The stations, in New York City, on Long Island and in Westchester County, raised their prices after Hurricane Sandy, charging $4.74 to $5.50 a gallon, the New York attorney general said....
302 2012-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
303 2012-11-15 Odd-even gas rationing is ending in Nassau and Suffolk Counties at 11:59 p.m. Friday, though rationing will remain in effect until further notice in New York City....
304 2012-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
305 2012-11-15 A day after naming 70 executives to its elite partnership, Goldman Sachs has promoted 266 to managing director, the next rung down from partner....
306 2012-11-15 Two members of the Metropolitan Museum of Art have sued the museum, contending that it misleads the public into thinking that its admission fees - $25 for adults, and less for seniors and students - are mandatory and not simply suggested....
307 2012-11-15 The Senator who wants to hold Watergate-style hearings about Benghazi missed a classified briefing about...Benghazi....
308 2012-11-15 Whether they live near the coast or not, state taxpayers and insurance ratepayers are likely to be on the hook when damage from hurricanes exceeds insurance policy reserves....
309 2012-11-15 The group is urging Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to push for a system of public financing for state elections....
310 2012-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
311 2012-11-15 As he plans a climate education push, President Obama says emission plans still have to mesh with economic priorities....
312 2012-11-15 Lovers of animation of all kinds are highly encouraged to head over to the New Museum on November 17 for a one-time screening of 20 new cutting-edge short films....
313 2012-11-15 It's hard for a parent to be with a child who's suffering-but it's hard on kids when their parents push them to look on the bright side....
314 2012-11-15 If there was still any thought that President Obama and Senator John McCain might eventually move past their once-bitter White House rivalry, it was all but dashed on Wednesday....
315 2012-11-15 Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington....
316 2012-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
317 2012-11-15 President Alassane Ouattara, left, dissolved his 36-member cabinet on Wednesday, said Amadou Gon Coulibaly, the general secretary of the presidency. The president was said to have come to that decision after a dispute in Parliament on Tuesday over a possible amendment to the country’s marriage law. The amendment would make husbands and wives equal heads of a household. Under the current law, the husband makes decisions in the name of the family. President Ouattara’s party supported the change.
318 2012-11-15 For the second night in a row, collectors from around the globe dropped millions of dollars for blue-chip American contemporary artists, paying record-breaking prices at Christie’s on Wednesday for brand names like Franz Kline, Jeff Koons, Jean-Michel Basquiat and Richard Diebenkorn.

In two and a half hours of relentless bidding, the auction brought in $412.2 million, just above its high $411.8 million estimate and the highest total ever for a contemporary art auction at Christie’s (as well as the second-highest total ever for any auction there; the highest, $491.5 million, was made by a sale of Impressionist and modern art in 2006.) The auction also brought significantly more than Sotheby’s sale of contemporary art on Tuesday night, which itself made the highest total for any sale in Sotheby’s history, $375.1 million.

Christie’s had clues that it had a blockbuster on its hands several days before the auction. In addition to a great deal of interest in the sale from collectors around the world, Brett Gorvy, chairman of Christie’s postwar and contemporary art department worldwide, said there had been a record number of requests for sky boxes — those invitation-only spaces secreted a floor above the salesroom, where the superrich can watch and bid without being seen.

And on Wednesday, with the salesroom overflowing with spectators, everyone got a good show. Its biggest star was Warhol’s 1962 painting “Statue of Liberty,” which brought $39 million, or $43.7 million with fees. Making much of the fact that it is silk-screened in red over green ink on a white background in a way that creates the illusion of a 3-D image, Christie’s tucked cardboard pairs of 3-D glasses into every catalog. The estimate for the work was listed as available “on request” in the catalog, but experts at the auction house had said before the auction that they thought it would go for around $35 million.
319 2012-11-15 Re “Petraeus Case: Issue of Privacy Is in Play, Too” (news analysis, front page, Nov. 14):

A truly disturbing question at the heart of this case is why the Tampa office of the F.B.I. opened an investigation in the first place based on the complaint of a private citizen, Jill Kelley, worried about harassing e-mails. I doubt that the F.B.I. would open a case if I complained.

Adding to the worry is the behavior of the F.B.I. agent who reportedly sent photos of himself shirtless to Ms. Kelley and then leaked the story of the investigation to Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, when he thought the investigation had stalled. Could that F.B.I. agent (or others) have been trying to affect the presidential election?

In recent days I’ve heard some people suggest that politicians’ personal lives should be off-limits. They refer back to Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and so on, who were presidents at a time when the press had a tacit agreement not to expose affairs.

But I disagree. The women’s movement of the 1970s exposed this double standard, part of the “old boys’ network” of the past, and demanded that it end.

Now that more women have entered the professions of law, medicine, politics and business, things have changed for the better. The misdeeds of Bill Clinton, John Edwards, Anthony Weiner and others have been exposed, and I think the information is relevant to their character. Voters have a right to this information.

Let’s not go back to the days when there was a conspiracy of silence among men to sweep these things under the rug.
320 2012-11-15 The survey findings parallel those in studies by the American College Health Association, which show that as a drain on students’ mental health, finances rank second only to academics, and ahead of intimate relationships, lack of sleep and family problems. About one-third of students in those surveys say that in the prior year, financial concerns have been “traumatic or very difficult to handle.”

The National Survey of Student Engagement dates to 2000 and is conducted annually, concentrating primarily on academic issues. The survey does not release scores by institution, but it does show colleges their own results and how they compare with their peers. School administrators have come to see it as a valuable tool for assessing their institutions.

As in the past, this year’s survey asked students about practices that research has shown to improve learning, like frequent interaction with professors, collaboration with other students, studying abroad and doing internships. The results showed sharp variations by demographics and major area of study.

Students in sciences like astronomy, biochemistry and physics, for example, were more than twice as likely as their peers in other fields to participate in research with faculty members, and among the least likely to combine their academics with some kind of community service.

Black students were more likely to work collaboratively than those in other racial and ethnic groups. Women spent significantly more hours studying than men did, and students at undergraduate colleges of arts and sciences studied more than those at universities with graduate programs.

For the first time, the survey asked why students chose their majors, and more than half said a central reason was having the skills to find a job and advance a career. Students in science and technology fields were far more likely than others to give that answer, while white students were far less likely than their Hispanic, black or Asian classmates.

This year’s survey also looked at the booming population of college students who take their classes online, who tend to be older than traditional college students. It found that the remote learners spent more time studying — which is consistent with the age difference — but fell short on many other measures of engagement.
321 2012-11-15 The Federal Housing Administration’s annual report is expected to show a sharp deterioration in the agency’s financial condition, including a shortfall in reserves, the result of escalating losses on the $1.1 trillion in mortgages that it insures, according to people with knowledge of the entity’s operations.

The F.H.A., the Department of Housing and Urban Development unit that insures home mortgages, reports on its capital reserves at the end of each fiscal year and makes projections for its financial position in the coming year. If the report, due later this week, showed that the F.H.A.’s capital reserves had fallen deep into negative territory, it would be a stark reversal from projections last year that it would show a positive economic value of $9.4 billion in 2012.

Capital reserves are kept to cover future losses. Outsiders have questioned whether the agency would some day need an infusion from Treasury if its reserves are insufficient.

Alex Wohl, a spokesman for the F.H.A., said, “We’re not going to comment on it until the actuarial report comes out on Friday.”

This year, the F.H.A. has tried to improve its financial position by raising the premiums that it levies on loans and increasing its volume significantly. But those efforts may have been negated by rising loan losses, even on mortgages that it insured long after the credit crisis took hold.
322 2012-11-15 Violence was most severe in Irbid, where the authorities said a police station was attacked by armed demonstrators, leading to the fatal shooting of Qasi Omari, 22, and injuries to a dozen police officers and four protesters. A police corporal was also injured when someone fired an automatic pistol from a moving car, the police said in a statement.

In Madaba, an ancient city that draws tourists to its holy sites, protesters tore down the king’s picture and burned it, according to an activist who was there, then smashed windows of several banks, pulling the furniture from one and setting it aflame. Witnesses reported the looting of a discount store for government employees in Salt, and the riot police in Tafileh firing bullets into the air. In Karak, a southern city known for its staunch support of the monarchy, protesters burned the house of the governor. “He’s representing the king, and our problem is with the king today,” explained Basel Beshapsheh, a longtime leader of antigovernment activities.

In Amman, dozens of officers in helmets and body armor blocked access to Dakhliyeh Circle, a popular sit-in site, so hundreds crowded in front of their line, chanting things like “The people know who is the corrupt guy.” The demonstration began peacefully, but after a few hours protesters threw rocks and burned tires, and officers responded with tear gas.

Sana Ghaith, an artist who said she earned about $211 per month, was a first-time protester who joined the Dakhliyeh gathering. “I can’t afford the living conditions,” she said to explain why she showed up. “I don’t want anything to happen in the country, but I want them to fix the prices. I’m divided. I’m angry, and I’m scared for the country.”

The catalyst for the outburst was the announcement on Tuesday that, facing a deficit of more than $3 billion, the government would reduce fuel subsidies, effectively increasing the price of gasoline for cars to $1.13 per liter from 99 cents, and of gas for cooking to $14.10 from $9.17.

Jaafar Hassan, Jordan’s planning minister, said in an interview on Wednesday night that the change was necessary because fuel costs had quintupled in the past two years, consuming 18 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. He pointed out that unlike a price increase announced in September and withdrawn after a day of demonstrations, this one was coupled with a compensation package that would provide three-quarters of Jordanian households with $100 per person per year — something apparently lost on the protesters.

“We have to do the utmost to live up to the expectations,” Mr. Hassan said, “and don’t forget the expectations are very high here in the region. How do you meet the increasing expectations with the rising costs and the economic situation? That’s the challenge that we are facing.”

The foreign minister, Nasser Judeh, said the government had tried to respond to the opposition over the past year with the establishment of an independent elections commission before balloting set for January and the formation of a constitutional court, among other changes. “The political reform process, the social reform process, is on track, and the economic reform process has to be on track,” he said.

Protesters blame corruption for the economic problems, not the reduction in financial aid from Persian Gulf states or the shortage of cheap gas from Egypt. Leaders of the opposition movement said Wednesday night that they had to intervene to stop the first-time protesters from violence, after spending much of the day in strategy sessions on how to leverage the new energy in their movement.

“Our role has become to calm people down,” said Mr. Beshapsheh, the activist in Karak.

Mohammed Hussein, 29, a teacher at the Amman protest, said he was worried by the “new faces” because “these are the ones who will be a danger to the public property.”

In Tafileh, Saed Oran, the head of the local teachers’ union, said the protests on Wednesday drew many he had never seen before.

“The danger point is that these people, they don’t understand what demonstrations are about and how to behave in a demonstration,” Mr. Oran said. “They now are a turning point in the movement and the demonstrations, and they are a critical turning point. You cannot control them because they don’t have anyone responsible for them or anyone driving them.”
323 2012-11-15 Frederick W. Humphries II, a counterterrorism agent, took the initial complaint from Jill Kelley about e-mails accusing  her of inappropriate behavior toward David H. Petraeus....
324 2012-11-15 But when the gene is mutated, the brain’s white blood cells are hobbled, making them less effective in their attack on beta amyloid.

People with the mutated gene have a threefold to fivefold increase in the likelihood of developing Alzheimer’s disease in old age.

The intact gene, says John Hardy of University College London, “is a safety net.” And those with the mutation, he adds, “are living life without a safety net.” Dr. Hardy is lead author of one of the papers.

The discovery also suggests that a new type of drug could be developed to enhance the gene’s activity, perhaps allowing the brain’s white blood cells to do their work.

“The field is in desperate need of new therapeutic agents,” said Alison Goate, an Alzheimer’s researcher at Washington University in St. Louis who contributed data to Dr. Hardy’s study. “This will give us an alternative approach.”

The fact that two research groups converged on the same gene gives experts confidence in the findings. Both studies were published online Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine. “Together they make a good case that this really is an Alzheimer’s gene,” said Gerard Schellenberg, an Alzheimer’s researcher at the University of Pennsylvania who was not involved with the work.

The other gene found to raise the odds that a person will get Alzheimer’s, ApoE4, is much more common and confers about the same risk as the mutated version of TREM2. But it is still not clear why ApoE4, discovered in 1993, makes Alzheimer’s more likely.

Because the mutations in the newly discovered gene are rare, occurring in no more than 2 percent of Alzheimer’s patients, it makes no sense to start screening people for them, Dr. Thies said. Instead, the discovery provides new clues to the workings of Alzheimer’s disease.

To find the gene, a research group led by Dr. Kari Stefansson of deCODE Genetics of Iceland started with a simple question.

“We asked, ‘Can we find anything in the genome that separates those who are admitted to nursing homes before the age of 75 and those who are still living at home at 85?’ ” he said.

Scientists searched the genomes of 2,261 Icelanders and zeroed in on TREM2. Mutations in that gene were more common among people with Alzheimer’s, as well as those who did not have an Alzheimer’s diagnosis but who had memory problems and might be on their way to developing Alzheimer’s.

The researchers confirmed their results by looking for the gene in people with and without Alzheimer’s in populations studied at Emory University, as well as in Norway, the Netherlands and Germany.

The TREM2 connection surprised Dr. Stefansson. Although researchers have long noticed that the brain is inflamed in Alzheimer’s patients, he had dismissed inflammation as a major factor in the disease.

“I was of the opinion that the immune system would play a fairly small role, if any, in Alzheimer’s disease,” Dr. Stefansson said. “This discovery cured me of that bias.”

Meanwhile, Dr. Hardy and Rita Guerreiro at University College London, along with Andrew Singleton at the National Institute on Aging, were intrigued by a strange, rare disease. Only a few patients had been identified, but their symptoms were striking. They had crumbling bones and an unusual dementia, sclerosing leukoencephalopathy.

He saw one patient in her 30s whose brain disease manifested in sexually inappropriate behavior. Also, her bones kept breaking. The disease was caused by mutations that disabled both the copy of TREM2 that she had inherited from her mother and the one from her father.

Eventually the researchers searched for people who had a mutation in just one copy of TREM2. To their surprise, it turned out that these people were likely to have Alzheimer’s disease.

They then asked researchers around the world who had genetic data from people with and without Alzheimer’s to look for TREM2 mutations.

“Sure enough, they had good evidence,” Dr. Hardy said. The mutations occurred in one-half of 1 percent of the general population but in 1 to 2 percent of patients with Alzheimer’s disease.
325 2012-11-15 Big businesses reaching out to help smaller businesses has come into vogue since the recession. In 2009, Goldman Sachs introduced its 10,000 Small Businesses campaign. Starbucks raises money from customer donations to finance small-business loans. American Express encourages consumers to shop locally on “Small Business Saturday” after Thanksgiving. The New York Stock Exchange links small vendors with large corporations and finances loans through Accion. And several corporations have run contests — Wal-Mart, Chase Bank and Staples have furnished winning small companies with opportunities for retail distribution, capital and office equipment.

It is the latest example of what is known in corporate circles as cause marketing — hitching a brand to a social issue. “How you improve the American economy and create jobs is on everybody’s minds these days,” said David Hessekiel, founder and president of Cause Marketing Forum. “Companies know that it’s on the minds of their consumers, and they want to be seen as part of the solution, not as the enemy.”

That has been a particular concern for chains like Wal-Mart and Starbucks, given their longstanding reputations for forcing local competitors to close. Helping small businesses, Mr. Hessekiel said, “helps them deal with an old issue.”

But some critics of the big chains dismiss their chivalry as mostly cosmetic.

“The public relations value of being associated with small business is quite high,” said Stacy Mitchell, a senior researcher at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a nonprofit based in Minneapolis and Washington that promotes strong local economies. “You’ve got companies that have very aggressive expansion strategies — they’re really squeezing out opportunities for small businesses. These programs do very little compared to the larger shifts in market share that these companies are driving. They’re drops in the bucket.”

For its part, the Boston Beer program actually predates the recent economic crisis. The seeds of the idea, Mr. Koch said, came to him in 2007 as he walked to his car after he and his employees had volunteered to paint a nearby community center. “I should have felt really good, and I didn’t — I felt a little depressed,” he said. “What I realized is, I’d just taken about $10,000 worth of management time and talent, and turned it into about $1,000 worth of painting. And it was pretty bad painting, too.”

Mr. Koch retooled his company’s philanthropy to take advantage of its resources, particularly its employees’ expertise. The company has committed $1.4 million to finance loans, which are handled by Accion. The loans are small, typically $5,000 to $7,000, with terms of 18 months to two years and interest rates that vary regionally. (In New England, the rate is around 13 percent, typical for microloans.)

Perhaps as important as the money is the tutoring by Mr. Koch and his employees. Most microloan programs provide borrowers with rudimentary counseling, but Boston Beer is unusually “high touch,” said Shaolee Sen, vice president for strategy and development at the Accion U.S. Network.

Ms. O’Garro was one of the program’s original clients — she has had two loans, totaling $4,000 — and though she’s repaid that debt and though the muffin business it helped finance has been dormant since 2010, she continues to derive benefits from the program with her cheesecake business, Delectable Desires. She learned how to price her cakes from an employee in Boston Beer’s finance department, Mike Cramer, who went to Whole Foods and scoped out the competition. “He actually made a spreadsheet for me of how much the high-end and low-end desserts cost,” she said.

Another borrower, Sandy Russo of Lulu’s Sweet Shoppe in Boston, said that when she had questions, she sometimes called Mr. Koch’s executive assistant. Last summer, when Lulu’s opened a second location, Boston Beer’s lawyers reviewed the lease and its public relations staff wrote the news release.

Of course, it’s one thing to provide that kind of support to a handful of companies. The question facing Accion and Boston Beer is whether the program can remain as intensive as it expands nationally. “We’re really struggling with that right now,” Ms. Sen said. “The portfolio has been so small up until this point that they really are passionate about their clients.”

As the loans grow and become more far-flung, Boston Beer and Accion will try to package that passion as Web content, Ms. Sen said, and steer some borrowers to webinars, live chats and “recycled content,” like recorded conversations with other borrowers. Next year, the partners will introduce an online community for borrowers with discussion boards and a new Craigslist-type service tentatively called Jim’s List.

By the time Ms. O’Garro sat down with Mr. Koch at a table in one of the brewery’s tasting rooms, she was filled with uncertainty. Earlier in the evening, a consultant, Carol Coutrier, had suggested that she consider marketing the cheesecakes to food service distributors that serve institutional kitchens at hospitals and schools. “The supermarkets will kill you, absolutely kill you,” with their various promotional requirements, she said. “They’ll bleed you dry.”

Then Ms. O’Garro mentioned her other product, an all-natural graham crumb for pie crusts, made with honey instead of high-fructose corn syrup. This, Ms. Coutrier said, was a more distinctive product and one that might go further than a nondairy cheesecake.

Mr. Koch, with a lager glass of his company’s Whitewater IPA in front of him and a genial grin on his face, told Ms. O’Garro it was O.K. to have two products. “The market,” he said, “will tell you which one they want.”

But Mr. Koch suggested that the graham crumbs’ high production cost would keep sales down and make it harder for her to produce enough to justify hiring her first employees. At the moment, Ms. O’Garro does everything, from the baking to the selling, all while holding a 30-hour-a-week night job at United Parcel Service. If necessary, he said, she should cut her margins to increase volume. “You’ve got to get to the point where you can leverage yourself,” he said.

After the coaching, Ms. O’Garro settled on an all-of-the-above strategy. She cut the price on the graham crumbs in the hopes of selling more. She has also pushed to place her cakes in eight more Whole Foods. And she called one of the distributors Ms. Coutrier recommended, quickly winning an audition — and an order.

In October, she baked 480 cheesecakes for cafeterias in the area. Her new distributor is negotiating to introduce Delectable Desires cakes to an upscale restaurant chain, and a handful of universities may follow.

By early 2013, she hopes to ring up monthly sales of at least $5,000 — enough to hire her first part-time employee.
326 2012-11-15 It also discusses gift-giving at length, and addresses when gifts to an overseas charity — or travel and entertainment provided to foreign officials who may be considering issuing a contract to a business — amount to a bribe.

For example, the guidance says that it would not violate the statute if a company provided foreign officials, like employees of a state-owned electricity commission, promotional T-shirts at a trade show, picked up a bar bill or bought “a moderately priced crystal vase” as a wedding gift. There would also be no violation if the company paid for the foreign visitors’ travel to a city in the United States where it has facilities, including taking them to a baseball game or the theater.

However, the guide says, paying for foreign officials and their spouses to travel to a city like Las Vegas or Paris if the company has no significant facilities there would violate the law. That would display a “corrupt intent” to curry favor with the officials because “the trip does not appear to be designed for any legitimate business purpose.”

“The fight against corruption is a law enforcement priority of the United States,” Mr. Breuer said in a statement. Enforcement of the statute “is critical to protecting the integrity of markets for American companies doing business abroad, and we will continue to make clear that bribing foreign officials is not an acceptable shortcut.”

Mr. Khuzami added: “Investors must have faith that the economic performance of public companies reflects lawful considerations of markets, price and product rather than a mirage resulting from bribery and corruption.”

Paul E. Pelletier, a former Justice Department prosecutor who worked on Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations, said that in terms of “providing bright lines that don’t already exist,” the guidance was unlikely to be “groundbreaking” for lawyers who already specialize in the law, but would be “important and useful” for in-house lawyers at companies.

“I think it’s important because people want it and it provides one-stop shopping,” he said. “It’s going to give us good boundaries as to what the government’s present view is as to certain issues, and that’s always good and helpful. And it’s going to raise the profile of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act even more.”

Congress passed the act as part of a series of reforms after the Watergate scandal. For its first few decades, prosecutors rarely invoked the statute. But in recent years, enforcement has soared to 48 actions in 2010, from just two in 2004.

The change dates to the collapse of Enron a decade ago. It led to tougher financial laws, like requiring top executives at publicly traded companies to certify that their firms’ books were accurate, which in turn forced them to pay closer attention to payments made overseas. The 2010 Dodd-Frank law further heightened pressure by giving corporate whistle-blowers a financial incentive to report violations.

Against that backdrop, beginning with the Justice Department in the George W. Bush administration, prosecutors began developing more expansive theories about the type of graft that the statute covered. The department and the S.E.C. also began increasing fines by requiring companies to disgorge profits as a condition of settling cases without an indictment. That drove up fines to record levels, including $800 million paid by Siemens in 2008.

Businesses have called for greater clarity, complaining that the law is being stretched beyond its intent and that it is not clear what conduct is now considered off limits; the guidance is expected to be closely analyzed by corporate lawyers who help firms comply with the law and respond when a violation is uncovered.

One of the business groups that has criticized how the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has been enforced is the Chamber of Commerce’s Institute for Legal Reform. Its president, Lisa A. Rickard, on Wednesday, praised the guidance as “an important step forward in an ongoing process of providing much-needed clarity and certainty to the business community,” and cited with approval several “areas of concern” the guidance addressed.

“While guidance by definition can never provide the same certainty as an affirmative statute, we’re hopeful that this document will help companies seeking to comply with the law in good faith and prosecutors charged with enforcing it,” she said in a statement.
327 2012-11-15 The pressure on Mr. Noda to call elections intensified after he brokered a deal with opposition parties in August for an early vote if they cooperated with a major tax-increase initiative. The move on Wednesday to dissolve Parliament was prompted by more dealings with the opposition, this time for help with a much-needed debt financing bill and changes to Japan’s electoral system. Mr. Abe said his party was ready to cooperate in return for elections.

The elections could return the Liberal Democrats to power three years after the Democratic Party defeated them. Before 2009, the Liberal Democrats had held almost uninterrupted power for over a half-century.

Neither side is expected to return a majority to Parliament, so the next government most likely will be built on a shaky coalition or cooperation with splinter parties. Still, Mr. Abe appeared galvanized by Mr. Noda’s offer to dissolve Parliament.

“It’s a promise, a promise, right?” he replied. “Let’s let the people decide who is better suited to lead the country out of deflation and to strong economic growth.”

Mr. Noda shot back, “We have no intention of ceding power to the spineless Liberal Democratic Party.”

It was unclear which other players might make inroads in the December elections. Toru Hashimoto, the outspoken and populist mayor of Osaka and head of a new party, the Japan Restoration Association, has pledged to field a candidate in every voting district. Another party was formed just this week by Shintaro Ishihara, a former governor of Tokyo, who told reporters that he vowed to create “a stronger and tougher Japan.”

And Ichiro Ozawa, a veteran politician with a track record in both the Democratic and Liberal Democratic Parties, now leads Parliament’s third-largest party and commands a loyal following across the board.

Still, with elections looming, these parties may have little time to regroup or field a strong crop of candidates.

Mr. Noda is the third in a succession of weak prime ministers from the Democratic Party, which swept to power on promises to change Japan’s postwar order. But much of its agenda was sidetracked by the tsunami and nuclear crisis, and blunders in the disasters’ wake have helped erode the party’s popular support. Its promise to wrest control of the country from powerful bureaucrats alienated the bureaucracy, which was then happy to see many of the party’s policies derail.

More recently, opposition parties blocked a critical deficit financing bill, forcing the government to postpone scheduled spending for the first time in decades. That bill is now set to pass Friday.

The campaign is likely to focus on the planned increase in the consumption tax, negotiations for a contentious trans-Pacific free-trade agreement and the future of Japan’s nuclear policy. But policy differences between major parties are murky at best, and often there are splits within parties, which could mean a confusing choice for Japanese voters.

The Liberal Democrats could take a bolder stance in monetary easing to pull Japan out of deflation, however. Mr. Abe has pushed for legislative changes that would give the government greater control over the central bank, including the power to fire the bank’s governor if it does not bend to the government’s will.

The Liberal Democrats are also likely to push harder to bring Japan’s idled nuclear reactors back online, though that could be an unpopular policy amid still-heightened public concerns over their safety.

The nationalist leanings of Mr. Abe and of the splinter parties led by Mr. Hashimoto and Mr. Ishihara have raised concerns that Japan’s foreign policy could shift more to the right, further damaging the country’s relations with its Asian neighbors. Tokyo has already demonstrated a stronger willingness to face off with China over a set of disputed islands in the East China Sea, despite the damage to Japan’s exports to a major trading partner.

“To put it bluntly, the current of nationalism in Japan is getting stronger,” Soichiro Tahara, a leading journalist and political commentator, wrote in the Weekly Asahi magazine this week. Too nationalist a tone threatens to isolate Japan, he said.
328 2012-11-15 Hussain al-Shahristani, the Iraqi deputy prime minister, who has helped draft contracts to rehabilitate Iraqi oil fields, said Tuesday that Exxon Mobil was in the advanced stages of organizing a sale of its 60 percent stake in a premier Iraqi project, the West Qurna 1 field, to buyers approved by the Iraqi government.

Iraq has been at loggerheads with Exxon since it signed an exploration deal with the Kurdistan government last year. Mr. Shahristani said the Iraqi government did not recognize Kurdish contracts with oil companies.

Mr. Shahristani warned Total, the French oil giant, and other companies that they could be forced out of their Iraqi projects if they have their feet in both camps.

“They must either decide to present their contract to the federal government for approval or they are in breach of their contract” with Iraq, he said.

But Mr. Shahristani is losing the battle to persuade the large Western oil companies. Exxon Mobil, Total, Chevron and Gazprom have all decided that Kurdish oil deals have sufficient potential for profit to be worth risking the ire of Baghdad.

Philip Lambert, who leads the London-based advisory firm Lambert Energy, said at the conference that the surge in deals in Kurdistan, compared with a relatively moribund environment in Iraq proper, suggested that the environment in Kurdistan was healthier.

One reason, as Mr. Shahristani acknowledged, is that Baghdad’s contracts are among the toughest in the world. They offer such low returns that — with continued security risks and infrastructure problems — Western companies are deciding that they would be better off making deals with the Kurds.

Under Kurdistan contracts, oil companies can earn $3 to $5 a barrel, compared with about $1 a barrel under contracts with the Iraqi federal government, according to Wood Mackenzie, a consulting firm in Edinburgh. The large companies have been signing exploration deals with Kurdistan, not production contracts. That leaves several years for the governments in Baghdad and Erbil to reach an accommodation before the fields in the north start producing.

Southern Iraq is far more important to the current global oil picture, with more than three million barrels a day of production, while Kurdistan is struggling to export 200,000 barrels a day. But exploration in Kurdistan is still at a relatively early stage, having started only after Hussein’s ouster in 2003. Companies looking for oil in the north have had a high success rate.

Despite Mr. Shahristani’s prickliness, signs suggest that Baghdad and the Kurdistan government could reach an understanding soon. Under an agreement last summer, Kurdistan has been putting oil into the main Iraq-Turkey pipeline. These exports had been suspended over payment disputes between Baghdad and Erbil, leaving companies like Genel Energy, led by Tony Hayward, the former BP chief, with no other option than to sell their oil cheaply in the Kurdish market or truck it to Turkey.

Kurdistan’s success in attracting the big oil companies seems to have influenced thinking in Baghdad. Mr. Shahristani said there was nothing in Iraqi law that prevented the award of contracts that give companies a slice of the output of fields for exploration. Companies prefer these contracts to the service deals that Baghdad has offered, which give companies a per-barrel fee for renovating old fields like West Qurna.

At the conference, Mr. Shahristani dismissed suggestions that Iraq would have trouble replacing Exxon Mobil, saying that international companies were interested.

He indicated that he had dialed back his expectations for Iraqi oil production in the next few years to about nine million barrels a day from the 12 million barrels a day that Iraq would achieve if the oil companies delivered on all the contracts they have signed. Iraq’s approach could jeopardize Baghdad’s ambitions to triple its current oil output, a herculean task.

Although Iraq is an OPEC member, it does not have a quota, in recognition of its need for revenue to rebuild. Mr. Shahristani said that once Iraq had reached four million to five million barrels a day, it could start discussing its production with other OPEC members.

“We don’t think that Iraq is going to be squeezing any country out of the market,” he said.
329 2012-11-16 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
330 2012-11-16 His comments on Condoleezza Rice and Susan Rice, compared....
331 2012-11-16 With news of the liquidation of Hostess Brands, some fans of its snacks found themselves suddenly yearning for a Twinkie....
332 2012-11-16 The S.E.C. brought the cases in conjunction with the federal-state mortgage task force, which President Obama created in January to investigate the subprime mortgage morass. In its first major salvo against banks, the group sued JPMorgan last month. That federal lawsuit is still pending.

Separately, the federal regulator that oversees the housing finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac filed lawsuits against 17 financial firms last year over nearly $200 billion in mortgage-backed securities that imploded after the loans soured.

Legal wrangling over Wall Street’s behavior during the housing boom has targeted virtually every step in the process, from making loans to borrowers with tarnished credit to the sale of securities engineered with the subprime loans. As a result of the mortgage-litigation storm, banks have had to set aside billions of dollars to deal with claims from investors and regulators.

In 2010, the S.E.C. secured $550 million from Goldman Sachs. In that case, the agency focused on a single mortgage security created in 2007, just as fissures spread through the housing market. Goldman allowed a hedge fund manager, the S.E.C. claimed, to help construct the security, then bet against it, but never alerted investors.

The S.E.C.’s investigation into JPMorgan included creating troubled securities itself, as well as misleading investors through its Bear Stearns unit, the troubled investment bank it purchased at the urging of the federal government in 2008.

In a December 2006 sale of $1.8 billion of mortgage-backed securities, JPMorgan played down delinquency rates of the mortgages used as collateral in the securities, according to the S.E.C. Despite assurances by JPMorgan that only 0.04 percent of the loans were more than 30 days delinquent, roughly 7 percent of the loans were troubled, the agency said. While the bank reaped $2.7 million as part of the deal, investors didn’t fare as well, losing at least $37 million, according to the S.E.C.

The S.E.C. also faulted Bear Stearns for pocketing compensation it received from mortgage lenders for shoddy loans that the firm had purchased to package into mortgage securities. Bear Stearns, the agency claimed, never passed that money on to investors in the securities. As a result, Bear Stearns received $137.8 million, the agency said.

Credit Suisse was also accused of keeping roughly $55.7 million in such payments from investors. The Swiss bank was also faulted by the agency for misstating when it would buy back mortgages if homeowners fell behind on their payments, as part of $1.9 billion in securities it underwrote in 2006.

In a statement on Friday, JPMorgan said that it was pleased to “put these matters” behind it. Credit Suisse also expressed relief, noting that the bank was “committed to the highest standards of integrity and regulatory compliance in all its businesses.”

The S.E.C. said it would distribute the money to investors harmed by banks’ practices.

Despite the settlement, JPMorgan is still dogged by mortgage-related headaches. The mortgage task force case filed last month by New York’s attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, claimed that Bear Stearns sold securities between 2005 and 2007 that caused roughly $22.5 billion in losses for investors.

In another mortgage feud, JPMorgan is one of the 17 firms that the Federal Housing Finance Agency claims sold shoddy loans to the government without adequately disclosing the risks. In court filings, JPMorgan has pushed for the lawsuit to be thrown out.

Beyond the government actions, JPMorgan and other Wall Street banks face an onslaught of battles with private investors. Dexia, a Belgian-French bank, for example, sued JPMorgan in federal court in Manhattan over $1.6 billion in mortgage-backed securities bought from Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual.

In a statement Friday, Kenneth Lench, head of the S.E.C. enforcement division’s structured and new products unit, said, “These actions demonstrate that we intend to hold accountable those who misled investors through poor disclosures in the sale of R.M.B.S. (residential mortgage-backed securities) and other financial products commonly marketed and sold during the financial crisis.” He added: “Our efforts in that regard continue.”
333 2012-11-16 Last night’s Open Source Science Fair was a blast. We’ll have a full wrap-up next week, but for now, here are some highlights....
334 2012-11-16 Apple was granted a design patent this week after arguing that its page turn was unique in that it had a special type of animation other page-turn applications had been unable to create....
335 2012-11-16 The annual wine auction in Beaune, the wine capital of Burgundy, has its pomp and celebrities, but it also offers up a democratic tasting opportunity....
336 2012-11-16 Industrial production in Germany, which had remained strong last year, is now falling at the same time the downturn deepens in the euro zone as a whole. Industrial production is still rising in the United States, but at a slower pace than earlier this year.
337 2012-11-16 Food-related events around New York....
338 2012-11-16 A longtime clean-air campaigner sees a valuable role for citizens as methane monitors....
339 2012-11-16 The eight portraits hanging in a residence for Jesuit priests in SoHo are a link to one of the most notorious episodes in the brutal civil war in El Salvador....
340 2012-11-16 Nike announced on Friday that it had reached an agreement to sell its Cole Haan unit to the private equity firm Apax Partners for $570 million....
341 2012-11-16 Jesse Tortora, a former stock analyst, testified at the criminal trial of his one-time boss at Diamondback, Todd Newman, and Anthony Chiasson, the co-founder of the hedge fund Level Global....
342 2012-11-16 Hoping to generate buzz about its brand and promote its mission of supporting the troops, 50 Back Brewing introduced its "Buy a Soldier a Beer" program in March....
343 2012-11-16 Eight villagers near Phnom Penh, the capital, were arrested Thursday for plastering President Obama’s picture on their rooftops beside spray-painted SOS messages ahead of Mr. Obama’s visit to Cambodia next week. The village of about 400 families has rickety homes with corrugated tin roofs and is adjacent to the Phnom Penh airport’s only runway. Villagers say they were ordered in July to vacate their land so the airport could enlarge the runway and build a security buffer zone. “We are being forcibly evicted from our land without proper compensation,” said one villager, Sim Sokunthea. “We didn’t mean any harm. We just wanted Obama to help us.” Dozens of police officers arrived at the village on Thursday and ordered villagers to remove the rooftop messages. The officers arrested eight villagers said to be responsible for the appeal, said Long Kimheang, a spokesman for Housing Rights Task Force, an advocacy group that works with villagers facing eviction.
344 2012-11-16 Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic will play David Ferrer of Spain in the opening singles match of the 100th Davis Cup final Friday in Prague. The sixth-ranked Czech Tomas Berdych will face Nicolas Almagro in the second singles match on an indoor hard court. Defending champion Spain is without the injured Rafael Nadal.

¶ The former doubles champion Bob Hewitt was suspended from the International Tennis Hall of Fame after an investigation deemed credible allegations that he sexually abused girls he coached decades ago.
345 2012-11-16 WASHINGTON — For the second time in a week, the Obama administration said on Thursday that it was extending the deadline for states to decide whether they will establish and operate online markets where consumers can shop for health insurance under the new health care law.

Friday was the original deadline. Now, the White House says, states do not have to decide until the middle of next month.

The postponement came in response to a request from the Republican Governors Association and its chairman, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia. Many Republicans had deferred action, hoping that Mitt Romney would oust President Obama and work with Congress to repeal the health care law.

In a letter to the Republican governors on Thursday night, Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said they would have until Dec. 14 to decide whether they wanted to establish their own health insurance exchanges. The federal government will create an exchange in any state that is unable or unwilling to do so.

The White House had originally said that states must submit applications to the federal government by Friday if they wanted to run their own exchanges. On Nov. 9, the administration extended the deadline for applications to Dec. 14, but said governors still had to submit “letters of intent” by Friday.
346 2012-11-16 The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has upheld California’s ban, and with the Michigan ruling, the stage may be set for the issue to go before the Supreme Court.

“I think this is very likely to go to the Supreme Court, because there’s a direct conflict between the circuits, it’s of great national importance and the 8-7 split on the Sixth Circuit is a signal that some ruling is needed,” said Eugene Volokh, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who helped draft the California ban. “The only thing that might get in the way is if the Fisher case decides that all race-based action in education is unconstitutional, which would make it not technically moot, but less important.”

Bill Schuette, the attorney general of Michigan, said Thursday that he planned to appeal the case to the Supreme Court. “Entrance to our great universities must be based upon merit,” he said in a statement.

George Washington, the Detroit lawyer who argued the case, said Proposal 2, as the Michigan ban is known, does not ensure merit. “The Big Lie told by the supporters of Proposal 2 is that grades and test scores are a neutral means for judging merit,” he said. “But that system is openly biased against black, Latino and Native American applicants.”

The University of Michigan’s affirmative action battle has been roiling for decades. The affirmative action litigation led to the Supreme Court’s 2003 decision that while a university could not establish racial quotas, it could consider race or ethnicity as a “plus” factor in a holistic review.

After those decisions, Ward Connerly, a black former University of California regent who was the driving force behind California’s affirmative action ban, worked with Jennifer Gratz, a white Michigan woman who was the plaintiff in one of the Supreme Court cases, to get the issue onto the Michigan ballot.

Michigan’s affirmative action ban, which applies to government hiring, government contracting and admission to public universities, became part of the state Constitution through a 2006 voter initiative that won 58 percent of the vote.

The district court that heard the challenge to the ban upheld it, but the three-judge appellate panel whose decision was appealed to the full circuit court struck it down, using the same reasoning as the full circuit court.
347 2012-11-16 At night, after the university had shut off the dorm lights, he and his classmates would gather under street lamps to debate the merits of constitutional law and the downsides of continuous class struggle. Some of his friends would later end up in jail for their role in the 1989 student protests in Tiananmen Square.

“Like all of us back then, Li Keqiang was idealistic, open-minded, incisive and eager to see China change,” said Wang Juntao, who was also among the first batch of students to return to campus through competitive exams after the decade of chaos ended with Mao’s death in 1976.

After their lost decade, the students — whose ages ranged from late teens to early 30s — threw themselves into their studies with zeal. “We were so thirsty to learn that we spent all our time in the classrooms or the library,” said Tao Jingzhou, who, along with Mr. Li, was one of 81 students assigned to the school’s law department.

Despite Mr. Li’s unremarkable run at the helm of two provinces and a reputation as a deferential party loyalist, some of his former classmates hold out hope that he may help nudge China’s opaque, authoritarian system toward greater openness. Others, citing his doctorate in economics, say at the very least he could become a forceful advocate for loosening the grip of the state-run conglomerates that many analysts say are smothering entrepreneurs and endangering China’s economic miracle.

“We all have a hope that he hasn’t abandoned the beliefs of his youth,” said Chen Ziming, a political commentator who was active in the experimental student elections in 1980 that Mr. Li supported. “Perhaps we are hoping for too much.”

Indeed, today it can be hard to spot traces of the young idealistic man who once translated “The Due Process of Law,” the treatise by the famed British jurist Lord Denning. As many of his classmates went abroad to continue their studies or joined the ill-fated democracy movement that was crushed by the military, Mr. Li cast his lot with the Communist Party bureaucracy and later with Mr. Hu.

When the opportunity came for further study in the United States, he was persuaded by party officials to stay in China and devote himself to the Communist Youth League, the cadre training organization whose membership was largely drawn from those with humble pedigrees. Years later, when friends threw themselves into the protests that swamped Tiananmen Square, Mr. Li, in his role as league secretary, pleaded with them to return to campus, according to the memoirs of several participants.

But his liberal education has not gone to waste. On economic matters, he has demonstrated a keen understanding of complex theory; more recently, he has been a vocal advocate for economic restructuring and the importance of a level playing field for private business. He was the primary sponsor of a World Bank report issued in February that warned of crisis if China failed to break the stranglehold of its giant state-run enterprises.

In April, he veered off his prepared remarks at an international economic forum to urge greater transparency and an unimpeachable legal system. He has also displayed flashes of pragmatism: according to a cable published by WikiLeaks, Mr. Li confided to the American ambassador that he considered China’s economic figures unreliable and “for reference only.”

But many analysts say these qualities pale in comparison with what may be the greatest gift to his career: his long alliance with the status quo-minded Mr. Hu. Since the two met in the early 1980s, Mr. Hu has ensured his protégé’s rise through the party bureaucracy. Some analysts, noting their placid demeanors and deep connections to hardscrabble Anhui Province, have disparaged the men as “carbon copies.”

In 1998, when he was 42, Mr. Li was dispatched to Henan, a poor, tough-to-govern province in China’s midsection, becoming the nation’s youngest governor, and later the province’s more powerful party secretary.

His six years in Henan were not known for excellence. A series of fires that claimed hundreds of lives in a factory, a cinema and a nightclub earned him the nickname “Three Fires Li.” He was more seriously bruised by a scandal in which tens of thousands of peasants were infected with H.I.V. after they sold their plasma through state-affiliated clinics, which injected pooled blood back into the donors. Although the infections began before his arrival in Henan, public health advocates say Mr. Li was more interested in covering up the crisis than stopping the contamination or finding those responsible.

“In my opinion, Li Keqiang should be sentenced to life in prison for official misconduct,” said Wan Yanhai, the director of an AIDS group, the Aizhixing Institute, who fled China for the United States in 2010 to escape what he says was government harassment. “When hundreds of people were dying, he was more concerned about his political career. So he kept quiet.”

In 2004, Mr. Li was made party chief of Liaoning, a rust belt province in China’s northeast where the restructuring of obsolete state-run industries had produced mass unemployment. Armed with $8 billion from the State Development Bank, he replaced huge tracts of slums with housing for more than a million people. By the time he was summoned back to Beijing in 2007, economic growth in Liaoning was healthy if unremarkable.

As vice premier in charge of economic development, food safety and health care, Mr. Li has overseen an expansion of the medical insurance program. But his other signature project, which seeks to build 36 million low-cost apartments, has been criticized by some for poor planning and shoddy construction. And some analysts say his commitment to the commonweal has been tested by his brother’s role as the top official in China’s State Tobacco Monopoly Administration.

The optimists — and there are precious few these days — say Mr. Li may just be waiting for the right opportunity to reveal his true political stripes. “He may be a bit naïve, but I think he’s sincerely honest,” said his former classmate Mr. Wang, who was jailed for more than four years after the government branded him a “black hand” behind the 1989 protests. “I still believe that he has a bottom line.”

But one former official turned businessman thought it would probably take a crisis to compel Mr. Li and other leaders to embrace a substantial loosening of political and economic controls.

“I think in the end, events will force them to change, even if they don’t want to,” the businessman said. “Smart leaders will reform because they want to. Idiots will reform because they have to.”
348 2012-11-16 John Assadi, Noroozi’s New York-based lawyer who specializes in immigration cases, said he might appeal Wednesday’s decision. Assadi said he believed the immigration service interpreted “extraordinary ability” more narrowly than the law had originally intended.

“Hopefully the government will change its stance and be more liberal in attracting talent,” Assadi said. “Even if he is not 1 or 2 in the world, he would be able to contribute in the U.S. Why they want to keep him out, I don’t know.”

Assadi said he did not believe that the tense political situation between the United States and Iran influenced the immigration service’s opposition to Noroozi’s visa. “I think, in a way, they may not consider table tennis as a major sport, and maybe that has something to do subconsciously in the thought process,” Assadi said.

A month before competing for Iran at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Noroozi came to the United States to participate in Ping-Pong diplomacy as part of a State Department-sponsored program to promote cultural and athletic exchanges, Assadi said.

In 2010, Noroozi applied for an “extraordinary ability” visa, and his petition was granted by the immigration service.

“I can assume he liked what he saw in 2008, and he felt the U.S. was where his contribution could be meaningful,” Assadi said of his client.

From there, though, the case paddled back and forth in a game of legal Ping-Pong. The immigration service implemented new rules — some might say a more challenging one — about granting visas based on extraordinary ability. In 2011, Noroozi’s visa was revoked. He filed another visa petition and it was denied.

The immigration service ruled that Noroozi did not sufficiently establish himself as a singular talent. Among his accused deficiencies: he did not demonstrate that he played a leading or critical role in Iranian table tennis. His achievements were not reported in major publications. And he did not show how his presence would benefit the United States.

Last November, Noroozi sued federal officials, including Janet Napolitano, the Homeland Security secretary, and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. Among his arguments were that the immigration service discriminated against Iranian applicants. On Wednesday, though, Noroozi lost his case.

A finding in Noroozi’s favor would effectively oblige the immigration service to grant extraordinary ability visas to every one of the international table tennis players ranked ahead of him, along with the top 284 performers (minus Americans) in every other sport, Engelmayer wrote.

“The Court is unprepared to conclude that C.I.S. abused its discretion, or otherwise erred, in requiring more elite standing before a petitioner can be deemed to be at ‘the very top of the field of endeavor,’ ” Engelmayer wrote.

USA Table Tennis said its rules prohibited it from recruiting foreign players. International players are welcome but expected to enter the country on their own. The group wrote a letter on Noroozi’s behalf last year, hoping he would be able to come to help at one of the nation’s 50 training centers and serve as a sparring partner for developing players or serve as a coach.

“We don’t actively target world-class players and recruit them for our national team,” said Michael Cavanaugh, chief executive of USA Table Tennis.

The absence of Noroozi as a player is unlikely to make any difference in American fortunes, officials said. An athlete who is ranked only 284th in the world at age 27 is “not likely to see a huge surge in the next five years,” said Sean O’Neill, a spokesman for USA Table Tennis and a former Olympian.

For now, recreational players will continue to provide the sport’s buzz in the United States. The biggest American table tennis story at the 2012 London Games involved a 16-year-old named Ariel Hsing from San Jose, Calif., whose occasional playing partners have included Buffett and Gates. And it is Sarandon, who co-owns a Manhattan table tennis club called SPiN, who “changed the cool factor by a hundredfold,” O’Neill said. “She’s taken it out of the basement and made it mainstream.”

Instead of applying for an extraordinary ability visa, O’Neill suggested with a laugh, Noroozi should have shown up at Sarandon’s club “and won the Friday night round robin and said, ‘I’d love to stay here.’ ”
349 2012-11-16 Mr. Assad has openly threatened to retaliate beyond his country’s borders if outside forces try to break the current stalemate to unseat him, and there is renewed concern about whether he or his proxies might use the chemical weapons as their last shield. Officials say that attacks along the borders with Turkey and Israel have forced the administration to consider the risks of Syria’s troubles spreading in the region.

Mr. Obama has been clear for more than a year that he would resist direct American intervention, but in August he said one circumstance would cause him to revisit that position. “A red line for us is we start seeing a whole bunch of chemical weapons moving around or being utilized,” he said at a news conference. “That would change my calculus.”

Mr. Obama brought those concerns up again in a news conference on Wednesday, saying that the United States was in close contact with Turkey and Jordan “and obviously Israel, which is having already grave concerns as we do about, for example, movements of chemical weapons that might occur in such a chaotic atmosphere and that could have an impact not just within Syria but on the region as a whole.”

The American concerns have been heightened by another sign that Mr. Assad may be arming himself to strike out — Syria’s continued imports of missile technology, even at a time when the Assad government is reeling under sanctions.

Syria already has a vast arsenal of missiles able to reach Turkey or strike Israel, and in the past it has provided Hezbollah with missiles. But American officials voice concern over even modest improvements in Syria’s missile stockpiles.

American intelligence and security officials, in interviews in recent days, said that the United States had picked up evidence that North Korea had resumed providing Syria with some missile technology, including assistance with Scud missiles.

A shipment of graphite cylinders that could be used in missiles and are suspected to have come from North Korea were found in May aboard a Chinese ship en route to Syria, Reuters reported Wednesday. North Korean technicians and engineers stationed in Syria have recently increased their efforts on a joint program to improve the Scud D missile’s accuracy and the warhead’s ability to defeat interceptors, IHS Jane’s International Defense Review reported in June.

Given the chaos in Syria, and Mr. Assad’s daily effort to survive, it is not clear what condition the Syrian missile program is in. The Turkish military has expressed worry about Syria’s ballistic missiles and its chemical weapons stocks. Concerned about this potential threat, Turkey and NATO nations have informally been discussing the possibility that some of the alliance’s Patriot antimissile system could be sent to Turkey, which has no Patriot batteries of its own.

Independent analysts expressed concern that if Mr. Assad is backed into a corner, he could use or threaten to use missiles tipped with chemical weapons against the rebels, despite the threat of Western intervention if he did.

“There is credible information that the Assad regime has been upgrading and expanding its chemical weapons arsenal, which needs to be maintained,” said Emile Hokayem, a Middle East analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “A credible delivery capability is also needed, hence the North Korean angle.”

The estimation that it would take 75,000 troops to neutralize the chemical weapons grew out of what Mr. Obama, in his August news conference, referred to as extensive contingency planning for how the United States would respond if the chemical weapons were on the move or appeared vulnerable.

“The problem is that you can’t just pick this stuff up and ship it out of the country,” said one senior military official who has studied the problem. The chances of contamination of nearby Syrian towns, and of attacks on the effort to move the weapons, were simply too high. Because many of the containers holding the material are old, or of unknown reliability, the risk of leakage is high.

As a result, the official said, much of the chemical stockpiles might have to be destroyed in place. That is a lengthy, dangerous job, and would require enormous force protection around the sites. When the United States went through similar efforts to destroy its own stockpiles — under strict environmental regulations that would likely not apply in Syria — the process took years.

A second official familiar with the plans disputed the idea that all of the stockpiles would have to be destroyed in place. Some, he suggested, could be airlifted out for destruction elsewhere or burial at sea. “There are several options,” he said, “but all carry varying degrees of risk.”

That official said that rebel groups receiving nonlethal help from the United States have been asked to mark and secure any chemical weapons sites they come across.

The United States has varying estimates of how many sites exist, with the C.I.A. estimating about three dozen and the military using figures in the high 40s.

Officials said that the United States military had quietly sent a task force of more than 150 planners and other specialists to Jordan to help the armed forces there, among other things, to prepare for the possibility that Syria will lose control of its chemical weapons.
350 2012-11-16 Frederick W. Humphries II, a counterterrorism agent, took the initial complaint from Jill Kelley about e-mails accusing  her of inappropriate behavior toward David H. Petraeus....
351 2012-11-16 “An end to the recession in the euro zone is still out of sight,” Christoph Weil, an economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said in a note to clients.

Germany, which has the largest economy in the euro zone, continued to defy the crisis. Its economy grew 0.2 percent in the third quarter, slowing from a rate of 0.3 percent in the second quarter.

But data on exports, domestic demand and business sentiment indicated that growth in Germany would slow in future quarters because of falling demand from its neighbors.

A recession is often defined as two consecutive quarters of falling output, though many economists say it is important to take other data into account. But with unemployment in the euro area at 11.6 percent and nearly 26 million people out of work, few dispute that the region is in a deep downturn.

“Leading indicators suggest that the euro zone recession will broaden and deepen in the current fourth quarter,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank.

The European Union, which includes 17 countries in the euro zone and 10 others primarily in Eastern Europe, managed to return to growth in the quarter as several countries, including Latvia and Lithuania, recovered strongly. Growth for the bloc as a whole was 0.1 percent compared with the previous quarter, after a decline of 0.2 percent in the second quarter.

But in Western Europe the economic decline spread to Austria and the Netherlands, which had been growing in previous quarters. The Austrian economy contracted 0.1 percent, while the previously healthy Dutch economy plunged 1.1 percent, catching economists off guard.

One reason for the decline was that Dutch consumers cut back on purchases of cars, illustrating how the crisis in the European auto industry is having a broader effect. Slower export growth and a decline in construction also had an effect, according to Statistics Netherlands, the official data provider.

France grew more than analysts forecast, at 0.2 percent, because of increased exports and higher consumer spending. The Italian economy shrank 0.2 percent, which was less than expected and a less severe decline than in previous quarters. Foreign demand compensated for a decline in household spending in Italy, economists said.

There had been some signs in recent months that the euro zone, now in its third year of crisis, was beginning to stabilize. The exodus of money from Spain had stopped and borrowing costs for Spain and Italy have dropped out of the danger zone, thanks to a promise by the European Central Bank to intervene in bond markets. Exports from some of the troubled countries have risen, as companies put more emphasis on foreign markets to offset poor demand at home.

Mario Draghi, the central bank’s president, said last week that although growth would continue to slow through the end of this year, he expected a slow recovery next year. The data Thursday could raise expectations that the bank will cut its benchmark interest rate, already at a record low of 0.75 percent, when its policy makers meet next month.

But the central bank has already stretched its mandate to fight the crisis, and the burden may now fall primarily on government leaders. Germany could face added pressure to ease its insistence on drastic budget cuts by Spain, Greece, Italy and Portugal, especially after large protests in those countries this week.

Euro zone finance ministers are expected to meet next week to consider whether to release the next installment of aid for Greece, which it needs to avoid defaulting on its debt. Next month, European heads of government will hold a summit meeting to continue working on ways to make the common currency area more resilient, for example by pooling supervision of banks.

“It is essential that the period of relative calm on financial markets is preserved,” said Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young. “This will necessitate further quick progress on key reforms, including securing Greece’s financing and moving towards a comprehensive banking union.”

But disputes remain on the future shape of the euro zone, and there is a risk that leaders will not move fast enough. Economists said that much of the slowdown in business activity reflected uncertainty among managers, who do not want to invest until they are more confident of a recovery.

“The confidence shock will therefore continue to hinder investment and hiring decisions,” Mathilde Lemoine, an economist at HSBC, said in a note.
352 2012-11-17 The Federal Trade Commission is looking at the details of one of Visa’s debit card programs to see if it complies with new rules under the 2010 financial regulatory reform. Visa said in a regulatory filing that the agency asked on Sept. 21 for information about a voluntary program for merchants that accept debit cards with the Visa logo. The request indicates that the agency wants to determine if the program violates a provision known as the Durbin amendment, which limits how much merchants can be charged to process the payments.
353 2012-11-17 Mike Huguenin is offering up highlights, analysis and insights on all of Saturday’s big college football games, including Oregon vs. Stanford and Kansas State vs. Baylor....
354 2012-11-17 Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb K. Thackeray, 86, died in Mumbai on Saturday afternoon, doctors who were treating him told reporters....
355 2012-11-17 The United States Embassy in Athens on Friday warned of the risk of violent attacks against visitors “perceived to be foreign migrants” after a rise in racially motivated assaults in Greece, where far-right sentiment is on the rise. In a message on its Web site, the embassy noted that American citizens of African, Asian, Hispanic or Middle Eastern descent were most at risk. The warning follows an increase in violent attacks against immigrants living in Greece and foreign visitors, mostly by members or supporters of Golden Dawn, a neo-Nazi political party.
356 2012-11-17 This is not going to end well for the

We are now entering the second phase of the David Petraeus scandal. The first phase began on Nov. 9 when Petraeus revealed that he had had an affair and resigned as C.I.A. director. For the next week, the press scrambled to keep abreast of every head-spinning new plot twist. General Petraeus slept with whom? Jill Kelley did what? Petraeus’s biographer/mistress titled her book what? Phase 1 of any big national scandal ends when the New York tabloids stop writing their laugh-out-loud cover headlines (“Cloak and Shag Her” screamed The New York Post) and relegate the story to the inside pages. That happened on Friday.

In Phase 2, people begin to grapple with the scandal’s larger meaning, assuming, of course, that it has some larger meaning. The sordid affair, for instance, showed that he had never been fit for public office, much less the vice presidency. The Bernie Madoff scandal showed that investors will happily suspend disbelief when their fund manager’s returns are too good to be true.

But the Petraeus scandal could well end up teaching some very different lessons. If the most admired military man in a generation can have his e-mail hacked by F.B.I. agents, then none of us are safe from the post-9/11 surveillance machine. And if an affair is all it takes to force such a man from office, then we truly have lost all sense of proportion.

Let’s go back to the scene of the so-called crime, to , Fla., where Kelley, an attractive wannabe socialite, gets some unsettling e-mails from an anonymous sender. If she had any sense, she would block the e-mail address and be done with it. But because she knows that men will bend the rules for her — after all, high-ranking military officers granted her unfettered access to MacDill Air Force Base — she goes to her (male) F.B.I. friend, who advocates with his superiors for an investigation. They agree.

But on what grounds? I looked up the cyber-stalking statute. It says that a crime has been committed when e-mail “causes substantial emotion distress” or places the victim in “reasonable fear of death or serious bodily injury.”

This strikes me as a pretty high standard. It is possible, I suppose, that the anonymous e-mails Kelley was getting from Paula Broadwell, Petraeus’s former mistress, met that standard. And the F.B.I. has worked hard to make Broadwell’s e-mails sound as threatening as possible. But once they leak out, as they surely will, I strongly suspect that we’ll see that the law was just a fig leaf.
357 2012-11-17 The pair of barriers, which looked like heavy concrete obstacles, seemed out of place in the 13th-floor hallway of Police Headquarters in Lower Manhattan. Spotted on Wednesday, the barriers had the aura of something official, white with blue writing in a font favored by the New York Police Department. But upon closer inspection, the messages told a different story.

“OWS,” read the big blue letters on one.

“Protecting the people from the powerful,” read the other.

The appearance of the barriers — made of plastic foam, not stone, according to one officer — roughly coincided with the first anniversary of a minutely planned police raid that cleared Occupy Wall Street protesters from their encampment in Zuccotti Park on Nov. 15, 2011.

The barriers at Police Headquarters were placed near the entrance to the office of Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department. Chief Esposito, the department’s highest-ranking uniformed officer, was seen on video yelling orders and jabbing protesters with his baton during clashes in March.

Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, whose office is on the 13th floor, described the fake barriers as “wry humor” and said they had been placed there in the last few weeks. “Author unknown,” he wrote in an e-mail Thursday.

Two months ago, hundreds of protesters marked the anniversary of the Occupy Wall Street movement, which began on Sept. 17, 2011, by trying to block access to the New York Stock Exchange.
358 2012-11-17 Medicare premiums will rise by $5 a month next year, the government said Friday. That is less than expected, but enough to consume about a fourth of a typical retiree’s cost-of-living raise in Social Security payments next year. Marilyn Tavenner, the acting administrator of Medicare, said the new “Part B” premium for outpatient care would be $104.90 a month. In most cases, it is deducted from a beneficiary’s monthly Social Security payment. The government had projected a premium increase of as much as $9 a month for 2013, but health care inflation has remained modest.
359 2012-11-17 NEW ORLEANS — Two workers were missing and 11 others had to be transported to hospitals on Friday after a fire broke out on an oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico.

The fire, coming just days after BP pleaded guilty to 14 counts stemming from the deadly explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010 and the spill that followed, raised the specter of a catastrophe all too familiar in South Louisiana. But by midday, it appeared that the worst fears were unrealized.

The platform, which belongs to a Houston-based company, Black Elk Energy, was shut and not producing, thus forestalling the possibility of a significant spill, said Capt. Ed Cubanski of the Coast Guard. Twenty-two crew members had been aboard at the time of the fire, which appears to have ignited as workers were using a torch to cut a pipe that contained 28 gallons of oil.

Nine crew members were safely evacuated. The Coast Guard was still searching for the two missing workers on Friday night, sending a plane, a helicopter and several boats into the area. Four of the injured were in critical condition on Friday, and were transferred to a burn center in Baton Rouge, said Taslin Alfonso, a spokeswoman for West Jefferson Medical Center.

A sheen of oil a half-mile long by 200 yards wide was seen in the area around midday. The platform was located in 56 feet of water about 20 miles southeast of Grand Isle, La.
360 2012-11-17 A southwest Missouri man accused of plotting to shoot up a theater during the new movie “Twilight: Breaking Dawn Part 2” was charged on Friday after his mother contacted the police, telling them she was worried because her son had bought weapons similar to those used in the fatal Colorado theater shooting in July. The man, Blaec Lammers, 20, of Bolivar, is charged with first-degree assault, making a terroristic threat and armed criminal action. He was jailed in Polk County on $500,000 bond. His mother contacted the authorities on Thursday, saying she worried that with this weekend’s opening of the final film in the popular vampire movie series, her son “may have intentions of shooting people at the movie,” the police wrote in the probable cause statement.
361 2012-11-17 “Based on the information we have,” Mr. Kasich said, “states do not have any flexibility to build and manage exchanges in ways that respond to unique needs of their citizens.”

Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, another Republican opposed to the health care law, said, “From a philosophical standpoint, I prefer state-run over federal on any day on any subject.” But under the law, Mr. Walker said, “Wisconsin taxpayers will not have meaningful control over the health care policies and services sold to Wisconsin residents.”

For decades, under governors of both parties, Wisconsin has been a national leader in the regulation of insurance.

Caroline F. Pearson, who tracks state developments at Avalere Health, a consulting company in Washington, said it appeared that about 18 states would choose to run their own exchanges, while 10 to 12 would seek partnerships with the federal government, and 18 to 20 would have federal exchanges.

Friday was to be the deadline for states to declare their intentions. But Ms. Sebelius said Thursday night that she was extending the deadline to Dec. 14. In any event, she must decide by Jan. 1 whether states are able to run their own exchanges.

Americans are supposed to be able to start shopping for insurance through exchanges in October 2013. By January 2014, most Americans will be required to have health insurance under the law.

Obama administration officials said they would be ready to run the federal exchanges, but they have not provided any information about their plans or their progress.

Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, a Republican, asked Friday for a meeting with Ms. Sebelius to discuss plans for an exchange. He said he was still analyzing his options, but had not seen evidence that an exchange would lower health costs for Floridians.

Gov. Nathan Deal of Georgia, a Republican, said his state would not establish an exchange. He expressed concern about what he described as “the one-size-fits-all approach and high federal burden imposed on states.”

Other Republican governors, including Jan Brewer of Arizona, C. L. Otter of Idaho, Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, Chris Christie of New Jersey, Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania and Bill Haslam of Tennessee, said they would use the extra time to seek more answers from Washington and feedback from constituents.

In a letter to Ms. Sebelius, Mr. Branstad said his state wanted to create its own exchange, but needed much more information. He included a list of 50 questions and said that unless they were answered, Iowa might have no choice but to opt for a federal exchange.

Many of the questions were about the costs of building and running an exchange. Mr. Otter said he would consult leaders of the Idaho Legislature and make a decision by the new deadline. An advisory committee appointed by Mr. Otter recommended last month that Idaho create its own exchange. But, Mr. Otter said, “I don’t want us buying a pig in a poke.”

Gov. Bev Perdue of North Carolina, a Democrat, said her state intended to join the federal government in establishing a hybrid form of exchange. Ms. Perdue will soon be succeeded by Pat McCrory, a Republican, who will decide what role the state should play.

Heather H. Howard, a lecturer at Princeton University who provides technical help to states as director of the State Health Reform Assistance Network, said the guidance provided by the Obama administration was sufficient for states to make decisions. States like California, Maryland and Washington have made great strides in developing exchanges, she said.

Ms. Howard said that governors might try to use the extra time to negotiate. “They’re feeling their oats and testing the limits of what leverage they have,” she said.
362 2012-11-17 Tomas Berdych beat Nicolas Almagro, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-7 (5), 6-3, to give the Czech Republic a 1-1 tie with Spain after the opening singles matches Friday in the Davis Cup final in Prague. Earlier, Spain’s David Ferrer topped Radek Stepanek, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. The fifth-ranked Ferrer has won a tour-best seven titles this season.

The Czech Republic is trying to win its first Davis Cup title as an independent nation. Spain, playing without its injured star Rafael Nadal, is bidding to win its fourth title in five years.

In the doubles match Saturday, Spain will field Marcel Granollers and Marc Lopez, who won the ATP World Tour Finals title in London on Monday. The Czech captain Jaroslav Navratil is expected to bring back Berdych and Stepanek, who are 11-1 in Davis Cup doubles.

“I’ll definitely be there,” Berdych said. “I think that the human body is a very strong engine.”
363 2012-11-17 European leaders debated how to aid Greece while the Continent’s economy continued to struggle, and Hostess Brands announced that it was starting to wind down its operations....
364 2012-11-17 WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency declined on Friday to relax its requirement on the use of corn ethanol in gasoline, rejecting a request from several states related to a steep decline in the nation’s corn production.

A summer drought that withered crops led to a spike in prices, hurting the livestock industry and others that depend on corn for food. Estimates indicate that as much as half of the nation’s crop will be used to produce ethanol this year to meet the federal renewable energy standard for transportation fuel.

“We recognize that this year’s drought has created hardship in some sectors of the economy, particularly for livestock producers,” Gina McCarthy, an E.P.A. assistant administrator, said in a statement. “But our extensive analysis makes clear that Congressional requirements for a waiver have not been met.”

To approve a change in the standard, the agency would have to conclude that the fuel rule would “severely harm” the economy. The E.P.A. said it had analyzed 500 potential market variations and that most of them showed no impact from the use of corn for ethanol; those that did showed an average impact of 7 cents a bushel, less than 1 percent of the price, it said.

A coalition of livestock groups expressed frustration with the decision, as did the National Council of Chain Restaurants, which says its costs have also risen because of the use of corn in ethanol production.
365 2012-11-17 The F.H.A. expects these changes, plus other measures it recently put into effect, to contribute $8 billion to $10 billion to its overall value in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. The agency said the new steps would begin as soon as January.

The agency also is asking Congress for new administrative capabilities to better manage its portfolio of loans and cut losses. “We need help from Congress,” Mr. Donovan said.

In a meeting with reporters, Carol J. Galante, F.H.A.’s acting commissioner, said, “It’s literally impossible to say that we will or won’t need a draw” from the Treasury at this point. “We’re doing all this to increase the likelihood that we will not.”

The F.H.A. insures a portfolio of more than $1 trillion in mortgages. The new actuarial report shows that it expects losses on its portfolio of loans originated between 1992 and 2009, including about $70 billion in expected insurance claims on loans endorsed between 2007 and 2009. The agency anticipates profits on insured loans originated from 2010 on.

During those years, some of the worst of the housing downturn, the F.H.A. continued to provide insurance on loans to help stabilize the housing market. “At some level, the government has already accepted” losses on those loans, Ms. Galante said. “They’re obligations of the government at this point.”

The F.H.A. also said loans where the seller put down money for a buyer’s down payment were a significant drain on its books.

Such “seller-funded down payment assistance” loans make up only 4 percent of the F.H.A.’s portfolio but account for 13 percent of its seriously delinquent loans. The F.H.A. said it expected to lose $15 billion on such loans, which it no longer insures.

Despite the projected shortfalls, the F.H.A. does not have an immediate need for cash, housing officials stressed.

“This does not mean F.H.A. has insufficient cash to pay insurance claims, a current operating deficit or will need to immediately draw funds from the Treasury,” a statement from the agency said.

The determination on whether F.H.A. needs to draw on the Treasury will come next fall, said federal housing officials. In February, the White House will perform its own projections of F.H.A.’s capital needs as part of its budget. Then, the F.H.A. will reassess its books as the fiscal year ends in September, and might request a bailout to shore up its capital ratio. Congress would not need to approve an F.H.A. draw from the Treasury.

Last year, the White House budget showed the F.H.A. in the red, but the agency improved its financial situation over the course of the year and did not require taxpayer financing.

Politicians in Washington, particularly Republicans, have voiced concerns that the F.H.A. could become a drain on the taxpayer, much like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Those mortgage finance giants have not required additional taxpayer financing in recent quarters, as the housing market has stabilized. But they have nevertheless received about $190 billion in federal financing in the last four years.

The F.H.A. cites three reasons for its deteriorating financial position this year. First, its actuarial review uses “significantly lower” house price appreciation estimates than it used last year.

Second, low interest rates — while a boon for the housing market, as they drive refinancing activity and entice new borrowers to buy a house — have hurt the F.H.A.’s bottom line. More borrowers are paying off their mortgages, reducing revenue for the F.H.A. On top of that, borrowers who are not able to refinance are defaulting at higher rates, requiring higher F.H.A. payouts.

Finally, refinements to the forecasting model that the actuaries use led to a higher estimate of losses on defaults and reverse mortgages.

More broadly, the agency is still struggling from housing downturn — and its mission is, in part, to help make homes accessible to the millions of low-income people who might otherwise be shut out of the mortgage market.
366 2012-11-17 “These photos were passed down through families and they survived Sandy, even if the structures they were in didn’t,” Ms. Van Houten said. “They tell our story.”

With the Facebook page, Ms. Van Houten uses newer technology to help people reconnect with their old-fashioned snapshots. And seeing the photographs of mundane scenes and milestones on Facebook, along with the grateful comments from people who got back a bit of their lives, reminded me of both the fragility and strength of photos and their continuing importance in our lives. Judith Dupré, author of “Monuments: America’s History in Art and Memory” (Random House, 2007), and other books, teaches a class at her local library in Mamaroneck, N.Y., called “Stories from My Life,” for older residents. They use photos and stories to write about their lives.

“They bring in a basketful of photos,” Ms. Dupré said. “Each one of these photos contains a story — they’re like a key that opens the door to a life.”

And a printed photo “is a different species than a digital photo,” she said. “I don’t think anyone’s figured out the place of digital photos in terms of memory keeping.”

When an elderly aunt of hers died and left behind lots of photographs, Ms. Dupré said the family took them to the memorial service.

“We had a table and people could select and take what they wanted,” she said. “It was a very moving part of the memorial.”

Of course, even prints can lose their meaning and poignancy through the generations.

And in some cases, as with Hurricane Sandy, photos may be safer in cyberspace than in an album on a bookshelf — as long as you remember to upload them to a site like Flickr, Shutterfly, Snapfish or countless other photo sites available. (And make sure you know how long a site will keep your photos. Some, for example, require you to show some activity at least once a year.) That way, if you lose your hard drive, you don’t lose your photos.

But Ms. Dupré said she worried that photos that existed only online somewhere might die with the photographer.

“I don’t even know what my parents have in terms of digital photography,” she said. She said she put the password to her photos safely away with her will and other documents, so her children can access them.

Now I’m not trying to say that the old-fashioned way is the only way. Photography has constantly evolved. The Brownie camera, first sold by Kodak for $1 in 1900, radicalized photography by making it available to just about everyone.

But, and I know this largely a generational thing, I can’t help but wonder about the ubiquity of the cellphone photo. As Ms. Dupré said, “The infinite number of digital photos that can be taken has devalued the single image and made one-of-a-kind prints that much more precious.”

I talked about this with my 14-year-old son, who has no real interest, at least right now, in printing out photos. To him, the act of taking the picture is, in some ways, more important than the product.

People “don’t see a photo as much as a keepsake, or as marking a moment,” said A. Joan Saab, an associate professor of art history and visual and cultural studies at the University of Rochester — the city where Eastman Kodak once thrived.

Professor Saab said she ordered photo books from Shutterfly, a Web site where you can upload photos and create printed albums and other photographic mementos, for her parents and in-laws, and occasionally orders prints herself.

“Now, I have photos stuck in Shutterfly envelopes all over the house,” she said.

Like Professor Saab, I enjoy the convenience of digital photography. But I agree with her that photographs used to be more special. Waiting for the photos to be developed and then reliving the trip or party where I collected them was part of the excitement.

But I don’t even know what I don’t know when it comes to the intricacies of cellphone photography. Dan Burkholder, a photographer and author, most recently of “iPhone Artistry” (Pixiq Press, 2011), said taking the photograph with a phone was just the beginning.

“The thrill is editing and stylizing the image,” he said. “You used to have to be in a darkroom or go to your computer to use Photoshop. Now you can do it in the field.”

Mr. Burkholder, who also teaches at the International Center of Photography in Manhattan, said the challenge was finding the right combination of apps that offered the best textural effects, color control, contrast and even composition and layering.

“Every week apps are popping out,” he said, adding that the democratic nature of photography by phone is “to be admired, not to be feared. If you don’t like change, you shouldn’t be in photography. You should be in pottery.”

But, he said, that doesn’t mean the printed photograph will — or should — disappear. It just means that the way a photo can be seen is different. Light reflects off a print, he said, while a computer emits light.

George Miles, curator of the Western Americana collection at Yale University, has been interested in collecting old photographic albums from the 19th and early 20th centuries. Some include peoples’ names, while others are anonymous with titles like, “My Trip to Yellowstone.”

They are “fascinating for providing a window of what the American West, postfrontier, looked like,” he said, not only as photos themselves, but as a chronology.

“Someone made a story — this image goes before that one and after this one,” he said. ““I think photography is an interesting mix of moments in time and yet, very often we use photography to tell a story that implies movement and sequencing and narrative.”

And the desire to do that seems just as strong online as offline, as shown by Facebook’s introduction of Timeline last year, which allows users to easily scroll back to earlier years.

Karen Walrond, author of “The Beauty of Different” (Bright Sky Press, 2010) and a photo blogger, remembers going back to visit her grandmother in the Caribbean, looking through a family album and seeing photographs of her 70-year-old father as a child.

She would love the idea of her grandchildren stumbling across photos she took, but admitted that many of the photos of her family were on hard drives somewhere.

“I have no idea where all the photos are,” she said.

She does write in a journal every day, and every now and then will print out a photo and stick it in the journal.

“I think it’s different if you actually have a print,” she said. “I sometimes print out and send a photo to a friend saying, ‘thinking of you.’ You can tuck it into a mirror or on a fridge. It brings a moment of joy.”
367 2012-11-17 Attached to the trade legislation is a provision that seeks to punish Russians who are implicated in human rights abuses. Inspired by the case of Sergei L. Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer who was tortured and died in prison after he investigated government corruption, the bill would allow the United States to deny visas to Russian officials who are deemed abusers and to freeze their assets.

The Russian Foreign Ministry reacted swiftly and angrily on Friday to the House vote, calling it “a flagrantly unfriendly and provocative step,” and pledged to retaliate.

“There should be no illusions,” the ministry added. “Responsive measures will follow from our side, and the responsibility for them will lie fully on the U.S.”

The legislation threatens to further strain President Obama’s relationship with Mr. Putin, despite hopes for renewed cooperation and conciliation in Mr. Obama’s second term.

William F. Browder, a prominent investor who employed Mr. Magnitsky in Russia before his death in 2009 and who fought to get the bill passed, said the House’s action would send a strong signal to Mr. Putin and his administration.

“They may be able to act with impunity at home, but they won’t be able to act with impunity elsewhere,” Mr. Browder said.

As the House debated the bill on Friday, Republicans and Democrats alike sounded at once diplomatic and stern, speaking of a growing trade relationship with one of the world’s largest economies as they condemned its abuse of its citizens.

Some experts estimate that the eased trade restrictions could double the amount of American exports flowing to Russia to $19 billion in five years.

“With this vote, we look to the future,” said Representative Gregory Meeks, Democrat of New York.

Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California, said: “This legislation is not a handout or a gift to Russia. A vote against this bill is a vote against U.S. employers. It’s a vote against small businesses.”

Indeed, some real-world economic shifts were behind Friday’s vote. Russia joined the World Trade Organization in August, becoming one of the last global economic powerhouses to do so. Without normal trade status, American companies like Boeing and John Deere will not be able to take advantage of reduced trade barriers.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce called for swift action in the Senate. “This is a jobs bill that won’t cost the taxpayer a penny, and we urge the Senate to approve it as soon as possible,” the organization’s president, Thomas J. Donohue, said.

One hurdle that remains is reconciling the House and Senate bills. While the House legislation applies only to human rights violators from Russia, the Senate version would apply globally.

Earlier this week, Senator Benjamin Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, testified that the House bill should be expanded. “I need not tell you that human rights violations are not just in Russia,” he said.
368 2012-11-17 The September figures for some countries will not be out until the end of this month, but it seems likely they will show a drop as well.

“Germany has slowed because weak global demand, particularly for the major machinery that Germany exports, is creating lower demand for Germany’s exports,” wrote Greg Jensen of Bridgewater Associates, a hedge fund and advisory firm. He said German companies were accumulating large inventories and their profits were suffering.

There are exceptions to the world pattern. Chinese industrial production continues to rise at a rate of more than 9 percent a year. While that is down from last year, it remains good. On Friday, the Federal Reserve reported that industrial production in the United States slipped in October by 0.4 percent, the second decline in the last three months, although the Fed said it would have been close to unchanged but for the effects of Hurricane Sandy. The annual growth rate is down to less than 3 percent.

But the declines have spread to some developing countries. Brazil’s production is running about 3 percent below that of a year earlier, and Indian production is basically flat compared with a year earlier.

It is not clear how much of the weakness in industrial production represents a real weakening of demand and how much reflects inventory issues. During the credit crisis, production fell much more rapidly than final demand, as companies found it hard to get financing and worried that their customers would be unable to pay for what was being shipped. Much of the revival in 2010 reflected pent-up demand, and some of the current slowing may simply show that depleted inventories have been replenished.

But the declines also provide an indication of continuing problems, particularly in some of the European countries most in need of a growing economy.

Greece’s industrial production was never large to begin with, but it is now lower than at any time since the figures began to be compiled in 1995, and is down about a third from its peak, set back in 2000.

Italian production appeared to recover in line with that of other countries in 2010, but has since weakened appreciably. For much of this year, it has been down more than 6 percent from the previous year. Spain’s production has fallen almost as rapidly.
369 2012-11-17 Living in Denver, teaching fourth grade at Saint Vincent de Paul, a Roman Catholic school, Ms. Kail had followed the grim news of the storm’s approach. On Oct. 29, when she saw a message on Facebook that said “Breezy Point burning,” she sent a text message to her childhood friend, Meg Dolan.

“Please, Meg,” she wrote, “before I tell my parents, is there any chance this could be a very bad rumor?”

The next morning, the teachers and students at Saint Vincent de Paul began writing cards. Ms. Kail flew to New York with a bag full of them on Nov. 2. Initially, she said, she had thought of having Ms. Dolan or one of the parish priests give them to displaced families. But then, walking through the wreckage along Gotham, she noticed the statue and laid the cards at Mary’s feet.

“I am a kid from Denver,” one boy wrote, “and my teacher is Ellen. I love her accent, it’s funny. But I’m so sorry for your homes. But God will make something good out of it and God will protect you Big and Small. You Rock!”

Ms. Kail noticed a pot of violets outside another destroyed house. Somehow the flowers were still alive. She moved the pot beside the Madonna.

“It was so bleak, so horrific,” Ms. Kail, 44, said. “And I thought maybe if I left some color, some hope, it would brighten someone’s day, just to think someone is praying for them.”

One of the first photographers on the scene, Frank Franklin II of The Associated Press, reached the corner of Oceanside and Gotham at 6 a.m. on Oct. 30.

Winding through the fields of blackened debris, he found himself transfixed by the statue of the Virgin Mary. Though raised by Protestant parents, Mr. Franklin attended a Catholic high school and he immediately perceived a deeper meaning.

“It’s weird how I was drawn to it,” Mr. Franklin, 40, recalled. “I’m not the most religious person in the world, but I know what those images are. When I made that frame, I knew it would resonate with people. What I couldn’t imagine was how much.”

Through his Twitter account, Mr. Franklin has heard from people who saw his photo in print or online. “A wonderful image,” one wrote on Twitter. Another wrote, “A symbol of faith.” By the afternoon of Nov. 16, a Google search for “Breezy Point Madonna” retrieved more than 400,000 results.

What happened spontaneously speaks to a larger theme in Catholicism. According to Timothy Matovina, a theology professor at the University of Notre Dame, the veneration of Mary, or Marian devotion, tends to fall into three categories. One involves apparitions; the second concerns statues associated with miracles in response to prayer; the third, as at Breezy Point, centers on an image of Mary that survives in some extraordinary way.

“In the midst of terrible tragedy, here’s a holy image, a sacred image, that made it through,” Dr. Matovina said. “There’s a sense you’ve been crushed, but not abandoned.”

Last week, Msgr. Michael J. Curran, the pastor of St. Thomas More, stood before the statue. A retired firefighter standing nearby surveying the remains of his home, greeted the monsignor, then nearly broke into tears.

“It will be a symbol of the suffering,” Monsignor Curran said of the statue, “but also of our rise from the ashes. It will be a symbol of what we’ve been through but also of our resurrection. It will be a reminder that for all the property we lost, God never left.”
370 2012-11-17 Industrial production fell unexpectedly in October because of Hurricane Sandy, the Federal Reserve reported on Friday, but factory growth appeared at a standstill even aside from the storm.

Production at the nation’s mines, factories and refineries contracted 0.4 percent last month, after a 0.2 percent increase in September, the Fed said. It said the storm, which hit the East Coast at the end of October, cut output by nearly 1 percentage point. Utilities and producers of chemicals, food, transportation equipment, and computers and electronic products were the most affected, it said.

Still, the gain in output last month would have been modest even without the storm, with fears about the possibility of higher taxes and sharp cuts in government spending early next year making businesses hesitant to raise output and invest.

Those measures would drain about $600 billion from the economy unless Congress and the Obama administration agree on a plan to soften the blow.

Industrial output contracted in the third quarter for the first time since the 2007-9 recession ended, a hard landing is not expected for the industrial sector.

Economists are divided on whether industrial output will bounce back in November. Some expect the effects of the storm to linger longer.
371 2012-11-17 SIEM REAP, Cambodia — The United States on Friday reaffirmed its military ties with the authoritarian government of Prime Minister Hun Sen, a former Khmer Rouge commander, but Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta also warned the country about its long record of human rights abuses.

After attending a regional security conference and a separate meeting with Gen. Tea Banh, Cambodia’s defense minister, Mr. Panetta said he wanted to emphasize the support of the United States “for the protection of human rights, of civilian oversight of the military, of respect for the rule of law and for the right of full and fair participation in the political process.”

Mr. Panetta was in Cambodia as part of the Obama administration’s “pivot” to Asia that seeks to bolster military, economic and diplomatic relationships in the region and serve as a counterweight to China’s rising influence. His visit came four days ahead of a planned trip here by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Obama, who will be the first sitting American president to visit the country.

The trips have drawn criticism from human rights groups, who say the administration, in its rush to make strategic friends in the region, is ignoring the record of people like Mr. Hun Sen, who has a bloody, decades-long history of crushing political dissent. A Human Rights Watch report released this week recounted numerous killings of labor leaders, journalists and opposition leaders in Cambodia over the last 20 years.

Cambodia has long and close ties to China, but United States Special Forces are now providing counterterrorism training to the Cambodian military and the two countries also conduct small-scale joint exercises. Still, the defense relationship is in the early stages and Mr. Panetta’s aides said the Pentagon remained wary of stepping up the military relationship with Mr. Hun Sen’s government.

Mr. Panetta announced no major American-Cambodian initiatives — called “deliverables” in the shorthand of government — as a result of his visit. Aides traveling with him said the main accomplishment was the symbolic value of the American defense secretary’s attending the regional meeting, a gathering of Southeast Asian defense ministers that previous administrations have ignored.
372 2012-11-18 The Chinese police say they have busted a counterfeiting ring that produced as many as a million fake Chanel and Louis Vuitton handbags. But phony goods (from medicines and books to Ray-Bans and Rolexes) continue to be openly sold in China, as wel...
373 2012-11-18 The book will deal with the social and cultural implications of early aviation, according to the longtime researcher Michael Hill....
374 2012-11-18 Marissa Schaevitz and Evan Hilson Levey were married Saturday evening at Gotham Hall in New York. Rabbi Ronald B. Sobel officiated.

Mrs. Levey, 28, is the special-events and fund-raising manager at the Bachmann-Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation in New York. She graduated from Indiana University.

She is a daughter of Sandra Schaevitz and Gary Schaevitz of Bedford Corners, N.Y.

Mr. Levey, 30, is a managing partner in January Management, his family’s investment firm in Manhattan, and is the director of operations for several of its companies, including Columbia Cabinetworks, a custom cabinetry company in North Greenbush, N.Y.; 74th Street Magic, an early-childhood activity center in Manhattan; and MFM Industries, a cat-litter manufacturer in Ocala, Fla. He graduated from Rollins College.

He is the son of Wendy F. Levey and Hugh W. Levey of New York.

In July 2010, Wendy Levey was having lunch with a friend who was a co-worker of Ms. Schaevitz’s. Mr. Levey was not dating anyone, his mother said; Ms. Schaevitz, her friend suggested, would be perfect for her.

The friend then sent an e-mail with Ms. Schaevitz’s contact information. Ms. Levey then immediately forwarded it to her son with the subject line: “YOUR FUTURE WIFE.” Some sons might ignore or delete an e-mail like that. But Mr. Levey said that something felt right.

“As silly as it sounds, I felt compelled to e-mail her, and I waited a flat 45 minutes,” he said. “I’m not cool enough to wait a really long time.” He added that even before he had finished reading his mother’s e-mail, she called to ask if he had gotten in touch with Ms. Schaevitz yet.
375 2012-11-18 Sarah Kwai Lin Samis and Emil Joseph Bove III were married Monday in New York. Judge Richard J. Sullivan of the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York, for whom the groom was a law clerk in 2008 and 2009, officiated in his courtroom. On Saturday, Rabbi Benjamin M. Weiner led a religious ceremony at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in North Adams.

Ms. Samis, 31, is keeping her name. She is a senior health policy analyst at the United Hospital Fund, a research and philanthropic organization, in Manhattan. She graduated from Barnard and received a master’s degree in public affairs from Princeton.

She is a daughter of Vida C. K. Leong and Robert A. Samis of Potomac, Md. The bride’s father is an economist in the Office of Aviation Plans and Policy at the Federal Aviation Administration, in Washington.

Mr. Bove, also 31, works in Manhattan as an assistant United States attorney in the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York He graduated from the State University at Albany, and received a law degree from Georgetown.

He is a son of Lyn A. Bove and Mr. Bove Jr. of Seneca Falls, N.Y. The groom’s father retired as an assistant New York State attorney general from the Rochester office.
376 2012-11-18 No. 20 Notre Dame responded to its overtime loss to St. Joseph’s on Friday by beating Brigham Young, 78-68, in the third-place game of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at Barclays Center on Saturday night.

“I’m very, very proud of our team because we invested a lot of energy last night and had our hearts broken,” Notre Dame Coach Mike Brey said. “We were moping around a little bit today and rightfully so.

“By pregame meal at 3 o’clock, we had our heads up, and I was impressed with our maturity because we were in a battle. We were down 7 in the second half, and we found a way to get out of here with a win.”

Jack Cooley had 19 points and 13 rebounds; Jerian Grant had 19 points, including 17 in the second half; and Eric Atkins added 16 points. One of Atkins’s baskets, a 3-pointer, gave the Fighting Irish (3-1) a cushion after the Cougars (2-2) had closed the margin to 2 points.

Atkins then stole the ball near midcourt and scored on a long layup to put Notre Dame ahead by 68-61. That was the Irish’s last field goal; they went 10 of 12 from the free-throw line the rest of the game.
377 2012-11-18 The financially stricken Spanish club Real Oviedo says the Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim has agreed to invest $2.5 million in the third-tier team, which had been facing bankruptcy before a massive fund-raising effort by fans. Oviedo narrowly staved off financial extinction after supporters over the past two weeks bought more than $1.9 million in new shares in the club.

The club said in a statement that Slim decided to become the new majority shareholder because of Oviedo’s “history in Spanish professional football and above all for the extraordinary support of its fans.”

¶ A Russian league game between Dinamo Moscow and Zenit St. Petersburg was called off in the first half after Dinamo goalkeeper Anton Shunin was injured when a firecracker thrown from the stands exploded near him. Shunin was taken to a Moscow hospital, and the state news agency RIA Novosti said Shunin, a Russian, sustained an eye injury, but there were no details on how serious.

The firecracker was thrown from the stands holding Zenit fans in the 36th minute of the game held just outside Moscow. Shunin fell to the pitch clutching his face. The Interfax news agency said several people were detained, but there were no reports of charges being filed.

¶ Arsenal came from behind to beat Tottenham, 5-2, in the Premier League after Emmanuel Adebayor was sent off shortly after having scored the first goal of the game. Adebayor netted his first league goal of the season in the 10th minute but was dismissed eight minutes later for a dangerous high challenge on Santi Cazorla. Tottenham could not cope with being a man down.
378 2012-11-18 Ferrer is wrapping up the best season of his career, in which he won a tour-best seven tournament titles. He has a 5-3 career record against Berdych.

Stepanek takes on Nicolas Almagro in the final match.

“I’m ready to do it tomorrow,” Berdych said. “I’ll try to come with my strong game, and with the crowd on my back it would be a good combination to make it.”

The Czechs are seeking to complete a rare double two weeks after the women won the Fed Cup title in the same arena. No country has won both competitions in one year since the United States in 1990.

Spain is looking for its fourth title in five years; the Czechs’ only victory came in 1980 as Czechoslovakia, which split in 1993.

The Czech pair broke Granollers for the first time to seize a 5-2 lead in the fourth set when he netted a volley.

Since they teamed up for doubles in 2007 in a playoff against Switzerland, Berdych and Stepanek’s only Davis Cup defeat came in a 5-0 loss to Spain in the 2009 final.

“We know what we are capable to do in Davis Cup,” Stepanek said. “And we also know that the doubles points matter, and we played together so many times, so we have all the experience we can have.”

Coming off a big title at the ATP finals Monday, Granollers and Lopez took control early. Stepanek double-faulted twice for the Czechs to be broken in the second game of the opening set to trail, 4-1. Granollers served it out at love.

The Czechs turned the match around in the second set, starting with a break of Lopez that gave them a 3-1 lead.
379 2012-11-18 In the weeks ahead, federal regulators will finalize rules that, done right, will bring long-overdue transparency and oversight to the multitrillion-dollar derivatives market. The big banks that control derivatives trading, however, are lobbying to dilute the rules. To grasp what is at stake, recall that the $182 billion taxpayer bailout of American International Group during the financial crisis was essentially a bailout of the global financial system, undertaken to make good on derivatives bets gone spectacularly wrong.

Since then, financial regulators in the United States, particularly at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, have put several rules in effect under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law to rein in derivatives. But a pair of reforms now before the C.F.T.C. are arguably the most important of all.

One would require that most derivatives be traded on open electronic platforms, with prices visible to all participants before deals were done. That would curtail the practice of trading derivatives as private bilateral contracts, which would help to prevent destabilizing risks from building up without regulatory oversight. Banks object to this rule because transparent trading will invariably lead to lower prices for derivatives and lower profits for banks. They want broad exceptions to the rules, especially for large trades, which they say will disrupt markets if done openly. But that problem could be managed with a narrow exemption. To protect the public, regulators must ensure that the new rule will require the vast majority of trades — more than 90 percent — to be conducted openly.

Another reform would ensure that new derivatives rules apply to trades made through the foreign branches, affiliates or subsidiaries of American banks. That is crucial, because in a global economy, risk knows no borders. Banks, however, want “substituted compliance,” in which foreign affiliates are regulated by the foreign country as long as that country has similar rules.

The trouble is, derivatives rules are weaker or nonexistent elsewhere, making the call for substituted compliance either a tactic to delay enforcement until the rest of the world updates its regulations or, worse, an attempt to avoid tough regulation altogether. The new rules, which are expected to take effect in January, could be delayed for six months to allow European and other international regulators to enact reforms that meet American standards. But even then, American regulators must be required to stringently verify that foreign rules and enforcement are truly comparable to standards in the United States. Otherwise, substituted compliance would be nothing more than disguised deregulation, and American taxpayers would remain exposed to future bailouts.
380 2012-11-18 Sir Rex’s odyssey, which involved holding the heavily armed enemy at bay with a pistol while pinned down by gunfire, followed by a forced exile and a triumphant return, impeccably encapsulates the waning days of colonialism.

If it is rife with elements of imperial farce à la Evelyn Waugh — “the wee man with the funny hat” was how the British news media sometimes described Sir Rex during the conflict — it is equally a story of the bravery and resourcefulness of an ordinary civil servant thrust into extraordinary circumstances.

What followed Sir Rex’s stand was far from comical: by the time Britain reclaimed the Falklands 74 days after the invasion began, more than 900 people were dead.

Sir Rex, who was knighted in October 1982 for his service during the invasion, died in a hospital in Stockton-on-Tees, England.

In a statement, Prime Minister David Cameron said, “Sir Rex Hunt should be a hero to everyone in Britain,” adding, “His courage, resolve and judgment fired the spirit of the islanders and the British people to stand up to aggression.”

In 1980, after three decades in the foreign service, Sir Rex landed in Stanley, the Falklands’ capital and only town.

“My only real impression was of how small it was,” he said afterward. “It looked as if a puff of wind could blow it away.”

But the rough-hewn, rain-soaked landscape recalled his native Yorkshire, and he soon came to embrace — and be embraced by — the Falklands’ 1,800 inhabitants.

Lying 300 miles off the southern tip of South America, the Falklands have been claimed since the early 19th century by Argentina, which calls them Las Malvinas. In 1833, they were also claimed by Britain. A century and a half of international discord followed, though it never erupted into war.

When Sir Rex arrived there, Argentina still wanted the Falklands badly. Britain ... well, that was another matter, as he would soon discover.

What Sir Rex discovered, not long after arriving, was that Britain wanted to unload the Falklands, and had installed him to help it do that.

By the 1980s, the Falklands had become an albatross. To Britain, the economics of maintaining a colony so distant — and whose principal product, sheep, was in no short supply at home — were scarcely favorable. And colonialism was in increasingly bad odor in any case.

Britain had been negotiating sporadically with Argentina for decades, but the precise terms of a handover had never been agreed upon. With his reputation for amiability, Sir Rex seemed to London to be just the man to persuade Falklanders that belonging to Argentina was in their best interest.

The trouble was, they did not want to. Most islanders were descended from the original British settlers, and as Sir Rex quickly learned, they were determined to remain British. That Argentina was then in the hands of a military junta was no inducement either.

“The role of governor is rather special,” Sir Rex told The Independent of London in 1992. “In a small colony, he’s the only voice the colonials have in London. So the governor has to become part of the colony.”

This stance did not please London, which by all accounts worried that its man in Stanley had “gone native.”

On March 31, 1982, London learned that Argentina was poised to invade the Falklands. The Foreign Office informed Britain’s ambassador to the United Nations. It informed the United States. One person it did not inform — for a full day — was Sir Rex.

About 3:30 p.m. on April 1, Sir Rex received a cable now widely considered remarkable even by the standards of British sang-froid. It read:

“We now believe that the Argentine task force will assemble off Cape Pembroke by dawn tomorrow stop no doubt you will wish to make your dispositions accordingly.”

Sir Rex considered the possibility that the cable was an April Fool’s joke, rejected the idea and started planning. The nearest British warship was days away. He had about 70 Royal Marines and some 30 local volunteers at his disposal and, as it transpired, less than 15 hours.

Rex Masterman Hunt was born in Redcar, in northeast England, on June 29, 1926. From 1944 to 1948 he was a fighter pilot in the Royal Air Force and later earned a law degree from Oxford.

After joining the foreign service in 1951, he was posted to Uganda, Indonesia, South Vietnam, Malaysia and elsewhere before being assigned to the Falklands.

At 3:25 a.m. on April 2, Sir Rex declared a state of emergency. He sent his family to a safe house and, according to the British news media, did likewise with two cherished possessions: a picture of Queen Elizabeth II and a bottle of gin.

Before dawn, Argentine commandos landed on the Falklands coast. By about 6 a.m., thousands of Argentines strapped with bandoleers were converging on Stanley.

As a firefight raged outside his official residence, Sir Rex held fast in his study, pistol in hand, vowing to shoot any Argentine who came through the door. (None did.)

But when, about 9 a.m., armored personnel carriers with mounted machine guns rolled into town, Sir Rex, fearing civilian casualties, declared a cease-fire. His men had killed at least one Argentine fighter, possibly more; the precise figure has long been contested. There were no British casualties.

Surrendering, Sir Rex rebuffed the outstretched hand of the Argentine commander, Gen. Osvaldo García.

“It is very ungentlemanly of you to refuse to shake my hand,” General García said, in a widely reported exchange.

“It is very uncivilized of you to invade my country,” Sir Rex replied.

Exiled immediately, Sir Rex chose to depart with all due imperial pomp, donning his ceremonial uniform: tunic, sword and hat plumed with ostrich feathers. The figure he cut was rendered all the more evocative by his 5-foot-4 stature.

After decamping in his official car, a red London taxi (the cab’s height accommodated the hat’s), Union Jack fluttering, he flew to Uruguay.

From there he went to Britain, where he remained for the duration. As the Foreign Office made plain, it was London’s war now.

“I was completely and utterly sidelined,” Sir Rex told The Independent in 1992. “I was irrelevant, as far as I could see.”

However the Foreign Office felt about the Falklands, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was determined to defend them for crown and country. Under her direction, Britain sent thousands of troops and scores of warships there. By the time Argentina surrendered on June 14, more than 250 Britons and about 650 Argentines had been killed.

Mrs. Thatcher was sufficiently impressed with Sir Rex’s handling of the invasion that she reinstalled him in the Falklands, where he was accorded a hero’s welcome.

Sir Rex, who retired to England in 1985, said in interviews that the war had been “worth it” for keeping the Falklands British.

He remained closely allied with the islands, visiting often and serving as chairman of the Falkland Islands Association and president of the United Kingdom Falkland Islands Trust.

Sir Rex’s survivors include his wife, the former Mavis Buckland; a son, Antony; and a daughter, Diana.

He was the author of a memoir, “My Falkland Days,” published in 1992.

Today, the Falklands, population 2,563, remains a British overseas territory, a status that Argentina still bitterly contests.

In March, residents will hold a referendum on the islands’ political future. As Falklands leaders have made clear since announcing the referendum last summer, its sole purpose is to send Argentina a message:

On this small, steadfast corner of the world, the islanders intend to say, the British imperial sun shall not be setting anytime soon.
381 2012-11-18 Lucille Bliss, who provided the cute, husky voice for the title character in the groundbreaking television cartoon series “Crusader Rabbit” in 1949, and later for Smurfette on the 1980s series “The Smurfs,” died on Nov. 8 in Costa Mesa, Calif. She was 96.

David Scheve, a producer-director for TDA Animation who had worked with her in recent years, confirmed her death.

Ms. Bliss’s role as the voice of Crusader — the feisty little rabbit who seeks adventure beside his big, dumb buddy, Rags the Tiger — “made her one of the very first television stars,” said Mark Evanier, an animation historian and voice director.

“Crusader Rabbit” was the first cartoon series produced specifically for television. “Her voice had a lot of personality, which was important because early animation was done so cheap it didn’t have a lot of personality in it,” Mr. Evanier said. Ms. Bliss played Crusader in the first season, starting in September 1949, but not in later versions of the series.

She performed a panoply of parts over the next five decades. In 1950 she was the voice of Anastasia, the daughter of the wicked stepmother, in the Disney movie “Cinderella.” She had parts on “The Flintstones” and in several theatrical cartoons, as well as in commercials for products like Froot Loops and Ovaltine.

As Smurfette, she gave voice to the flirtatious character that many of the other blue, bulby-nosed little creatures had crushes on as they sang, danced and confronted menaces to their world. “The Smurfs” ran from 1981 to 1989.
382 2012-11-18 While Joanna Coles, the recently appointed editor in chief of Cosmopolitan, spends her workweek advising women how to improve their love lives, her Sundays are devoted to more familial concerns. The Britain-born Ms. Coles, 50, lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan with her husband, Peter Godwin, 54, an author, and their two sons, Thomas, 13, and Hugo, 11.

WAKE UP AND WALK The dog gets me up. It would be 6:30 or 7 o’clock. Our dog is called Phoebe, and we got her from a shelter. She’s half beagle and half Lab. She’ll start walking round the room, and then I will get up and take her out for a walk. I normally walk her for about an hour in the morning. It’s the only time of day I get to myself.

WHAT TO WEAR In the summer or in the fall, I’m usually in MiH jeans. They’re English jeans and the denim is very soft. I’ve yet to find the perfect pair of shoes to walk in, because the park can get very muddy. I often wear castoff flats. At the moment I am wearing a pair of YSL. They’re giraffe print. I have a real challenge of finding dog-walking shoes.

BREAKFAST The kids will normally be up by then. We’ll probably have a light breakfast. Peter and I will have coffee and read the paper, and the boys will saunter in and demand eggs and bacon and toast. I have a lot of tea in the morning. I always have toast and peanut butter.

WORKOUTS I like to use exercise classes as a way of understanding what people are doing. I’m promiscuous in terms of exercise. You see what people are wearing. You see what people are responding to. You see what the music is they’re listening to. An exercise class is social anthropology. What clothes people are wearing; what are the new sneakers.

COOKERY I like to cook a Sunday lunch. When I was growing up, Sunday lunch was my favorite time as a child. We would have a big Sunday English meal and we would argue about things. I am a very robust English cook. I love to cook traditional English Sunday fare. My favorite cookery book is “Appetite” by Nigel Slater. He cooks exactly what I want to eat and share with my friends. I will do leg of lamb, roasted potatoes, a squash type, some sort of winter vegetable. I will do a dessert, which will be a homemade sponge pudding or a fruit crumble.
383 2012-11-18 James Garcia, a manager at a nonprofit group, needs only to gaze from his condo’s south-facing terrace to see the change. In 2005, Mr. Garcia and his partner moved from Battery Park City, paying $595,000 for a two-bedroom condo with two baths and two terraces on 112th Street near Thomas Jefferson Park. Next door was an auto body shop, and beyond that a tire repair place.

“Looking out from our back terrace, there was nothing but public housing back then,” Mr. Garcia recalled, “and now I see eight new residential buildings. And the empty lot next to mine is going to be converted into an eight-story condo.”

Development has been spurred in part by East River Plaza, a long-awaited mall at 116th Street and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive that offers the likes of Target and Old Navy. The increased foot traffic has brought restaurants to the avenues nearby as well as to 116th, which has come to be called Little Mexico. On 119th and Third, Hunter College’s graduate school of social work now resides in a shiny new eight-story brick-and-glass building. Along with condos and a graduate center apartment house, the school has drawn a diverse crowd and helped rejuvenate a down-at-heel area of dollar stores.

“There’s a young professional population of every ethnic group,” Mr. Garcia said, “and a noticeable, huge increase in the gay population.”

But perhaps the greatest leading indicator of cultural transformation can be found at the dog run. “You can always tell a neighborhood is changing by its dogs,” Mr. Garcia said. “When we moved here, they were mostly pit bulls, but now there’s every breed, every terrier you can imagine.”

Broadly speaking, East Harlem is made up of the one and a half square miles of Manhattan Island covered by Community Board 11: The area between 96th and 142nd Streets, from Fifth Avenue to the East and Harlem Rivers. These borders can be a subject of disagreement. Some place the northern boundary at 125th Street, the southern edge north of 96th.

Nearly half the area’s 101,448 residents are Hispanic or Latino, but from 2000 to 2010 their proportion shrank to 47 percent from 52, according to census data provided by Andrew A. Beveridge, the chairman of the Queens College sociology department. The black population dipped slightly, to 38 percent, while the percentage of non-Hispanic whites rose to 13 from 7 and the share of Asians doubled, to 6 percent. Median household income was $30,833, less than half that of Manhattan households overall.

English and Spanish are both widely spoken, but the background of those speaking the Spanish has changed. The proportion of Puerto Ricans, the area’s dominant group by the 1950s, was just a quarter of the 2010 population, while an influx of Mexicans and Dominicans brought the reported share of each of those groups to 8 percent.

Most East Harlemites live in some form of rent-regulated housing, and the neighborhood has one of the largest concentrations of public housing in New York. But development pressure is mounting. In 2010 and ‘11, more new certificates of occupancy were issued in East Harlem than in any other city neighborhood, according to a report by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University.

George Sarkissian, the district manager of Community Board 11, said that rising rents had priced some longtime residents out of their own neighborhood. “We have private equity firms that have bought up large portfolios of low- and middle-income housing at the tail end of their rent-regulatory period,” he said, and in some cases the buildings have opted out of government rent-regulation programs, bringing some apartments to market rate. “So there’s a bit of tension between people who have been in East Harlem for generations and those who are moving here, although there’s no outright conflict.”

The community board has made a priority of preserving affordable housing, Mr. Sarkissian added, and it has held discussions with new building owners to try to persuade them to remain for 25 years in the federal Section 8 program, which provides rental payment assistance to low-income New Yorkers.

Below-market-rate and mixed-income housing has also been built by private developers making use of government incentives. One of the newest mixed-income co-ops is the eight-story Lancaster Madison, the fourth in a corridor of pleasant brick-and-masonry buildings between 117th and 120th Streets on Madison Avenue.

“All the brand-new buildings make you feel that people are already investing up here,” said Enrique Vela, an architect, while taking a break from painting a room for the baby whom he and his wife, Gimar Diaz, are expecting. Last month the couple paid $395,000 for a two-bedroom unit in the Lancaster Madison. “The neighborhood’s not there yet,” he said, “but it’s getting there, and when it does I think we’ll be sitting pretty.”

Fifth Avenue from 96th to 110th Street has several new developments and renovated prewar buildings that sell or rent at heights unheard of elsewhere in East Harlem. Three-bedrooms in 1214 Fifth, a new 53-story glass tower on 102nd, rent for $9,000 a month and up, said Daria Salusbury, a senior vice president of the Related Companies, the building’s leasing agent. Condos at One Museum Mile, the tower atop the as-yet-unopened Museum for African Art on 110th, command more than $1,000 a square foot.

Outside of this rarefied corridor, two-bedrooms in luxury condos typically bring around $615,000, said Mr. Armstead of Corcoran, and the pace of sales has picked up markedly since September. A search on Streeteasy.com found 71 residential properties for sale.

Two-bedrooms in tenements rent for around $2,300, said Dianne Howard, also of Corcoran. Luxury rentals can be had for $2,500 to $3,000 a month, Mr. Armstead said.

WHAT TO DO

The area boasts some of the best Mexican food in town, at restaurants like El Paso Taqueria. Diverse local favorites include Ricardo Ocean Grill; Harley’s Smokeshack; Creole; and Piatto D’Oro, one of whose owners is a former Roman paparazzo.

Among the public elementary schools is the Bilingual Bicultural School on 109th, for kindergarten through fifth grade, which earned an A on its most recent city progress report. Middle schools include the Isaac Newton Middle School for Math and Science on Pleasant Avenue, which scored a C. At the Central Park East High School on Madison, SAT averages last year were 405 in reading, 421 in math and 395 in writing, versus 434, 461, and 430 citywide. The private St. Bernard’s School on 98th runs through Grade 9.

The 2, 3, 4 and 5 express trains stop at 125th Street. The 6 makes five stops on Lexington from 96th to 125th. The trip from 116th to Grand Central Terminal takes about 20 minutes. From 125th on the 4 or 5, the ride to Wall Street is about 25 minutes. There is a Metro-North Railroad station at 125th and Park.

In 1930, 80,000 Italians lived in East Harlem; by 2010 that population had dwindled below 1,900. “My father grew up here in the 1930s,” said Robert Martinez, the maintenance superintendent at the local Boys’ Club of New York, who is of Puerto Rican descent, “and if you weren’t Italian or Irish you couldn’t pass Second Avenue toward the East River between 106th and 116th. My dad was very light-skinned, so he was able to filter in with the Italians; our name is Martinez so he called himself Martini.”
384 2012-11-18 IN 1994, China’s Communist rulers decided that the gluttony of party officials with unfettered access to money and privilege was soiling their brand. Indeed, the rulers’ own penchant for black Mercedes stretch limousines sparked no small amount of comment in what was then mostly a nation of bicyclists.

So to set an example, they gave them up. And switched to being chauffeured about town in black Audis, the windows tinted a dusty gray.

This lesson in asceticism, Chinese style, resonates even today, as the party elite met at Beijing’s Great Hall of the People this week to lay hands on China’s next generation of leaders.

As the Chinese have abandoned their bicycles, the black A6 has become the automobile of choice for practically any party official or military officer with enough clout to secure one. At the least, that is a cast of thousands: Audi sold 313,000 cars in China in 2011, and the research firm LMC Automotive estimated this year that a fifth of sales go to governments, state institutions and state-owned companies. About half of all A6s sold worldwide (229,200 in 2011) are bought in China and Hong Kong, the research firm Dunne & Company reported last year.

More than a perk, the black Audi is a rolling advertisement for its occupant’s importance and impunity in a nation obsessed with status. Black A6s slice through traffic queues and scream down the emergency lanes of Beijing’s traffic-clogged freeways, sometimes with a flashing red light stuck on the roof or implanted in the grille. Ordinary drivers know better than to cut them off or complain, at least publicly.
385 2012-11-18 “She later said that it was my work that attracted her to me,” said Mr. Mapplethorpe, now 52, gray haired and good looking with a piercing below his lower lip. “I think maybe it was also endearing that she saw I could be comfortable in the art circles she was getting into, that I could hold a conversation with, like, curators at MoMA. I’m not an accountant.”

Up until that point, Ms. Yun, the eldest daughter of Chinese immigrants, had led a life that was mostly about gymnastics and dance classes, boarding school and liberal arts college. She’d lived in four countries, studied both French and Chinese, and played the piano, viola, violin and French horn. “She was probably one of the easiest children to raise,” said her father, Johnson Yun, a retired manager for Ford. “We never worried about her.”

Mr. Mapplethorpe was the youngest of six and “had lived a little more on the edge,” he said. He was raised Roman Catholic in Floral Park, Queens, a borough that still bestows on him a subtle accent.

He spent most of his early adulthood in turmoil in Manhattan. In the previous decade, he’d lost two brothers, including Robert, and his mother. He moved to Los Angeles, where he saw the dawn and dusk of a heroin habit. (“I was taking care of a girlfriend who had a real drug problem, and then I realized I had a one myself,” he said.) He dated a dominatrix. “Robert introduced us, saying to me, ‘If I were straight, I’d be with her.’ ” In 1993, she died of cancer.

He also had gone through several name changes: First he was Eddie, then Ed, then Edward. At his brother’s request, he changed his last name to Maxey. “Robert told me he wasn’t going to have any kid brother of his riding on his coattails,” Mr. Mapplethorpe said. So he took his mother’s maiden name. “It never worked,” he said. “Everyone always knew I was his brother.”

Thirteen years his senior, Robert Mapplethorpe was largely estranged from his family, but punctuated key moments in his younger brother’s life, showing up in black leather to family events, often with his longtime companion, the singer and poet Patti Smith. Early on, she saw in the family’s youngest an interest in art, and would mail him books on Chagall and Klee, and records by T. Rex and Jimi Hendrix.

The younger Mapplethorpe’s sojourn from Queens to his brother’s bustling, celebrity-filled Bond Street studio in 1976 left an impression.

“I saw there was a world outside of Floral Park,” Edward said.

While at the State University at Stony Brook, N.Y., he fell in love with the chemistry of the darkroom. Upon graduation, he became his brother’s assistant, taking meter readings and retouching. “I learned a lot from him,” he said. “And I taught him some things as well.”

He was with his brother when he died from complications from AIDS in March 1989. “Just Kids,” Ms. Smith’s 2010 book about her relationship with Robert Mapplethorpe, begins with the phone call she received from Edward Mapplethorpe telling her of Robert’s death.

“I was taking pictures while my brother was alive, but the idea of getting out there and really showing my work sadly didn’t materialize until he passed away,” Edward said. “He just required too much attention.”

Edward took back his original name in 1998.

The younger Mr. Mapplethorpe’s work is more abstract than the elder’s, save some of his portraits. “The one of Asian women was really about looking at facial structure of people from different parts of Asia,” he said.

At Ms. Yun’s sitting in April 1997, “there was chemistry between us,” he said. So he asked if she’d join him and friends at his birthday dinner the next week. “Michelle and I spent that night together.”

Mr. Mapplethorpe spent the next year trying, and struggling, to break up his relationship with Miss Malaysia so he could devote himself to Ms. Yun. “When the other woman came to town, I would just miss Michelle,” he said. “This was before cellphones. I’d make excuses to go to the deli or something, and I’d run and find a pay phone and call Michelle. I was in the grips of this other relationship, but I knew Michelle was the one.”

Ms. Yun was flattered, but her patience had limits. “He was conflicted,” she said. “But I’m very straightforward. I wasn’t going to do something behind someone’s back.” So, two years after their initial meeting, she told him not to contact her until he figured out what he wanted.

A few months later, on Valentine’s Day 1999, he asked her to meet him in the lobby of MoMA, where she was doing a fellowship. The other relationship was over, he said. He apologized profusely. They made a pact to avoid forever conversations about Malaysia. “We won’t even eat Malaysian food,” he said.

In their years together, Ms. Yun, now 38 and a curator at the Asia Society, said she’s watched him transform. “I’ve seen him become more confident and more clear about his vision,” she said. “He is very sensitive, I think especially because of his familial relationship. Having a brother who has such a place in the art historical canon can make you self-conscious, with people always judging and comparing you to a sibling, whether or not it’s favorable. As if being a working artist isn’t hard enough! But that is just part of his reality.”

He proposed in 2003 with a Cartier ring she’d selected when they were at the Venice Biennale; they spoke of marrying several times over the next few years — on the Orient Express, or on the Amalfi Coast. They considered the sculpture garden at MoMA, “but they don’t allow anyone to get married there,” he said.

Then, in 2006, Ms. Yun’s mother died of cancer, and “it felt wrong to celebrate for any reason,” she said. “But really, neither of us are the marrying type. It never felt urgent. Nor did having kids. But the longer we’ve been together, the more the idea of having children with him has become appealing and central.”

Mr. Mapplethorpe thought the formality was unnecessary, but he conceded. “I told her, ‘Well, if you got pregnant I’d marry you right away,’ but she said, ‘That’s not how it’s going to work.’ ”

They wed on Oct. 27, at the Campbell Apartment, a cocktail lounge at Grand Central Terminal, three days shy of the 16th anniversary of their first meeting.

Patti Smith, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated. Mr. Mapplethorpe told her he’d always sought out a love like the one she and his brother had had. She said that he and her daughter were the only people whose marriages she could imagine performing.

When he told her how saddened he was that his two deceased brothers and his parents wouldn’t be there, “She said to me, ‘I’ll bring Robert. I bring Robert wherever I go,’ ” Mr. Mapplethorpe said. “That was comforting to me.”

They thought Ms. Smith might sing, but she didn’t. During her short benediction, she accidentally referred to New York City as a state, which got a laugh. “Well, it’s a state of mind,” she said.

“With Patti, nothing is ever smooth or over-rehearsed,” Mr. Mapplethorpe said. “I’m not that way, but it’s part of her persona and I like that about her.” She forgot to introduce Steve Walfish, an old friend who was meant to sing a Jewish prayer during the ceremony. Instead, he sang afterward; when introducing the song, he referred to the groom as Ed. Mr. Mapplethorpe corrected him. “It’s Edward,” he said.

Recalling the ceremony afterward, Mr. Mapplethorpe said: “There were mistakes. But it was perfect.”
386 2012-11-18 When he left Shorewood, Rehnquist began his conservative Pilgrim’s Progress. He enlisted to fight in World War II and ­eagerly read “The Road to Serfdom,” Friedrich A. Hayek’s classic anti-­Communist manifesto. Later, as a Stanford undergraduate, he fell under the sway of a prominent conservative constitutional law professor. After a brief graduate school stint at Harvard — where he found the politics unpleasantly liberal — he attended Stanford Law School.

It was while serving as a law clerk to Justice Robert Jackson that Rehnquist the partisan emerged. He arrived when the court was considering Brown v. Board of Education and wrote a vigorous memo urging the justices to reject the claim for integration and reaffirm Plessy v. Ferguson’s “separate but equal” doctrine. In another memo, he argued against ending Texas’ version of the “white primary,” which prevented black voters from participating in elections in a meaningful way.

Rehnquist settled in Phoenix, where he practiced law with a sideline in politics. He was one of just three people out of 33 to testify against a city ban on discrimination in public accommodations, and in election season, he was in charge of “ballot security” for the Republicans, challenging black voters at the polls on literacy grounds. When Arizona’s native son Barry Goldwater won the Republican nomination for president in 1964, Rehnquist was firmly planted in the inner circle. Though that “choice, not an echo” campaign failed epically, Rehnquist was catapulted four years later to a top position in the Nixon Justice Department. As the assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Counsel, he was point man for the administration’s hard-knuckle response to anti-Vietnam War protesters — or, as he called them, “new barbarians.”

When a Supreme Court vacancy opened in 1971, Nixon did not need to look far. Civil rights groups and liberals tried to block Rehnquist’s nomination, armed with a Newsweek article on his pro-Plessy memo. Rehnquist argued, implausibly, that the views were Jackson’s, not his, and the Senate confirmed him comfortably, 68-26.

Rehnquist arrived at the court just in time to dissent from Roe v. Wade, the landmark 7-2 ruling recognizing a right to abortion. Justices often try to build alliances, but that was not Rehnquist’s way. He dissented alone so often that his law clerks presented him with a Lone Ranger doll. Rehnquist had a lighthearted side. He played practical jokes; he loved placing small bets with colleagues; he dashed off limericks during oral arguments. His rulings, however, were a somber drumbeat of rejections of the claims of blacks, women, workers and criminal defendants.

In 1986, Ronald Reagan nominated Rehnquist to be chief justice, and the lone ranger was suddenly at the center of the action. It was a conservative court, more so as the years passed, which could have provided Rehnquist the votes he needed to finally achieve his and Nixon’s dream — but that was not how it worked out. When Rehnquist died in office in 2005, he had presided over a revolution that did not happen.

One reason for this was Rehnquist’s insistence on remaining a lone ranger to the end. He did not engage in the judicial statesmanship and collegial wheedling that were necessary to win majorities. There was also the fact that some of his conservative colleagues were stubbornly independent. In 1992, the Rehnquist court had a clear opportunity to overturn Roe, but two members of the conservative bloc — Sandra Day O’Connor and Anthony Kennedy — slipped away, joining an opinion that ended up reaffirming Roe for years to come.

In some cases, it was Rehnquist who held back. After years of promoting states’ rights — or “federalism” — and scoring some big victories, he surprised court-watchers by writing a decision holding that Congress could force states to give their employees family and medical leave. He may have gone “wobbly,” as Margaret Thatcher might have said, from watching the struggles of his daughter, a single mother.

Jenkins’s judicious narrative has one regrettable lapse: It gives short shrift to Bush v. Gore. That momentous ruling does not get its own chapter as, say, Rehnquist’s love of betting does. Jenkins, the president and emeritus publisher of CQ Press, argues that Rehnquist’s role must have been “relatively minor” since another justice reportedly wrote the unsigned majority opinion. It is hard to believe, though, that the great partisan who cut his legal teeth challenging black voters was not deeply involved in stopping the Florida vote count, no matter who wrote the decision. In any case, attention must be paid, since — when the historical dust settles — nothing the Rehnquist court did will have mattered more.

Jenkins concludes that Rehnquist’s greatest influence was serving as the model for a new breed of ideological justice, like his former law clerk, the current chief justice, John Roberts. He argues that this model of partisan is purer than Rehnquist — and points out that, through 2011, Roberts “never provided the crucial fifth vote for the liberal bloc.” True enough, but then this year Roberts defied expectations and did provide the liberals with a crucial fifth vote — and national health care was upheld as a result.

Therein lies a moral of sorts. There is no denying that ideological justices have scored some important victories over the years. But Rehnquist’s paltry legal legacy, and Roberts’s surprising vote upholding health care, are reminders that even in this age of vastly heightened judicial partisanship, sometimes when we least expect it the center does hold.
387 2012-11-18 Most of my life was spent in Philadelphia, and much of my time was spent on an Amtrak train traveling to New York and Washington. Unlike many Amtrak travelers, I was unable to read or concentrate on work-related issues. The passing images of decay were simply too powerful. Sadly, yet with eloquence, Pieter Hugo’s lens captures that decay. I was especially taken aback by the photo of the young man astride his bicycle on Torresdale Avenue. I remember riding in a trolley car on that very avenue on trips to visit relatives. JOSEPH FRANKLIN, Corrales, N.M.

Adam Davidson’s views on the N.Y.-D.C. corridor fit a convenient narrative, but they do not reflect the realities of modern manufacturing. I run a musical instrument factory in eastern Pennsylvania. We need skilled machinists, but neither our union nor the local high school’s apprentice program has talent available. We offer living-wage jobs with good benefits. But with 40 other local shops seeking the same workers, not enough students enter the apprentice program to meet the demand. JONATHAN GOLDSTEIN, Sellersville, Pa.

As an obstetrician-gynecologist, I take care of the women whom Charmaine Yoest says she wants to protect. I cannot imagine telling my 14-year-old patient that she must carry to term a pregnancy resulting from rape. I do not presume to know more than my 30-year-old patient about her reasons to terminate a pregnancy. I work hard to make abortions safe. I work harder to make them rare by trying to prevent unwanted pregnancies. But I trust my patients to be the best judges of their own circumstances. SIRIPANTH NIPPITA, M.D., Columbia University Medical Center, New York

Sometimes abortion, rather than being empowering, leaves women vulnerable to men who don’t want to take responsibility for the child they’ve conceived. An abortion is not a “choice” — it’s an act of desperation. We should promote real choices for women in desperate situations, ensuring that they have finances, medical care and psychological support. ROSE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

HOW DO YOU RAISE A PRODIGY?

As the mother of two teenage daughters — one with disabilities and another who is gifted (though not a prodigy) — I believe the daughter with disabilities is getting the better education in public schools. She has a team of teachers and therapists and a specific educational plan. The gifted daughter simply coasts, improving with age but not by virtue of teaching. And while I have become good at advocating for the daughter with disabilities (the law, as it should be, is on my side), I have no argument to make to the schools for my gifted daughter, other than, “Please do your job.” LISA WESEL, Bowdoinham, Maine, posted on nytimes.com

Aptitude in math and classical piano are both highly dependent on a single variable: practice. Articles on “child prodigies” often omit this. For whatever reason, the kids are willing to devote all of their attention to a subject and then pump in innumerable practicing hours. WILLIAM HERKEWITZ, New York, posted on nytimes.com
388 2012-11-18 During a break from rehearsal recently Mr. Hartmere said: “Somewhere between the L.A. and the New York productions we had producers wonder: ‘Is this too edgy? Can we talk about this?’ Now that doesn’t come up.” Even by 2004, the year that same-sex marriage became legal in Massachusetts, Mr. Hartmere said, he worried about the pertinence of a gay-wedding scene, played as an outlandish fantasy sequence. (It has been cut from the revival.)

Mr. Hartmere said: “I remember thinking: ‘We have to get this show up before there’s no homophobia. We’ve got to get this out there.’ ” The intervening years haven’t eradicated gay bashing, bullying or the suffering of gay youth; still, the “incredible strides” toward further gay rights, Mr. Hartmere said, meant that “Bare” demanded some recalibration.

“It seemed a bit naïve to put up the exact same show,” said Randy Taradash, the lead producer of “Bare,” whose day job is director of marketing for American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco and who saw the short-lived New York production in 2004.

“We’re in a different world now,” he said. “The struggle is still there, but it has evolved. To have a show not acknowledge that doesn’t really honor what Jon and Damon were doing.”

“Bare” is still the star-crossed love story of Jason, a closeted jock, and Peter, who has trouble keeping their relationship secret. And the show still builds to a climax around their coed Catholic boarding school’s production of “Romeo and Juliet.”

But Jason and Peter’s straight peers, played by a chorus of 10, have new dimension, thanks to the decision to drop the show’s operatic ambition; it was originally subtitled “a pop opera” and mostly sung through. “Bare” has now been retooled as a traditional book musical, with new dialogue scenes and some new songs but less music over all. (Accordingly the revival is called “Bare: The Musical.”)

Mr. Arima, the director, explained: “We wanted to make sure that the community of this school was present, that we understand that everyone in this piece has a contributing connection to each other and to Peter and Jason. Jon has given them more to say; there are book scenes, and they are characters that are fully fleshed out.”

The result, said Lynne Shankel, the music director and the composer of some of the new songs, is that “Bare” is more about “the collective experience of these kids and the idea of expressing yourself. As a teenager you want to break out and be yourself, but you kind of don’t know who you are yet.”

Mr. Hartmere added, “High school is never going to be a cakewalk.”

Other rewrites tweaked cultural references. Facebook and other social media aren’t explicitly mentioned, but a plot device now turns on the easy sharing of a smartphone photo. A sequence set at a rave (remember those?) has been cut, and there’s a raunchy new ode to Internet pornography that leads into a bout of bullying.

Mr. Hartmere and Mr. Intrabartolo, who wrote “Bare” when they were in their early 20s, may now be further from their high school days. But the revival’s young cast, Mr. Hartmere said, has helped vet his updates for accuracy.

Casey Garvin, who plays a straight bully, said, “I only got out of high school a few years ago, and the way they’ve done this version of the show — it’s exactly what high school is like now.” But “Bare,” he said, is also true to his experience in a more profound way.

“I downloaded the soundtrack in 2007 when I was 16, and there was something about the story that touched me so strongly,” he said. “It helped me come to terms with myself, internally, and I was also able to give my mom the album. I’m sure every boy goes through that weird ‘What am I?’ phase. This show helped me realize that I was gay.”

That may seem like a lot to lay on a little-known musical. But Kristin Hanggi, who directed the original Los Angeles and New York productions (and has since made her name as the “Rock of Ages” director), isn’t surprised. “I still to this day get letters,” she said. “The show affects people on a deep level.” She offered her theory: “ ‘Bare’ is about the definition of God as love, and about erasing judgment, especially when we’re young and we feel surrounded by judgment, and the only light and divinity that can be found is in love.”

Religion is as central to “Bare” as sexuality, and for sound autobiographical reasons: Both Mr. Hartmere and Mr. Intrabartolo are gay and Roman Catholic. And if the show has any special liberating powers for questioning teenagers, those may derive from the show’s creation.

“I wasn’t out yet when we started writing, and for me it was sort of a cathartic experience,” Mr. Hartmere said. “I remember sitting with Damon early on, and I was like: ‘Just so we’re clear, I’m not gay. So we’ll write this show about two boys falling in love, and I’ll do my best to imagine what that’s like.’ ”
389 2012-11-18 COLOSSAL animals and superheroes float over the sidewalk; children giggle with excitement; adults are drawn back to their youth.

The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade this Thursday may put on the bigger show, but it’s replicated in miniature year round at the Balloon Saloon at West Broadway and Duane Street in TriBeCa, where dozens of inflated figures crowd the sidewalk outside.

The toyshop has stood here since 1980, when the Odeon opened down the block, before the city paved over West Broadway’s cobblestones. Since then, the neighboring shoe stores and the dairy district have vanished, and the customers have changed from blue-collar workers to bankers, but the balloons have remained, livening up what is now a blandly stylish row of boutiques and bistros.

A statue of a cowboy wearing a rainbow-color wig and oversize sunglasses greets customers at the door. Inside, shelves full of toys and gags are packed so tightly that customers have to turn sideways to squeeze past one another in the aisles. Party supplies cover one wall: packets of glitter, kazoos, plastic plates and “Happy Birthday” banners. Years of footsteps have worn pathways through the wooden floor’s varnish. Then there are the balloons: tied to every toy rack and shelf, with the escapees bumping the ceiling.

The balloon bar is in back, a wide counter and a wall covered with clear plastic boxes stuffed with uninflated balloons of every size and color. Mike Rogan, an employee, estimated that the store offered more than 1,000 specialty varieties, the most popular being those shaped like cartoon characters, followed closely by bride and groom balloons. Though lately, he added, “the groom and groom have been more popular.”

Children form the core constituency, but more than a few adults succumb to the desire to shake a Magic 8 Ball or rearrange the limbs on Mr. Potato Head. Caitlan McKoy, 43, and Alexandra McKoy, 6, who live in the Flatiron district, stopped by on a Saturday afternoon this month to buy a balloon for a sleepover, but got distracted while exploring the store’s other offerings. When Alexandra tried out a sound-making machine — a digital cousin to the whoopee cushion, which the store also stocks — her mother asked, “Do you want to give this to Dad for his birthday?”
390 2012-11-18 “There’s nothing worse than spilling your guts and having people hate it,” he said with a sardonic chuckle. “ ‘Oh, that’s your world? Wow, I don’t like the movie or you.’ ”

As he explained his thinking behind “This Is 40,” speaking in September at the West Los Angeles office his employees call the Apatower, he said: “Here’s my family, here’s my marriage, here’s my job. Are we happy with where we’re at? Can we make it better?”

The comedy in that, he said, arises “when you try really hard to control it all, and that always comes back and smacks you in the face.”

Despite his tendency to personalize the plot, Mr. Apatow says the movie is not really about him and the three-quarters of his nuclear family who appear in it. In “This Is 40,” Mr. Apatow revisits Pete and Debbie (played by Mr. Rudd and Ms. Mann), the middle-aged parents introduced in “Knocked Up,” as they are barraged with commonplace predicaments: Is Pete’s business failing? Can Debbie be both a friend and a boss to her employees? Can they raise their children (played by Maude and Iris Apatow) and navigate relationships with their own parents? Is this a hemorrhoid?

Mr. Apatow said this intimate specificity — inspired by reality, if not lifted from it — was necessary to connect with the wide audience he seeks.

“People never walk out of the movie and think it’s about us,” Mr. Apatow said. “They always think it’s about them.”

Dating to the births of their daughters, Maude, now 14, and Iris, 10, Mr. Apatow said, he sought to convince Ms. Mann that there was a memorable comedy in their prenatal adventures.

“All sorts of crazy, terrifying, hilarious things were happening,” said Mr. Apatow, 44, who has the scruffy beard and cheerful manner of a satisfied satyr. “I would say, ‘You think we should make a movie about this?’ And I would pray she would say yes.”

Some of these details found their way into “Knocked Up,” Mr. Apatow’s 2007 hit (which sold nearly $220 million in tickets worldwide) starring Katherine Heigl and Seth Rogen as singles contending with an unexpected pregnancy.

Ms. Mann, 40, slender and chic, said that in her husband’s confessional comedies were a welcome antidote to what she said was her “very shy, kind of pent-up” youth and “WASPy” upbringing. During the making of “Knocked Up” she provided notes to make sure the women were represented as fairly as the men. (A scene in which Mr. Rogen’s character blanches at having sex with Ms. Heigl’s character while she is pregnant was Ms. Mann’s suggestion.)

In the presence of their children Mr. Apatow and Ms. Mann are doting, boo-boo-kissing parents. However, when it is just the two of them (and a reporter), the dynamic is different: they joke around and tease each other affectionately, but also hang expectantly on each other’s sentences. As Mr. Apatow explained, they had only just started discussing the finished version of “This Is 40” with each other, let alone with interviewers.

With her husband seated next to her Ms. Mann said she was concerned that other romantic comedies did not depict domestic squabbles and their aftermaths as she was used to them.

“I’m so sick of seeing these movies where married couples are just cuddling on the couch and caressing each other’s faces,” she said, adding, with a laugh, “I’m like, ‘Maybe it does happen, and maybe there’s something wrong with us.’ ” (“I want to cuddle you for the rest of this interview,” Mr. Apatow told her.)

So Mr. Apatow created a story for the Pete and Debbie characters that would show what his understanding of marriage looked like while giving him and Ms. Mann a creative place to work out innermost feelings.

When he is talking about what Pete might do in a situation, “it’s just a coded way for me to say, ‘I feel this way,’ ” Mr. Apatow said. “It allows us to have a very intimate conversation about other people.”

As his screenplay developed around these conversations, it incorporated experiences he and Ms. Mann have dealt with — say, his sneaking off to the bathroom to play games on his iPad — and comic exaggerations of true circumstances; other personal issues were deliberately omitted.

“I have vague memories of not wanting to talk about certain things,” Ms. Mann said to Mr. Apatow, “like your things.” He replied, “Well, don’t talk about them here.”

Mr. Rudd was also invited to participate in conversations and videotaped improvisations, as was his wife, Julie. He said he did not mind involving his spouse (who is not a performer) and found it therapeutic.

“It seems like you’re having some sort of couples’ therapy, but it’s viewed by millions of people in movie theaters across the world,” Mr. Rudd said.

Still, he said it was inevitable that personal dialogue crept into these sessions and into the movie. “It’s like, why not say it now?” Mr. Rudd asked. “God knows it’s true that it could actually happen. Because it did.”

Maude and Iris Apatow too are playing expanded versions of their “Knocked Up” roles — not just wisecracking moppets this time but characters who are integral to the plot. Though they have all but grown up on their father’s movie sets, this latest assignment could be a more problematic blend of fact and fiction, and open them up to critiques that grown-ups are more accustomed to.

Mr. Apatow said he shoots with his daughters only during the summer and that they are “not encouraged” to act in other people’s films. But he said he felt they were ready for some of these challenges and that it was important that they received this exposure to the family business.

“I’ve tried to explain to them why we do it,” he said. “This is what creative people do. They share their lives, they let other people see that they feel the same things as them — that we’re all in this together.”

Maude Apatow, who is a burgeoning blogger and used to shrugging off online criticism on Twitter, said in response to e-mail questions that she was glad to be included in “This Is 40.” “I would have felt bad if I was replaced by some other kid who looks a little like me,” she wrote.

But in some scenes — like a fight with her on-screen parents, after her character has been forbidden to use Wi-Fi — she said it was hard to keep her authentic emotions out of the movie.

“Sometimes I am not acting,” she wrote. “I forget we are acting and I just get irritated for real. Who takes away the Wi-Fi?”

On the other hand, she said, she was proud of her work in a scene in which she had to lose her temper, cry and curse at Ms. Mann. “My mom taught me how to commit to the scene, which helped me a lot,” Maude wrote. “Nobody commits harder than my mom.”

Ms. Mann said Maude does not use obscenities when they argue but praised her daughter’s performance in that scene. “It was really the moment where she became a little actress,” Ms. Mann said.

For newcomers to Mr. Apatow’s sets, like Mr. Brooks, who plays Mr. Rudd’s ne’er-do-well father, it can be dizzying to see so many actors playing their real-world equivalents, under the direction of their husband or father.

“There was an anger that I’m sure is duplicated from what’s at home, and in a way that’s sort of cool,” Mr. Brooks said. “When someone who isn’t their father-in-law or grandfather comes into a scene, and all of those people live in that scene, it’s easier for me to fall into it.”

In the way that Mr. Apatow cast the people closest to him in his own movies, Mr. Brooks compared him to filmmakers like Woody Allen and John Cassavetes, with one crucial difference.

“Judd is making big commercial comedies,” Mr. Brooks said. “He’s trying to make a movie everybody sees.” But when Cassavetes made his low-budget independent features, “he wasn’t getting calls on Saturday morning: ‘Nobody came, we’re going to kill you.’ ”

Mr. Apatow said he was taking cues from former bosses and idols like Garry Shandling, who put forth a fictionalized version of his professional life on “The Larry Sanders Show,” and James L. Brooks, who focused on ordinary people with ordinary problems in films like “Terms of Endearment.”

If this approach occasionally results in efforts like “Funny People,” a 2009 film by Mr. Apatow that took some criticism for being overlong and unfocused, he said he did not mind.

Told by a confidant that he should have made “Funny People” later in his career, Mr. Apatow said, “I thought, no, what I liked about it is that it’s not fully baked. It was made in the moment of a very deep feeling, and that’s what I think comes through.”

Even as he has gone on to produce hit films like “Bridesmaids” and the Lena Dunham HBO series “Girls,” Mr. Apatow knows he will always be associated with the stunted adolescent men of movies like “Knocked Up.”

But, he said, “I’m not that guy anymore.”

If one includes his beloved if short-lived TV shows like “Freaks and Geeks” and “Undeclared,” Mr. Apatow said, he has looked at American lives in nearly every phase of development, from high school onward.

For the lead characters in “This Is 40” “a sympathetic show of their lives and issues is something that I think needs to be made,” Mr. Apatow said. “Every aspect of life is difficult for people. It’s all a little too much. We’re all deeply overwhelmed by it.”

Looking ahead on his career trajectory Mr. Apatow said there was only one way it could conclude.

“It’s all a straight path to ‘Grumpy Old Men,’ ” he said. “We know how this ends — with ‘The Sunshine Boys.’ ”
391 2012-11-18 When you see a merger between two giants in a declining industry, it can look like the financial version of a couple having a baby to save a marriage. At least that was my thought when Random House and Penguin, two of the world’s six largest publishers, announced that they were coming together last month. Ever since began ripping apart the book business, the largest houses have been looking for a way to fight back. If this merger is any indication, they have chosen an old-fashioned strategy: Size.

A combined Penguin-Random House, which would control a quarter of the global book market, is a conglomerate designed to take on another giant, though it’s not exactly a fair fight. Because the new entity will only have about a twelfth of Amazon’s annual sales, most observers expect that this is just the beginning of a series of mergers — like those in the business — that will take the Big Six publishers down to the Big Three and perhaps one day even the Big One. As John Makinson, Penguin’s chief executive, told The Times, “We decided it was better to get in early rather than be a follower.” The question is whether this strategy will work.

There are two competing predictions about commerce in the digital age. One is that companies will get smaller and more disruptive as nimble entrepreneurs can take on giant corporations with little more than 3-D printers and Web sites. The other envisions a few massive companies — like , and — that design everything themselves, have it manufactured cheaply in and use their e-commerce sites to gather information about their customers. Nearly the exact same conflict occurred more than a century ago in the decade that straddled 1900, which was also a period of rapid technological change. In just a few years, 1,800 small companies were swallowed up as the electrical-power, telephone, auto, steel and chemical industries grew from patchworks of tiny companies into conglomerates. In “The Great Merger Movement in American Business 1895-1904,” the Yale economist and historian Naomi Lamoreaux wrote that back then everyone worried about the same thing that authors, editors and book buyers worry about now: Are large companies good for the economy? Do they grow through efficiency and innovation or by abusing their leverage?

Lamoreaux found that they did both, and many turn-of-the-century examples suggest what might happen to Penguin-Random and others. On one end of the spectrum, Lamoreaux told me, was . Its predecessor companies competed by finding new ways of making steel at ever-lower prices. But after merged three companies into one behemoth, he discovered a better way to profit. Because all steel producers bought iron ore from the Mesabi Range in , U.S. Steel bought most of the range and locked much of the rest of it in long-term contracts. As a result, the company hardly worried about competition; it had little need to innovate or compete on price, which made everything from cars to soda cans more expensive. Worse, it left a massive industry unprepared for the growth of innovative Asian companies during the 1970s and 1980s. By then, U.S. Steel all but collapsed, and a chunk of the U.S. economy went down with it.

& Roebuck, on the other end, “grew by solving market and technical problems,” Lamoreaux said, and, as it solved them, its market share increased. Unable to monopolize anything like iron ore, Sears needed to innovate to stay ahead. Through constant competition with Ward and others, it adopted new strategies that ultimately benefited its customers. When the company got into trouble, closed stores and was bought in 2005 by a struggling competitor, Kmart, the retail industry was robust enough that the overall economy barely noticed.

The future of book publishing is somewhere between the two poles. Oddly enough, it seems to mirror what happened to the envelope business. In the early 1900s the envelope industry was large enough to support several big companies. Then the mergers started, and an industry of numerous small companies became two giants. Eventually, the envelope industry wasn’t large enough to sustain itself, and the companies became tiny divisions of larger conglomerates. U.S. Envelope still lives as a small part of the packaging manufacturer . American Envelope was bought by Cenveo, a business-stationery company whose chief executive, Robert G. Burton Sr., made clear that the century of mergers and buyouts is not over. “We’ve had people knocking on the door,” he told shareholders in August.
392 2012-11-19 As Israel conducted a new wave of strikes on Monday, Khaled Meshal, the Hamas leader, suggested the Israeli mobilization on the border was a bluff on the part of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel....
393 2012-11-19 Same as he ever was....
394 2012-11-19 When it comes to investing in our nation's children, parents and nonparents alike should all be on the same side....
395 2012-11-19 The bank announced that Marianne Lake would replace Douglas Braunstein, who will become a vice chairman....
396 2012-11-19 A recent study found that probiotics reduced the risk of C. difficile-associated diarrhea by 66 percent....
397 2012-11-19 "Magic Fingers," a new experimental art space, hosted an intimate inauguration last Saturday night with "Questionable Beliefs; Part 3," an exhibition by the artist Danny McDonald....
398 2012-11-19 For the Securities and Exchange Commission, proving that an individual broke the law is much more difficult because juries seem to find it much easier to put the blame on the organization while exonerating those who work there....
399 2012-11-19 Apple is the first, last and only word on which apps are allowed on its array of mobile devices. At what point does it become something to worry about?...
400 2012-11-19 Dairy Farmers of Canada, Toronto, chose the Toronto office of DDB Canada as agency of record for mass-market advertising campaigns for Canadian cheese that will run in all provinces except Quebec. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by the Montreal office of Taxi, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP. DDB Canada is part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Áine Duggan joined the National Council for Research on Women, New York, as president. She succeeds Linda Basch, who has been awarded a yearlong fellowship to the Advanced Leadership Initiative at Harvard University. Ms. Duggan had been vice president for research, policy and education at the Food Bank for New York City.

D Expósito & Partners, New York, hired three executives as part of expansion plans. Doritz Ferreras joined as partner and chief strategy officer; she has worked for agencies that include Alma DDB, Leo Burnett and the Marketing Store. The other two executives —Mauricio Galván, who joined as partner and chief creative officer, and Leo Olper, who joined as partner and business development and integration officer — had led an agency, Totality, which was closed after two years; Totality was part of the Arnold Worldwide division of Havas Creative, owned by Havas.

GFG Management, part of the Global Franchise Group, Norcross, Ga., named Revel United, Dallas, as the creative agency of record for two chains, Marble Slab Creamery and MaggieMoo’s Ice Cream and Treatery. Billings, on a capitalized basis, were estimated at $500,000. The assignment had previously been handled by the Summit Group, Salt Lake City. Global Franchise is an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners.

Gilt Groupe, New York, selected two agencies to handle its first foray into television advertising for the Gilt flash sales Web site. Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United unit of WPP, will handle the creative duties and Ocean Media, Huntington Beach, Calif., will handle the media planning and buying duties. Spending to test a television campaign was not disclosed; the Gilt Groupe spent $16 million last year to advertise Gilt in other forms of major media.

Nico Golfar joined Kaiku Finance, Westlake Village, Calif., as senior vice president for sales and marketing, helping with several aspects of a co-branded prepaid card to be introduced with Rovio Enterprises. Mr. Golfar had run his own consultancy, Nico Network.

John McCartney joined Wise Public Relations, New York, in a new post, director for media relations. He had been United States account director for earned media at the New York office of the Splendid Communications Group.

Barbara Moses joined Women’s Health magazine, part of Rodale, as Los Angeles sales director. She succeeds Mark Masero, who left to join Money magazine, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner. Ms. Moses had been Southwestern advertising director at Shape magazine, owned by American Media.

Chris Mycek joined the Cadient Group, King of Prussia, Pa., in a new post, chief customer officer. He had most recently been executive vice president at Influence Interactive, Philadelphia.

Greg Neal joined Radley Studios, Los Angeles, in a new post, chief strategy officer. He had been senior vice president for marketing at Pacific-12 Enterprises, helping to introduce the Pac-12 Networks.

Nancy Newman and Jonathan Perelman joined BuzzFeed, New York, in new posts. Ms. Newman becomes vice president for sales marketing and learning; she had been vice president for sales communications and training at Yahoo. Mr. Perelman becomes vice president for agency strategy and development; he had most recently been global lead for industry relations at Google.

John Nugent joined the New York office of Dragon Rouge in a new post, vice president for client services. He had been chief client manager at Concep, London.

Mary Palu joined Bailey Lauerman, Omaha, as vice president, as part of an expansion of the agency’s senior management. She had been partner in charge of brand navigation at Bozell, Omaha.

Pocono International Raceway, Long Pond, Pa., named Front Row Marketing Services, Philadelphia, part of Comcast-Spectacor, as agency of record for commercial rights, corporate sponsorship development and sales opportunities. Those duties had previously been handled by FullCircle Ventures.

Margaret Dora Ragnarsdottir joined the Boston office of Mad*Pow in a new post, as a senior experience designer. She had been a user experience and interaction designer at Siminn, Reykjavik, Iceland.

Raymond Reid joined Neo@Ogilvy, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, as managing director for Toronto, leading its Canadian operations. He succeeds Armin Huska, who joined the Toronto office of Mindshare, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as managing director for digital. Mr. Reid had been vice president and group director for digital at the Starcom MediaVest Group, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Lisa Gatto Setten joined JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP, as head of production. She succeeds Sergio Lopez, who left to join Anomaly, New York, part of MDC Partners, as global head of integrated production. Ms. Setten had been head of broadcast production at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Flora Skivington joined MeringCarson, Sacramento, in a new post, as a brand strategist. She had been a freelance account planner, working for agencies in the Los Angeles and New York areas.

Eva Papoutsakis Smith joined the Weather Companies, New York, in a new post, vice president for sales strategy. She had been vice president for strategic development at WebMD. The Weather Companies, formerly the Weather Channel Companies, is owned by a consortium composed of NBCUniversal, part of Comcast; the Blackstone Group; and Bain Capital.

Nicole Temples joined HCB Health, Austin, Tex., as an account supervisor. She had been an account director at Ignition DG, Bristol, England.
401 2012-11-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
402 2012-11-19 Citi's price protection program offers refunds if the price of your purchase drops by at least $25....
403 2012-11-19 The president and chief executive of Intel, Paul S. Otellini, is retiring after 40 years with the company. Intel said it would prepare to transition to a new leader over the next six months....
404 2012-11-19 Official Russia now sees all foreign aid as probably hostile and all foreigners as likely enemies....
405 2012-11-19 We are sorry. The page you looked for can not be found. We recommend you to use one of the links below.
406 2012-11-19 Thanksgiving-shift protests, profiting from pot, a new search engine, and why social media are boring....
407 2012-11-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
408 2012-11-19 The Czech Republic won the Davis Cup for the first time as an independent nation Sunday, beating Spain, 3-2, in the final after Radek Stepanek upset Nicolas Almagro in the last reverse singles. The 37th-ranked Stepanek beat 11th-ranked Almagro, 6-4, 7-6 (0), 3-6, 6-3, converting his second match point at the O2 Arena in Prague. David Ferrer beat Tomas Berdych, 6-2, 6-3, 7-5, in the first reverse singles match.
409 2012-11-19 Responding to criticism that its proposed boundary maps were unfair to minorities, New York City’s Districting Commission has approved a revised plan that will define the 51 City Council districts for the next decade.

The new district lines, redrawn to reflect population shifts identified in the 2010 census, were approved unanimously, but without any public testimony on the revisions, and will next be taken up by the City Council, which must approve or reject the plan in three weeks. If the Council approves the maps, as expected, they will be used in the 2013 citywide elections.

Advocates for minority communities, as well as government watchdog groups, offered mixed reaction to the plans. Some groups, including the Asian-American Legal Defense and Education Fund and LatinoJustice PRLDEF, said the maps had improved. But some criticized the process, which they said did not involve enough consultation with the public.

“By holding their cards so close to the vest and by hand-delivering this to the City Council, the powers that be could very well hold a vote on this in days, and they’re not obligated to hold a hearing on this,” said Juan Cartagena, president and general counsel of LatinoJustice.

But Carl Hum, the commission’s executive director, said the commission had strictly followed the New York City Charter. He also challenged elected officials who had been critical, like Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez, of Northern Manhattan, to hold their own Council hearings if they were upset by the proposal.
410 2012-11-19 As the weeks of anxious uncertainty drag on for the tens of thousands of New Yorkers left homeless by the storm, pet owners have been making heart-wrenching decisions about what to do with their animals.

Jim Buonamano, 73, spent several bitter nights sleeping in his flooded, powerless home in Belle Harbor, Queens, while taking care of April, a 6-year-old white German shepherd, and Bella, a 2-year-old pit bull. He contacted the city’s pet hot line after the storm, and two weeks later help arrived.

On Sunday, a man and a woman from Manhattan, who simply showed up in the Rockaways with a station wagon and a desire to volunteer, had been directed to deliver April and Mr. Buonamano to the Brooklyn shelter. Then they all went back for Bella.

“I’d rather she be someplace warm, even if I don’t see her for a month,” said Mr. Buonamano, who is now staying with a brother. “She could use a bath, since she was in flood water, too.”

April’s arrival highlighted the effort, involving nonprofit organizations, private shelter operators, celebrity donors, veterinarians and unaffiliated volunteers, to mitigate the suffering of both humans and animals.

“The silver lining of a disaster is that some of these animals have never seen a veterinarian, or it had been a while,” said Matt Bershadker, the senior vice president of the A.S.P.C.A.’s anti-cruelty group, which oversees field investigations.

Veterinarians from New York and others from around the country examined every animal brought in. They were aided by animal behaviorists. Taped to the cage of a Rottweiler mix was a warning for handlers: “Very Scared.”

Tim Rickey, the A.S.P.C.A.’s senior director of the shelter, said: “They go through much worse than humans because they don’t understand it.”

After nearly two weeks of negotiations, the warehouse’s landlord agreed on a rent of $20,000 a month, A.S.P.C.A. officials said, adding that a $500,000 donation from the celebrity chef Rachael Ray, who also has contributed supplies from her line of pet food, helped defray some costs.

Forty-four cats and dogs were delivered from a Sean Casey Animal Rescue emergency shelter in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, on Sunday, with their transport overseen by the Mayor’s Alliance for NYC’s Animals, an animal welfare charity that is not affiliated with the city.

There were also 48 animals whose owners had yet to be found, brought in from shelters run by Animal Care and Control from around the city. The facilities of that organization, which has a contract with the city to pick up strays, are already overcrowded. The organization has come under criticism in the past because it euthanizes some unwanted animals. No animals affected by Hurricane Sandy were on that list, said Richard Gentles, a spokesman for the organization.

The animals who arrived without owners were to be kept in a quarantined section of the warehouse, because they could have been exposed to disease, Mr. Bershadker said.

The Mayor’s Alliance, through its Wheels of Hope program, has spent several days pleading with owners to put their pets in the new A.S.P.C.A. center as they leave evacuation centers.

When the Queens College evacuation center closed over the weekend, an older man staying there with his fuzzy Pomeranian, Buddy, pleaded for his pet not to be sent to the A.S.P.C.A. “He said, ‘I lost everything in this hurricane,’ ” Debbie Fierro of the Mayor’s Alliance recalled. “’The only thing I have is my dog.”

Sharon Hunter, 51, was even more adamant that she stay with her 2-year-old ferret, Trouble.

Ms. Hunter had ridden out the storm with Trouble and her 10-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, on the seventh floor of a New York City Housing Authority building in the Rockaways. With no heat and electricity, she agreed to leave a week later only because she could take the ferret to the Queens College emergency shelter.

After nearly two weeks, Ms. Hunter said, shelter officials enticed her away with a free hotel room in Manhattan, but only on the condition that the ferret went to the shelter in Brooklyn. Ms. Hunter said she resisted, but exhaustion and the need for privacy won out Saturday night. She ended up at the Carlton Hotel, on Madison Avenue.

Trouble was enjoying the semi-privacy of a wood-paneled office on Sunday, keeping company with a parakeet and a rabbit, each in its cage.
411 2012-11-19 Admissions policies that take class into account, rather than race, are getting a renewed push as a win-win solution. The contention is that they more fully serve the goal of diversity in higher education and provide a progressive way to resolve an enduring conflict that has now returned to the in a case about race-conscious admissions at the University of Texas at Austin.

But a crucial premise of the class-over-race argument is wrong. It is not possible to maintain the same level of racial diversity in higher education while applying a race-blind admissions policy. Class-based admissions generally reduce the number of black and Hispanic students. To maintain or build the levels of racial diversity on selective campuses, it is necessary to maintain race-conscious admissions.

While there are higher shares of blacks and Hispanics among low-income Americans, their smaller shares of the whole population mean that whites make up by far the largest portion of low-income families. As Alan Krueger, now head of ’s , and his co-authors wrote in 2006, “The correlation between race and family income, while strong, is not strong enough to permit the latter to function as a useful proxy for race in the pursuit of diversity.”

Class-based policies can maintain the share of blacks and Hispanics at selective colleges and universities only if admissions policies also give an advantage to blacks and Hispanics that is not race-blind. That is also the finding of Anthony Carnevale and his co-authors, researchers relied on by advocates for class-based policies. Advocates may broaden the definition of social and economic disadvantage to include other factors, like speaking a foreign language at home, but these are proxies for ethnicity or race.

’s Thomas Kane found that selective colleges and universities using class-based admissions would have to save six times as many places for low-income students to maintain the same level of black and Hispanic students. (That was in 1997-8, but none of the core premises for that conclusion have changed much.) For colleges and universities committed to diversity, the right way to think about class- and race-conscious admissions is as complements rather than alternatives. Both are essential for a truly diverse campus.
412 2012-11-19 FORT PIERCE, Fla. (AP) — Election officials missed a deadline on Sunday to report results of a two-day recount in Representative Allen B. West’s bid to remain in Congress, apparently sealing unofficial results giving the victory to his Democratic opponent, Patrick Murphy.

St. Lucie County did not meet a noon cutoff to finish processing 37,379 ballots that were cast early in the 18th Congressional District race, but it eventually released the results, which showed Mr. Murphy gaining votes in the recount. Regardless, under Florida law, previously submitted results favoring Mr. Murphy will be certified unless an emergency exemption is granted by the state.

“It puts an end to it as far as we’re concerned,” said Eric Johnson, an adviser to the Murphy campaign. “It puts an end to it as far as the state’s concerned.”

Mr. West’s campaign showed no immediate sign of conceding.

“At this time, in our view, the race is still undecided,” said the West campaign manager, Tim Edson.

Mr. West, a Republican, can still seek to formally contest the election, a difficult legal remedy. His aides gave no indication whether they would pursue such action. Dejected supporters of the congressman claimed that there was fraud, loudly chanting “Count our votes!” before election officials. Mr. Murphy’s supporters held signs reading “Respect the Results: Concede Now” and “Patrick Won!”

A recount of three days of early-voting ballots was conducted in St. Lucie County last week, narrowing Mr. Murphy’s margin a bit. The county’s canvassing board ultimately agreed to retabulate all eight days of ballots after discovering several errors and Mr. West’s supporters made a relentless push for a fuller recount. The campaign hoped Mr. Murphy’s margin of victory would decrease enough to force a machine recount of all ballots across the entire three-county district.
413 2012-11-19 BRUSSELS (Reuters) — The so-called shadow banking system, blamed by some for aggravating the global financial crisis, grew to a new high of $67 trillion worldwide last year, a regulatory group said on Sunday, calling for tighter oversight of nonbank institutions like hedge funds, private equity firms and other investment companies.

The report by the Financial Stability Board appeared to confirm concerns among policy makers that shadow banking is set to thrive beyond the reach of a regulatory net that has been tightening around conventional banking.

The board, a task force from the world’s top 20 economies, also called for greater regulatory control of shadow banking.

“The F.S.B. is of the view that the authorities’ approach to shadow banking has to be a targeted one,” the group said, pointing to current lax regulation of the sector. “The objective is to ensure that shadow banking is subject to appropriate oversight and regulation to address banklike risks to financial stability,” it said.

The United States had the largest shadow banking system, with $23 trillion in 2011, followed by the euro zone, with $22 trillion, and Britain, with $9 trillion. The American share of shadow banking has declined in recent years, while the shares of Britain and the euro zone have increased.

The board warned that tighter rules forcing banks to keep more capital reserves to cover losses could bolster shadow banking.
414 2012-11-19 ¶Buffets Inc., Greer, S.C., which operates restaurants under names like Old Country Buffet, HomeTown Buffet and Ryan’s, made major changes to its agency roster. Billings were not disclosed. Trend Influence, Atlanta, part of the Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners unit of MDC Partners, was named creative agency of record, replacing TracyLocke, part of the Omnicom Group. Ink Link Marketing, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was named agency of record for promotions and public relations, which had been handled internally. Media planning and buying, which had been handled by Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC, was shifted to IGT Media Holdings, Miami. And digital initiatives, formerly handled by TracyLocke Digital, will now be handled by Conversation, New York.

¶Hercules Rubber and Tire, Findlay, Ohio, chose Communica, Toledo, Ohio, as its worldwide advertising and marketing communications agency of record. Spending has not been determined. The account was previously handled by ST&P Marketing, Fairlawn, Ohio.

¶Amtrak awarded the Jacobs Agency, Chicago, a two-year contract for a regional account, to become the regional agency of record for the Midwest and Southeast and develop a campaign to increase awareness of Amtrak in those markets and encourage consumers to visit amtrak.com. Billings were not disclosed. The previous contract was held by Images USA, Atlanta.

¶John Cate, executive vice president and chief operating officer at Mediasmith, San Francisco, was promoted to president while remaining chief operating officer. He assumes the duties of president from David L. Smith, who continues as chairman and chief executive.

¶Naveen Passey joined Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, as chief financial officer and chief operating officer, assuming duties from Larry Kempa, executive vice president and chief financial officer, who left to open his own firm, Kempa Consulting. Mr. Passey had most recently been senior vice president and director for finance and operations at the Dallas office of Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group.

¶David Eiben joined Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as managing director for the Subaru of America account, a new post. He had been account director at Sid Lee, managing and leader the Dell consumer account for North and South America.

¶NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, reorganized its advertising sales operation in the most recent changes being made by Linda Yaccarino, president for advertising sales. The changes include the hiring of two executives for new posts: Trish Frohman, executive vice president for ad sales strategy, who had been an executive vice president at Turner Broadcasting System, part of Time Warner, and Alison Tarrant, executive vice president at the client solutions group, who had been an executive vice president at CW, owned by the CBS Corporation and Time Warner. Also, three NBCUniversal ad sales executives are being assigned new duties: Dan Lovinger, who is being promoted by adding oversight for ad sales at several cable networks to his responsibilities for ad sales for Telemundo Medial; Mark Miller, who is being promoted by moving to oversee ad sales for the news group from overseeing ad sales for the USA and Syfy cable channels; and Peter Naylor, who takes over the responsibilities for NBC News Digital ad sales after overseeing digital media sales.

¶Michael Sievert joined T-Mobile USA, Bellevue, Wash., part of Deutsche Telekom, as chief marketing officer, assuming duties from Andrew Sherrand, who had been serving as acting chief marketing officer since the departure of Cole Brodman in the spring. Mr. Sherrand will return to his post as senior vice president for marketing at the T-Mobile contract business. Mr. Sievert had most recently been chief executive at Discovery Bay Games, Seattle, and before that worked for companies like AT&T Wireless, Clearwire, E*Trade and Microsoft.

¶BlueGlass Interactive, Tampa, Fla., is acquiring Quaturo, London, which will become BlueGlass U.K. Financial terms were not disclosed. The five employees of Quaturo, including Kevin Gibbons, managing director, are staying on. Quatro clients include the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service, Vistaprint and Wonga, a payday loan company.

¶CBS, New York, part of the CBS Corporation, said that it had sold more than 95 percent of the commercial time for Super Bowl XLVII, which the network will broadcast on Feb. 3, 2013. The average price being charged for each 30-second spot is in the range of $3.8 million, the network said, and some commercials were sold for more than $4 million. Demand for commercial time during the game has been somewhat stronger than is typical for a Super Bowl; for instance, in the spring more than 50 percent of commercial time had already been sold.

¶Omerge Alliances, New York, a marketing communications consultancy specializing in video, film and music, was opened by Olivia Scott-Perkins, who has worked for companies that include Carol’s Daughter, Vibe and Live Nation.

¶Tumblr, New York, is stepping up efforts to attract advertisers by introducing what it calls the A-List Partnership Program, which involves agencies and technology companies. The effort echoes initiatives by other social media like Facebook, which has a Preferred Marketing Developer Program. The initial agency partners of Tumblr include AKQA, part of WPP; Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe; Droga5; Horizon Media; Social@Ogilvy, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP; and We Are Social.

¶Fuel Outdoor Holdings, New York, was acquired by Van Wagner Communications, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. Fuel offers marketers advertising space on wall murals, bus shelters, benches and Metrolights, which are street-level panels on private property that are the size of bus shelters. The deal came two months after Van Wagner acquired the Lightship Group and the American Blimp Corporation to expand its holdings in airborne advertising.

¶Ketchum Sounds, which will specialize in music marketing services, is being formed as part of the Ketchum Sports and Entertainment unit of Ketchum, the public relations agency owned by the Omnicom Group. Ketchum Sounds will be led by Marcus Peterzell, executive vice president for entertainment at Ketchum Sports and Entertainment, and have offices in cities that include Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Austin, Tex.

¶Advertising revenue for radio was flat in the third quarter compared with the same quarter a year ago, according to a report from the Radio Advertising Bureau, New York. For the first nine months of 2012, ad revenue rose 1 percent from the same period of 2011, the report said. Results were bolstered by digital ad sales, according to the report, which rose 8 percent in the third quarter and 7 percent in the first nine months.

¶Lin Mobile was opened by Lin Media in the company’s New York digital sales headquarters. Lin Mobile will be led by Kevin Wassong as chief executive; he had most recently been president at Minyanville Media and before that was chief executive at the Digital@JWT unit of JWT.
415 2012-11-19 The elegant, modern foyer and reception room of Japan Society was decked out for a dance party on Friday night featuring the electronic pop of Oorutaichi, a songwriter who lives in Osaka. There were dozens of blinking colored lights hanging from the ceiling, video projections on walls, a curtain of tinsel. Amid the greenery of the serene indoor bamboo pond were lighted balloons shaped like extraterrestrials. Audience members were handed glow-stick bracelets on the way in. Yet all those shiny accouterments were restrained compared with the manic profusion of Oorutaichi’s music.

Using a laptop, a mixer and a microphone for his vocals, Oorutaichi just kept piling things on. Pianos, horns, guitars, orchestral strings, gamelan gongs, international drums. Programmed beats, tinkly bell tones, synthesizer swoops, swirling arpeggios, whistling, crunching, his own multiplied voice, whooshing gusts of white noise. The rhythms lurched, marched, chattered, bounced and strutted, in music not bound by genre. Various songs, at various moments, hinted at house, tarantella, techno, soca and samba.

Through the dizzying mix Oorutaichi sang melodies that bore some resemblance to Japanese pop, though they could take dissonant turns and the lyrics were often just invented syllables. An occasional lyric in English showed a fascination with “the future,” a favorite Oorutaichi phrase. As he sang, he jumped around a lot.

Oorutaichi played two short sets: one featuring songs from his 2007 album, “Drifting My Folklore” (Okimi), and one drawing mainly on his most recent album, “Cosmic Coco, Singing for a Billion Imu’s Hearty Pi” (Out One Disc), from 2011.

He has, in some ways, straightened out his music. Oorutaichi’s older songs, like “Beshaby,” could be deliberately disjointed, stopping and starting and swerving through disparate sections. More recent ones, like “Futurelina,” unfold more steadily, moving closer to dance music — though they wouldn’t be mistaken for standard club fare — and to the perpetual-motion avant-pop of Animal Collective. Oorutaichi also has a meditative side; a slower song, “Flower of Life,” mingled echoes of the Beach Boys and Terry Riley. But then he returned to upbeat, supercharged, overflowing, zany pop, applying all his sounds, technology and ideas toward immediate gratification and the joys of far too much sonic information. “Please dance like a U.F.O., like a kind of alien,” he urged, and the audience did its best.
416 2012-11-19 The 2012 version of gas rationing has been much less painful than the last time it was imposed here and across the country amid the fuel shortages of the 1970s. Back then, rationing measures — including odd-even, which restricts gas sales to cars with odd-numbered license plates on odd days and even-numbered license plates on even days — stretched on for months and seemed to barely make a dent in the problem.

“I was there in 1979 and it didn’t stop the gas lines,” said Sal Risalvato, who at that time owned an Exxon station in Paramus, N.J., where the lines for the pumps started four miles away. “What it did do was make a fair way of distributing the gas that was available.”

As a result, Mr. Risalvato, now executive director of NJGCA, formerly the New Jersey Gasoline Retailers Association, said he was skeptical when he heard that Gov. was imposing rationing in northern New Jersey. “I freely admit that I was wrong, and the governor was right,” he said.

Industry experts, government officials and gas station owners said one reason that rationing had worked so effectively this time was that, unlike in the 1970s, there was not a nationwide shortage of gas. Instead, created a temporary glitch in the regional supply line by cutting off power to gas stations and damaging a distribution network of ports and terminals that delivered gas to the pumps.

They said that it should have been only a minor disruption because power was restored to stations and terminals were repaired. But it soon evolved into a crisis in part when drivers who were not used to being told they could not fill up when they wanted to began to panic and started descending upon gas stations in droves.

“By perceiving a shortage, they actually created one,” said Awi Federgruen, a management professor at Columbia Business School.

Professor Federgruen added that gas station owners who responded with their own form of ad hoc rationing — like setting a limit of 10 gallons per customer — only reinforced the feeling that there was, in fact, a limited supply of fuel. That, he said, ultimately contributed to the long lines by forcing customers to come back for more gas and “doubling or tripling the volume of cars that need to be served.”

The odd-even rationing countered this spike in demand, Professor Federgruen said, by essentially dividing the population in two. He said that similar rationing measures had been adopted for mass , and in during the first Gulf War to distribute gas masks — in that case, to prevent long lines, people were told to pick up masks at certain times dictated by the first letter of their last names.

Even as gas rationing has brought relief, though, it has not come without a cost. Some drivers complained that it was inconvenient, and others found it yet another reminder of the toll exacted on their everyday lives by Hurricane Sandy.

“I don’t like it because it doesn’t serve the purpose of getting gas when you need it,” said Luis De Pena, 63, a retired nursing attendant in who had to wait an extra day to fill up his car because he did not have the right license plate.

Indeed, some drivers interpreted the comeback of gas rationing as a necessary — if blessedly short — remedy.

Pierre Lehmuller, 76, a retired New York City principal, said that the gas lines had been up to a mile long in his hamlet of Bethpage, on Long Island, and at one station, they had even backed up the street far enough to block an exit ramp on the Hempstead Turnpike.

But the day after rationing was imposed, Mr. Lehmuller said, those lines were largely gone.

“It was like the lifting on a patient,” he said. “I was absolutely dumbfounded that it went from this hysteria to normal, almost overnight.”
417 2012-11-20 Union officials say the company, the producer of such brands as Twinkies and Wonder Bread, has indicated it will proceed with plans to liquidate....
418 2012-11-20 Last year unemployment insurance kept 2.3 million people above the official poverty line, including 620,000 who were children living with a family member who received benefits....
419 2012-11-20 The singer said she will delay a tour to South American cities because she cannot leave her dying dog behind....
420 2012-11-20 An analyst forecast that the new BlackBerry phones would have a 20 to 30 percent chance of success — and the company’s stock got a bump....
421 2012-11-20 Goldman withdrew as the lead underwriter for the initial public offering of the Russian cellphone operator MegaFon, but the multibillion-dollar offering is hurtling forward nonetheless, highlighting a flawed system....
422 2012-11-20 Tim Ferriss' "4-Hour Chef" is the first big book to be published by Amazon. With the traditional bookselling outlets unwilling to stock or publicize the title, publisher and author are pulling out all the stops to move copies and show that the dea...
423 2012-11-20 Officials express relief that all of the emissions allowances offered in the state's first cap and trade auction were sold. Still, the $10.09 price left some participants feeling deflated....
424 2012-11-20 The low-rated political thriller starring Kelsey Grammer lost viewers in its second season....
425 2012-11-20 Hewlett-Packard’s new charge comes just one quarter after a write-down in relation to Electronic Data Systems....
426 2012-11-20 Advocates for the elderly encourage families to discuss possible financial abuse....
427 2012-11-20 Color, the photo-sharing application, failed to attract users despite an impressive crew of developers, a lavish release and millions of dollars in venture financing. The app will shut down by the end of the year....
428 2012-11-20 Fifteen years in the making, the $337 million Alpina Gstaad is the first completely new five-star hotel to arrive in the famous Swiss ski village in a century....
429 2012-11-20 Everyone knows how long a minute is, but just try counting the megabytes your phone is chewing through on a regular basis. Now an iPhone app promises to analyze phone bills automatically to determine which data and calling plans are the best and c...
430 2012-11-20 A local NGO hosts a game of darts to highlight the limitations of Washington's opportunistic policy toward Cambodia....
431 2012-11-20 Credit Suisse shook up its management on Tuesday, naming a co-head of investment banking and merging its asset management division into its wealth management and private banking unit....
432 2012-11-20 The government has announced that it will evict one of the country’s most prominent human rights organizations from the offices it has occupied for 12 years, the group said Monday. Government investigators said in a letter to the group, the Vyasna Human Rights Center, that they would confiscate its main office because it was the property of the organization’s leader, Ales Belyatsky, who was sentenced to prison for tax evasion last year. Mr. Belyatsky says that he is not guilty; Western governments have criticized his prosecution as politically motivated.
433 2012-11-20 A dissident Chinese poet was sentenced Monday by a court in southwestern China to 12 years in prison for contract fraud, his lawyer said. The poet, Li Bifeng, who was formerly imprisoned for five years for his involvement in the Tiananmen Square democracy movement, was sentenced in Sichuan Province, said his lawyer, Zhao Jianwei. Mr. Li’s wife, Zhan Xia, said the case was related to a sales agreement that her husband had signed with a company to help sell some apartments but that the charges against him were “groundless.” A friend of Mr. Li’s, the exiled dissident Liao Yiwu, said Mr. Li, 48, was singled out because he was suspected of financing Mr. Liao’s escape from China last year. Mr. Liao said those suspicions were false.
434 2012-11-20 The Fourth Amendment, Mr. Belcher said, should keep the police from rounding up large groups of people at gunpoint based merely on a hunch.

“Basically, the law is there to prevent the cops from doing exactly what they did,” Mr. Belcher said, “from stopping 20 to 30 people without any specific facts leading them to say that one person did it.”

Federal prosecutors declined to comment. But in court filings, they argued that the roadblock was the safest option, given the potential for a high-speed chase through Aurora.

Moreover, they said, the tracking device showed that the bank robber was clearly at a specific intersection, allowing the police to tailor the roadblock.

Last month, Judge William J. Martinez of Federal District Court in Denver agreed, ruling that the evidence was admissible and that the detention of the other motorists was justified, given that a potentially dangerous criminal was on the loose. The judge also said, however, that he was troubled by the invasive tactics used by the police toward motorists caught in the blockade.

Mr. Belcher said he planned to appeal the decision. Beyond the fate of his client, who faces seven years to life in prison, there are other unresolved issues.

According to the defense, among the indignities endured by citizens ensnared in the roadblock, a 4-year-old girl urinated on herself while strapped in her car seat. And a mother was ordered to crawl through a passenger-side door and was then handcuffed in front of her son.

Court filings show that the F.B.I. used a hand-held tracking device to determine which vehicle was emitting the satellite signal. But it took nearly an hour for the F.B.I. to arrive at the intersection with the device.

Crystal Deguzman and her 16-year-old son, who were going to the grocery store, were ordered to keep their hands in the air for over an hour, she said, and were handcuffed before being released.

“I was shaking driving home that day,” she said. “I don’t really like to drive anymore because I’m scared that’s going to happen again.”

Within days, Chief Dan Oates of the Aurora Police Department and his deputy apologized to those caught in the roadblock. But he also defended his department’s actions as the safest choice.

“The law is very clear in that investigative detentions are permissible and that police can take a reasonable amount of time to conduct an investigative stop,” the chief said.

Chief Oates said he had never encountered such a scene. Since then, he said, his department had begun using hand-held tracking devices to speed response times and implemented procedures to better isolate cars being pursued. “This is a classic case of law enforcement practices catching up to modern technology,” he said. “None of us saw this coming.”

David Lane, a lawyer, is representing Ms. Deguzman and passengers in five other cars and said his clients would seek a settlement with the city.

Aurora’s city attorney, Charlie Richardson, said he believed that Judge Martinez’s ruling made clear that the city should not be held liable.

Orin S. Kerr, a law professor at George Washington University, predicted that as the police relied more on technology, more cases like Mr. Paetsch’s would emerge.

“This technology creates a new legal situation in that there’s a real-time guarantee that the loot is in the car at an intersection at that exact time,” Mr. Kerr said. “The question becomes whether the police were reasonable in stopping all the cars at the intersection and did they hold everyone for a reasonable period of time.”
435 2012-11-20 Tuvan throat singing was never in my repertoire. I had never heard of Tuva, a small Russian republic north of Mongolia. And until the third week of “Listening to World Music,” a free online course taught by a University of Pennsylvania professor, I did not know that the human throat was capable of producing two notes simultaneously.

But after listening to a lecture on Tuvan culture and history and viewing throat-singing videos, I was hooked on the sound — a deep buzz saw with high overtone whistles — and was happy to watch the assigned 90-minute concert by a touring Tuvan ensemble. I wrote the required essay that night, the Tuvan steppes still on my mind.

Three days later, I was given five essays by classmates to grade. (With 36,000 students enrolled, peer grading was the only practical way that Coursera, the company offering the course, could assess students’ work.) I had my doubts about the process, but to my surprise, the process was interesting and useful and taught me as much as the lectures did.

Some of the essays were remarkably good, especially the first one I read, from a classmate who tackled a question I had avoided, on the view of Arjun Appadurai, a sociocultural anthropologist, that modernity necessarily means rupture. (Not what I was expecting from a world music course.) The classmate described her family’s migration experience, and concluded: “Appadurai says modernity is rupture, but I say it’s rapture.” Enraptured myself, I gave her the top score, a 10.

My own first score? A 4. I did not even get full points for writing style. Humiliating, but by the time we hit Tuva, I was getting 10s.
436 2012-11-20 Like several of the companies making these moves, Wal-Mart has board members who own a large portion of the company’s shares and who stand to benefit from the change. In Wal-Mart’s case, the Waltons own 48 percent of Wal-Mart’s stock, or 1.6 billion shares, and control three of the company’s 16 board seats. Steve Wynn, who owns about 10 percent of Wynn Resorts, is leading his company to issue a one-time dividend for $750 million this week.

Two recent studies, one done by Markit, found that companies where board members own a large percentage of the company’s shares have been more likely to make dividend maneuvers aimed at helping shareholders avoid higher taxes.

“Some people will say that this is the insiders looking out for their own interest, but on the other hand they are doing what’s good for shareholders because their interests are aligned with shareholders,” said Michelle Hanlon, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is the co-author of a study on the topic.

A spokesman for Wal-Mart, Randy Hargrove, said the Walton family members on the company’s board recused themselves from the vote last Friday to move up the dividend payment. The company said that it made the decision to move the dividend payment because of the unresolved tax debate taking place in Washington.

“The board determined that moving our dividend payment up by a few days to 2012 was in the best interests of our shareholders,” the company said in a statement.

The White House has said dividends should go back to being taxed at ordinary income rates, as they were before the 2003 tax cuts pushed by the Bush administration. Republicans in Congress have argued that the rate on dividends should stay where it is now, 15 percent, but many financial advisers assume that it will rise to at least 20 percent. Wherever the two sides end up, the 3.8 percent surcharge related to the new health care law will be added to the bill of wealthy taxpayers.

If Wal-Mart had issued its dividend on Jan. 2, as was originally planned, and the tax rates rose to the levels proposed by the White House, the Walton family would have owed the federal government $276 million, according to Kenneth K. Bezozo, a tax lawyer and partner at the law firm of Haynes & Boone. By moving the payment up and paying this year’s rates, their tax bill on the dividends will come to $95.4 million, Mr. Bezozo said.

The tweaks being made to dividend policies are among the many maneuvers that business owners and investors are using to get ahead of the impending rise in tax rates.

Because of the increase in the tax rate on capital gains — from 15 percent to possibly as high as 23.8 percent, including the health care law surcharge — some investors have sold winning stocks to pay taxes on their gains this year. Other investors have recently sold their dividend-paying stocks, worried that the shares could become less valuable when the tax rate on dividends increases.

For companies, the dividend payments have been the most popular way to help shareholders. Markit has estimated that companies will be issuing a combined $13.9 billion in special dividends in the fourth quarter of this year, a much higher total than normal. This is expected to lead to a spike in tax revenue for the federal government in 2012. But it will lead to a greater loss of tax revenue in 2013.

Robert Gordon, who advises companies on tax policy as president of Twenty-First Securities, said that he had been advising companies scheduled to pay quarterly dividends in the first few weeks of 2013 to move the payments up to 2012. He is expecting more to follow Wal-Mart’s lead, but even without them, he is staying busy.

“This is the biggest year we’ve ever had by far,” Mr. Gordon said.
437 2012-11-20 On the campaign trail, President Obama took credit for imposing tough rules on Wall Street. But, last week, the administration moved to weaken new rules on derivatives. Late Friday afternoon, the Treasury Department announced that it was exempting certain foreign exchange derivatives from rules under the Dodd-Frank reform law that are intended to reduce risk and increase transparency. The exempted derivatives — instruments known as foreign exchange swaps and forwards — represent a $4 trillion-a-day global market and are one of the big banks’ largest sources of derivatives trading revenue.

The Treasury contends that the market for the exempted derivatives is already stable and transparent enough, and that the new rules could be dangerously disruptive. That is a distressing argument. Research and other analyses have shown the risks in this market. In addition, asserting that regulation would be dangerous reinforces the Republicans’ antiregulatory approach that Mr. Obama attacked during the campaign. Third, the exemption invites disruption, in that traders may be able to escape regulation by structuring various derivatives deals to fall under the exemption. The Treasury has pointed out that such manipulation would be illegal, but what would stop it when regulatory enforcement resources are already stretched? It is much more likely that the exemption will create another regulatory challenge without providing the resources to address it.

Under the exemption, foreign exchange swaps and forwards will not have to be cleared, a process that reduces the risk that one party to a transaction will not be able to pay. Nor will they have to be traded on an exchange, which helps to ensure that investors, taxpayers and regulators can stay on top of emerging dangers. The derivatives would have to adhere to other Dodd-Frank rules, including business conduct standards. But there is no substitute for clearing and exchange trading. So unless the Treasury reverses course, these deals will not be fully regulated until a future crisis forces the issue.
438 2012-11-20 Several dolphins have been found dead and mutilated in recent months in the northern Gulf of Mexico, federal investigators said Monday. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is investigating at least four fatal attacks on the sea mammals since June. A dolphin was found in September with a 9 millimeter bullet. Another was discovered Friday with its jawbone removed. Another was stabbed to death in June with a screwdriver. The attacks happened from Alabama to Louisiana, and NOAA officials said scientists are conducting necropsies to help determine whether the attacks are related. Killing a dolphin is punishable by up to a $100,000 fine and a year in jail.
439 2012-11-20 In New York last week to tour the damage, President Obama named Shaun Donovan, his secretary of Housing and Urban Development, a New Yorker and former housing official in the city, to spearhead federal recovery efforts. Mr. Donovan is an obvious choice. But then the president reflexively pledged (and the vice president followed up with the same promise on Sunday) to restore ravaged neighborhoods and homes in Queens and on Staten Island to the way they were before Hurricane Sandy.

That was business as usual, and the last thing the region or the country needs. At this point there’s no logic, politics and sentiment aside, to FEMA simply rebuilding single-family homes on barrier islands like the Rockaways, where they shouldn’t have been built in the first place, and like bowling pins will tumble again after the next hurricane strikes.

“Retreat is a dirty word,” as Robert S. Young, a North Carolina geologist, has described American sentiment, but better finally to face reality and make plans for smarter construction, compensation and even, where necessary, relocation. Elected officials and utility companies shouldn’t just turn on the lights and heat and restore crippled elevators in forgotten public housing projects that were inadequately designed in the first place.

Common sense dictates upgrading many of these projects to withstand floods but also devising new homes elsewhere for some residents. Cost-benefit analyses, long overdue, should answer tough questions like whether it’s actually worth saving some neighborhoods in flood zones. Communities like Breezy Point should be given knowledge, power and choice about their options, then the responsibility to live by that choice.

This means embracing a policy of compassion and honest talk. It’s no good merely to try to go back to the way things were, because they are not.

This sort of conversation is a third rail of American politics, so it’s no wonder all presidents promise to rebuild and stick taxpayers with the tab. That billions of dollars may end up being spent to protect businesses in Lower Manhattan while old, working-class communities on the waterfronts of Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island most likely won’t get the same protection flies in the face of ideas about social justice, and about New York City, with its open-armed self-image as a capital of diversity.

But the decisions ahead come down to nature and numbers, to density, economics and geology. Our relationship to the water can’t stay the same, and at the same time the city is not worth saving if it sacrifices its principles and humanity.

So the real test post-Sandy will be negotiating between the two.

Faced with cholera and calamitous urban living conditions in the early 1800s, city planners ran roughshod over property rights to install the street grid. Outrage gradually yielded to rising real estate values, Central Park and the modern metropolis.

During the last century Robert Moses, accumulating unbridled authority to get what he wanted done, bulldozed into existence parks and beaches, highways and housing projects by recklessly destroying old neighborhoods, starving mass transit, crushing opposition and “hounding the people out like cattle,” as Stanley Isaacs, the former Manhattan borough president, said of the hundreds of thousands of mostly poor New Yorkers that Moses displaced.

The defeat of Westway, a Moses-scale proposal during the 1980s to bury the West Side Highway and cover it with parkland and new development, in a sense became the public’s epitaph for Moses. Whether that defeat was bad for the city is a question for another time. But New York became more attuned to community-based initiatives, to preservation, environmentalism and circumspection, all good things in ordinary circumstances.

At the same time it lost something of its nerve.

I walked around Brooklyn Bridge Park last week with the landscape architects Matthew Urbanski and Michael Van Valkenburgh, who designed it. We stood by the salt marsh they installed where an old pier had once been. An acre of formerly obscured shorefront opened to the sky. The park survived Hurricane Sandy with hardly a scratch, proving the virtue of soft edges.

In the design process Mr. Van Valkenburgh had asked the state Environmental Conservation Department, which polices the coastline, for permission to float a north-south footbridge, just 12 feet wide, between the embankment where the old pier ended and the next pier over, where the architects are installing sports fields. The idea: People wouldn’t have to walk all the way around the shore to get from one pier to the other.

The department said no. The narrow bridge’s shadow might disturb the habitats of fish. It was the argument that torpedoed Westway.

Now the task is to create a whole new ecological infrastructure for the region. The hurdles go beyond just a single state authority fearful to concede even a footbridge. They include an alphabet soup of agencies and public officials: Congress and the governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut; the Corps of Engineers; FEMA; the Homeland Security Department; the New York State Public Service Commission (which in principle has the leverage to compel companies like Con Ed and Verizon to safeguard its equipment); Amtrak; the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; the city’s planning, transportation, parks and environmental protection departments; and the Port Authority, devised as the organization in charge of such epic undertakings, today a shadow of its former self.

The Australians have a mantra for battling climate change: Protect, Redesign, Rebuild, Elevate, Relocate and Retreat. Guy Nordenson, a New York engineer who has spent years researching the subject, talks about controlling floods and controlled flooding, accepting that the water will ultimately get in. This means thinking like the Australians, long term about evolving nature. Our election cycle tends to thwart infrastructural improvements that can take decades and don’t provide short-term ribbon-cutting payoffs for politicians, which is why it’s a wry commonplace among engineers and architects that autocratic regimes make the most aggressive builders of massive projects.

For New York sea gates alone won’t fix the city’s problems any more than will porous streets with catchment basins and waterproof vaults under sidewalks to secure electrical systems. At the same time this is a golden opportunity for the United States to leapfrog countries that have pioneered innovative architecture like garages doubling as floodwater containers and superdikes serving as parks and high-density housing complexes — a chance for designers, planners and engineers finally to get back, after so many decades, to the decision-making table.

The question is: Can we accomplish this in time and fairly?

The young Moses was a political savant with the vision to operate beyond the boundaries of municipalities, cities and bureaucracies and get big things done. But that same genius enabled him to extend his power beyond reasonable limits and finally to sweep aside the precious, small-scale urban values and human decency that sustain a civic democracy. His biographer Robert Caro wrote in the 1970s that Moses “bent the democratic processes of the city to his own ends to build public works,” albeit “left to themselves, these processes proved unequal to the building required.”

“The problem of constructing large-scale public works in a crowded urban setting,” Mr. Caro added, “is one which democracy has not yet solved.”

And it still hasn’t.
440 2012-11-20 “I was running into things,” he said. “So I knew it was time. Then I had to decide, am I going to be a cane guy or a dog guy?”

He concluded he was a dog guy. Co-workers at Industries for the Blind pointed him to Guide Dogs for the Blind, an organization based in San Rafael, Calif., that provides the dogs and pays travel expenses for visually disabled people to train with them in preparation for a traveling life together on the road. The group sent a representative to visit Mr. Bailey at his home near Atlanta, in a preliminary evaluation to match him up with a dog.

Mr. Bailey met Phelps at a Guide Dogs for the Blind site in Oregon and they trained for two weeks along with five other blind travelers and their new dogs. “When I got out there in April of ’09, Phelps was already raring to go; he was ready for airline travel,” Mr. Bailey said. “It was just a matter of me catching up to him.”

He added: “From the second day your dog is your responsibility. You feed them, water them, you take them to the bathroom.” (That command, incidentally, is “Phelps, do your business.”) “You train with them all day, long days: ‘Find the escalator, find the elevator, find the chair.’ “

The travel drill is second nature now, he said.

“When we’re at the Atlanta airport to check in, I tell him, ‘Find the desk,’ and he’ll take me up to the counter. From there, we head down the hallway to security, and he knows to take me right to the guy standing there to look at my boarding pass and ID. Then at security, and he knows to take me right to the table where the trays are. Once we get to the X-ray machine, I take off his gear — he wears a harness that I grip with my left hand — and that’s run through the machine. Then I tell him ‘Sit. Stay.’ I walk through the metal detector first, then I call him, ‘Phelps, come!’ and he comes right through.”

He said “At the boarding area, I tell him, ‘Phelps, find a chair,’ and he’ll find an empty chair for me. We’re working on ‘Find Starbucks.’ ”

But upon arrival at the hotel, Phelps becomes a frisky Labrador again, his work done.

“Labs are perpetual puppies, but it’s a credit to his training, because Phelps turns that instinct off when he’s working,” Mr. Bailey said. “But at the end of the day, when we’re finally settled in at the hotel room, I take his gear off and give him the O.K., and wow, he rips around the room, does pirouettes, runs from the window to the door with all this pent-up energy from the day. He knows he’s off duty.”

And this is the Thanksgiving message Mr. Bailey shared the other day.

“Phelps brings light and joy to anyone who encounters him, and I am privileged to have him in my life. If I’m having a bad day, which fortunately really is rare, I think, I’m healthy. I’m five years cancer-free. I’m pain-free. I’ve got a wife who still loves me after 29 years. I’ve got kids who bring so much love and happiness. When Phelps and I are walking down a concourse at the airport, I sometimes imagine people watching us and saying to themselves, ‘Oh, look at that poor blind guy.’ “

Mr. Bailey chuckled and said, “They couldn’t realize this, of course, but honestly, I wouldn’t switch places for anything in the world.”
441 2012-11-20 BUSINESS travel isn’t new to me. I’ve been flying for much of my public relations career. Most of my travel today is focused on meeting clients or pitching  new business.

Even though I’ve been flying for years, I am the world’s most forgetful traveler. I’m always leaving something at the office or at home. I make all sorts of checklists and reminders, but nothing seems to help. I’ve even left stuff on the Acela train, which isn’t easy to do.

I was headed to Baltimore for a business meeting. It was hot, so I took off my suit jacket and stowed it in the overhead compartment. When we pulled up to the station, I  bolted off the train and jogged down the platform. Of course, that’s when I realized I left my suit jacket in the overhead bin. I got back on the train and grabbed my jacket out of the bin. I jogged back down the platform, looked at the jacket, and realized it wasn’t mine.

I thought about the poor guy who might be looking for his jacket, but the train was almost ready to take off again. I wedged a colleagues I was traveling with between the now-closing train doors and yelled, “Don’t move.” Surprisingly, he actually listened to me. I made my way back to the bin in record time, put the other jacket back in, and got mine out. No one was the wiser. And yes, we were almost late for the meeting because of me. That would have been an epic disaster.

The one thing I seem to always forget to pack is cuff links.  Most of my dress shirts require them, but I convinced myself that forgetting cuff links is an easy oversight since I rarely travel in a dress shirt. Here’s a travel tip: It’s tough to buy cuff links after midnight.

I was headed to Texas for an important business meeting when I realized midflight that I had again forgotten my cuff links. I told a colleague who I was traveling with and he reassured me that we could buy a pair when we landed.
442 2012-11-20 His offer is intended to address the mounting sentiment in his Conservative Party, normally an ally of big business, that Britain might be better off outside the European Union, which has never gained wholehearted backing in Britain. After almost three years of crisis for the euro, used by 17 of the bloc’s 27 members, there is more discussion than ever of a possible British exit from the Union.

Mr. Carr, the chairman of the energy company Centrica, is also on the advisory board of Business for a New Europe, which campaigns for continued British membership of a restructured European Union. Mark Hadley, a spokesman for the Confederation of British Industry, said Mr. Carr’s speech reflected the policies of the confederation, which is Britain’s biggest business lobby.

This position points to a potential problem for the Conservatives, with Mr. Cameron’s more detached stance on the European Union provoking significant tensions with traditional business supporters. Talks this week on the European Union’s next budget are likely to increase friction between Britain and European partners.

Addressing the confederation conference, Ed Miliband, who leads the Labour Party, sympathized with the alarm over Britain’s role, saying he “will not let Britain sleepwalk toward exit from the European Union.” He added: “Increasingly we see Euroskepticism on the rise among the British public. We see cabinet ministers in this government openly calling for Britain to leave.”

Mr. Miliband did not mention that his party recently exploited divisions over Europe by aligning with Conservative hard-liners to press for cutting the European Union’s budget.

Mr. Cameron, in his speech to the conference, a fixture for decades for political leaders, underscored the global reach of British business. His foreign policy has put a new emphasis on the need to seek new markets in the emerging economies, where growth is likely to exceed that of Europe in the coming years.

Yet Britain still exports around as much to Ireland, which is part of the euro zone, as to China.

“Europe is the bedrock of our international trade,” Mr. Carr said. “It should be viewed as the launch pad from which our global trade can expand, not the landmass from which we retreat.”

Phillip Souta, director of Business for New Europe, said Mr. Carr’s comments reflected wider concerns within British business. “Business leaders are reluctant to get into issues that look and smell political,” Mr. Souta said. “But saying that we belong in the E.U. is something I believe people will be saying more over the coming months”.

An opinion poll of business leaders by Ipsos MORI, commissioned by Business for New Europe in 2011, showed that 33 percent said they strongly agreed that a British exit from the European Union would damage business, 40 percent that they tended to agree, 14 percent that they tended to disagree, 6 percent that they strongly disagreed and 6 percent that they neither agreed nor disagreed.

Against the backdrop of public opinion skeptical about the European Union, the voice of British business is likely to play a crucial role in any referendum. British businesses, however, are far from united while groups critical of the bloc have received significant financing from business figures.

In general, bigger companies that trade internationally tend to have a bigger stake in E.U. membership than smaller ones that operate solely in Britain and sometimes see the European Union as a body that imposes costly regulation.

The UK Independence Party, which wants Britain to leave the European Union, said Mr. Carr’s comments reflected the views of the “corporate, rent-seeking class.” Roger Helmer, the party’s energy and industry spokesman, said that “the regulatory burden imposed by the E.U. is helpful for big business but devastating for small businesses.”

Though small, the party has gained enough momentum to threaten the seats of dozens of Conservative lawmakers in future elections. That threat has increased pressure on Mr. Cameron to take a tougher line on the European Union.
443 2012-11-20 With very little butter and sugar, this rustic pie is all about the apples....
444 2012-11-21 As residents return to their homes after Hurricane Sandy, they are airing them out in frigid temperatures and even throwing out cherished items in an effort to prevent mold growth.
445 2012-11-21 The number of people taking the Law School Admission Test offered in October fell 16.4 percent from the year before, reaching its lowest level since 1999....
446 2012-11-21 A scheduled program turns into a benefit concert....
447 2012-11-21 Before we opened the doors at last week’s Open Source Science Fair, we spent a little time with the exhibitors to get summaries of their projects and some general thoughts on open source....
448 2012-11-21 Republicans won't give up on the idea that the White House covered up the truth....
449 2012-11-21 Woodson hinted Tuesday that he still believes Stoudemire and Anthony can work well together.

“Is there an overall losing record with me as the coach?” asked Woodson, who is 25-7 as Knicks coach. “I can’t think about what happened before I took over. As a coach, I feel good about both of them playing together on the court at the same time. That’s not going to change.”

Stoudemire, who has not spoken to the news media since Oct. 19, was not with the team Tuesday. Based on a recommendation by the team’s medical staff, he will remain in New York this week during the Knicks’ three-game trip. He was with the team last week during its three-game trip.

“He’s just continuing therapy,” Woodson said. “They will let us know when he’s ready.”

ANTHONY OFF TO STRONG START Even though he is matched up against larger players, Carmelo Anthony has become one of the Knicks’ best rebounders. He recorded 12 rebounds in a victory over the San Antonio Spurs. He also grabbed nine Sunday in a win over the Indiana Pacers. Mike Woodson said there could be some concern in the future with Anthony’s body having to deal with all the physical play at the power forward position, but he hasn’t heard Anthony complain about his new role.

“When I took over and started coaching him, he’s been great all the way up until now,” Woodson said. “I think his teammates love his effort and what he’s been doing and we’ve been winning because of it.”

Anthony has had a positive effect on both ends of the floor for the Knicks. According to NBA .com, the Knicks are averaging 112.3 points per 100 possessions with Anthony on the court — one of the highest averages in the N.B.A. — and 101.4 when he is on the bench. On defense, Anthony has helped the Knicks become the fifth best team in the league, according to Basketball Reference’s defensive rating of 99.8 points allowed per 100 possessions.

“He’s doing all the little things it takes to win — from practicing hard, focusing in shoot-around, playing defense and communication on the floor,” Tyson Chandler said. “He’s a real leader out there and it’s fun to watch. If he continues to play like this, I feel like he should be the M.V.P.”

MEETING ON HOLD Before Tuesday’s game, Tyson Chandler was looking forward to playing against the Hornets’ Anthony Davis, the No. 1 pick in this year’s draft. Chandler and Davis were teammates on the United States national team that won the gold medal at the Summer Olympics.

“I hope I helped in some kind of way,” Chandler said of Davis. “He was very quiet, and I’m sure it was intimidating, but he took that time to learn. He such a respectful young kid that I felt like he was everybody’s rookie on that team and that’s rare.”

Davis missed Tuesday’s game with a left ankle injury. He is listed as day-to-day.

“Obviously, we’d love to have Anthony, but I’m more inclined to keep guys out when they have an issue,” Hornets Coach Monty Williams said. “Any time you don’t get a chance to play in an N.B.A. game, you’re going to be upset about that. He’s a gamer. He loves to play, so I would guess he’s frustrated.”
450 2012-11-21 Stuff you should be reading....
451 2012-11-21 Consumers still can't find Garth Brooks or Tool on iTunes. And Def Leppard is only offering "forgeries" of its own work. Who should be Apple's next priority in bringing to the iTunes store? What act have you searched for in vain at iTunes?...
452 2012-11-21 Also, Kevin Clash, the puppeteer and voice behind Elmo on "Sesame Street," resigns after a new allegation that he had an underage sexual relationship....
453 2012-11-21 The company's agreement with BrightLine is for a channel providing viewers content like video clips, offers and games....
454 2012-11-21 ALBANY — The Chevron Corporation filed a complaint on Tuesday against the New York State comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, with the state ethics commission, the latest round in its battle over an Ecuadorean lawsuit stemming from pollution of the Amazon rain forest.

Mr. DiNapoli and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo have received tens of thousands of dollars in contributions from people with ties to lawyers representing Ecuadorean villagers who brought the litigation against Chevron. Both officials have also raised questions about Chevron’s conduct — Mr. Cuomo in his previous job as attorney general, and Mr. DiNapoli in his role as sole trustee of the state’s $153 billion pension fund.

The complaint, which was made to the Joint Commission on Public Ethics, claims that Mr. DiNapoli and the plaintiffs’ lawyers had “an illicit and unethical quid pro quo arrangement” in which the comptroller received campaign donations and other benefits in exchange for pressuring Chevron. The complaint, however, is short on evidence of such an arrangement.

Both Mr. Cuomo’s ex-wife, Kerry Kennedy, and Karen Hinton, the wife of a top aide, have been tied to the plaintiffs’ lawyers, but the complaint praises him for backing off from pursuing an investigation into Chevron, after outlining his concerns to the company in 2009.

Mr. DiNapoli, however, has maintained his criticism, going so far as having the state pension fund be a sponsor of shareholder resolutions related to the dispute.
455 2012-11-21 The Legends Classic at Barclays Center this week was eagerly anticipated, and not just by college basketball fans. Dozens of N.B.A. scouts and front-office executives were buzzing, too.

While they were certainly interested in Indiana’s 7-foot sophomore, Cody Zeller, they were focused on Shabazz Muhammad, who made his collegiate debut for No. 11 U.C.L.A on Monday night against Georgetown.

On the court, the Bruins left plenty to be desired, although they overcame an 11-point deficit to beat Georgia, 60-56, on Tuesday in the consolation game after Georgetown had shredded their defense. In his second game, Muhammad led all scorers with 21 points.

“We’ve got a lot of room to grow,” U.C.L.A. Coach Ben Howland said.

Tough early losses and rocky performances are an acknowledged pitfall of a new trend in college basketball. U.C.L.A., following Kentucky’s lead, opted to rebuild its program the impatient way: by recruiting premier freshman talent, with the risk the players will stay only one year.

Despite the 6-foot-6 Muhammad’s inexperience, many expect him to be the top pick in the next N.B.A. draft. He would be the fourth consecutive freshman selected No. 1, following Kentucky’s Anthony Davis and John Wall and Duke’s Kyrie Irving.

The trend of loading up on N.B.A.-ready prospects for one season — the method preferred by Kentucky Coach John Calipari — has spread to universities like Connecticut, St. John’s, Duke and now U.C.L.A., which landed perhaps the top recruiting class in the country.
456 2012-11-21 In hiring a manager, though, General Manager Alex Anthopoulos surprised even Gibbons himself.

“I’m sure there’s a lot of guys out there that can do it,” Gibbons said. “I’m just fortunate that I know him, and I’m in the right place at the right time.”

Gibbons replaces John Farrell, a serious tactician with a sterling reputation despite losing 16 more games than he won in two seasons with Toronto. Farrell now manages the Boston Red Sox, who pined for him all summer. Nobody was stumping for Gibbons, though he held his own in the American League East near the height of the Yankees/Red Sox arms race in the mid-2000s.

“He’s not a sexy name, for whatever reason, but he’s as good a manager as you’re going to find out there,” said J. P. Ricciardi, the former Toronto general manager who hired Gibbons. “He handles the bullpen great, he’s good with the players. I’m a little shocked it’s taken this long for him to get a second chance, because for in-game managing, he’s second to nobody.”

Anthopoulos called Gibbons a shrewd judge of talent who works well with the front office and is popular with players, yet unafraid to confront them if needed. Gibbons memorably quarreled with Shea Hillenbrand and Ted Lilly in his last Blue Jays tenure, incidents he says he regrets and should have handled better.

Ricciardi, who now works for the Mets, insisted Gibbons was not a hothead and called it somewhat refreshing to see a manager stick up for himself. In any case, he said, he thought so highly of Gibbons that he wanted him to consider the Mets job when it came open after the 2010 season. Gibbons — a former catcher who went 9 for 19 for the 1986 Mets — passed on the chance to be interviewed.

“He wasn’t really ready at the time, but I think he would have really liked to,” Ricciardi said. “Life has a funny way of working out.”

The Blue Jays were not exactly hopeless the last time Gibbons was there. Roy Halladay led their rotation, and Ricciardi signed expensive free agents like A. J. Burnett, B. J. Ryan and Frank Thomas. The team rose to second place in 2006 but generally did not hit well enough to support its strong pitching staff.

Now, after a 73-89 finish, Anthopoulos has restocked the roster, starting with Johnson, the only name he targeted before his first conversation with the Marlins this month. When the Marlins gave a high asking price for Johnson, Anthopoulos expanded the deal to include Reyes and Buehrle, who had just finished the first year of long-term deals with Miami.

“I think it’s normal that they would be shocked,” Anthopoulos said. “Very few big free agents get traded after one year; that goes without saying. But once all the dust has settled, they’ve come to a team that has a chance to win, and I think that should be exciting for any of them. We’re going to do our best to make them feel welcome.”

That includes details like finding a place for Buehrle’s dog. Buehrle owns a pit bull, which is outlawed in Ontario, as it was in Miami-Dade County. He solved the problem there by living in a different county, and Anthopoulos said he was working with Buehrle on the issue.

In any case, Buehrle is a consistent performer on the field, unlike Cabrera, a rather ordinary player until a breakout season in Kansas City in 2011, when Gibbons was his bench coach. Cabrera was even better last season for the San Francisco Giants, until he tested positive for elevated levels of testosterone and served a 50-game suspension.

Anthopoulos cited other players who have had second chances after using performance-enhancing drugs, and he said Cabrera deserved one too. Gibbons said he was convinced Cabrera was a solid player.

“It’s unfortunate what happened, but he’s still a good hitter, on the stuff or not,” Gibbons said. “Fans are going to fall in love with the kid, just by the way he approaches, the way he shows up every day to play. He’s pretty darn good.”

If Cabrera plays the way he did last season, when he hit .346, Gibbons will have a force to join Reyes at the top of the lineup, before the sluggers Jose Bautista and Edwin Encarnacion. Combined with the rotation depth, it is an appealing vision, one that was enticing enough to lure Gibbons away from home and back to a familiar major league dugout.

“This is serious stuff now,” Gibbons said. “Who wouldn’t want to be here?”
457 2012-11-21 The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sued the Credit Suisse Group on Tuesday, accusing it of misleading investors in mortgage-backed securities.

The lawsuit claims that Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank after UBS, misrepresented the quality of loans underlying residential mortgage-backed securities it sponsored and underwrote in 2006 and 2007, costing investors $11.2 billion.

The bank, which is based in Zurich, did not adequately evaluate the loans and ignored the defects its limited review uncovered, the lawsuit said. The suit, filed in New York State Supreme Court, also said the bank did not perform promised due diligence. The lawsuit was brought under the Martin Act, a New York securities fraud statute.

Credit Suisse said it rejected the complaint and looked forward to presenting its defense in court. The complaint "recycles baseless claims from private lawsuits and uses an inaccurate and exaggerated number," the bank said in a statement, apparently referring to the $11.2 billion loss figure. The bank announced a management shake-up on Tuesday.

The lawsuit, which seeks damages, restitution and other relief, is the latest action by a working group created by President Obama to pursue wrongdoing that led to the 2008 financial crisis.
458 2012-11-21 Theary Seng, president of the Association of Khmer Rouge Victims in Cambodia, said, “President Obama should have met with the human rights community and activists challenging the Hun Sen regime, and while then and there, offer a public apology to the Cambodian people for the illegal U.S. bombings, which took the lives of half a million Cambodians and created the conditions for the Khmer Rouge genocide.”

Gary J. Bass, a scholar of war crimes at Princeton, said Mr. Obama passed up a chance to publicly exorcise a painful history. “It’s a missed opportunity for Obama,” he said. “Obama is right to evoke America’s better angels, but that’s more effective when you give the complete story.”

White House officials were sympathetic, but they said the focus of Mr. Obama’s stop in Phnom Penh was on the summit meeting, organized by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, not on a visit to Cambodia or the relationship between the two countries.

“It’s not a lack of appreciation; it’s the circumstances of the visit,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser. “President Obama’s always willing to confront the history we have in the nations we visit and believes it’s important to acknowledge the past so we can move beyond it. The fact is, this particular visit was structured to focus on the summits that the Cambodians were hosting.”

Some activists said that Mr. Obama’s visit would help Cambodia’s transition.

“The U.S. president’s visit to Cambodia is an important part of that process,” said Youk Chhang, a survivor of the genocide and executive director of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, a private research group. “Cambodians look to the United States more than any other country as a beacon for leadership on human rights and democracy issues as well as what can be achieved by a free and fair market system.”

Michael Abramowitz, who directs the genocide prevention center at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, recently visited Cambodia on a fact-finding mission on the Khmer Rouge trials.

He saw value in Mr. Obama’s visit. “Even though President Obama would likely not have visited Phnom Penh were it not for the Asean meeting, the presence of the first U.S. president on Cambodian soil has enormous symbolic importance,” he said.

Left undiscussed during the visit was the grim history between the United States and Cambodia. President Richard M. Nixon, trying to cut off North Vietnamese infiltration into South Vietnam, ordered a secret bombing campaign that dropped hundreds of thousands of tons of explosives on Cambodia from 1970 to 1973. The United States also backed a coup that ousted Norodom Sihanouk as head of state.

Many Cambodians responded by joining a Communist resistance, which led to the rise of Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge, a bloodthirsty guerrilla group that went on to orchestrate a genocide that resulted in the deaths of 1.7 million people between 1975 and 1979, when the group was pushed out of power by Vietnamese forces.

Even today, Cambodia is struggling with that history. A United Nations-Cambodian war crimes trial is trying the senior surviving leadership of the Khmer Rouge on charges of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.

The United States has supported and helped finance the trials, although human rights groups complain that the Cambodian government has been tampering with the court.

Mr. Hun Sen, a former Khmer Rouge commander, has ruled Cambodia for decades with little tolerance for dissent. Opposition leaders have been jailed and killed, and his allies have been seizing land on a large scale, according to human rights groups.

That complicated the question of Mr. Obama’s trip. Past presidents have confronted American actions; President Bill Clinton made a trip to Vietnam in 2000 to reconcile years after the war, while George W. Bush, during a trip to Eastern Europe, expressed regret for the Yalta accords, which he viewed as allowing the Soviet Union to control the region for decades after the end of World War II.

But Mr. Obama was reluctant to engage in a discussion of America’s responsibility in Cambodia while the current government is so repressive. Such a discussion could serve to elevate rather than diminish Mr. Hun Sen, American officials said.

Mr. Obama refused to make joint statements with Mr. Hun Sen, as he normally does with leaders hosting him, on the assumption that any criticism of the government would be censored, but the pictures of the two leaders side by side would be used to validate the Cambodian leader.

Instead, Mr. Obama used almost their entire private meeting to press Mr. Hun Sen on human rights, aides said. He emphasized “the need for them to move towards elections that are fair and free, the need for an independent election commission associated with those elections, the need to allow for the release of political prisoners and for opposition parties to be able to operate,” Mr. Rhodes said.

Even if Mr. Obama did not address the past during this visit, Mr. Rhodes noted that the United States government has been supporting the genocide trials and efforts to dispose of unexploded mines and ordnance.

“We have done important work to help the Cambodian people move forward with their tragic past,” he said. “We want to continue that support.”
459 2012-11-21 Unlike today’s overreacting drama queens, the drama queens of Baroque opera certainly had legitimate grievances, their anguished histrionics provoked by abandonment, betrayal and death threats. From the moment she swept onstage in a lavish crimson gown by Vivienne Westwood, the mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato embodied the despair (and occasional joy) of these regal heroines of 17th- and 18th-century opera.

The ensemble Il Complesso Barocco accompanied her splendid performance at Carnegie Hall on Sunday afternoon, its high-octane, imaginative approach mirroring the emotional depth of her singing. Ms. DiDonato recently collaborated with the group for her new disc, “Drama Queens” (Virgin Classics), which features the works performed on Sunday.

The emotional temperature rose quickly during the first half of the program, as Ms. DiDonato, her hair in an elaborate chignon, sang “Disprezzata regina” (“Despised Queen”), from Monteverdi’s “Incoronazione di Poppea,” ardently conveying the varied shades of Ottavia’s misery. Using silvery trills and silken coloratura she imbued “Da torbida procella” (“On Stormy Seas”), from Orlandini’s “Berenice,” with a thrilling ardor.

Like a queen being serenaded by her courtiers, Ms. DiDonato sat amid the ensemble during the instrumental excerpts. The violinist Dmitry Sinkovsky gyrated like a rock guitarist during his gorgeous rendition of Vivaldi’s Concerto in D minor for Violin, Strings and Continuo (RV 242), his virtuosity seeming as effortless as Ms. DiDonato’s, and his soulful, aching rendition of the Adagio holding the audience spellbound. The group, whose men wore fuchsia socks with their black trousers, also offered spirited renditions of selections by Scarlatti and Handel.

After intermission Ms. DiDonato looked even more dramatic, the skirt of her dress widened with an enormous hoop that momentarily threw her off balance as she regally glided back onstage.

But there were no such glitches with her vocalism: a masterpiece of control, agility and alluring sound throughout her range, with its dusky lows and bright high notes. Her voice took on a plaintive, almost desperate sheen in parts of “Piangerò la sorté mia” (“I shall mourn my fate”), from Handel’s “Giulio Cesare.”
460 2012-11-21 This three-act opera of roughly 90 minutes (played here, as is common, with only brief breaks between acts) flowed with uncommon urgency, a miracle of compact dramatic storytelling and exploration of the unconscious. The inspired Philharmonia players were with Mr. Salonen all the way.

Wozzeck, an impoverished soldier living in a garrison town with his common-law wife and illegitimate son, is becoming a signature role for Mr. Keenlyside, who was fresh from his triumph as Prospero in Thomas Adès’s opera “The Tempest” at the Met.

One of the most charismatic actors in opera, Mr. Keenlyside was a haunted Wozzeck in a daringly modern production at the Paris National Opera in 2008. If Monday night’s performance had the feel of a lived-in staging, that was probably because Mr. Keenlyside, along with several members of this cast, had taken part in a semi-staged presentation, with costumes and videos, that Mr. Salonen conducted with the Philharmonia at the Royal Festival Hall in London in 2009.

Mr. Keenlyside’s essentially lyric baritone voice may be a little light for the music. At times on Monday, during anguished outbursts, he sounded as if he were pushing his sound. But he brought intense expressivity to every line and captured the tormented character’s volatile mood swings.

From the moment he appeared in the opening scene, when Wozzeck shaves the Captain for whom he performs menial tasks, Mr. Keenlyside embodied the character. Obviously, in this concert performance he did not actually shave the Captain (the tenor Peter Hoare). But he brushed off the Captain’s jacket and straightened his hair, sometimes tottering on his feet as he nervously used one leg to scratch an itch on the other.

As the moralizing Captain, Mr. Hoare lectured Wozzeck for living in an unwed state with Marie, and delivered lines in a haughty, bright tenor. Mr. Keenlyside just took it, looking the essence of a beaten-down man.

The soprano Angela Denoke, who sang Marie in that 2008 Paris production, gave a haunting, vulnerable portrayal. Her voice is sizable, focused and richly colored. Among other standouts in the excellent cast were the bright tenor Hubert Francis as the preening, self-assured Drum Major; the lyric tenor Joshua Ellicott as the decent Andres, Wozzeck’s only friend; and the husky-voiced bass Tijl Faveyts as the doctor who pays Wozzeck to be a guinea pig in quack medical experiments. The always strong Westminster Symphonic Choir took part in the short but crucial choral scenes.

The ovation was tremendous. During earlier breaks between acts, a number of people in the audience left the hall. In a strange way, I am almost glad that “Wozzeck” still drives away some listeners. This great work should never become too palatable.

The Philharmonia may not be all Mahler buffs’ idea of an ideal orchestra for their hero’s symphonies. Other ensembles might have brought more sheer richness and depth and glowing string sound to Mahler’s 80-minute Ninth Symphony.

But, as with “Wozzeck,” Mr. Salonen conducted the score like an insightful composer. The pacing and shape, the way Mahler develops the musical materials — all this came through with freshness and clarity. And in the sublime final Adagio, especially the hushed moments of the ending, when the music seems unwilling to trail off, the performance achieved Mahlerian transcendence.

This score was an obvious candidate for a festival exploring spiritual realms in music. But “Wozzeck” could also have been included. Any work that penetrates the human condition with such wrenching honesty fits my definition of spiritual.
461 2012-11-21 It remains unclear whether the intense afternoon bombing was in retaliation for the Jerusalem strike, the second in five days, or an effort to take out as many targets as possible while final details of a cease-fire deal were being discussed. A frenzy of about 200 rockets also flew from Gaza into Israel on Tuesday, hitting the southern cities of Beersheba and Ashdod as well as the Tel Aviv suburb of Rishon LeZion; an Israeli soldier was killed in a week of cross-border battles, along with a civilian.

The violence, which health officials said brought the Palestinian death toll to more than 130, may complicate the efforts of the Hamas government to persuade people, especially rival factions, to abide by a cease-fire.

“Revenge, revenge,” the throng chanted as the bodies were brought inside the hospital. “Qassam Brigades, get revenge for us.”

Al Shifa, the largest of Gaza’s six public hospitals, has become a community hub over the last week. With airstrikes hitting homes, government offices and open areas, people saw it as a rare haven. Some came, of course, to hold the hands of wounded relatives in its crowded wards. Others just came. There is little else to do.

While most shops throughout the city have been shuttered, and the streets were relatively deserted, the strip of stands selling shwarma and fruit shakes outside Al Shifa has done a brisk business. Each morning, dozens crowd outside the morgue in back, waiting to take bodies for burial. On Monday, a hospital worker pressed the families to move more quickly.

“There’s no room,” the worker called out a window. “More martyrs will be coming.”

During a visit two months ago, Dr. Ayman Alsahbani, director of emergency medicine, said the 750-bed hospital faced critical shortages of antibiotics, anticoagulants and other medicines that improve outcomes of surgery, and even of basics like plastic gloves and IV saline solutions. There were expired vials of Cordarone, a heart medicine, and intubation kits dated November 2011.

But on Tuesday, Dr. Alsahbani and several of his colleagues said the hospital was managing the crisis with supplies and medical personnel sent by Egypt and other countries. They had kept a reserve of about 80 open beds, including six in the intensive care unit, throughout the week to be ready for a further escalation, Dr. Alsahbani said.

Dr. Mads Gilbert, a professor at the University Hospital of North Norway, said things were better organized this time than during Operation Cast Lead, Israel’s three-week assault on Gaza in 2008-9, also waged to stop rocket attacks. “They have learned a lot from the last attack,” Dr. Gilbert said. “So far the capacity is up to the numbers. But I think we haven’t seen the peak.”

He spoke around lunchtime, shortly after the bank of cameras had been arrayed for the invited foreign ministers, when the only casualty in sight was Hamad Lattif, an 18-month-old boy who was sleeping in his father’s arms after being treated and released for minor shrapnel wounds. It had been the quietest morning after the quietest night in a week.

By two hours later, everything changed. The crowd in the courtyard had quadrupled. The Jerusalem-bound rocket had been launched. Blood was everywhere.

The Hamas Health Ministry said several airstrikes hit around Gaza City around 4 p.m., an hour after the Israeli military began distributing leaflets in several neighborhoods urging people to evacuate to the city center. Drone attacks hit two cars in the neighborhood of Al Sabra in the south, killing six, some of whom could not be quickly identified because of the severity of their injuries. In the Zeitoun area, officials said, two children were fatally struck while kicking a soccer ball on the street. A 22-year-old man was slain on Baghdad Street, on the city’s western side; three more followed in the same neighborhood soon afterward.

Just before 6 p.m., two camera operators for Hamas’s Al Aqsa Television network were burned to death when a bomb exploded their car on Al Shifa Street at the edge of the Beach Refuge Camp. Within the hour, deadly strikes fell in the northern city of Beit Hanoun, the southern town of Rafah and Deir al-Balah in between. Hamas’s military wing, meanwhile, proudly announced that six men suspected of collaborating with Israel had been killed and that their bodies had been dragged through the street.

Waiting for the Arab League delegation, reporters and residents alike heard the booms. Politicians and press officers circulated among the crowds, condemning. The call to prayer rang out from a nearby mosque, followed by special Koranic verses honoring martyrs. Night fell, a half-moon bright in the sky the rocket had soared through.

Ismail Haniya, the Hamas prime minister, led his colleagues through the wards and emerged at the entrance of the emergency room with his hands aloft in signs of victory, unity and defiance.

Then they left without addressing the crowd.
462 2012-11-21 A federal appeals court delivered a stunning blow to prosecutors in 2014 and their campaign to root out illegal activity on Wall Street.
463 2012-11-21 Wall Street halted its two-day rally on Tuesday, after Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that the central bank lacked the tools to cushion the United States economy from the impact of spending cuts and tax increases to take effect next year.

Mr. Bernanke, in comments before the Economic Club of New York, said that the Fed did not have the ability to offset the damage that would result if politicians failed to reach a deal to prevent a series of mandatory tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to go into effect early next year.

His statement caused a downdraft in the market, though the equity market cut most of its losses before the end of the day.

“This is a more realistic and pragmatic picture of where we are, compared to what we’ve been hearing for the past couple of days from politicians,” said James Dailey, portfolio manager at TEAM Asset Strategy Fund in Harrisburg, Pa.

Stocks rallied for the last two sessions after Washington politicians sounded an encouraging note that a deal on fiscal issues could be reached. Those two days of gains came after two weeks of sharp losses that pushed the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index down through the 200-day moving average, a crucial benchmark of the market’s long-term trend. The S.& P. ended Tuesday near that level, which was 1,382.68.
464 2012-11-21 It was gratifying to read Joe Drape’s excellent article on the tragic plight of unwanted racehorses. To learn that 138,000 horses were sent to Canada and Mexico to be slaughtered in 2010 alone is shocking. This encapsulates the horrible end for so many older horses that are not put out to grass when their working days are over. Meatpacking of this noble animal should be illegal and the sale of horse meat should be banned. And our yet wild herds of horses in America must be protected from the whims of politicians.
465 2012-11-21 The diplomatic moves came as the antagonists on both sides stepped up their attacks. Israeli aerial and naval forces assaulted several Gaza targets in multiple strikes, including a suspected rocket-launching site near Al Shifa Hospital. More than 30 people were killed on Tuesday, bringing the total number of fatalities in Gaza to more than 130 — roughly half of them civilians, the Gaza Health Ministry said.

A delegation visiting from the canceled a news conference at the hospital because of the Israeli aerial assaults as wailing ambulances brought victims in, some of them decapitated.

The Israeli assaults carried into early Wednesday, with multiple blasts punctuating the otherwise darkened Gaza skies.

Militants in Gaza fired a barrage of at least 200 rockets into Israel, killing an Israeli soldier — the first military casualty on the Israeli side since the hostilities broke out. The Israeli military said the soldier, identified as Yosef Fartuk, 18, had died from a rocket strike that hit an area near Gaza. Israeli officials said a civilian military contractor working near the Gaza border had also been killed, bringing the number of fatalities in Israel from the week of rocket mayhem to five.

Other rockets hit the southern Israeli cities of Beersheba and Ashdod, and longer-range rockets were fired at and Jerusalem. Neither main city was struck, and no casualties were reported. One Gaza rocket hit a building in Rishon LeZion, just south of Tel Aviv, wounding one person and wrecking the top three floors.

Senior Egyptian officials in Cairo said Israel and Hamas were “very close” to a cease-fire agreement. “We have not received final approval, but I hope to receive it any moment,” said Essam el-Haddad, President ’s top foreign affairs adviser.

Foreign diplomats who were briefed on the outlines of a tentative agreement said it had been structured in stages — first, an announcement of a cease-fire, followed by its implementation for 48 hours. That would allow time for Mrs. Clinton to involve herself in the process here and create a window for negotiators to agree on conditions for a longer-term cessation of hostilities.

But it seemed that each side had steep demands of a longer-term deal that the other side would reject.

, the Hamas leader, said in Cairo that Israel needed to end its blockade of Gaza. Israel says the blockade keeps arms from entering the coastal strip.

Mark Regev, a spokesman for Mr. Netanyahu, said Israel saw no point in an arrangement that offered Hamas what he called “a timeout to regroup” without long-term guarantees involving the and . Some Israeli officials have spoken of a bigger buffer zone along the Gaza border.

American officials said Washington was betting on the pragmatism of Mr. Morsi, Egypt’s new president. He is a former leader of the , the movement with which Hamas is affiliated.

While publicly emphasized Israel’s right to self-defense because of domestic political concerns, officials said the administration had also decided to take an understanding approach to Mr. Morsi’s need to denounce Israel in order to appeal to his domestic audience.

“We know that the Egyptians have their domestic politics as well,” one American official said, and each president understood the other’s political context. “But they both agree that this nonsense can’t go on.”

Officials of Mr. Morsi’s government acknowledged that the Gaza battle had put them in a bind. As Egypt’s first democratically elected president, Mr. Morsi must respond to a public deeply angry at Israel and eager to rally behind the Palestinians. “But if he responds fully to public opinion, he risks what we have been trying to do for peace and stability in the region,” a senior official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Indeed, despite the Egyptian government’s caustic statements about Israel and noisy solidarity with Hamas, several American officials said Mr. Morsi and the new Islamist government needed no encouragement in their efforts to push for an end not only to the Israeli bombing but also to Hamas’s missile fire.

But Israel wants guarantees that Egypt will actively stop the flow of arms into Gaza from Sinai, and that seems a tall order. Egypt has been unable to control Sinai and would not want to be seen in the role of Israeli enforcer. Egypt is hoping Hamas will restrain itself on missile imports, but it is far from clear that Hamas wants to or can, given the range of forces in Gaza vying for power, including the Iranian-backed .

Within Hamas itself, there are divisions and fractured views on the truce negotiations. In Gaza on Tuesday, Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman, said that “we hold absolutely no hope of Hillary Clinton” helping to resolve the conflict.

“We hold no hope in Obama or Hillary Clinton to do anything, just to save the occupation in their crisis,” Mr. Barhoum said in an interview outside Al Shifa Hospital in Gaza City. “Just support the occupation so it can do more and more massacres.”

Mr. Obama, who was in , had found himself repeatedly on the phone with Middle Eastern leaders in recent days and decided that Mrs. Clinton, who also spoke to a dozen of her counterparts here, could make the difference in establishing a cease-fire and asked her to make the trip.

Mr. Netanyahu’s calculations are numerous. He has an election looming in January, and agreeing to stop his operation in Gaza could be risky if rocket fire resumed. But sending troops into Gaza poses perhaps even more risks.

“The Israeli government will face its voters without any tangible achievement in hand to show,” Nahum Barnea, a columnist for the newspaper Yediot Aharonot, wrote Tuesday. He said that he did not believe Mr. Netanyahu had begun this operation with electoral considerations in mind, but that “the deliberations about ending it are deeply affected by political calculations.”

Mr. Netanyahu is also contending with a radically altered , and while he says that protecting his people is not dependent on who is in power in Egypt or , a reduced military operation and fewer civilian casualties in Gaza would make relations with both countries less difficult.
466 2012-11-22 Evidence suggests that Steven A. Cohen participated in trades that the government says illegally used insider information, but he has not been charged....
467 2012-11-22 It is unclear how the Russian authorities will enforce the vaguely worded law, which will be overseen by the Justice Ministry. The requirement applies only to organizations engaged in “political activities,” like trying to influence public opinion or advocating to change policy. Various groups say they are poised to contest any penalties through the court system, in part to test the constitutionality of the new law.

“We will risk a fine, and it’s possible that a question of a criminal charge will arise,” said Pavel Chikov, who heads a legal organization, Agora. “But if we are forced to choose between ceasing our work and risking a criminal investigation, I will choose the latter.”

Government officials spoke approvingly of the new law, saying foreign money must be excluded from politics in order to defend Russia’s sovereignty.

Western-financed programs proliferated during the 1990s, when Russia’s economy and political system were a shambles and foreign governments hoped to help guide the development of a post-Soviet state. Mr. Putin intends to uproot the vestiges of those projects, which he believes have undermined support for him in Russia.

A particular grievance is the United States-funded election monitoring group Golos, which documented and publicized voter fraud ahead of last year’s parliamentary elections, adding fuel to the burst of protest. In September, Russia announced the end of two decades of work by the United States Agency for International Development.

Veronika Krasheninnikova, the head of the Institute for Foreign Policy Research and Initiatives, in Moscow, said that she believed Washington had advised Russia’s nonprofit groups to defy the new law, forcing the Russian government to take harsh measures.

“Confrontation will be beneficial for these organizations,” she said, during a Wednesday round table on the new law. She added: “We will be told, ‘Look how much you lose in the eyes of the world.’ If we are afraid of the West, it would be better to give up right now, to surrender, put on white ribbons and white flags and announce capitulation.”

Referring to the pro-American president of Georgia, she added, “All normal people know that if Washington praises you and holds you up as an example, it means that you have turned into a Saakashvili and betrayed your country.”

Among those poised for a prolonged standoff with the authorities is Lyudmila Alexeyeva, 85, a Soviet-era dissident who heads the Moscow Helsinki Group. Ms. Alexeyeva said she was ready to go to great lengths to avoid being affected by the law.

She said she will refuse any further foreign financing for the Helsinki Group and, if necessary, sell her collection of ceramic figurines to raise money and move the entire organization into her apartment.

“A law like this is just not going to work,” she said. “I am an old person. I was 25 years old when Stalin died, and I spent my childhood and youth in a totalitarian state.”

She added that Russia has changed greatly since then. “Stalin, in order to create a totalitarian state, brought down an iron curtain around the country. And we’ve just joined the World Trade Organization,” she said. “So why did we join the World Trade Organization? How are we going to be able to fence ourselves off in a globalized world? No, Putin was born too late.”
468 2012-11-22 Even Hamas, Iran’s longtime ideological partner, openly turned its back on Tehran and Damascus and sided with the alliance of Sunni Muslim kingdoms against the Syrian government. Newer and more dynamic countries, like Qatar and Egypt, emerged to take the lead on issues in Syria and Gaza, making Iran’s uncompromising message of resistance look stale.

Then, a week ago, when Israel struck back against the rockets and missiles coming from Gaza, all the regional players were roughly pushed back into their traditional roles, beginning with Mr. Morsi, who led the effort to broker a cease-fire just as the country had done when Hosni Mubarak was president. Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the emir of Qatar, who in October had paid an unprecedented visit to the Gaza Strip, presenting himself as Hamas’s new benefactor, waited four days before giving a statement on the fighting between Israel and the Palestinians.

Throughout the battle, Iranian-designed missiles, the Fajr-3 and the Fajr-5 that allowed Hamas and another Gaza-based movement, Islamic Jihad, to hit Israel’s heartland, sent Israelis fleeing to bomb shelters. While political support and money helps, Palestinian leaders said, Iran’s weapons technology is a far greater help.

“The arms of the resistance, including those of Hamas, are Iranian, from the bullet to the missile,” Ziad al-Nakhla, deputy leader of the Islamic Jihad, told the Lebanese Al Manar TV in Cairo on Tuesday. “If it wasn’t for these arms, the Israeli Army’s weapons would have run over the bodies of our children,” he added, lauding the “great sacrifices” Iran had made by “shipping” these weapons to Gaza.

Iranian officials have not been shy about taking credit for the changes in the battlefield, even though analysts noted that admitting to transferring weaponry could lead to future reprisals. “We proudly say we support the Palestinians, military and financially,” the head of Iran’s Parliament, Ali Larijani, told local reporters this week. “The Zionist regime needs to realize that Palestinian military power comes from Iranian military power.”

Mr. Larijani even nodded to the other problems facing Iran, which suddenly did not loom so large. “We may have inflation, unemployment and other economic issues in our country,” he said. “But we are changing the region, and this will be a big achievement.”

The highest commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, Mohammad Ali Jafari, was even more blunt. Missile technology, he said, “has been transferred to the resistance, and an unlimited number of these missiles is being built.”

The celebration in Tehran might not last long, analysts say. Hamas leaders were lavish in their praise of Mr. Morsi for his role in arranging the cease-fire, saying he had well represented the group’s interests. And Egypt could close the tunnels that are used to smuggle the missiles into Gaza.

Nevertheless, they say, the fighting has done much to repair the damage to Iran’s regional image inflicted by the Syrian conflict. “This war has brought Iran and Hamas back together, and the debate over the Syrian issue is over,” said Hamid-Reza Taraghi, who heads the international department of the influential Islamic Coalition Party.

In the end, Iran’s leaders believe that military power is the only measure of success, and they have little faith that cease-fires and diplomacy will accomplish anything lasting. For average Iranians, though, Iran’s missile program and the events in Gaza are faraway problems, and many said the triumph may be short-lived.

“Maybe in the short term Iran is increasing its influence among the Palestinians, but politics are fast nowadays,” said Allahgoli Abbaspour, 53, a shop owner. “The Palestinians need their independence, but I doubt they will ever get it. It’s not like normal Iranians have anything to say about this.”
469 2012-11-22 But the lack of integrity among educators and school administrators is especially dispiriting, said Li Mao, an educational consultant in Beijing. “It’s much more upsetting when it happens with teachers because our expectations of them are so much higher,” he said.

Affluent parents in the United States and around the world commonly seek to provide their children every advantage, of course, including paying for tutors and test preparation courses, and sometimes turning to private schools willing to accept wealthy students despite poor grades.

But critics say China’s state-run education system — promoted as the hallmark of Communist meritocracy — is being overrun by bribery and cronyism. Such corruption has broadened the gulf between the haves and have-nots as Chinese families see their hopes for the future sold to the highest bidder.

“Corruption is pervasive in every part of Chinese society, and education is no exception,” Mr. Li said.

It begins even before the first day of school as the competition for admission to elite schools has created a lucrative side business for school officials and those connected to them.

Each spring, the Clean China Kindergarten, which is affiliated with the prestigious Tsinghua University and situated on its manicured campus in Beijing, receives a flood of requests from parents who see enrollment there as a conduit into one of China’s best universities. Officially, the school is open only to children of Tsinghua faculty. But for the right price — about 150,000 renminbi, or about $24,000, according to a staff member who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid retaliation — a Tsinghua professor can be persuaded to “sponsor” an applicant.

Parents with less direct connections have to bribe a chain of people for their child to be admitted to the kindergarten. “The more removed you are from the school, the more money you need,” the staff member said. “It can really add up.”

A school official denied that outsiders could pay their way in.

The costs can increase as college gets closer. Chinese news media reported recently that the going bribery rate for admission to a high school linked to the renowned Renmin University in Beijing is $80,000 to $130,000.

Government officials have also found a way to game the system. The 21st Century Business Herald, a state-run newspaper, reported that powerful agencies and state-owned enterprises frequently donated to top schools under what is known as a “joint development” policy. In exchange, education reformers say, the children of their employees are given an admissions advantage.

The same practice has been taken up by private companies that provide “corporate sponsorships” to top schools.

In China, education through junior high school is mandatory, and free, but the reality is often more complicated. As a child grows up, parents lacking connections must pay repeatedly for better educational opportunities. Across the country, such payments take the form of “school choice” fees that open the door to schools outside the district or town listed on a family’s official residency permit.

These illegal fees are especially onerous for the millions of struggling migrant workers who have moved to distant cites. The Ministry of Education and the State Council, China’s cabinet, have officially banned “school choice” and other unregulated fees five times since 2005, yet school officials and relevant government departments keep finding creative ways around the ban, allowing them to keep the cash flowing.

At some top-ranked high schools, students with low admission test scores can “buy” a few crucial points that put them over the threshold for admission. According to an unwritten but widely known policy at one elite Beijing high school, students receive an extra point for each $4,800 their parents contribute to the school. “All my classmates know about it,” said Polly Wang, 15, a student who asked that the school not be named to avoid repercussion.

Surrounded by a culture where cash is king, teachers often find their own ways to make up for their dismal salaries. Qin Liwen, a journalist who writes about education, said that some instructors run cram schools on the side and encourage attendance by failing to teach their students a vital chunk of the curriculum during the school day.

“Why do something for free when everyone is paying you?” Ms. Qin said. Faced with the prospect of their child’s missing critical material or incurring the teacher’s wrath, many parents feel compelled to pay for these extra courses, she said.

The culture of brown-nosing becomes a costly competition during Teacher Appreciation Day, a national holiday in September, when students of all ages are expected to bring gifts. Gone are the days when a floral bouquet or fruit basket would suffice. According to reports in the Chinese news media, many teachers now expect to be given designer watches, expensive teas, gift cards and even vacations. In Inner Mongolia, some parents said, more assertive teachers welcome debit cards attached to bank accounts that can be replenished throughout the year.

The value of such gifts, the newspaper Shanghai Daily estimated, has grown 50 times from a decade ago.

“It’s a vicious cycle,” said Ms. Zhao, the owner of the Beijing electronics business and parent of a 10-year-old girl. “If you don’t give a nice present and the other parents do, you’re afraid the teacher will pay less attention to your kid.”

Poor students are the most vulnerable in this culture of bribery. Bao Hong, 33, a maid in Beijing, used to think her 7-year-old daughter, Rui, was having a tough time at school because she was reared in the countryside by her grandparents. Ms. Bao now blames her teachers.

Last year, she said, a teacher slapped her daughter and called her “stupid.” In the spring, the teacher stopped grading Rui’s homework and then skipped a mandatory home visit. “My daughter’s discriminated against because we don’t make much money,” Ms. Bao said, standing outside the room she rents with her husband, a street cleaner.

Some parents have found that the only way to preserve any integrity is to reject a Chinese education altogether. Disgusted by the endemic bribery, Wang Ping, 37, a bar owner in Beijing, decided to send her son abroad for his education. In August, she wept as she waved goodbye to her only child, whom she had enrolled at a public high school in Iowa.

“China’s education system is unfair to children from the very beginning of their lives,” she said. “I don’t want my son to have anything more to do with it.”
470 2012-11-22 In July, Microsoft decided to pay $1.2 billion for Yammer, which makes a Facebook-like social media product for the office. Oracle recently paid over $3.4 billion for two small cloud computing companies that provide software for human resources and sales management. Last Sunday, the computer networking giant Cisco agreed to pay $1.2 billion in cash for Meraki, a company that manages the free wireless service at Starbucks and other businesses.

There are lots more such deals, from these companies as well as I.B.M., SAP and others.

The pace of change is so fast that Google, so recently seen as an upstart and a giant killer, in 2011 paid $12.5 billion for Motorola Mobility to supercharge its Android smartphone business, which competes with Apple. Earlier this year, Facebook spent $750 million on Instagram so it wouldn’t miss the next thing in social media.

But identifying the next big thing can be difficult, said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor of management at Yale University. Likely as not, he said, deals like the one for Autonomy have “maybe a 40 percent success, 60 percent failure rate.”

He added, “The odds are against you succeeding, but the odds are also worth taking.”

The real hazard, he said, is in the way companies describe these acquisitions as “natural, inevitable victories.” They should be seen, he said, as “an investment, like in research and development.”

The pace of acquisitions hardly matches the level seen during the late ’90s Internet bubble, when Cisco paid $9.6 billion for three networking companies that former officials said yielded almost no benefit. In 2002, AOL Time Warner wrote down $54 billion in good will related to its troubled merger. Several telecommunications equipment makers and service providers also had multibillion-dollar write-downs.

But there are also notable successes.

EMC, a maker of data storage equipment, paid $625 million in 2003 for VMWare, which makes some of the critical technology in cloud computing. Today, after taking some of the company public, EMC’s stake is worth about $30 billion. VMWare recently took a gamble of its own, buying a next-generation networking company, Nicira, that had virtually no revenue, for $1.26 billion.

Microsoft, which also paid $8.5 billion for Skype in 2011, said Yammer was being integrated into SharePoint, Microsoft’s successful collaboration software, and will be included in its premium version of Office communications and productivity software at no cost. It did not say whether, or how, Yammer would be profitable on its own, however.

The real issue with Autonomy may be less its questionable sales than its core technology, said Leslie Owens, who follows data analysis software at Forrester Research.

“H.P. thought it was an entirely new platform, but Autonomy’s clients said it wasn’t as good as Google’s corporate search product,” she said.

Autonomy, which was founded 16 years ago, “was based on using powerful algorithms,” she said, but the software was not attuned “to new kinds of search signals, like what your friends are doing, what people like you are doing, what other data you might draw off on.” Over time those new methods attracted customers.

In a demonstration of the Autonomy product last month, H.P. appeared to have addressed some of those issues, but others remained. An application to help figure out what to pay for Web ads initially failed to work, then delivered results that appeared similar to those of several other search products.

“We remain 100 percent committed to Autonomy and its industry-leading technology,” H.P. said in a statement. “The company’s products are cutting-edge and provide many customers with unique solutions.”

In an interview Tuesday, Meg Whitman, the chief executive of H.P., indicated that the company also had strong hopes for its security software, most of which it got from other acquisitions.

H.P. has accused Autonomy of improperly accounting for much of its sales in the years before H.P. bought the company last year. It took a $5 billion noncash charge related to the purchase price.

“It’s very disappointing,” she said of the write-down. “We’ve integrated the technology into a couple of places; we will integrate it into more.”
471 2012-11-22 “I need to open these doors for the writing voices of the next generation, because they were opened to me before,” said the 47-year-old Mr. Yew, who was born in Singapore and studied at Pepperdine University and Boston University before returning home for a spell. The authorities there banned an early play of his, “As If He Hears,” because of its sympathetic portrayal of gay people.

“But I also can be — to a fault — uncompromising about opening those doors in the way I want to,” Mr. Yew said, his boyish face breaking into a wide smile. “If you cross an ocean to pursue the life you want, you are going to do the things you want to do.”

That bullishness for the new has clashed squarely, however, with the reverence that some Chicago theaters have for the old. Among the Big Three theater companies here, Steppenwolf is known for its acting ensemble (John Malkovich, Gary Sinise, Laurie Metcalf); the Goodman for its directors (Robert Falls, who is also the artistic director, Frank Galati, Mary Zimmerman); and Victory Gardens for its playwrights.

“At Steppenwolf, once a picture of a new ensemble actor goes up on the wall, you don’t see Martha Lavey on a ladder in the lobby taking down Joan Allen,” said the playwright Claudia Allen, referring to Steppenwolf’s artistic director and one of its ensemble actresses. (Claudia Allen is one of the Victory Gardens playwrights fuming over her new status; the two Allens are not related.)

With many nonprofit American theaters struggling to avoid budget deficits these days, the pressure on new leaders like Mr. Yew is even greater. They are hired by board members who often want big changes after years, even decades with leaders like Mr. Zacek, and they are often given mandates to take the theaters in new directions.

The director Diane Paulus faced blowback similar to the criticism of Mr. Yew after she took over the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., and began hiring fewer of the actors who were in favor under her predecessors. Two Seattle theaters, Intiman and Seattle Rep, and the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles, all endured artistic and personnel turbulence during leadership transitions as well. And even after seven years as artistic director of the Public Theater in New York, Oskar Eustis is still sometimes the target of critical whispers by playwrights and talent agents who compare his decisions unfavorably to those of predecessors, including the Public’s founder, Joseph Papp.

Mr. Zacek, who is 72, disagreed at times with Victory Gardens board members, who wanted more box office hits as the theater budget tightened and deficits accumulated. Perhaps the biggest clash was over Mr. Zacek’s successor. He wanted board members to appoint his longtime associate artistic director, Sandy Shinner, who was a finalist for the position. Mr. Yew subsequently reorganized the staff and shifted Ms. Shinner out of her job, which she had held for 25 years.

Mr. Yew said the two had “a difference in vision”; Ms. Shinner, who is beloved among many Chicago artists, declined to comment other than to confirm that she is no longer with the theater.

Mr. Zacek said, “Chay has new ideas and a new mission for the theater, even though it may be, in his mind, an extension of the old mission.” Asked to elaborate, he noted that when Victory Gardens received the Tony for regional theater, he arranged to have many of the ensemble playwrights flown to New York to accept the award alongside him during the nationally televised ceremony.

“We had a family there, many of them playwrights with Chicago roots, and we had an informal right of first refusal on their new work, and we would produce them regularly,” Mr. Zacek said. “Some seasons would only be ensemble playwrights. From what I see that is gone.”

Mr. Yew adamantly denied that he had dismantled Victory Gardens as an artistic home for Chicago writers, though he acknowledged that his playwrights have varying ties to Chicago and no one will be virtually guaranteed productions anymore. (The president of the Victory Gardens board, Steven N. Miller, said that Mr. Yew had the full support of its members for his changes.)

“Chicago as a city is very much my focus, because I want to put on plays to get people to think about who they are as Chicagoans and Americans,” Mr. Yew said. Last summer at Victory Gardens he directed the critically praised “Oedipus El Rey,” an adaptation of Sophocles by Luis Alfaro about gang violence in Los Angeles. (Mr. Yew said the play had resonance here because of the city’s grim murder statistics.) A world premiere, “Failure: A Love Story,” by another new ensemble playwright, Philip Dawkins, is currently playing. The typical audience member at Victory Gardens is a white 50-something, Mr. Yew said. He and some of his new playwrights hope future plays will bring in younger and more diverse audiences, the goal of many theaters.

Mr. Hunter, who met Mr. Yew a few years ago in New York, said, “I’m still getting to know the city and its audiences, and the mood and ideas there that I want to try to reflect a little in my work.”

“I don’t want to be some carpetbagger coming in,” he added. “It’s just a matter of time before I can spend some serious time in Chicago.”

Perhaps the best-known playwright Mr. Yew retired was Mr. Logan, who won a Tony in 2010 for “Red,” and who is a three-time Oscar nominee for screenplays (most recently, this year, for “Hugo”). Mr. Logan said he owed his success today to Mr. Zacek and Victory Gardens for providing “a home where we could try out new material, workshop plays, have readings, learn the business, make mistakes.” Mr. Logan, whose last production there was a revival of “Never the Sinner” in 1995, before leaving Chicago, said he supported Mr. Yew’s shake-up of the ensemble to champion new voices as Mr. Zacek had once supported him.

“It’s obviously a complicated situation, but Chay has every right, and indeed a responsibility, to nurture new and emerging playwrights who can speak to Chicago audiences,” Mr. Logan said. “That was always the point of Victory Gardens in the first place.”
472 2012-11-22 Behind the Scenes at an H&M Opening
473 2012-11-22 Many analysts say the global Brent crude oil benchmark price, currently around $111 a barrel, would be $20 to $30 lower if it were not for the persistent instability in the Middle East and North Africa, particularly the tensions surrounding Iran’s nuclear energy policies.

Crude prices have fluctuated since tensions between Hamas and Israel spurred an exchange of rocket fire and bombs over the last week, as some traders feared that a full-fledged war might bring Iran and other regional powers into the conflict.

Prices eased on Tuesday by nearly 2 percent as negotiations for a cease-fire appeared to gain traction, but then rebounded about 1 percent after a bus bombing in Tel Aviv on Wednesday slowed progress. As reports surfaced that a cease-fire was again at hand, crude prices settled back down and then rose slightly.

But drivers in the United States have been minimally affected by the crisis, in part because a boom in oil drilling in North Dakota and Texas has decreased the country’s dependence on foreign oil.

The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline in the United States on Wednesday was $3.43, nearly 2 cents lower than a week ago and 24 cents lower than a month ago.

Compared with a year ago, though, the price was up 8 cents, and the highest on record for Thanksgiving. That is mostly because of the effects of Hurricane Sandy, which interrupted supplies in the New York metropolitan area and on much of the East Coast. In many other states, drivers are paying less for gasoline than they were a year ago.

According to the Oil Price Information Service and AAA, gasoline prices in New Jersey are roughly 30 cents above last year’s levels, while drivers in Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island are paying over 20 cents more. Oil analysts say those prices should begin to ease in the next two weeks as regional refineries and oil terminals that suffered flooding and power failures gradually return to normal operations.

With the exception of temporary, localized problems, oil experts say the country is well supplied with oil and gasoline, despite an Energy Department report on Wednesday showing that crude oil and motor gasoline inventories declined last week.

“Nationally, we have ample gasoline supplies, given where demand is,” said Anthony Rouse, chief economist at Phillips 66, the global refinery giant.

Mr. Rouse said he did not think the Gaza crisis would affect domestic petroleum supplies or prices in any substantial way. “Right now, this looks relatively self-contained in nations that are not really oil-producing areas,” he said, adding that even if Iran became more deeply involved, “the market is already factoring in lower Iranian production because of the sanctions.”

Iran is exporting just over a million barrels a day, down from three million in the summer of 2011 because of sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe. Even so, production by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has increased over the last year, with Iraq’s output up by 500,000 barrels a day and Libya recovering more than 1.5 million barrels a day lost during its civil war last year. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait are also producing more.

Countries outside of OPEC are also producing slightly more than a year ago, mainly because of increased output from the United States and Canada.

Demand for liquid fuels is down by 1.5 percent in the United States this year, according to the Energy Department, because of the slow economic recovery and a gradual improvement in the efficiency of cars. Demand is falling even faster in Europe, and demand in the developing world is increasing more slowly.

Nevertheless, energy experts warn that a jump in oil prices is possible in the year ahead because so much of the world’s supplies come from politically unstable nations. Pipeline sabotage has caused production delays in Nigeria in recent months. Libyan militias independent of government control can threaten oil production, though so far they have mostly left the country’s oil fields and refineries alone. Sectarian violence is a threat to Iraq’s growing oil industry.

Then there is the possibility that Israel or the United States might attack Iran to stop it from attaining nuclear weapons. Iran has repeatedly threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow waterway through which nearly one-fifth of the world’s oil is shipped.

“The Middle East will always be hanging over us,” said Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, which is partly financed by the oil industry.
474 2012-11-22 In recent days, after Israel embarked on a military offensive meant to stop the persistent rocket fire that has plagued the south, air-raid sirens sounded more than 40 miles away in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.

Most of the rockets fired at those cities were either intercepted or fell harmlessly in open ground or off the coast.

But on Tuesday, a rocket with a powerful warhead destroyed the top three floors of an apartment building in Rishon LeZion, a suburb of Tel Aviv about seven miles south of the city.

“They are pursuing us,” said Marcelle Azulai, a resident of Tel Aviv who had been sitting on a bus behind the one that was bombed.

Nobody was killed in the bombing, although health officials at the nearby Ichilov hospital said that 21 people were treated for injuries, including two teenagers in more serious condition. The rest had light or moderate injuries, the officials said.

“This was a lucky one,” said Dr. Pinchas Halperin, who runs the hospital’s emergency room. Judging by the relatively small amount of shrapnel and the size of the pieces that had hit patients, he said the bomb that went off on Wednesday appeared to be smaller than those that traumatized Israelis after the second Palestinian uprising in 2000.

In the following years, hundreds of Israelis were killed by suicide bombings and shooting attacks on buses and in cafes and shopping centers.

The latest bus bombing brought some of that back. The police said a man had apparently boarded the bus, placed the bomb in a bag under a seat and debarked shortly before it exploded.

Helicopters circled for hours after the blast, and the police set up roadblocks as they hunted for the perpetrator, whom they suspected might have come from the West Bank, which only added to growing national anxiety.

“At first we thought a rocket had fallen without a warning siren,” said Moran Cohen, 24, a student who was working in a restaurant near the scene of the attack. “People started running. The fear is back.”

On the sidewalk outside the hospital, two youths were operating a stand in the name of the Chabad-Lubavitch organization of Hasidic Jews, offering male passers-by the opportunity to put on tefillin, the small leather boxes containing scripture verses, and to recite psalms.

Some residents of the city were defiant and said they would not change their routines.

But others acknowledged that for them, something had changed.

“When the siren went off here for the first time on Friday, I left work and went home in fright,” said Tomer Calderon-Vaisman, 33, who runs a restaurant in Tel Aviv. “Now I try to be in places where I feel safe.”

Mr. Calderon-Vaisman and his wife, Galia, 31, an architect, had come to the hospital when a friend called to say that she had been injured in the bus bombing.

“Let’s say it makes you think a lot,” Ms. Calderon-Vaisman said. “It is the worst weapon that there is. There is no siren to warn you. You are living your life and in one second they can take it from you. In one moment your life can end because you boarded a bus.”

The cease-fire appeared to do little to change the public mood, especially in the south, where residents have grown weary of promises that the attacks will end — only to be followed, once again, by the wail of warning sirens.

“Nothing will change,” said Tal Rotem, 36, a musician and father of three young children, shortly after a rocket crashed down 200 yards from his house in the southern city of Beersheba.

“If you have a neighbor who wants to kill you, things will only get worse, though I hope in my heart that I am wrong.”
475 2012-11-22 1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line 2 sheet pans with parchment.

2. Place the dried fruit in a bowl and pour on hot or boiling water to cover. Let sit 5 minutes, and drain. Toss the apples with the lemon juice.

3. Heat a large, heavy frying pan over high heat and add 2 tablespoons butter. Wait until it becomes light brown and carefully add the apples and the sugar. Do not add the apples until the pan and the butter are hot enough, or they won’t sear properly and retain their juice. But be careful when you add them so that the hot butter doesn’t splatter. When the apples are brown on one side, add the vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg and almonds, flip the apples and continue to sauté until golden brown, about 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in the pears and dried fruit, then scrape out onto one of the lined sheet pans and allow to cool completely. Divide into two equal portions (easiest to do this if you weigh it).

4. Place 8 sheets of phyllo dough on your work surface. Cover with a dish towel and place another, damp dish towel on top of the first towel. Place a sheet of parchment on your work surface horizontally, with the long edge close to you. Lay a sheet of phyllo dough on the parchment. Brush lightly with butter and top with the next sheet. Continue to layer all eight sheets, brushing each one with butter before topping with the next one.

5. Brush the top sheet of phyllo dough with butter. Sprinkle on half of the almond powder (50 grams). With the other half, create a line 3 inches from the base of the dough, leaving a 2 1/2-inch margin on the sides. Top this line with one portion of the fruit mixture. Fold the bottom edge of the phyllo up over the filling, then fold the ends over and roll up like a burrito. Using the parchment paper to help you, lift the strudel and place it on the other parchment-lined baking sheet. Brush with butter and make 3 or 4 slits on the diagonal along the length of the strudel. Repeat with the other sheets of phyllo to make a second strudel. If you are freezing one of them, double-wrap tightly in plastic.

6. Place the strudel in the oven and bake 20 minutes. Remove from the oven, brush again with butter, rotate the pan and return to the oven. Continue to bake for another 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove from the heat and allow to cool for at least 15 minutes. Serve warm or room temperature.

Advance preparation: The fruit filling will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator. The strudel can be baked a few hours before serving it. Recrisp in a medium oven for 10 minutes. It can also be frozen before baking, double-wrapped in plastic. Transfer directly from the freezer to the oven and add 10 minutes to the baking time.

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
476 2012-11-23 In the age of anti-bling, rarity, refinement and fine craftsmanship are back in style. From bags and boxes to clocks and cars, the human touch and attention to detail spell true luxury this year....
477 2012-11-23 The writer's father had a deep connection to Notre Dame football, starting a family tradition, despite not attending the college, that continues today....
478 2012-11-23 Gas lines have largely evaporated in the city, but the mayor wanted the rationing system to extend through the busy Thanksgiving travel period....
479 2012-11-23 An auction house in London is selling what it says is a first-generation copy of the band's 1962 audition for Decca Records....
480 2012-11-23 The Quill.com division of Staples this week is adding a number of products inspired by the fictional company where the sitcom "The Office" is set....
481 2012-11-23 A vicious attack in Rome left 10 fans of England's Tottenham Hotspurs soccer team wounded. The assault, blamed on anti-Semitic racists, came at a time when the London club is debating how to celebrate its Jewish connections....
482 2012-11-23 Paradoxically, an increase in competition among insurers may lead to higher reimbursements and health care spending, and thus higher premiums, particularly when the medical provider market is not very competitive, three economists write....
483 2012-11-23 The N.B.A. said that the officials Ed Malloy, John Goble and Violet Palmer missed a foul by Charlotte’s Michael Kidd-Gilchrist against Toronto’s Andrea Bargnani on a jump shot in the final seconds of the Bobcats’ 98-97 victory Wednesday.

The league said Bargnani should have been given two free throws and the clock should have been stopped with about 2.4 seconds left.
484 2012-11-23 So while President Obama and Republican leaders in Washington have made postelection hints of an openness to compromise, many in the states may see no such need.

“The fact is, they can do whatever they want now,” Chris Larson, the Democrats’ newly chosen Senate minority leader in Wisconsin, said of the Republicans in his state. He noted, glumly, that they have been holding planning meetings behind closed doors since the election.

Robin Vos, a Republican selected last week as the speaker of Wisconsin’s Assembly, voiced a willingness to work with Democrats, but also quickly ticked off plans to press for an income-tax cut, education changes and a “top-to-bottom review” of state regulations.

In Minnesota, where a budget fight last year between a Republican-led Legislature and the Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, led to a shutdown of state government for two weeks, the governor seemed buoyed.

“We’ll trade gridlock for progress,” said Mr. Dayton, who added that his plans included increasing taxes on the richest Minnesotans and devoting more money to education. Still, Mr. Dayton, whose term is up in two years, sounded a note of caution even as he huddled with aides to strategize after the election results were in.

“I said to my staff, ‘The easier two years are over, and the harder two years are now beginning, because we have the added responsibility to lead,’ ” Mr. Dayton said. “And this is a responsibility I welcome, but given the challenges the state faces and our country faces these days, it’ll be a lot of hard work.”

Some politicians are mindful that one-party control carries with it one-party blame — and a risk that a particularly partisan agenda will eventually irk voters and lead to a reversal in the next election. In Maine, where the Republicans swept into sole control of the capital two years ago, the Democrats this month took back both chambers of the Legislature. Some viewed the outcome as an indication of overreaching by Republicans, including Gov. Paul R. LePage, who has sharply opposed the new health care law and has moved to cut the number of residents eligible for Medicaid.

Representative Mark Waller, newly elected as the Republican minority leader in Colorado, said: “The Democrats absolutely have the votes to do anything they want to do, but that’s a pretty tricky proposition. They’ve got to be very careful about how they do what they do.” Democrats in the state have already pledged to bring back a proposal to allow civil unions for same-sex couples, which was blocked during a special session this year.

There is also a risk of intraparty factions and, in the words of Fred A. Risser, a Wisconsin state legislator since 1956 (and the longest-serving sitting state lawmaker in the country), intramural fights. In Kansas, which has one-party Republican control, conservative Republicans have increasingly battled with moderate Republicans. And though Democrats have run Illinois for a decade, leaders have still been unable to find an answer to the state’s profound financial woes, including the most gravely unfinanced pension liabilities in the nation.

Over all in this election, Democrats had more victories among the roughly 6,000 state legislative seats that were up for grabs, benefiting in part from the presidential victory. One factor in the Democrats’ net of more than 150 legislative seats nationwide was the stunning number of seats — more than 100 — they gained in New Hampshire’s State House, taking control of that chamber. But both parties made gains in the number of states with single-party control.

Not every state fits the dynamics of single-party domination. In Nebraska, the state’s unicameral Legislature is officially nonpartisan, making one-party control in the Republican-leaning state technically impossible. And in Rhode Island, the governor, an independent, shares power with a Democratic General Assembly.

In New York, election results appeared to show that the Democrats had seized control of the Senate, giving them hold over Albany and leaving only 11 state capitals divided. But the practical outcome remains murky, with votes still being counted in several races, talk of some Democrats’ caucusing with the Republicans, and leaders on both sides expressing confidence that their party will ultimately hold on to control.

Nationally, though, the shift to single-party dominance in state government is pronounced; only eight years ago, 30 capitals were divided between the parties. Some state leaders attribute the change to partisan influences at play in the once-a-decade redrawing of political districts before the election this year. Others say it reflects a weariness and dissatisfaction among voters with the discord and gridlock of split control.

Either way, the result is likely to speed along state legislative proposals from both corners, experts said, but less so from the middle.

“We are going to see government activism to the left and to the right that we haven’t seen in years,” said Lawrence Jacobs, a political scientist at the University of Minnesota. “If you wondered what Washington would look like under single-party rule, the states are a laboratory for that now.”
485 2012-11-23 The reaction is markedly different in Tehran, where leaders have welcomed Argentina’s diplomatic pivot. “We expect this lawsuit to be dropped, and never raised again,” said Hamid Reza Taraghi, who heads the international department of the influential Islamic Coalition Party, referring to the investigative case here overseen by prosecutors. “Such a move will help ease the international pressure on our country.”

Both Argentina’s former president, Néstor Kirchner, and his widow, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who succeeded him, offered strong support for the investigations into the bombing. Their approach stood in contrast to that of Carlos Saúl Menem, who was president at the time of the bombing and is formally accused of obstructing the investigation. Mr. Menem, now a senator, has denied the charge.

The investigation was marred by corruption charges, delays and incompetence, but Alberto Nisman, a special prosecutor who took over the case in 2005, seemed to breathe vigor into the case. He accused Hezbollah, the Lebanese group with strong ties to Iran and Syria, of carrying out the bombing, and senior Iranian officials of planning and financing it.

Despite that, Argentina and Iran are re-engaging, informally in September at the United Nations General Assembly in New York and again in formal talks in October in Geneva. Another round of negotiations is scheduled for late November.

Not everyone among Argentina’s Jews, Latin America’s largest population with about 250,000 people, opposes the talks. In an interview, Sergio Burstein, a supporter of Mrs. Kirchner and the leader of a group representing relatives of victims killed in the bombing, said the negotiations offered a “flicker of hope” for the possibility that Iran might hand over suspects to stand trial here.

Just as mystery still shrouds many aspects of the bombing, doubt and secrecy cloak the current talks. Argentina’s Foreign Ministry has rejected requests from survivors of the attack and Jewish leaders in Argentina, made through the office of Mr. Nisman, the prosecutor in the bombing investigation, for information on the negotiations.

Foreign Minister Héctor Timerman, who is leading the diplomatic outreach, also declined a separate request for an interview on the talks, which began after Iran repeatedly refused to comply with Argentina’s order for international arrest warrants for nine people. Those suspects included a former Iranian president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, and Iran’s defense minister, Gen. Ahmad Vahidi.

While Argentine and American investigators have long agreed that the suicide bombing was carried out by a militant from Hezbollah, Mr. Nisman, the prosecutor overseeing the case, has contended that the decision to attack AMIA, as the cultural center is known by its Spanish initials, was made at a 1993 meeting in the Iranian city of Mashhad in Mr. Rafsanjani’s presence.

Others involved in investigating the attack, including James Bernazzani, a former F.B.I. agent who was head of the bureau’s office on Hezbollah, have disputed the explicit link to Iran.

In a telephone interview from the United States, Mr. Bernazzani, who assisted the Argentines in their investigation, criticized their circumstantial cross-referencing of telephone records, without actually having intercepts of those calls, to make the case that Mohsen Rabbani, Iran’s cultural attaché in Argentina in 1994, was involved in coordinating the attack.

In addition, Mr. Bernazzani questioned Argentine investigators’ use of testimony by an Iranian defector whose reliability has been called into question. “Although I highly suspect Iranian complicity because of the relationship with Hezbollah, that does not stand up to F.B.I. standards,” he said. “We need proof, and what we proved was an individual who was in that van was the son of a leading Hezbollah patriot.”

Of course, Ibrahim Hussein Berro, the 21-year-old Lebanese man identified through DNA analysis as the suicide bomber at the helm of the Renault van, is dead. Another suspect, Samuel Salman El Reda, a Colombian whom Argentine prosecutors accuse of coordinating the Hezbollah cell that carried out the bombing, is thought to be living in Lebanon.

Meanwhile, the Iranians connected to the case seem to be unhindered by the arrest warrants against them. In an October interview from the Iranian city of Qum with a Brazilian newspaper, Mr. Rabbani, Iran’s former cultural attaché here, scoffed at Argentina’s investigation, proclaiming his innocence. General Vahidi, Iran’s defense minister, traveled in 2011 to neighboring Bolivia.

Adriana Reisfeld, the president of Active Memory, a group representing relatives of people killed in the attack, said her expectations were low that the diplomatic overtures with Iran would lead to closure.

“All we want now is to get as close to justice as we can,” said Ms. Reisfeld, whose sister was killed in the blast. “We can’t let the AMIA case close and be forgotten.”
486 2012-11-23 Mr. Perrone, who the police said had incriminated himself in 24 hours of questioning, was a native of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, who recently lived on and off at the Midwood apartment of a woman named Natasha.

Mr. Perrone would often stand outside the building smoking cigars, neighbors said. “He was in his own little bubble,” one neighbor, Ben Elchonen, said.

The apartment is where detectives found a duffel bag containing a .22-caliber rifle that ballistics tests matched to shells found where the shopkeepers were killed, the police said.

Mr. Perrone’s run-ins with the law over the years — arrests on charges of drunken driving on Staten Island and in New Jersey, and of theft and harassment in Pennsylvania, all roughly a decade ago — offered no hint of the enormity of the crimes he is now accused of.

“He seemed like a very personable guy,” said Francis J. Masciocchi, a Moorestown, N.J., lawyer who represented Mr. Perrone in the Pennsylvania case in 2001. “He was kind of like a middleman for a clothing supplier. In this particular case, the person involved was a former customer.”

Mr. Masciocchi said that he would get the occasional friendly holiday call in years past, but that more recently Mr. Perrone “just fell off the map.”

In 2007, Mr. Perrone registered a trademark for a line of clothes that would carry the label “Salvatore Pirrone.” It was not clear whether any items were manufactured or sold with that label.

Wearing a black sweatshirt and black pants, Mr. Perrone was arraigned Thursday in Brooklyn Criminal Court and was ordered held without bail.

He faces three counts of second-degree murder and one count of first-degree murder, a charge available to prosecutors when a defendant is accused of killing three people within two years. If convicted, he would face life in prison.

Ken Jones, a public defender appointed to represent Mr. Perrone for the arraignment, said later that Mr. Perrone denied that he had killed anyone or had made incriminating statements to the authorities.

Based on his conversations with his client, Mr. Jones said, “he does seem as though he could have some mental-health issues.”

The three killed were Mohamed Gebeli, 65, shot on July 6; Isaac Kadare, 59, found dead on Aug. 2; and Rahmatollah Vahidipour, 78, who was killed last Friday.

On Thursday, Mr. Vahidipour’s daughter Marjan Vahidipour, 38, said he would usually lead their holiday meal surrounded by his nine grandchildren. “Unfortunately, we are not celebrating this holiday,” she said.

“We are very thankful” for the arrest, she added. “And we are very angry.”

She said her family, who lives in Great Neck, on Long Island, did not recognize the salesman arrested on Wednesday and could not understand what appeared to be the absence of a motive. “Who would do this? And why? For no reason — that’s what’s killing me inside,” Ms. Vahidipour said.

Instead of sharing a Thanksgiving meal, the family gathered for a memorial service.
487 2012-11-23 The second half is becoming Laurence Bowers’s time to take over, and that’s just fine with No. 13 Missouri.

Bowers scored 19 points and grabbed 10 rebounds as the Tigers beat Stanford, 78-70, in the first round of the Battle 4 Atlantis on Thursday in the Bahamas.

Bowers, who came in averaging 15.5 points per game, including 14.0 in the second half, had 13 points in the second half Thursday for the Tigers (4-0).

“Second half is when you put the team away,” Bowers said. “On an individual standpoint, I would love to play better in the first half, but whenever I get the opportunity to step up for my team, that is what I am going to do. And if that is in the second half, I am going to try and continue to do that.”

Phil Pressey had 18 points and 8 assists for Missouri. The Tigers had just three field goals over the final 9 minutes 10 seconds, and they were all grouped in a 1:57 span starting with 2:12 to play. It didn’t matter, though, as the Tigers were 10 of 11 from the free-throw line over that span. They were 22 for 25 for the game.
488 2012-11-23 MOSCOW — A Russian judge on Thursday dismissed a lawsuit against Madonna for actions during a concert in St. Petersburg in August that antigay groups say violated a local law against propagandizing homosexual behavior.

That the case even went to trial, though, was a new step for the courts under President Vladimir V. Putin, coming months after a court in Moscow sentenced members of a Russian punk band, Pussy Riot, to prison terms for staging a performance in an Orthodox cathedral.

Madonna did not face jail time, but she could have had to pay significant damages: the antigay groups suing her sought $10.7 million. Her spokeswoman has had no comment about the case.

At issue was a municipal law passed this year in St. Petersburg prohibiting advocating homosexuality among children. Other Russian cities have since passed similar laws, and the Parliament is considering a national one.

Before her tour, Madonna had vowed to speak out against the law. And during the concert, she stripped down to lacy black lingerie, revealing the words “No Fear” written on her back.
489 2012-11-23 LONDON (AP) — An upbeat Chinese manufacturing survey helped offset the markets’ disappointment at another round of grim European figures Thursday, a day when trading was curtailed by the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States.

The optimism in the markets came after a manufacturing survey from HSBC. Its Purchasing Managers Index, a gauge of activity, rose to a 13-month high of 50.4 in November from the previous month’s 49.5. Readings above 50 denote growth.

The figures gave Asian markets a lift earlier, and that carried through into the European day. The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares closed up 0.7 percent at 5,791.03 while Germany’s DAX rose 0.8 percent to 7,244.99. The CAC-40 in France ended 0.6 percent higher at 3,498.22.

The gains in Europe came despite a survey showing that the area of the European Union that uses the euro remains in recession. The financial information company Markit said its composite P.M.I. for the euro zone, which assesses the service sector as well as manufacturing, rose to 45.8 in November from 45.7 the month before. That signals further contraction in the euro zone economy, which is now in recession, officially defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth.

“The euro zone might be drifting further into recession, but it seems markets are content to ignore this and focus on figures which suggest that the situation in the global powers of the U.S. and China is improving,” said Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at IG Index.

Over recent weeks, the focus of attention has been on two main issues — whether the White House can come to a deal with Congress on the budget and whether Greece will get its next batch of bailout cash.
490 2012-11-23 DAKAR, Senegal — Simone Gbagbo, the wife of Laurent Gbagbo, the former Ivory Coast strongman, played a central role in postelection violence that cost the lives of thousands of people in 2010 and 2011, the International Criminal Court said Thursday in a newly unsealed warrant for her arrest.

Like her husband, who has been imprisoned at The Hague since last November, Ms. Gbagbo is accused of crimes against humanity in the warrant, which cites her part in the planned murders “and other inhuman acts” that took place after Mr. Gbagbo’s defeat in a presidential election in November 2010.

For months afterward, security forces loyal to Mr. Gbagbo who were trying to keep him in power attacked opposition neighborhoods in Abidjan, the country’s main city, killing and beating members of ethnic groups known to be hostile to the defeated president. Mr. Gbagbo’s troops and the police routinely fired on unarmed civilians and created an atmosphere of terror that prevailed for months. The warrant unsealed on Thursday called the attacks widespread and systematic.

It took helicopter strikes by the French military to finally drive Mr. Gbagbo from power.

The court said that Ms. Gbagbo, as a member of her husband’s inner circle and his “alter ego,” had an important role in planning the attacks on political rivals. She “exercised joint control over the crimes by having the power to control and give instructions directly to the youth militia who were systematically recruited, armed, trained,” the arrest warrant said.

It also said that she “convened frequent meetings with the most senior FDS generals to discuss, in particular, the situation in Abobo,” referring to Mr. Gbagbo’s security forces by their French initials. Abodo was the principal opposition neighborhood in Abidjan, where much of the bloodshed occurred.

According to the warrant, “the pro-Gbagbo forces that put the common plan into effect did so by almost automatic compliance with the orders they received from Ms. Gbagbo and other members of Mr. Gbagbo’s inner circle.” Ms. Gbagbo is the first woman to ever be charged by the court.
491 2012-11-23 The Berlin-based artist Christine Hill envisions mom-and-pop stores as modest theaters, opportunities for visual delectation and human interaction. Her point of view, as expressed in her latest solo show, is refreshingly apolitical. And it’s made poignant by the small-business crisis in Chelsea, where many galleries are still sorting out damage from Hurricane Sandy.

The exhibition centers on a life-size Kaufladen, or German model store, in which gallery visitors may browse amid shelves of clear jars filled with stickers, plastic toys and other small items. They can also don aprons and poke around behind the counter, in a grown-up version of the role-playing traditionally performed by children with their toy-size Kaufladens. (One is on display in the front gallery.)

Nearby are encouraging posters bearing inspirational quotes from famous artists and writers in the sort of typography used to advertise supermarket specials. From John Cage: “Art is a sort of experimental station in which one tries out living.” And from William Morris: “The true secret of happiness lies in taking genuine interest in all the details of daily life.”

Tidy and cheerful, Ms. Hill’s project offers a new slant on Warhol’s notion that “good business is the best art”; it correlates creative success not with profits or productivity in itself, but rather with the well-kept shop.
492 2012-11-23 The bailout funds are crucial to fixing Europe’s sovereign debt problems. They have committed tens of billions of euros to Greece, Portugal and Ireland. The funds will also be part of a forthcoming recapitalization of the ailing Spanish banking sector, if not of a wider rescue of the country. Cyprus, too, is close to signing a bailout agreement.

In theory, credit ratings should reflect the risk that a lender will not be repaid, and are thus inversely related to the interest rate the lender demands to hold a debt. But with the global financial system fragile and central banks holding rates down, that relationship has been strained. Both France and the United States, which lost its AAA rating at Standard & Poor’s in 2011, continue to borrow near record low levels.

Moody’s warned in July that the outlook for the stability fund was negative, and that it might downgrade the fund if there were “a deterioration in the creditworthiness of the participating euro area member states,” including France.

Jessica Eddens, a spokeswoman for Moody’s, confirmed Thursday by e-mail that the stability fund and the stability mechanism still had AAA ratings, with a negative outlook.

“Moody’s will assess the implications of the downgrade of the French government’s rating for the E.F.S.F.’s and E.S.M.’s ratings as a matter of course,” she said, “focusing in particular on whether the support available from the remaining AAA guarantors and shareholders is consistent with the E.F.S.F. and E.S.M. retaining the highest ratings.”

For the moment, the Moody’s downgrade of France is complicating matters for the stability fund, which has had to suspend its financing plans while officials work through the implications of the French downgrade.

The fund had been preparing to sell three-year bonds, for which it said there was solid investor demand. But its rules require that new bond issues must be fully guaranteed by euro zone member states with better ratings than the stability fund. The fund has now halted that planned offering, at least temporarily.

The stability fund “is currently unable to proceed until this technical aspect is resolved,” Christophe Frankel, its chief financial officer, said in a statement. He noted that the fund’s issuance of short-term bills had not been affected, as France’s short-term ratings have not changed.

The solution to the problem? Just wait.

Mr. Leister noted that once the stability fund’s credit rating had been cut, it would be at or below the French level and, under the fund’s rules, would once more be able to issue debt — a rare case where an issuer hopes to be downgraded.

Wolfgang Proissl, a spokesman for the fund, declined to comment on the potential for a downgrade and how that would affect its actions.

Mr. Leister predicted that the impact on borrowing costs would be limited, as investors are prepared for the inevitable. “Yields on E.F.S.F. debt will go up,” he said, “but there’s not going to be a huge spike.”
493 2012-11-24 Should Coach Mike Woodson decide to start the Amar'e Stoudemire, the move could jeopardize a fragile system that makes the most of the Knicks' tight nine-player rotation....
494 2012-11-24 Analysis on the all of the day’s big games, including top-ranked Notre Dame’s 22-13 win against U.S.C. The unbeaten Irish will play for the national title on Jan. 7....
495 2012-11-24 Tim Hardaway Jr. scored 23 points before he left late in the game after he was kneed in the head, and No. 4 Michigan beat Kansas State, 71-57, to win the N.I.T. Season Tipoff at Madison Square Garden.

¶ Andre Hollins scored a career-high 41 points to lead Minnesota to an 84-75 victory over No. 19 Memphis in the consolation semifinals of a tournament in Paradise Island, the Bahamas. It is the highest total for a Minnesota player since Oliver Shannon had 42 in 1971.
496 2012-11-24 Stock funds experienced the most outflows of cash since late July, as investors remained nervous about whether Washington would avoid tax increases and government spending cuts set to occur in January, according to Lipper, a firm that tracks mutual-fund data. Stock mutual funds and exchange-traded funds had net outflows of $7.26 billion in the week ended Nov. 21, the most since the week ended July 25, more than doubling the previous week’s outflows as investors fled risk. Stock E.T.F.’s accounted for $4.37 billion of the outflows, the most since late October, while stock mutual fund investors redeemed $2.89 billion, the most since early August.
497 2012-11-24 Pictures From the Week in Business
498 2012-11-24 Notre Dame’s stature as an iconic sports franchise, on par with the Yankees and the Dallas Cowboys and the Los Angeles Lakers, held strong even in the leaner years, which stretched for most of two decades, from 1993 to now. The Fighting Irish maintained a stubborn independent streak until this season, amid the tumult of conference realignment. Notre Dame even extended its landmark television deal after a losing season, which spoke to the power of its brand.

Still, on-field relevance lagged behind off-field significance, as Charlie Weis replaced Tyrone Willingham, who replaced Bob Davie, who replaced Lou Holtz, the last coach who cemented Notre Dame’s elite reputation. (The university hired George O’Leary during that stretch, too, but dismissed him for an inaccurate résumé.) The Fighting Irish claim 11 national titles but none since 1988. They boast seven Heisman Trophy winners but none since Tim Brown in 1987.

Notre Dame, then, was relevant for all the wrong reasons and irrelevant where it mattered most.

Then came this season, golden as it has been. Linebacker Manti Te’o emerged as a Heisman candidate. Coach Brian Kelly garnered consideration for national honors. And Notre Dame, ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press poll for the first time since 1993, needs only to defeat Southern California on Saturday to secure its spot in the national title game, a streak-snapper that once seemed more like a birthright.

Kelly, on a recent conference call, said he never studied the history of Notre Dame football before he took over in 2010. He said he wanted to prove that a program like his could compete for championships and graduate its players despite strict academic standards, that those concepts were not mutually exclusive.

This season, thus far, has provided something of a referendum.

“If there has ever been a year that validated everything, it’s this,” said Jack Swarbrick, Notre Dame’s athletic director.

For the Irish and everyone associated with the program, the events of this season coalesced at a most critical time. Some thought, for the very issue Kelly mentioned, that Notre Dame would never again reach college football’s summit.

“This season is about the sustainability of the brand,” said Paul Swangard, the managing director at the University of Oregon’s Warsaw Sports Marketing Center. “Like, you couldn’t be mediocre for too much longer and have a whole generation of folks know Notre Dame as anything other than 6-5.”

This season, according to NBC Sports, Notre Dame averaged 4.4 million viewers (up 69 percent from last year) and a 2.8 household rating (up 67 percent) for its seven games shown on the network. This marked the highest average viewers for NBC’s Notre Dame games since 2005 and its highest household rating since 2006.

Three Fighting Irish games — against Michigan, Pittsburgh and Stanford — averaged more than 5 million viewers, compared with zero such games last season. In comparison, the most watched professional hockey game, the Washington-Pittsburgh Winter Classic in 2011, averaged 4.5 million viewers.

When Notre Dame played Oklahoma on Oct. 27, the telecast was at the same time as Game 3 of the World Series. It drew, according to Brad Adgate, the senior vice president for research at the media service company Horizon Media, some 8 million viewers, nearly as many as the World Series game and more in the coveted demographic of men between ages 18 and 49, Adgate said.

Kevin O’Malley, a television consultant who worked on Notre Dame’s contract extension, noted that NBC is not the only network that benefited. ESPN broadcast its “College GameDay” in October from South Bend, Ind., for the first time since 2005. Networks other than NBC televised Fighting Irish road games this season. The average audience for those games, Adgate said, rose by 51 percent.

Such increases took place in a television world far different from when Notre Dame first became a draw. Now, there are myriad channels filled with regional games and national games, day games and afternoon games and night games, with alternatives just a click away.

As college football became increasingly national in scope, its most national entity, the Fighting Irish, did less to contribute to the boom than other programs. This year, in the first five weekends of the season, college football games ranked first in Saturday night programming four times, according to IMG College — more proof, insiders said, of the Irish’s influence.

“It’s almost cliché to say that Notre Dame being good is good for college football,” O’Malley said. “But under the current circumstances, it’s particularly true. College football, historically a regional sport, has really blossomed. Notre Dame is part of that national framework. A big part.”

That reach is evident in the licensing numbers. On Nov. 18 at Fanatics.com, one of the largest online retailers for sports merchandise, Notre Dame ranked as the top-selling team for the year, the week and the day. Of the yearly purchases, 93 percent were made outside Indiana — all 50 states were represented — and 23 percent were made by women, which ranked second nationally compared with 11th last season, according to the site. In first-quarter sales from the Collegiate Licensing Company, the Fighting Irish jumped from 10th to sixth, ahead of Florida, Georgia, Auburn and North Carolina.

The spoils of success will also extend beyond this season. IMG College, Notre Dame’s multimedia rights partner, said the university’s radio network had already secured about 50 commitments from sponsors for next season. That is double the current number.

Should the Fighting Irish defeat the Trojans, who will be without their injured star quarterback Matt Barkley, Adgate believes numbers for the Bowl Championship Series title game could break records for cable viewership. The highest-rated cable program was the national championship contest between Auburn and Oregon in 2011, which drew 27.3 million viewers. (Texas and U.S.C. drew 35.6 million for the Rose Bowl in 2006 on ABC.)

“If Notre Dame gets in, it will be the most watched cable program in history,” Adgate said. “We’re talking 30 million, just because it’s Notre Dame.”

This season, the experts said, would also produce a trickle-down effect, influencing more than the broadcast and licensing partners for the Fighting Irish. Like Adidas, which has a longstanding relationship with Notre Dame. Like ESPN, which is expected to bid about $500 million annually for 12 years of future B.C.S. media rights, which, Pilson said, would be worth more in sponsor money and ratings if Notre Dame stays among the elite.

The teams that play Notre Dame stand to gain from the exposure. So will the Atlantic Coast Conference, which the Fighting Irish joined in the fall in all sports but football and hockey; Notre Dame will play at least five games against A.C.C. teams in football each year.

Notre Dame as an institution, meanwhile, could see a rise in donations, according to the experts. This kind of season should help with recruiting, too. And the university is now in discussions with NBC about extending that television contract again, beyond 2015.

All this should assist Notre Dame in securing its next generation of fans, those who do not necessarily remember the days when the Fighting Irish were larger than life.

“Teams fade,” said Harvey Schiller, a longtime sports executive and the former commissioner of the Southeastern Conference. “Back when the Chicago Bulls had Michael Jordan, they carried the television package. Today, it may be Miami. I’m not even sure a teenager today knows Notre Dame is in Indiana. But they know Notre Dame this year. They know Notre Dame is good.”

That is where Notre Dame stands in 2012, relevant again, or more relevant again, driver of television ratings, booster of merchandise sales. That matters. Perhaps not as much as before, but in significant ways across the college sports landscape.

“Notre Dame? Relevant? Of course,” Pilson said. “Call me in 90 years, and I’ll give you the same answer.”
499 2012-11-24 This time there will be a twist: the constitutionally mandated date for the presidential swearing-in, Jan. 20, falls on a Sunday in 2013, so Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. will administer the oath to Mr. Obama privately that day at the White House, while the public ceremony, parade, and other events will be pushed back to Monday. (Chief Justice Roberts also administered a private oath to Mr. Obama in 2009, after the two men flubbed the words during the public ceremony.)

The switch — only the seventh time in the nation’s history that the inauguration date has fallen on a Sunday — put Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, in a tough spot, because Monday, Jan. 21, is also the federal holiday commemorating Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday. As chairman of the Senate Rules Committee, Mr. Schumer is charged with overseeing preparations at the Capitol, and he began planning before the election.

“My great worry was that had Obama lost, having him leave on M.L.K. Day wouldn’t be so good,” the senator said, referring to the tradition in which the departing president leaves Washington after the swearing-in of his (or, perhaps some day, her) successor. Mr. Schumer and his team are ahead of the White House in planning.

At the Capitol, the inaugural platform where Mr. Obama will have his swearing-in do-over is already under construction. Mr. Schumer, capitalizing on the perks of his position, has announced that the New York-based Saratoga Springs Water Company will provide bottled water; the wine served at the inaugural luncheon will be a Finger Lakes riesling, and the Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir will perform during the ceremony.

While Congress is in charge of what happens on its turf — the ceremony and luncheon inside the Capitol’s Statuary Hall — the White House is responsible for the parade, inaugural balls and other events.

The inaugural will be the third major event in recent months that has forced Mr. Obama to confront the ghosts of four years ago. At the 2008 Democratic National Convention in Denver, he accepted his nomination before a crowd of 84,000 in a packed outdoor stadium; this year in Charlotte, Democrats worried about whether Mr. Obama could fill a stadium, and his acceptance speech was eventually moved inside to an arena with seating for 20,200, because of bad weather, his campaign said. For this year’s victory party, the Obama campaign invited 10,000 supporters to fill the floor of a Chicago convention center; the crowd was jubilant, but it was a far cry from the 200,000 people who gathered in Grant Park on election night 2008.

Mr. Obama has yet to announce the members of his presidential inaugural committee (known here as the PIC), but people familiar with his plans say he will rely on longtime Democratic strategists including Steve Kerrigan, who ran the president’s first inaugural and the Charlotte convention; Erik Smith, the creative director of the 2009 inaugural; Jim Margolis, who developed advertisements for the president’s re-election campaign; and David Cusack, who orchestrated presidential trips as Mr. Obama’s director of advance and later helped run the convention.

As for Mr. Obama’s speech, White House officials said there has so far been little discussion of it.

Nor has there been much buzz in the city about the festivities.

“Wow,” said John Podesta, who ran Mr. Obama’s transition team in 2008 and is ordinarily plugged into all things Democratic. “That is really not on my radar.”

By the end of November 2008, hotels were booked solid, not only in Washington but as far away as Pennsylvania and West Virginia. People were renting out their homes for tens of thousands of dollars. Even campsites were filling up.

Yet this week, the Days Inn on Connecticut Avenue, a short Metro ride from downtown, still has rooms available, beginning at $430 a night (more than triple the regular rate) with a four-night minimum, customary for inaugural weeks. The historic Willard, which sits along the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route, also has rooms available, a spokeswoman said, including a few “well-appointed Oval Suites,” for $5,700 a night, with a four-night minimum plus a $27,000 catering minimum — “perfect for a parade viewing party.”

If history is any guide, anywhere from 300,000 to 600,000 people will turn out for Mr. Obama’s swearing-in ceremony, hotels will sell out and the city will slip into its usual inaugural celebratory mood. In 2005, thousands of Texans descended on the capital for the second inauguration of President George W. Bush, just as they had in 2001. Mr. Bush raised a record $43 million for that affair, which included fireworks, a concert on the Mall and nine balls.

Mr. Obama topped Mr. Bush’s fund-raising record in 2009, taking in more than $53 million, Federal Election Commission records show. Taxpayers finance the swearing-in ceremony, luncheon and security, while private donations pay for everything else. Four years ago, Mr. Obama refused to accept donations from corporations, unions and lobbyists; he has not yet decided whether to do so this time.

While Mr. Obama cannot possibly recreate 2009, when his approval ratings soared above 80 percent, old Washington hands, even Republicans, say the president should take the occasion to celebrate. He did, after all, win a bruising election, and a little pomp and circumstance might offer a nice break from the usual partisan bickering in Washington — something Mr. Obama promised, but has been unable, to overcome.

“It is a celebration of American democracy, it is a renewal of our citizenship, it is a recognition that we have continuity in government and everybody comes together for that one day,” said Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was White House chief of staff during President Ronald Reagan’s second term. “But it’s a little bit like a second marriage. It’s not quite as exciting, the honeymoon is not as long and you realize on both sides that hope has been replaced by reality.”
500 2012-11-24 As many as 100 World War II veterans missed a chance to travel to Washington to see the war memorial after more than $100,000 disappeared from a Kansas nonprofit group that organized free trips for them. Richard Foster, the president of the board of an organization that ran Central Prairie Honor Flights, said he feared that some of the veterans would never get to see the National World War II Memorial. It was not completed until 2004, and more than 600 veterans of the war die each day. Central Prairie Honor Flights was the largest trip organizer in Kansas and has raised nearly $1.2 million since 2008. Its flights were halted this year after more than $100,000 was discovered missing from the group’s account. The group’s program director, LaVeta Miller, was charged in October with two counts of theft by deception. “With that kind of money, we could have completed the World War II veterans or come close,” Mr. Foster said. “It really pulled the rug out from under us.”
501 2012-11-24 Mr. Walter-Borjans’s state has on several occasions resorted to buying Swiss account data from whistle-blowers to pursue German tax dodgers.

The deal, to which Switzerland had already agreed, would have gone into effect Jan. 1. It called for Swiss banks to make an upfront payment to the German Treasury of two billion Swiss francs, or $2.1 billion. The banks would ultimately have been reimbursed from Germans’ undeclared accounts in a one-time payment of up to 41 percent of the accounts’ value. The clients would thereafter have paid their taxes anonymously, at German income tax rates.

German officials would have had access to additional data, but with client names still hidden behind the curtain of Swiss secrecy, Germany’s federal and state governments would have been dependent on the good faith of Swiss banks to collect taxes on their behalf.

The future of the deal, nearly two years in the making, is uncertain. Swiss officials fear that the issue could be lost in German politics until after the election, in the second half of 2013.

Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, will propose that a reconciliation committee of the upper and lower houses of Parliament discuss ways to salvage the agreement, said Silke Bruns, a ministry spokeswoman. She cautioned, though, that there was no guarantee that Parliament would agree to Mr. Schäuble’s plan.

“We’re convinced the Swiss deal is a good solution,” Ms. Bruns said, “and that’s why we’re pushing for it.”

While the parliamentary defeat may have been an embarrassment to Ms. Merkel, it was a significant setback for Switzerland’s banks, which have been laboring under a deep cloud of uncertainty since 2008. A tax deal with France that had seemed locked up is being reopened at the request of the French.

Relations with Washington remain the biggest source of Swiss concern, after the Justice Department indicted 11 Swiss financial institutions on suspicion of helping Americans evade taxes. United States officials have so far shown little interest in negotiating anything short of the surrender of all information on the banks’ American clients. Some German opponents of the proposed Swiss agreement have called on Berlin to take a similar hard-line approach.

The Swiss Bankers Association expressed its “regret” at the Bundesrat’s decision, but said, “We consider it positive, however, that the upper house has rejected the tax agreement for reasons of purely domestic policy and not for objective reasons.”

Mario Tuor, a Swiss government spokesman, noted that without a deal, the status quo would remain: German officials can seek specific information from the Swiss government on people suspected of tax evasion, or go back to buying data stolen from Swiss banks.

“With an agreement, every German taxpayer in Switzerland would be taxed,” Mr. Tuor said.

The Swiss government “remains prepared to bring the ratification process with Germany to a successful conclusion,” Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, the Swiss president and finance minister, said in a statement. “There are no obstacles to ratification on the Swiss side.”
502 2012-11-24 LONDON — BP said on Friday that it had appointed H. Lamar McKay to run its exploration, development and production operations worldwide, wrapping up a restructuring of the unit after the disastrous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010.

Mr. McKay is taking over from BP’s chief executive, Robert W. Dudley, who took over management of the so-called upstream unit in an effort to improve risk management after the spill. Mr. McKay, who is chairman and president of BP America, is to start in his new role at the beginning of next year. He will report to Mr. Dudley.

“During the past two years, we have successfully introduced a more centralized organization to our upstream, BP’s largest organizational change for two decades,” Mr. Dudley said in a statement. “I believe it is now timely and appropriate to appoint a fully dedicated chief executive to this, our largest business.”

The explosion in April 2010 on a drilling platform leased by BP killed 11 workers and created the largest oil spill in United States history. After the catastrophe, Andy G. Inglis departed as head of exploration and production and Mr. Dudley moved to impose a more centralized management structure and stricter safety standards.

As head of BP America, Mr. McKay, 53, has been overseeing the oil company’s restoration work on the gulf coast. Mr. McKay, who is already a member of BP’s executive management team, will move to London from Houston. His successor at the American unit will be announced later, BP said.

Mr. McKay joined BP through the company’s merger with Amoco, where he started his career in 1980. At BP, he previously worked as chief of staff for exploration and production; was responsible for the downstream, or sale and distribution, and upstream businesses in Russia and Kazakhstan; and led talks with BP’s former partners in its Russian joint venture, TNK-BP. He was named chairman and president of BP America in January 2009.
503 2012-11-24 BRUSSELS — European Union leaders have appointed Yves Mersch of Luxembourg to the executive board of the European Central Bank despite opposition from some lawmakers who wanted a woman to fill the post.

Mr. Mersch, head of the Luxembourg central bank, will take his seat Dec. 15 for an eight-year term after a decision late Thursday at a summit meeting in Brussels, where European Union leaders were seeking to negotiate a long-term budget for the bloc.

Mr. Mersch, known for his hawkish stance on inflation and for views in line with those of German central bankers, was nominated by euro zone finance ministers in July to succeed José Manuel González-Páramo of Spain on the six-person board.

But the post had remained vacant amid a debate over diversity on the board, opposition from Spain and skepticism about some of Mr. Mersch’s views. The European Parliament rejected the nomination last month, saying it was fed up with having only men in top jobs at the central bank.

Even though the Parliament does not have the power to require that women be considered, its decision carried weight in a period of heightened concern about making European institutions more democratically accountable.
504 2012-11-24 WELLS, Tex. — The first construction workers to arrive at TransCanada’s Keystone XL construction site on Monday morning found climbing ropes tied to their equipment. Three protesters had hung platforms from pine trees, hoisted them 50 feet into the air and secured them to TransCanada construction equipment. Then they had shimmied up. The equipment could not be moved without pulling the protesters out of the trees.

At another site down the road, workers found four protesters kneeling on the pipeline easement, their arms locked through the treads of two bulldozers.

By 10 o’clock, a group of about 40 protesters had gathered along the shoulder of the highway. They chanted “Go back to Canada” and waved signs with messages like “TransCanada: No eminent domain for private gain” and “Don’t mix Canadian tar with Texas water.”

It is a scene that has become common in East Texas in the last two months. Since September, when construction began on the Keystone, the Tar Sands Blockade, a grass-roots coalition of East Texas landowners and environmental advocates from across the country, has been waging a nonviolent guerrilla campaign against the pipeline. About every week since construction began, blockade volunteers have locked themselves to construction equipment in protest. So far, 43 have been arrested. But on Monday, protesters who were not locked to equipment were pepper-sprayed as well, the first such incident, according to Ron Seifert, a spokesman for the Tar Sands Blockade.

The protesters have come from across the country. Some are young activists from the coasts, veterans of the Occupy movement and other environmental campaigns who believe that developing the Alberta tar sands will seriously aggravate climate change. Many are locals angered by what they see as TransCanada’s highhanded treatment of landowners.

“I don’t like how they’ve treated people,” said 75-year-old Jeanette Singleton of nearby Nacogdoches, who was worried about the Keystone’s effect on the Angelina River. “If you don’t want to sign, they just take your land from you. It doesn’t seem right.”
505 2012-11-24 GENEVA — United Nations officials issued a scathing assessment of Russia’s compliance with an international treaty against torture and cruel and degrading punishment, highlighting, among a number of “troubling trends,” the increasing intimidation of people and organizations trying to monitor human rights.

The officials, members of the United Nations Committee Against Torture, said here on Friday that they were seriously concerned about “numerous and consistent reports” of threats, reprisals and deaths of human rights defenders and journalists in Russia. They also said that legal amendments recently enacted by President Vladimir V. Putin “undermined” the United Nations treaty.

The committee’s comments concluded a two-day review conducted here at which the Russian deputy minister of justice, Georgiy Matyushkin, leading a delegation of officials from nine ministries and government departments, said the Russian authorities had “moved further toward the humanization of criminal punishment” and overhauled law enforcement.

Mr. Matyushkin cited the creation of a committee to investigate crimes that is independent of the state prosecutor’s office, as well as of other law enforcement agencies, and includes a subgroup to investigate the illegal use of force by officers.

The United Nations panel welcomed the creation of the investigative committee but expressed doubts about its impartiality and effectiveness, noting reports that its head, Aleksandr I. Bastrykin, had abducted an editor of the newspaper Novaya Gazeta in June and threatened him with physical harm in retaliation for a critical article.

“We are seeing many troubling trends,” said Felice Gaer, a member of the United Nations committee. Those included “increased allegations of abuse” and many reports documenting torture. But, she said, the committee had seen very few investigations of such abuse, especially ones that led to prosecutions. Instead, it had received reports of intimidation and even the killing of human rights defenders.
506 2012-11-25 Mathew Martoma's arrest signals the first time that prosecutors have linked Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital Advisors, to possibly illegal trading activity....
507 2012-11-25 The ad from the Human Rights Campaign enlists the actor Morgan Freeman, hoping to capitalize on recent victories at the polls for same-sex marriage....
508 2012-11-25 Anne Maureen Morrissey and Rosemarie Bernadette Greco were married Friday at the Church of the Ascension in New York. The Rev. Mark Raymond Wood, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.

Ms. Morrissey (left), 56, is the executive vice president and chief operating officer for the AmeriHealth Mercy Family of Companies, an organization of Medicaid-managed care plans based in Philadelphia. She graduated from the Washington Hospital Center School of Nursing in affiliation with American University in Washington.

She is a daughter of Rose M. Morrissey of Annapolis, Md., and the late James F. Morrissey. Her father retired from the F.B.I. as an espionage special agent, in Washington.

Ms. Greco, 66, is a chairwoman of Vision 2020, a national organization based at Drexel University in Philadelphia that works for women’s economic and social equality. Until 1999, she was the president and chief executive of CoreStates Bank, North America, and president of its parent corporation, CoreStates Financial Corporation, both based in Philadelphia. She graduated magna cum laude from St. Joseph’s University, also in Philadelphia.

She is a daughter of the late Mary C. Greco and the late John M. Greco, both of whom lived and worked in Philadelphia. Her father was a security guard with Burns Detective Agency. Her mother was a cook at St. Monica Convent.
509 2012-11-25 Emily Sara Horbar and Jonathan Daniel Greer were married Saturday by Rabbi Annie L. Bornstein at Pine Hollow Country Club in East Norwich, N.Y.

The couple work as senior consultants at Deloitte, the New York consulting firm. They met at Northwestern, from which they graduated, he magna cum laude, and from which he also received an M.B.A.

The bride, 27, received an M.B.A. from Columbia. She is a daughter of Dr. Sharon Hochweiss and Dr. Gary M. Horbar of New York. The bride’s mother, a hematologist, and her father, an internist, are in private practice in New York.

The groom, 28, is a son of George G. Greer of Melville, N.Y., and the late Kathi P. Greer. His mother was the head of children’s services at the Deer Park Public Library in Deer Park, N.Y. His father works in New York as the vice president of business development for HiTouch Business Services, an office supply and management services company based in Saddle Brook, N.J.
510 2012-11-25 Manchester United moved back into first place in the Premier League, rallying at home to beat last-place Queens Park Rangers, 3-1.

¶ Real Madrid’s title defense in Spain’s top league is in danger after Real Betis midfielder Benat Etxebarria struck from long range to deal Madrid a 1-0 loss.
511 2012-11-25 Severin Freund of Germany won the season-opening ski jump World Cup event in Lillehammer, Norway, for the third individual victory of his career. Freund, 24, did not have the longest jump but impressed the judges with his style, giving him a total score of 268.5 points after leaping 99 meters in the first round on the normal hill and 100.5 in the second.

Austria’s Thomas Morgenstern jumped 102 meters in the second but settled for second with 267.2 points, while the defending overall champion, Anders Bardal of Norway, was third with 267.

In the women’s event, Sara Takanashi of Japan scored 265.2 points for the victory. Sarah Hendrickson of the United States, the defending overall champion, had 261.4 points, and Anette Sagen of Norway was third with 258.9.

¶ Svet Kramer led a Dutch sweep in the men’s 5,000-meter race in Koloman, Russia, while his countrywoman Marrit Leenstra earned her second career speedskating World Cup victory by winning the women’s 1,500-meter race.

Kramer, the Olympic champion, clocked 6 minutes 10.62 seconds to mark his second straight victory in the discipline this season. Leenstra was timed in 1:55.04.

Kim Bo-Reum of South Korea won the women’s mass start in 8:40.77.

¶ Magnus Moan of Norway won the season-opening Nordic combined World Cup event in Lillehammer, Norway, securing his 19th individual victory and his first in almost two years. Moan, 29, was eighth after the ski jumping portion of the competition, but Moan showed good form in the 10-kilometer cross-country race, holding off the defending overall champion, Jason Lamy Chappuis of France, by one second in the final sprint. Moan finished in 24:46.2.
512 2012-11-25 I WAS born in San José, Costa Rica, the third of four siblings. My father left when I was 2 and my mother was pregnant. We moved to a town with no running water. When I was 7, we’d get up at 5 a.m. and walk to a farm where the farmhands would give us free milk from their cows.

One day, I complained about being poor, and my mother asked me what I was going to do about it. I said I was going to be a bullfighter, and she laughed and challenged me to fight a cow in a nearby field. I climbed the fence, and saw that there was also a bull. When the bull lowered its horns as if to charge, I ran back. It awoke something in me. I liked feeling that fear.

In the late 1950s, my mother’s sister in California sponsored her so she could move to the United States for a better life for us. My mother brought me to America when I was 15, and we worked to save money and send for my siblings. We took whatever jobs we could get. When I was 16, I enrolled in Santa Monica High School and, after graduating, attended Santa Monica College for a semester. But my family needed money, so I left and worked full time again.

My passion for bullfighting was so strong that I found a man who trained Hollywood actors to perform stunts and took lessons from him. I’d take the bus to meet him every Saturday, and he never even had me pay for the lessons. He taught me how to handle the cape, how to predict a bull’s actions, and how to pose and look professional.

When I returned to Costa Rica to look for bullfighting jobs, I visited a restaurant that had a bullring. I started fighting bulls and calves there every Sunday and soon got paid bookings. I had no phone, so I’d look in the newspaper to find out where I’d be appearing.

Then I traveled to Mexico, called a few bullfighters and asked for their help. All but one laughed at me, but thanks to that one man’s advice I found jobs in Mexico City. I became even more popular than in Costa Rica, and even appeared on “The Steve Allen Show” in the United States.
513 2012-11-25 Credit: Sam Hodgson for The New York Times
514 2012-11-25 That night, Mr. Obama made two calls to President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt and one to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Ambassadors in Egypt and Israel were instructed to take discreet soundings about what a visit by Mrs. Clinton might accomplish.

By Tuesday morning, the Americans had traveled to Cambodia for an Asian summit meeting. At an 8:30 a.m. meeting with Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama decided that she should make the trip. The logistics were more complex than some officials realized. With a crush of heads of state jamming the Phnom Penh airport with their jets, the secretary of state’s plane had been parked in Thailand. So the aircraft had to be refueled and flown to Cambodia, and the crew had to meet standards for rest before it could take off for the Middle East.

As Ben Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, announced the trip around 3 p.m., Mrs. Clinton and her staff were driving to the Phnom Penh airport. Her plane had to slow down as it was approaching India so that American officials could complete arrangements to fly through India’s airspace. Mr. Obama called Mr. Morsi to get an update and assured him that Mrs. Clinton was on the way.

Israel was the first stop. At 11 p.m., Mrs. Clinton and her team met with Mr. Netanyahu and other top Israeli officials in his office in a session that lasted until 1:30 a.m.

The Egyptians had submitted a draft proposal, clearly influenced by Hamas, and the Israelis suggested changes. One subject under discussion was the scope of military activities that were to cease. Other issues concerned how to deal with Hamas’s demands that border crossings be opened and Gaza residents be given free access to a buffer zone Israel had decreed near the Gaza-Israel border, as well as Israel’s insistence that steps be taken to halt the smuggling of rockets into Gaza.

On Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton went to Ramallah to meet with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, while members of her staff stayed behind in Jerusalem to work with the Israelis on the Gaza text. A cease-fire was always the goal, but in public American officials talked about securing a “de-escalation” of the conflict, a more vague and less demanding objective.

Returning to Jerusalem, Mrs. Clinton met again with Mr. Netanyahu. After checking with the White House, she told the Israeli prime minister that Mr. Obama was prepared to call him to recommend that he accept the cease-fire, which was being criticized by some of the prime minister’s opponents who argued that it would never last.

Mr. Obama was also prepared to pledge increased financial support for the Israeli Iron Dome antimissile system, which has received significant financing from the United States, and to promise stepped-up efforts to stop the smuggling of rockets into Gaza. A written summary of the presidential call, she said, would be released to make public the American commitments.

Mr. Netanyahu indicated that if the Americans could get the Egyptians to go along with certain changes the Americans and Israelis had discussed, there would probably be a deal.

The next stop was Cairo. Armed with the Egyptian text on which proposed changes were marked, Mrs. Clinton sat down with Mr. Morsi and his top aides. The Americans were eager to seal the deal before events on the ground got out of control.

After the Egyptians agreed to some of the changes, Mrs. Clinton went to an empty conference room in the presidential compound and called Mr. Netanyahu on her cellphone to secure his approval as servants hauled in platters of food for an event later that day. The Egyptians, meanwhile, consulted with Hamas.

After the deal was struck, Mr. Obama called Mr. Netanyahu, as promised, and then Mr. Morsi.

The accord called for an end to “hostilities,” including targeted assassinations, but did not refer explicitly to Israeli reconnaissance flights of Gaza, Middle East experts note. It stated that issues like opening border crossings and allowing Gaza residents near the border with Israel “shall be dealt with after 24 hours from the start of cease-fire.” But the accord did not stipulate when such steps would be taken. Instead, they were to be a matter of discussion between the Egyptians and the Israelis.

The ambiguity provided room for differing interpretations by Hamas and Israel over the pace for taking such steps and the conditions under which they would be put into effect. The Israeli insistence that the smuggling of rockets into Gaza be stopped was referred to elliptically as “other matters” that might also be taken up by the two sides.

As Mrs. Clinton headed to the airport in Cairo for the flight to Washington, one aide said, she was not exuberant. The cease-fire seemed fragile, and the agreement was just a step toward resolving the underlying tensions over Gaza.
515 2012-11-25 And that may have something to do with the proximity of the 25-year-old studio.

“One of the great things about Blue Sky is that it’s the only successful animation studio to be based on the East Coast since the Fleischer Brothers in the ’30s,” said Mr. Wedge, 55, of Katonah, referring to Fleischer Studios in Manhattan, the former producer of “Betty Boop” and “Popeye” and the onetime rival to Disney. “We get a certain amount of creative autonomy from being not in L.A., from being out here. A lot of the stuff you see was taken directly from my surroundings” in both Katonah and Norwich, N.Y., where he grew up.

If that’s not instantly apparent in the whimsical faces of characters including Blu, the vivid macaw from “Rio,” or Manny, a mammoth from “Ice Age,” shown in framed digital prints and storyboards throughout the museum’s two galleries, it comes through in the sensibility of the works as they move toward the finished product, Mr. Wedge said.

The best example may be in the museum’s small screening room, where “Bunny,” Mr. Wedge’s 1998 Academy Award-winning seven-minute short, credited with propelling Blue Sky to bigger things, is on a loop alongside more educational clips like “The Principles of Animation.”

In “Bunny,” an elderly rabbit is disturbed by a hairy moth while baking a cake. Its mood is somber.

“My tastes tend to go a little odder and a little darker” than what buyers of tickets to animated movies made in Los Angeles generally see, Mr. Wedge said.

On a walk through the museum’s galleries, outfitted with framed pencil-on-paper storyboards, sculptures and other objects used in assembling the feature films, the unsunny outlook he attributes to his East Coast address is often detectable, he said.

“There’s kind of some deep, dark emotional stuff in ‘Ice Age,’ ” Mr. Wedge said. It is hinted at in the show through several of the designer Peter de Sève’s drawings of the movies’ fiercer characters. And “ ‘Robots’ is set in a kind of dystopic world.” Mr. Wedge said. “It’s based on a city that’s a little more worn-in than L.A.”

A case full of “real-world inspirations” like antique oil cans and tarnished teapots back up that dystopic vision. So does a rusty, ’50s-era motor once used in Mr. Wedge’s grandfather’s boat. Rodney Copperbottom, the star of “Robots,” was drawn from it, using its shape and other characteristics. A final rendering of Rodney hangs near the motor; the similarities are obvious.

“ ‘Ice Age’ to the Digital Age” traveled to Katonah after its debut opening, in June of 2011, at the Norman Rockwell Museum, in Stockbridge, Mass. That it landed in Mr. Wedge’s hometown is “kind of a coincidence,” he said.

He is pleased, though, that the show lets his neighbors “get a sense of how these things are actually made, all the stuff that goes into them,” he said, including the technical work of rigging, lighting and sound. A series of follow-along panels in the museum enables wanderers to trace the animation process from rudimentary sketch all the way to 3D effects.

Interactivity is emphasized, too: several sit-down computer stations allow aspiring animators and the merely curious to experiment with computer animation.

Should any of those up-and-comers share Mr. Wedge’s native, not entirely cheerful approach to children’s movies, they may find themselves drawing settings similar to the ones he is working on now in Greenwich, for a film titled “Epic,” to be released in May 2013. (The film is based on the William Joyce book “The Leaf Men and the Brave Good Bugs.”) “ ‘Epic’ definitely happens in the woods around here,” Mr. Wedge said. As with all of Blue Sky’s films, “I just walk out of my little campus, and there’s my inspiration.”
516 2012-11-25 “He will get well in time, but it’s not the kind of illness where you can put a timetable on it,” a subdued Mr. Jackson told reporters outside his home here following the resignation. “If you’re bleeding, you get a Band-Aid. If you break a leg, you get a splint. With this kind of internal, unresolved challenge, you have to take the time, and the environment.”

Frank Watkins, an aide to the younger Mr. Jackson since he was first elected to Congress almost two decades ago and a colleague of his father long before that, said, “I see confusion.” He described the father as “not knowing what to do relative to , especially as it pertains to his own son — and kind of at a loss.”

Former Representative Jackson, 47, whose whereabouts was not disclosed last week, could not be reached for comment. Requests for an interview with the elder Mr. Jackson went unanswered. And many people interviewed for this article declined to be quoted by name, citing concern about their relationship with the family.

But nearly everyone shared the same impression, that the sure-footed leader of his political family was unable to sway this story line, try as he might.

Alderman Roderick T. Sawyer, son of the late Mayor Eugene Sawyer of Chicago, who said he has known the Jacksons for decades, described the situation as gut-wrenching for the father.

“For such a powerful man, for such an influential man, to not be able to control the outcome of what’s going on, I’m sure, is frustrating,” Alderman Sawyer said.

By all accounts, the relationship between father and his oldest son has been complex, layered with love, pressure, resentment and even competition.

The younger Mr. Jackson, still known as Junior to many in Chicago and as Fella to adults who knew him as a child, grew up in a house on the South Side with a famous father who took him to protests and sermons around the world.

Associates said that Jesse Jr., one of five siblings, grew up respecting his father, who was often gone, but was perhaps closer to his mother, Jacqueline. He had the benefits of his father’s name, but also the inevitable pressures to carry on the family’s legacy.

“I grew up in a house with great expectations,” he told The Chicago Tribune in 1995, months before he first ran for Congress. “Everything I do has a mark of excellence on it.”

“If I want to be a lawyer, that’s not enough,” added Mr. Jackson, who has a law degree and a master’s in theology. “I need to be a justice one day. If I wanted to be an elected official, that’s not enough. ‘One day, son, you may be president.’ ”

When a Congressional seat from the South Side came open in a special election later that year, the elder Mr. Jackson had his doubts, associates recalled, particularly since far more experienced Democrats were running and his son was just 30, and still baby-faced.

The father did campaign for him, asserting that his son was his own man. But as the father raised money and handed out buttons that read “A new generation,” his message was clear: this was a family business.

“The magnitude of the victory was a tribute to the old man,” said Don Rose, a veteran political consultant in Chicago. “But after that, he was on his own.”

At times, the son seemed to strain to define himself as different from his father. He prided himself on his ability to grasp policy details, and his nearly perfect attendance record (until this year) in Congress. He regularly joked that he had held but a handful of news conferences in his career, while his father might have held just as many in a day.

His interests could be more local and practical than his father’s; from his home, he built a computerized political operation (associates say his father was never savvy with technology) to help elect aldermen and state legislators.

“He was very proud of being his own man, and chafing at the idea that he’s a chip off the old block,” said Laura Washington, a political analyst who has followed the Jacksons for years.

In the eyes of some, too, there seemed to be flashes of competition. The elder Mr. Jackson ran for president in 1984 and 1988 (when his son introduced him at the ), but the son was often mentioned by the political establishment as a leader who might ultimately outdo his father, setting up an unspoken contest: which Jackson would go further?

There were open discussions of a presidential run among Representative Jackson’s aides, who recognized his crossover appeal beyond black voters with his own Spanish translations of his speeches. People Magazine named him “Sexiest Politician” in 1997. There were meetings to weigh a run for mayor of Chicago in 2007 and, a year later, to become a senator.

A family rift spilled out in public in 2008, when the father was heard, caught on a live microphone before a television interview, using crass language to deride , a presidential candidate at the time, for “talking down to black people.” His son, who was a chairman of Mr. Obama’s campaign, rebuked his father in a public statement.

“Reverend Jackson is my dad, and I’ll always love him,” he said. “I thoroughly reject and repudiate his ugly rhetoric. He should keep hope alive and any personal attacks and insults to himself.”

Then Jesse Jackson Jr.’s fortunes shifted overnight. When Mr. Obama won the White House in 2008, Representative Jackson pressed hard to replace him in the Senate. That December, he met with , governor of at the time, whose job it was to choose a replacement for Mr. Obama. The next morning, Mr. Blagojevich was arrested on corruption charges for trying to sell the Senate seat.

Mr. Jackson was never charged with a crime in the case, but allegations about back-room dealing have plagued him ever since. Mr. Jackson has denied wrongdoing. But a House Ethics Committee opened an investigation, and the federal investigation into Mr. Blagojevich also turned up reports of an extramarital relationship of Mr. Jackson with a Washington restaurant hostess. That echoed revelations from 2001, when the elder Mr. Jackson acknowledged fathering a child outside of his marriage.

This summer, the younger Mr. Jackson went missing from Congress. His office explained that he was suffering from exhaustion, but weeks later disclosed that he was being treated for bipolar II depression, a condition that his associates say may have been exacerbated by weight-loss surgery in 2004, which changed the way his body absorbs medication.

Adding to his troubles, federal authorities had started a criminal investigation into Representative Jackson’s campaign fund and, according to published reports, whether that money was used to decorate the family’s home. Last week, Mr. Jackson indicated that he was cooperating with investigators, and his lawyers said they hoped “to negotiate a fair resolution” of the situation.

“During this journey, I have made my share of mistakes,” Mr. Jackson wrote in his letter resigning from Congress.

Through the months out of public view, he has talked to his father sometimes several times a day, people close to both men said. Some connected to the family said Representative Jackson had struggled with mood swings for years, but his illness had never been formally diagnosed.

His mother has spoken emotionally of her son’s circumstances, saying that he has struggled with enormous letdowns.

“He thought he was going to be the senator,” Ms. Jackson told a crowd at the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition last summer. “He thought he was going to have a chance to run for mayor. And young people don’t bounce back with disappointment like me and my husband.”

Associates said they have no doubt that the father is struggling, too.

“I’m sure he’s probably on his knees asking God, ‘Where do I go from here?’ ” said Carrie Austin, an alderman and an Illinois committeewoman.

A close family associate said the elder Mr. Jackson had been trying, without much success, to control the media’s coverage of his son.

“That’s why this is so incredibly hard,” the associate said. “It’s always easier to deal with other peoples’ problems than your own, and he’s probably too hands-on with it. He’s very, very concerned. And there’s nothing worse than when you can’t fix something for your kid.”
517 2012-11-25 As a native of Oklahoma City, I appreciated the way that you wrote about our city. We often feel we are unrecognized as a modern American place, with all the contradictions, sophistication, red, blue, etc., that characterize any city of 1.3 million people. I remember checking into the Waldorf-Astoria as a child with my parents; the desk clerk was amazed that we had credit cards in Oklahoma City. I loved that you found it obvious that we would also have art galleries, gourmet grilled-cheese restaurants, smoky clubs. It’s validating. BEN TERRILL, St. Louis

I am a 60-year N.B.A. fan. I grew up a Celtics fan (in spite of my youth in New York and Los Angeles). My sons and I had season tickets to the Indiana Pacers. For the last three years I have rooted for the Oklahoma City Thunder. Give me up-tempo, unselfish, team-oriented basketball, with a strong dose of humility and a community-minded organization, and I’m happy. I was sorry to see James Harden leave. But the Thunder have earned my loyalty. LES COHEN, Reno, Nev., posted on nytimes.com

Sure, the making of the Thunder through the draft is a worthy model for small-market teams. But Sam Anderson’s account skates over the original sin of the Thunder — Clay Bennett’s theft of the team from Seattle, abetted by the equally perfidious David Stern. Why is there nothing from Sam Presti or Bennett about trading away James Harden? And why was there little from Kevin Durant himself about his matchups against LeBron and his work ethic? CHARLES MICHENER, Cleveland, posted on nytimes.com

HOW ZARA GREW INTO THE WORLD’S LARGEST FASHION RETAILER

The relentless pace and impulse buys of fast fashion create an impossible cycle of consumption. Zara has become so ubiquitous and trendy that you see yourself coming and going on the street, which is not stylish. AVIS CARDELLA, Paris, posted on nytimes.com

Way before I could afford Theory suiting, I could count on Zara to help me dress for the office. Sure, some of the trendy pieces are disposable; on the other hand, I have a Zara coat that’s about seven years old, invariably gets compliments and has held up better than coats that cost three times as much. TATIANA GONZALEZ RAMA, New York, posted on nytimes.com

“Galicia, on the Atlantic coast of northern Spain, is . . . famous for being a place people try to leave.” Wow, really? Galicia has its own language and culture and some of the best food in Europe. We have beaches, the Camino de Santiago, beautiful natural environments and important sporting and cultural events. RICARDO MELGAR, Ferrol, Spain
518 2012-11-25 It matters little if that truth is neither entirely shocking nor entirely convincing. Its real significance is the messianic fervor it inspires in Dell, an exalted state that Lancaster is particularly well equipped to portray. “Twilight’s Last Gleaming” was his fourth film with Aldrich, in an association that dated back to the beginning of Aldrich’s career, with the 1954 films “Apache” and “Vera Cruz.” The two were compatible politically as well as professionally. Five years earlier they’d collaborated on the allegorical antiwar western “Ulzana’s Raid,” perhaps the most potent film of that fleeting subgenre.

Lancaster’s naturally aristocratic bearing; his clenched, masochistic sense of self-discipline; and the strange sense of emotional isolation that seemed always to accompany him come together to make Dell a figure of classically tragic proportions. Locked in the missile silo with his three confederates (Paul Winfield, Burt Young and William Smith), Dell becomes the pivotal figure in a three-way standoff, his unassailable integrity played against a politically savvy, deal-making president (in some ways Mr. Durning’s performance seems to anticipate Bill Clinton) and the coldly pragmatic career officer (Richard Widmark) who has been assigned to eliminate Dell by force.

With the action compressed into the course of a single day, Aldrich plays the three characters against one another, although each is confined to his own restricted space: Lancaster in the silo, Durning in the Oval Office and Widmark in a command trailer outside the base. Split-screen editing had become something of a cliché in the 1970s, thanks to its overuse in films like “The Thomas Crown Affair,” but Aldrich here seems to reinvent the technique. Instead of using the multiple images to open up the drama, Aldrich employs the technique to bring the three characters, and the lines of action they carry, into a single dramatic space, giving the wide-ranging action the cramped intensity of a chamber piece.

In the end “Twilight’s Last Gleaming” is the opposite of a message movie. The film climaxes on a note of shock, futility and blank despair, that Dell, to borrow the title of a 1970 Aldrich film, is “too late the hero,” that the course of history can’t be altered. Aldrich would make three more films after “Twilight,” all of them with their pleasures but none with quite the same degree of personal commitment. Though he could not have known it at the time, the film was to be his last gleaming as well, the final great work of a great American filmmaker. (Olive Films, Blu-ray $29.95, DVD $24.95, R)

Coincidentally, another rare film with a cold war connection has surfaced on home video. Thanks to the good graces of Turner Classic Movies, “ “The Iron Petticoat,” a 1956 British comedy starring Bob Hope and Katharine Hepburn, has been liberated from the tangle of confused rights that has kept it out of sight for decades and is now available for the first time on American DVD and Blu-ray through TCM’s in-house Vault Collection label.

It’s the full 94-minute British version, as opposed to the 83-minute cut that Hope supervised for its original American release through MGM (and which provoked the film’s distinguished screenwriter, Ben Hecht, to demand that his name be removed from the credits).

Even at its full length the film is more of a historical curiosity than a laugh riot. Said to have been originally conceived as a vehicle for Hepburn and her frequent co-star Cary Grant, the film is a “Ninotchka”-like tale of an icy Communist ideologue (Hepburn as a pioneering Soviet pilot) who is won over to capitalism when her romance with an American (Hope, as an American Air Force pilot stationed in Germany) awakens her dormant femininity.

Under the stodgy direction of Ralph Thomas (“Doctor in the House”) the sparks don’t exactly fly between Hepburn and Hope, who seem like members of two different, highly incompatible species — a giraffe attempting to mate with a hedgehog. For Hepburn the film is another of her midcareer attempts to recant the flinty feminism that had made her box office poison in the 1930s, and the spectacle of her moral capitulation before a black lace undergarment displayed in a London store window is not an inspiring one. (TCM Vault Collection, Blu-ray/DVD combo $29.99, not rated)

ALSO OUT THIS WEEK



MEN IN BLACK 3 It has been 10 years since the agents J (Will Smith) and K (Tommy Lee Jones) teamed up for an alien hunt, but now they’re back — and in 3-D, with the proper equipment. Barry Sonnenfeld directed; with Josh Brolin. “You don’t need to study up on the previous installments or master a body of bogus fanboy lore to enjoy this movie for the breezy pop throwaway it is,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times in May. (Sony; 3-D Blu-ray/Blu-ray/DVD combo, $55.99; Blu-ray/DVD combo, $40.99; DVD, $30.99; also available through Movies on Demand; PG-13)

PARANORMAN A little boy with psychic powers fends off a zombie invasion in his small town in an animated film directed by Chris Butler and Sam Fell. With the voices of Kodi Smit-McPhee, Casey Affleck, Leslie Mann, Jeff Garlin and John Goodman. The movie is “a beautiful-looking, charmingly heartfelt 3-D stop-motion animation about a boy and his ghouls,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in August. (Focus/Universal; 3-D Blu-ray/ DVD combo, $49.98; Blu-ray/DVD combo, $34.98; DVD, $29.98; also available through Movies on Demand; PG)

PERRY MASON: THE EIGHTH SEASON, VOL. 1 Four discs stuffed with 15 episodes from the 1964-65 season of the enduringly popular television series starring Raymond Burr and Barbara Hale. (Paramount; $55.98; not rated)

SPARKLE Whitney Houston made her last film appearance in this remake of the 1976 film about the rise and fall of a 1960s girl group. Sallim Akil directed; with Jordin Sparks, Derek Luke and Mike Epps. “If the film is a sudsy show-business Cinderella story in which Emma’s youngest daughter, Sparkle (Jordin Sparks), ascends to glory, Houston’s presence makes it a cautionary tale,” Stephen Holden wrote in The Times in August. (Sony; Blu-ray, $35.99; DVD, $30.99; also available through Movies on Demand; PG-13)

LAWLESS The musician Nick Cave provided both the script and the score for this Depression-era tale of a family of moonshiners caught between a crime syndicate and a crooked sheriff. John Hillcoat directed; with Shia LaBeouf, Tom Hardy, Guy Pearce, Jessica Chastain and Mia Wasikowska. “This is weak and cloudy moonshine: it doesn’t burn or intoxicate,” Mr. Scott wrote in The Times in August. (Starz/Anchor Bay; Blu-ray/DVD combo, $39.99; DVD, $29.98; R)
519 2012-11-25 The committee isn’t an advocacy group. Our work involves monitoring legal issues concerning animals on a local, state and federal level. We issue reports on matters we feel strongly about, which are posted on our Web site, nycbar.org/animal-law. For example, we’ve commented on issues such as horse-drawn carriages in New York City, pet trusts and animal experimentation. We also run educational programs and publish informational brochures. We don’t handle individual complaints, but if a person has a problem, we can make referrals to lawyers who specialize in animal-law issues.

Q When it comes to animal law, do housing issues come up a lot?

A Absolutely. The committee, which was the first animal-law committee of any bar association, was formed in 1994. And from the very beginning we have addressed pets in housing issues.

Q Who makes the rules on pets in New York City apartment buildings?

A With privately owned buildings, owners may limit the number and kind of animals or ban pets entirely, except with respect to service animals. In New York City Housing Authority properties, the general rule is one pet per family.

Q What are some of the specific housing-related issues the committee deals with?

A A major issue involves service animals. And not just Seeing Eye dogs for the blind. People might also need a service animal because of physical impairments that involve hearing or mobility, or for epilepsy or asthma, as well as psychological conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder or depression. Federal law says that a person can have a service animal if it’s medically necessary. We want to make sure that law is enforced. For example, we supported legislation to make it clear that landlords cannot require proof that a service animal has been certified by the state.

We also monitor legislation involving specific breeds of dogs. In New York State, municipalities cannot ban a specific breed, although the owner of an individual building may. And the New York City Housing Authority has a long list of breeds that are banned: pit bull, Doberman and Rottweiler, as well as any other breed weighing over 25 pounds.

Q Lots of New Yorkers with pets know about the so-called “three-months law.” How does that work?

A The general rule is that if a tenant has an animal that has been living openly in the apartment — the water bowl in full view, for example — and if a landlord hasn’t objected within 90 days, the tenant can keep the pet, and any replacement pet, for the duration of the tenancy, regardless of the terms of the lease. Our committee worked on the three-month law, helping make it more pro-pet. It benefits people and pets, making it easier for older people to have animals, which can be a great source of comfort, especially for shut-ins. And with the city’s huge population of strays, this law makes it easier to find homes for abandoned cats and dogs.

Q New York City has a law making wild animals illegal in apartment buildings. Does that issue come up much for the committee?

A Yes. Our committee supported a law prohibiting wild animals as pets — like bears, monkeys and crocodiles.

Q What other issues does the committee deal with that affect housing?

A A major issue is the proliferation of live slaughter markets. In Chinatown and in parts of Brooklyn and Queens, there are many places where rabbits, chickens, goats, even cows, are slaughtered on site. It’s a major public health issue for all the obvious reasons — the terrible smells, the spread of disease. Our committee supported legislation that banned new markets within 1,500 feet of a residence, and Governor Cuomo signed the bill in April.

Q Given your interest in animal law, it’s not surprising that you have pets.

A My law school companion was a bunny named Pepper, but she passed away. Here in our apartment we have our dog, Daffy, who came from a shelter in New Jersey, and our cat, Roddy, who was rescued as a kitten by my fiancé, who loves animals as much as I do. It’s very convenient living on far West 23rd Street because I can take Daffy to Chelsea Park.

Q Daffy is looking very attractive in that pink and white sweater with the rhinestone hearts. Does it keep her warm?

A Very. As you’ll notice, she doesn’t have as much fur as the cat.
520 2012-11-25 Audi was a pioneer in bringing LEDs — light emitting diodes, a more efficient and longer lasting replacement for conventional bulbs — to automotive lighting and in using them as a styling element. Audi’s lighting design, however, is unabashedly mechanical, rather than biological, in its style.

“Our slogan is ‘progress through technology,’ ” said Cesar Muntada, an Audi exterior designer who works on lighting, “so the key to all Audi design is giving the purest expression of that technology.

“We want an Audi to be as recognizable at night as it is during the day,” Mr. Muntada said in a telephone interview. “We always use the system that performs the best. We have taken something functional and made it an aesthetic.”

The company is constantly incorporating novel technology in its lighting, Mr. Muntada said. Audi first used LEDs in daytime running lights, arrayed in a simple bar of distinct lamps. Now, more sophisticated designs distinguish Audi models. In the latest generation of Audi headlights, low- and high-beam LEDs are separated, and the running light doubles as turn indicator.

In contrast to Audi’s modernist form-follows-function approach, Lincoln’s designers are looking for less complex light designs.

Lincoln’s theme these days is elegant simplicity, said Solomon Song, chief exterior designer of the 2013 MKZ midsize sedan. The car’s strikingly thin headlights follow that idea.

“If you look at a lot of cars on the road today, their headlights are getting bigger and bigger,” Mr. Song said in a telephone interview. “There’s a lot to cram in.

“I didn’t want that; I wanted the aesthetics of the slimmer headlamp,” he said. “It’s just a pure sculpture. We let the headlamps do the talking.”

Mr. Song also worked to differentiate between the style and the function of the lights.

“We didn’t want to meld the sculpture and the functional elements together,” he said, “but to keep them separate.”

He compared the split of function and style to a watch: “If you look at a fine watch, all you see immediately is the art. You have to look inside or in back to see the mechanical elements.”

The operation of LEDs can affect the styling of the lamps. Mr. Song said that one lesson learned while developing the MKZ was that because LEDs generate less heat, they will not melt snow and ice on the front of the car in the same way.

“There’s no heat circulation,” he said. “So we have a rear heat sink and had to install fans in back.”

Technologies of the future, he suggested, will change headlamps again. “Lasers are more efficient and get superbright, but take a bigger headlamp,” Mr. Song said.

BMW’s round lamps are almost as distinctive a symbol of the brand as its so-called kidney grille. But the lamps have been interpreted in different ways with succeeding technologies.

Sebastian Morgenstern, an exterior detail designer at BMW, noted the evolution of the brand’s characteristic double round headlights in a video the company posted online.

The round format arrived in the 1960s, he said, but did not become strongly linked to BMW until the 1980s, when most other marques moved toward more square or oblong lamps. The round headlights are always surmounted by a lidlike structure, giving the face of the car an intent, even predatory, expression.

“The critical thing is to cut the circles at the proper angle,” Mr. Morgenstern said. In 2000 came coronalike lamps that advanced the dual circle theme. Now LEDs are used in the 6 Series, and the round lamps are replaced with angled, three dimensional versions of their shapes.

“The new technologies give designers new possibilities,” Mr. Morgenstern said.

The newest Range Rover updates the complex overlapping circles of earlier models with new LED blade technology. Done under the supervision of Gerry McGovern, the design plays a change on what he called the interlocking forms of earlier Range Rovers. These had a technical look, suggesting lenses packed tightly together.

“The front lamps continue the evolution of the Range Rover face,” he said in a description of the new design. “Distinctive signature lighting graphics use LED light blade technology, showcasing the hallmark interlocking circle design.” The primary lamps, the projector beams, were designed to resemble a camera lens, he said.
521 2012-11-26 The South Korean government is reportedly set to sack the Florida socialite Jill Kelley as one of its honorary consuls. Ms. Kelley unwittingly touched off a scandal that led to the resignation of David Petraeus as director of the Central Intellige...
522 2012-11-26 Shares of the company were bruised - down 5 percent - but not too battered by a poor opening of its film over the Thanksgiving weekend....
523 2012-11-26 Zaro's, which challenged the violations cited during an inspection, faces proposed fines of $118,000 for work conditions at its factory in the Bronx....
524 2012-11-26 Facing accusations that it allowed American investors to bet on the outcome of wars and other world events without the blessing of regulators, Intrade announced on Monday that it was closing its Web site to United States residents....
525 2012-11-26 MIST Harlem, at 40 West 116th St., will open to the public this week, according to its owners....
526 2012-11-26 John Cordero joined SoHo Experiential, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for production. He had been senior vice president at Grand Central Marketing, New York.

Critical Mass, part of the Omnicom Group, hired five employees. Rob Corradi becomes creative director, based in the London office. The other four, based in the Los Angeles office, are Shawna Bigby, a creative director; Mike Gobeli, senior art director; Karie Jamison, senior art director; and Michael Goodsell Richardson, creative director.

Michael Delahousaye joined Clock Four, San Francisco, in a new post, vice president for marketing and business development. He had been associate partner for business development at Rosetta.

Chris Douglas and Peter Dycus joined Switch, St. Louis, as part of an expansion of the digital department. Mr. Douglas becomes director for digital strategy and user experience and Mr. Dycus becomes director for digital production. Both had worked at agencies that include Coolfire Media, InFuz and Zipatoni.

Farm Progress, St. Charles, Ill., was acquired from Fairfax Media, Sydney, Australia, by Penton Media, New York, owned by MidOcean Partners and U.S. Equity Partners II, an investment fund sponsored by Wasserman & Company. The purchase price was $79.9 million before what was described as “certain adjustments.” Farm Progress will become part of the Penton Agricultural Group and report to Dan Bagan, senior vice president at Penton. Jeff Lapin, president at Farm Progress, is to leave the company at the end of the year. Farm Progress includes 23 publications as well as shows and exhibitions and a broadcaster, Farm Progress America. Penton has nine agricultural publications.

Anthony Faulise joined Publishers Clearing House Digital, New York, part of Publishers Clearing House, in a new post, general manager for the Play and Win division, composed of online properties like candystand.com and pchgames.com. He had been senior vice president for product development at Kitara Media.

Forest Stewardship Council, Minneapolis, selected the New York office of CHI & Partners, part of WPP, for a new assignment, to make consumers more aware of the work of the council, which gives a seal of approval to forests that are deemed to be managed responsibly; the seal appears on products made by and sold at companies like Hewlett-Packard, Home Depot, Kimberly-Clark and Williams-Sonoma. Spending has not been determined.

Chris Hall joined SapientNitro, Boston, part of Sapient, in a new post, managing director for the Southeast region, overseeing the Atlanta and Miami offices and based in Atlanta. He had most recently been president and chief executive at the Atlanta office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Crockett Jeffers joined BBDO San Francisco as a creative director. He had been a creative director and copywriter at Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco. BBDO San Francisco is part of the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group.

Michael Kostainsek joined the San Francisco office of MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, in a new post, senior partner and account director, leading the BlackRock and Netflix accounts. He had been vice president and group media director at Universal McCann, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Brenda Major joined the American Association of Advertising Agencies, New York, as vice president for conferences and events. She succeeds Jerry Longo, who left to pursue other interests, the association said. Ms. Major had been vice president for corporate events at the Disney/ABC Television Group, part of the Walt Disney Company.

Tom Morrissy joined Selectable Media, New York, as executive vice president and chief revenue officer. He had been executive vice president for North American sales at Synaptic Digital, which was recently acquired by Definition 6.

Nancy Newman and Jonathan Perelman joined BuzzFeed, New York. Ms. Newman becomes vice president for sales marketing and learning; she had been vice president for sales communications and training for the Americas at Yahoo. Mr. Perelman becomes vice president for agency strategy and industry development; he had most recently been global lead for industry relations at Google.

Stephen Ochs joined National CineMedia, New York, as senior vice president for marketing. He succeeds Mike Eaton, who joined IMG as vice president for global business development. Mr. Ochs had most recently been running his own marketing and digital strategy firm, Rocket Science Industries.

Sandvertising was formed by five women who work in the industry in New York to bring together ad professionals and relief organizations to help those affected by Hurricane Sandy.

Zach Servideo joined the Mix Agency, San Francisco, as a partner, to open the agency’s new Los Angeles office. He had been account manager at Shift Communications, Boston.

Niva Shrestha joined the New York office of Marketing Management Analytics in a new post, senior vice president for strategic accounts. She had been senior vice president for marketing at Market Fusion Analytics, New York.

Navin Singh joined the golf division of the Wasserman Media Group, New York, in a new post, vice president for digital. He had been senior director for business and strategy at Golf Channel, part of the NBC Sports Group unit of NBCUniversal, owned by Comcast.

Starcom USA hired three senior executives for new posts in its New York office, working on the Samsung account. They are Eric Bridge, a senior vice president and director on Samsung Mobile, who had been a media director at SapientNitro, part of Sapient; Tom Brookbanks, a senior vice president and global director leading Samsung’s business-to-business effort, who had been a managing director at MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP; and Jeff Liang, a senior vice president and digital director, who had led the United States digital investment practice at PHD, part of the Omnicom Media Group unit of the Omnicom Group. Starcom USA is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

World Fuel Services, Miami, named Keiler, Farmington, Conn., to handle the marketing and advertising duties for its business aviation division. Billings were not disclosed. There had been no previous agency.
527 2012-11-26 Blindness derailed the career of Lloyd Burlingame, a successful designer of Broadway shows, until his guide dogs gave him a chance on a second career....
528 2012-11-26 Credit Suisse is eliminating 100 jobs at its investment banking operation in Britain as part of its cost-cutting program, according to a person with direct knowledge of the plan....
529 2012-11-26 Mr. John's comments about Ai Weiwei received no applause from the Beijing crowd....
530 2012-11-26 The decision to step down by Mary L. Schapiro, who overhauled the Securities and Exchange Commission after the financial crisis, follows a bruising tenure....
531 2012-11-26 We are sorry. The page you looked for can not be found. We recommend you to use one of the links below.
532 2012-11-26 “We’ve already played the No. 2 team once this year, and had a good day against Florida,” Georgia Coach Mark Richt said Sunday in a conference call, referring to the Gators’ Bowl Championship Series ranking at the time. “We can only play who’s on our schedule.”

In reference to Saturday’s game, he added: “That’s why you kick it off and play. We’ll just have to see how it goes.”

Even so, for the first half of the season, “their team seemed to be kind of floating,” Gary Danielson, a CBS college football analyst, said. Then the Bulldogs senior safety Shawn Williams publicly blasted the defense’s “soft” play, days before the Florida game.

Led by the all-American linebacker Jarvis Jones, the all-American safety Bacarri Rambo, the playmaking linebacker Alec Ogletree and the beefy defensive tackle John Jenkins, the Bulldogs’ 3-4 defense had not lacked talent, only bite. After Williams’s comment, the defense harassed Florida into six turnovers and has forced nine turnovers total in its four games since.

In the Florida game, Murray, a three-year starter, woke up after throwing three interceptions in the first half, with his 45-yard, fourth-quarter touchdown pass putting a sloppy game out of reach. It might not be just coincidence that in the Bulldogs’ only loss this season, at South Carolina, Murray threw 20 incompletions and had just 109 yards passing.

Murray has not thrown an interception since the three in the first half against Florida, and his 13 touchdowns in the last five games have made him a mark of Georgia’s efficiency. The Bulldogs’ average margin of victory since squeezing past Florida has been 32 points. For the third consecutive year, he has surpassed 3,000 yards passing.

He has remained the same 6-foot-1, prototypical passer amid change. Both of Georgia’s offensive tackles are first-year starters, both of whom were taken advantage of by South Carolina, particularly by the freakish defensive end Jadeveon Clowney. And two of his top wide receivers — the 6-3 Michael Bennett and the 6-5 Marlon Brown — are lost for the season with torn anterior cruciate ligaments.

Facing Alabama’s top-rated defense, Richt said of Murray, “We got to just manage the game well, be wise and be patient.”

Although Danielson said that while “you’re not going to beat Alabama without a competent throwing quarterback,” riding Gurley and Marshall should help. South Carolina stuffed them both, but Gurley got carries and ran well against Florida. Gurley possesses “more of Herschel’s strength,” said Vince Dooley, who coached Walker and who holds the Bulldogs’ record for career wins. Marshall appears faster, but that is not to say Gurley is not fast or Marshall is not strong.

“They’re excellent,” Dooley said in a phone interview. “I don’t think either one of them is Herschel, but they’re not far off. What’s amazing, they get along so well with each other.”

The 6-1, 218-pound Gurley grew up in Tarboro, N.C., about 75 miles east of Raleigh, where Marshall was the more highly touted recruit. They bonded over the recruiting process, admired each other’s prowess, and after Marshall committed to Georgia, Gurley decided to join him. Now they are roommates.

In June, Isaiah Crowell, Georgia’s presumed workhorse tailback and reigning SEC freshman of the year, was arrested on weapons charges and dismissed from the team. Fans worried, but Crowell’s conduct opened opportunities for Gurley and Marshall.

Gurley has 14 touchdowns, one short of Walker’s freshman total. Combined, Gurshall have 1,858 yards and 22 touchdowns, averaging 6.56 yards a carry. For fun, consider that amounts to about a half yard more than Herschel.
533 2012-11-26 He had barely survived his rescue exploit.

At first he joined with fellow airmen in trying to launch an aluminum rescue boat, but its propellers became stuck in storm debris.

“I dried out and put on a rubber exposure suit,” the British newspaper The Telegraph quoted him as recalling. “I heard people screaming and saw flashlights, and I knew someone had to go.”

He picked up survivors from rooftops and windows and hoisted them aboard a six-man rubber raft while standing in darkened icy waters that nearly engulfed his 6-foot-3 frame.

He doubted he would survive. As he told the BBC in 2003, when he returned to Hunstanton for commemorative ceremonies, “I wondered at times, ‘What the hell am I doing here?’ ”

Airman Leming’s exposure suit finally ripped, and he collapsed. “When I woke up, the first thing I heard was, ‘His legs will have to come off,’ ” he once told The Bulletin of Bend. But he learned that the nurse treating him was simply trying to remove his rubber suit.

The flood killed 307 people, 31 of them in Hunstanton, and damaged about 25,000 homes and more than 150,000 acres of land.

Airman Leming received the American military’s Soldier’s Medal for bravery, and in April 1953 he became the first foreigner to receive Britain’s George Medal for heroism during peacetime. Two months later, the people of Hunstanton flew his fiancée, the former MaryAnn Ramsay, to the town and arranged for their marriage ceremony in its Roman Catholic church.

The airmen’s rescue efforts, along with their contributions to flood relief, helped ease tensions between the British and thousands of American servicemen stationed in the countryside. Young women in the Hunstanton area who had refused to be seen with an American airman before the flood began flocking to meet servicemen at dances sponsored by a local women’s group, according to Reuters.

Reis (his mother’s maiden name, pronounced Rice) Lee Leming was born on Nov. 6, 1930, in East St. Louis, Ill., where his father was a banker, but grew up in central Washington. He entered the Air Force in 1952 after attending Gonzaga University in Spokane, Wash., and remained in military service for four years.

He came back to England in September 1956 to take part in the launching of the Mayflower II, a replica of the Pilgrim ship. When he returned for a 40th-anniversary memorial for flood victims, he was invited to meet Queen Elizabeth II and the Queen Mother.

Mr. Leming died of sepsis, a complicaton of an infection, while hospitalized for a broken hip, said his second wife, Kathy. He had been treated for lymphoma for several years.

In addition to his wife, with whom he owned a security alarm company in Bend, he is survived by his son, Michael, and his daughters, Debra Ross and Gail Parry, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce; a sister, Sue; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.

On Nov. 10, the Air Force’s 67th Special Operations Squadron, the successor to Mr. Leming’s 67th Air Rescue Squadron, held a parade through Hunstanton to mark the 60th anniversary of the original unit’s creation.

Hunstanton had scheduled a surprise tribute to Mr. Leming at that ceremony, and went ahead with it. A pathway through the Esplanade Gardens along the town’s cliff tops was christened Reis Leming Way.
534 2012-11-26 ¶Johnson & Johnson decided, after a review, to keep the J3 unit of Universal McCann — part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies — as its media planning and buying agency of record for North America. Spending was estimated at more than $1.5 billion.

¶Caswell-Massey, Edison, N.J., chose the Marshad Technology Group, New York, as agency of record, to provide marketing services like creative development, online advertising strategy and management, search engine optimization and social media strategy. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment, for brands that include Caswell-Massey and Dr. Hunter’s Original Remedies, had been handled by an internal team and various agencies.

¶Azita Ardakani, who founded Lovesocial, Vancouver, a social media agency, is moving to New York to open an office. Seven employees will work in the office, which is expected to be opened in January. Amy Benziger, director for partnerships at Lovesocial, will be the agency’s first director based in New York.

¶Two companies in the realm of what is called social television — social media intended to be used while watching TV — are merging, as GetGlue is being acquired by Viggle for $25 million in cash and 48.3 million shares of stock; the shares were not valued in a statement by the companies announcing the deal. GetGlue will be operated by Viggle as a separate brand and the 34 employees of GetGlue are to join Viggle, with Alex Iskold, chief executive at GetGlue, who becomes a senior executive at Viggle. Viggle is backed by the media executive Robert F.X. Sillerman.

¶Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, said it would sell its remaining shares of Facebook for net cash proceeds of $95 million. Interpublic acquired the stake in Facebook, estimated at less than 0.5 percent of the total shares, in 2006. In August 2011, Interpublic sold about half its shares for an estimated $130 million. As it did last year, Interpublic said the proceeds from the sale would go toward an program to buy back shares of its own common stock.
535 2012-11-26 And, wow, do we have plenty to invest. The Forbes 400, the wealthiest individuals in America, hit a new group record for wealth this year: $1.7 trillion. That’s more than five times the $300 billion total in 1992. In recent years, my gang has been leaving the middle class in the dust.

A huge tail wind from tax cuts has pushed us along. In 1992, the tax paid by the 400 highest incomes in the (a different universe from the Forbes list) averaged 26.4 percent of adjusted gross income. In 2009, the most recent year reported, the rate was 19.9 percent. It’s nice to have friends in high places.

The group’s average income in 2009 was $202 million — which works out to a “wage” of $97,000 per hour, based on a 40-hour workweek. (I’m assuming they’re paid during lunch hours.) Yet more than a quarter of these ultrawealthy paid less than 15 percent of their take in combined federal income and payroll taxes. Half of this crew paid less than 20 percent. And — brace yourself — a few actually paid nothing.

This outrage points to the necessity for more than a simple revision in upper-end tax rates, though that’s the place to start. I support ’s proposal to eliminate the for high-income taxpayers. However, I prefer a cutoff point somewhat above $250,000 — maybe $500,000 or so.

Additionally, we need Congress, right now, to enact a minimum tax on high incomes. I would suggest 30 percent of taxable income between $1 million and $10 million, and 35 percent on amounts above that. A plain and simple rule like that will block the efforts of lobbyists, lawyers and contribution-hungry legislators to keep the ultrarich paying rates well below those incurred by people with income just a tiny fraction of ours. Only a minimum tax on very high incomes will prevent the stated tax rate from being eviscerated by these warriors for the wealthy.

Above all, we should not postpone these changes in the name of “reforming” the tax code. True, changes are badly needed. We need to get rid of arrangements like “carried interest” that enable income from labor to be magically converted into capital gains. And it’s sickening that a mail drop can be central to tax maneuvering by wealthy individuals and corporations.

But the reform of such complexities should not promote delay in our correcting simple and expensive inequities. We can’t let those who want to protect the privileged get away with insisting that we do nothing until we can do everything.

Our government’s goal should be to bring in revenues of 18.5 percent of G.D.P. and spend about 21 percent of G.D.P. — levels that have been attained over extended periods in the past and can clearly be reached again. As the math makes clear, this won’t stem our budget deficits; in fact, it will continue them. But assuming even conservative projections about inflation and economic growth, this ratio of revenue to spending will keep America’s debt stable in relation to the country’s economic output.

In the last fiscal year, we were far away from this fiscal balance — bringing in 15.5 percent of G.D.P. in revenue and spending 22.4 percent. Correcting our course will require major concessions by both Republicans and Democrats.

All of America is waiting for Congress to offer a realistic and concrete plan for getting back to this fiscally sound path. Nothing less is acceptable.

In the meantime, maybe you’ll run into someone with a terrific investment idea, who won’t go forward with it because of the tax he would owe when it succeeds. Send him my way. Let me unburden him.
536 2012-11-26 Public Debt on the Rise in Puerto Rico

In Puerto Rico, public debt has exploded in recent years. About 15 percent of the Puerto Rican budget now goes toward paying down the debt, about three times the portion that is spent on infrastructure.
537 2012-11-27 Sorry to disappoint the E Street Band fans out there: “The Boss” is not a play about Bruce Springsteen, though some of that Boss’s lyrical themes resonate in the revival of this 1911 melodrama about class and the American dream at the Metropolitan Playhouse.

Michael R. Regan — the play’s scrappy Irish immigrant antihero — was born to run, up and out of the miserable Fourth Ward in the unnamed industrial American city where he seeks his fortune.

And run he does. Called Shindy Mike, Regan builds himself into a ruthless shipping magnate and real estate baron who is despised and feared. Sweet on the progressive philanthropist who happens to be the daughter of an old-money competitor, Regan traps her into marrying him to save her family’s company and, more important, the destitute residents of the Fourth Ward.

In retaliation, his bride’s brother whips Regan’s workers into a strike. Regan cannot empathize with the Irish immigrants he employs, impoverishes and once lived among, and he vows revenge.

Slouching and slack-jawed and quick with a sucker punch, Dave Hanson is spectacular as the parvenu Regan, transforming him into a full and awkward human being rather than the easy caricature he could be in Edward Sheldon’s play.
538 2012-11-27 Part 9: Matt Damon, John Krasinski and Gus Van Sant reflect on the challenges of releasing an independent “issue” film; Gus Van Sant explains his research process.
539 2012-11-27 Two young entrepreneurs in Manhattan are hoping to take advantage of the current fashion craze around high-fashion nail polish and nail art to develop a thriving mail-order business....
540 2012-11-27 A shakeup at Apple continued with the firing of Richard Williamson, a manager who oversaw the company’s flawed mapping service, according to two people briefed on the matter....
541 2012-11-27 It may have taken a year and a corporate spinoff, but ConAgra has succeeded in buying Ralcorp. And it couldn't have come soon enough for ConAgra's chief executive, Gary Rodkin, who sees Ralcorp's strength in private-label brands as an important pa...
542 2012-11-27 When two powerful companies go head to head trying to attract talent, the weapon of choice is usually money. Yet neither Apple nor Google seems to be doing much to woo app developers....
543 2012-11-27 Nominations for the Film Independent Spirit Awards are announced....
544 2012-11-27 Beth Henley's play "The Miss Firecracker Contest" will be mounted on Broadway this spring and star the Emmy-nominated actress Amber Tamblyn....
545 2012-11-27 The Chinese Communist Party's newspaper reported, accurately, that The Onion has named North Korea's Leader the Sexiest Man Alive. The word satire was notably absent from the report....
546 2012-11-27 The new space, which will focus on Jacobean works, will be named after the actor and director Sam Wanamaker....
547 2012-11-27 Rona Fairhead, the chief executive of Pearson’s Financial Times Group, will step down in April, the company says. Hers will be the second prominent departure in recent months....
548 2012-11-27 This moment was a long time coming. The ground-to-air war (and the likely government retaliation for this hit) can be expected to be bloodier from here....
549 2012-11-27 Rona Fairhead's departure follows the announcement that Pearson's chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, would be leaving her post. Their exits are likely to fuel speculation that Pearson will look to sell The Financial Times....
550 2012-11-27 Sam played it; now it's is being auctioned by Sotheby's. The piano from "Casablanca," that is....
551 2012-11-27 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
552 2012-11-27 After being rejected last year, ConAgra Foods agreed to buy Ralcorp Holdings, reviving an effort to form the largest producer of private label packaged food in North America....
553 2012-11-27 The deficit reduction plan Mr. Chidambaram announced last month was criticized by economists as short on specifics and protective of fuel subsidies and expensive social welfare programs for the country’s millions of poor people.

A month earlier, a deficit reduction panel appointed by Mr. Chidambaram had urged the government to cut such spending. They said India was on the edge of a “fiscal precipice” and the economy was “flashing red lights.”

The government is pursuing a “Band-Aid approach” to deficit reduction, favoring quick fixes instead of structural changes to cut the deficit, said Rajeev Malik, an economist at the investment bank CLSA in Singapore, who is sticking to a deficit forecast of 6 percent of the Indian gross domestic product.

The expectation in financial markets that the Indian government will overshoot its deficit target and reach 5.6 percent of G.D.P. helped push benchmark 10-year bond yields late last week to their highest level in nearly three months.

But the big unknown is the response of the ratings agencies, which have repeatedly warned India to get its finances in order.

Analysts said the agencies were unlikely to disclose their thinking until after Mr. Chidambaram announced his budget, which is expected in February.

But in October, the ratings agency Standard & Poor’s said India still faced a one-in-three chance of a downgrade within the next two years. Such an outcome would hurt investor sentiment and push overseas borrowing costs up for Indian companies.

Mr. Chidambaram, 67, charmed financial markets with his can-do attitude and burst of economic changes in September after years of policy inaction by the weak coalition government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.

The Indian benchmark BSE stock index rallied about 6 percent after the changes were announced in mid-September. But concerns about implementation, the deficit and declining inflows of foreign funds have since pushed the index down 3.3 percent.

“We believe that this is the beginning of the realization that a sustainable turnaround in India’s growth prospects would require considerable effort, well beyond the burst of measures seen in September,” Deutsche Bank said last week in an note with the headline, “Reality Check.”

Mr. Chidambaram’s deficit reduction plan banks heavily on raising billions of dollars by auctioning cellphone airwaves and selling shares in state companies.

Neither effort is going well.

The government raised less than a quarter of its target of 400 billion rupees, or $7.3 billion, in an auction of second-generation spectrums in mid-November. A second auction is planned before March, but a senior official said there would probably be a shortfall of at least 200 billion rupees.

India succeeded in raising 8.1 billion rupees by selling shares of the state-run Hindustan Copper on Friday, although the deal was supported by buying from state institutions.

To put the deal in context: New Delhi wants to raise 300 billion rupees by selling shares in state companies this fiscal year, which ends in March. Excluding the latest sale, it has managed just 1.25 billion rupees so far.

The government is staring at an overall shortfall of nearly 500 billion rupees in revenue this year, the senior official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject. This may require additional borrowing from the market.

Mr. Chidambaram’s battle to tame the deficit takes place against the backdrop of a continued economic slowdown, and a fractious Parliament, where the government has lost its majority after its biggest coalition ally withdrew support in opposition to the economic changes.

Manufacturing is contracting and exports are falling. The Indian trade deficit in October of nearly $21 billion was the worst on record.

And a second round of changes aimed at liberalizing the pension and insurance sectors has been stalled by the gridlock in Parliament. It is not clear whether the measures, long sought by investors, will be passed in the current winter session.

But Mr. Chidambaram, who began his second stint as finance minister in August, gives no appearance of being disheartened, and as recently as Saturday was confidently predicting he would be able to contain the deficit to 5.3 percent of G.D.P.

Inside his ministry, officials said the target looked daunting, but they have had no word of a revision from the minister. Instead, he has intensified pressure on them to find ways of meeting the target, they said.
554 2012-11-27 The New York City Education Department said on Monday that Public School/Middle School 114 in Belle Harbor, Queens, would reopen on Tuesday, three days earlier than planned, after it was flooded during Hurricane Sandy.

In kindergarten through eighth grade, the school has 779 students.

The building sustained significant water damage and was producing strong odors, said Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the department. Flooring has been replaced, she said, but some areas like the auditorium will be cordoned off until repairs have been completed.

After the storm, the students were relocated to three other schools, which frustrated many parents with more than one child at P.S./M.S. 114.

Attendance at those schools has been spotty; 53.3 percent of the displaced students showed up on Monday, a day when the overall attendance rate for the public schools was 90.2 percent.

Some parents are concerned about air quality in the school and are waiting to send their children back, said Irene Dougherty, a leader of the PTA.  “We were assured we would have the results of the air quality test in hand and now we are not getting them,” she said.

The reopening leaves 12 schools and about 5,400 students still in temporary locations. About 73,000 students were initially displaced by the storm.
555 2012-11-27 Mr. Richardson, in fact, was one of the top investment performers in his firm.

A short time later, Mr. Woods recalled, another official with the comptroller’s office told him that lobbying against “your largest investors” was a big problem.

All of this is laid out in a lawsuit that Mr. Richardson filed last week in federal court in , and in a deposition that Mr. Woods gave several years ago in an arbitration case. The arbitrator directed Mr. Woods to pay $4.7 million to Mr. Richardson in compensation for his dismissal.

Asked about Mr. Richardson’s lawsuit, the comptroller’s office released a distancing statement: “The New York State Common Retirement Fund was not involved in any decision about his employment status at ICV.”

But two sources familiar with this case said that the comptroller’s office’s displeasure with Mr. Richardson was widely known, and that high-ranking officials in that office complained vigorously about other professionals who lobbied for the bills. These sources asked to remain unnamed for fear of retaliation.

There was a legitimate policy debate to be had over the 2010 proposals. The comptroller feared that targets would amount to setting racial and gender quotas, and he persuaded legislators to strip these from the bill.

And Mr. Richardson speaks well of Mr. DiNapoli. “To be frank, he had one of the more progressive investment policies,” he said. “We sought to codify it so that we didn’t have to depend on Mr. DiNapoli.”

But none of this explains why top public officials apparently tried to undermine investment professionals who spoke openly on questions of public policy. Mr. Richardson, in particular, is widely respected in black investment circles for his insistent commitment to social responsibility.

When Mayor gave his keynote speech in 2011, at the beginning of a $130 million effort to encourage young black men to get an education, he chose the offices of the Council of Urban Professionals, which Mr. Richardson helped found.

A person close to the comptroller, speaking on the condition of anonymity, suggested that if you invest the state’s money and take a policy stand that annoys staff members, you risk some blowback.

“His arguments did not conform to our legal reading of what was possible,” this person said. “Just hypothetically, that could call into question his credibility and stewardship.”

No one has ever accused me of possessing an excess of financial acumen, but that strikes me as a leap into the abyss. If took a position that conflicted with the comptroller’s legal reading, would Goldman Sachs lose credibility as an ?

To ask that hypothetical question is to answer it.

Mr. Richardson has a round face with close-cropped hair, flecked gray. His voice is corporate-suite soft. He lives in with his wife and two children. He pauses for long seconds before answering questions about his fall.

“There’s a greater chance this harms my future prospects more than it helps me,” he says. “I’m super anxious about that.”

“But they’ve harmed me and a much larger cause,” he adds. “And there’s not a soul in the world who will speak up.”
556 2012-11-27 “At the beginning, I received information from the U.S. Embassy that maybe $150 million or $200 million is gone in bad loans to powerful people,” he said. The number soon climbed close to $900 million, though “we did not know who took the loans and that they were all tied to a few individuals.”

What Kroll’s audit found is that on Aug. 31, 2010, the day the Bank of Afghanistan seized Kabul Bank, more than 92 percent of the lender’s loan portfolio — $861 million, or roughly 5 percent of Afghanistan’s annual economic output at the time — had gone to 19 related people and companies, according to the audit.

Among the largest beneficiaries were a brother of Mr. Karzai and a brother of First Vice President Muhammad Qasim Fahim who each owned stakes in the bank that had been bought with loans from the bank, according to the audit and regulatory officials. For their part, both have insisted that they never took part in any fraud at the lender.

Reached for comment, Mr. Karzai’s spokesman, Aimal Faizi, stressed that the president considered the audit incomplete: Mr. Karzai still believes Kroll has to find out where all the missing money has gone, to which countries it was sent and to which accounts if the firm wants the report to be seen as credible, Mr. Faizi said.

The New York Times obtained a copy of the 277-page audit report, which Afghan and Western officials have confirmed was the one Kroll prepared.

The two men that Afghan prosecutors, Western officials and the Kroll audit accuse of profiting most from the fraud were the bank’s principal owners: Sherkhan Farnood, its chairman and a former World Series of Poker Europe winner, and his former bodyguard, Khalil Fruzi, who served as the bank’s chief executive.

Working with the bank’s executives, they devised simple, yet effective, schemes to fool weak and reluctant regulators, and the Americans who were advising them, the audit says.

The owners kept two sets of books, and hid loans to themselves and their shareholders by taking them in the names of friends, relatives and even domestic servants, according to the audit and Afghan officials. They grouped related loans together to better keep track of who owed what. Hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit loans were routed to Dubai through a money exchange controlled by Mr. Farnood, who founded the bank.

Kabul Bank employed people to forge documents for fictitious companies, which were then audited by accounting firms that appear to have been complicit, according to Kroll. That is where the rubber stamps came in: they bore the names of those false companies, like Abdul Mahmood Trading and Ali Jan Abdul Hadi Ltd., to lend an air of respectability to fake documents.

Toward the end, Mr. Fruzi even expensed foreign shopping sprees at stores like Louis Vuitton and Versace in Dubai and New Delhi. Mr. Farnood was snapping up villas in Dubai with bank money, though he has maintained they were investments gone bad, nothing more.

Bailing out depositors cost the cash-strapped Afghan government more than $825 million, and Afghan and Western officials say that only between $200 million and $400 million, depending on how assets are valued, has so far been recovered from shareholders.

For many Afghans, the scandal surrounding Kabul Bank, a linchpin of the economic order established here by Americans and their allies, has cemented the opinion that the United States brought crony capitalism, not free markets, to Afghanistan. The audit is likely to reinforce that view while raising potentially troubling questions about who is being prosecuted here in connection with the scandal, and who is not.

The United States and its allies have pressed hard for prosecutions, threatening to cut aid if no action was taken. The completion of the forensic audit, which was financed by international donors and delivered in March, was another demand by the international community, as was a separate report, due later this week, by an Afghan government-funded but largely independent corruption watchdog commission composed of Afghan and foreign experts.

Mr. Farnood and Mr. Fruzi top the list of 22 defendants charged so far, and both are on trial in Kabul. Many others on the list are Kabul Bank executives who are accused of helping to carry out fraud, though it is unclear whether they personally profited.

Few officials have any problem with those prosecutions. But there are questions about the charges brought by Afghan prosecutors against a few officials at Afghanistan’s central bank. Western officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, expressed worries that those cases appeared to be intended to end further investigation into Kabul Bank. Kroll has said it has no evidence that the Bank of Afghanistan’s staff members were complicit in Kabul Bank’s collapse.

In the most prominent such case, the former chairman of the Bank of Afghanistan, Abdul Qadeer Fitrat, has been indicted primarily for failing to warn the Afghan government about Kabul Bank and concealing the fraud there — an accusation that one Western official called “laughable.” Several Western and Afghan officials insist that Mr. Fitrat had actively pressed inquiries of Kabul Bank, and believed he had been indicted in order to scare him off. He fled the country last year.

Even Mr. Farnood said Mr. Fitrat had done nothing wrong: “Fitrat was the one person who was not involved in any bribing,” he said in a telephone interview.

The situation was particularly galling, the officials said, because apart from Mr. Farnood and Mr. Fruzi, the other “high-value beneficiaries” — each of whom still owes at least $5 million to the bank, Kroll estimates — have yet to face any legal action. That group includes Mahmood Karzai, the president’s brother, and Haseen Fahim, the vice president’s brother.

In an interview, Mahmood Karzai said he had repaid all the money he originally owed, an amount he put at $5.3 million. He insisted that Kroll had miscalculated and included assets he never owned, like a villa in Dubai, when it tallied his liability at $30.5 million.

He called Kroll “a piece of puke” and said it had relied too heavily on evidence provided by Mr. Farnood, who in the summer of 2010 began cooperating with American officials and, subsequently, Afghan investigators after a dispute with his fellow shareholders.

Neither Mr. Fahim nor Mr. Fruzi responded to phone messages seeking comment.

Kabul Bank did serve some legitimate functions — for instance, the United States paid the salaries of hundreds of thousands of soldiers, police and teachers through it.

But many of the bank’s practices seemed tailor-made to lure depositors by any means available. One popular gimmick detailed by the audit was known as a Bakht account, which offered those who opened them a chance to win houses, cars and jewelry at glitzy prize drawings.

The only real winners, however, were the bank’s senior managers and their friends, the audit found. The new depositors’ money was used principally “to provide free financing to the other business interests of senior management and a group of connected persons.”
557 2012-11-27 Water levels on the Mississippi near St. Louis are approaching record lows — and whether or not the Coast Guard actually closes down navigation, the effect on shipping will be the same, said Martin Hettel, a senior manager at the American Electric Power River Operations. “Economics will shut the river down,” he said.

Carriers have so far responded to low water by loading barges with less cargo so that they will ride higher in the water, reducing their own efficiency. But as the river level continues to drop, Mr. Hettel said, “you can load the barges lighter, but if you don’t have a light-draft towboat you can’t move them.”

The effects, he predicted, will not be felt by businesses alone. “When the cost of shipping raw materials goes up, the consumer ends up paying for that,” he said.

Maj. Gen. John W. Peabody, the commander of the Mississippi Valley division of the corps, said at a Nov. 16 news conference in St. Louis that the corps has been actively dredging the river and has released smaller amounts of water from other reservoirs, but has to think about long-term response to the drought. “Some people compare this to a battle,” he said, but “I compare it to a campaign — this is not something we can solve in a few days, or a few weeks, or even if a few months if we have a persistent enough drought.” He added, “We’re going to have to husband our resources for when the situation gets truly dire — and in my personal estimate, we are not there yet.”

The reservoirs along the upper Missouri are already 20 percent below the levels that normally get the region through the coming year’s drought season and that allow commercial navigation on the Missouri between April and November, said Charles Shadie, chief of the watershed division for the Mississippi Valley division; “they are already concerned that they may not have a full navigation season on the Missouri next year.”

The corps is also taking on a blasting project, which will allow traffic to proceed despite the low water levels. The project will eliminate rock formations known as pinnacles in Southern Illinois at Thebes and Grand Tower, but the work is not projected to begin until February. Fifteen senators and 62 House members have asked for the government to speed up the process.

Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who was the principal author of the Senate letter, said that disrupting traffic along the Mississippi, “has the potential to impact the entire economy along the river — everything from increasing the cost to move goods to potential job losses.”

He called for President Obama to issue an emergency declaration to increase water flow from the Missouri and to get rid of the pinnacles quickly.

“The only person that’s going to be able help us is the person who lives at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” Mr. Hettel said. “Unless we get rain.”

At the St. Louis news conference, General Peabody jokingly recommended an appeal to an even higher authority. “If anybody knows how to create rain upriver of where we are today, I encourage you to leverage the impact that you have,” he said.
558 2012-11-27 The possibility of a credit downgrade also hangs in the air, something that could lead to more selling.

“There is no specific event looming on the horizon,” said Alan Schankel, a managing director at Janney Capital Markets in Philadelphia. “But it’s a problem of immense magnitude, and it’s very challenging to sit here and see how they work their way out of it.”

Puerto Rico needs to be able to issue bonds at attractive rates to cover its short-term financing needs. Perhaps more important, it has to figure out how to salvage its retirement funds. After shortchanging them for years, it now has the weakest major public pension system in America.

The main fund, which serves about 250,000 government workers, past and present, is only 6 percent funded — a small percentage of what is considered the minimum needed for a marginally healthy pension plan — and could run out of money as soon as 2014. Another fund, for about 80,000 teachers, which is 20 percent funded, will last just a few years longer if nothing is done. Police officers and teachers in Puerto Rico have opted out of Social Security and rely entirely on their pensions.

“For now, I’m not totally shaken about the possibility of the fund going broke,” said Jorge Ramón Román, a 78-year-old retired instructor for the island’s Civil Air Patrol. “But I do fear for the future, when I’ll be an even older person, more infirm and with less of a pension.”

Héctor M. Mayol Kauffman, the executive director of the pension system, said it would be impossible to cut the benefits of people who are already retired, citing court precedent.

Puerto Rican officials were racing this fall to put together a rescue plan for the pension fund. Voters, though, pushed out Gov. Luis Fortuño, who had tried austerity measures that included cutting tens of thousands of government workers along with a revamping of the fund.

They elected Alejandro García Padilla, who promised to create 50,000 new jobs in the next 18 months. But the margin was razor-thin and Mr. Fortuño has requested a recount. Mr. García Padilla’s party had dropped out of the retirement overhaul effort, but the governor-elect says he will deal with the looming pension crisis with “diligence and promptness” and has put together a task force of economists and financial advisers.

“We will not leave retired government workers stranded at a bus stop in their older years,” he said.

Since the election, yields on the island’s 30-year bonds have continued to widen.

“I don’t think that there’s a default that’s about to happen, but a default isn’t the only bad thing that can happen when you’ve got bonds,” Mr. Schankel said. Puerto Rico’s bonds are just a notch or two above junk status. If they fall to that level, at least some institutions would be forced to sell, potentially setting off a chain reaction. And individual investors could get a jolt if they saw the value of their holdings fall. Many people own Puerto Rican debt without knowing it, through their mutual funds.

“The concern is that Puerto Rico is a systemic risk to the municipal bond market because it’s so widely held,” said Robert Donahue, a managing director with Municipal Market Advisors.

Three days after the election, Standard & Poor’s, citing “prolonged inaction on pension reforms,”said there was at least a one-in-three chance that it would downgrade Puerto Rico’s credit by early 2013.

Juan Carlos Batlle, president of Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank, called the warning “a bit premature,” in testimony before the new government’s transition committee, saying that the new government would maintain fiscal discipline.

The central question for Governor-elect García Padilla is the same one that faced his predecessor: How to get Puerto Rico’s economy growing fast.

In addition to selling assets and restructuring bonds to postpone payments due, officials have also been pitching Puerto Rico as a hot new tax haven for hedge funds, real estate investors and other high-paying businesses, hoping to attract jobs and spur growth.

That strategy has worked in the past, attracting a number of big pharmaceutical companies — but last year Mr. Fortuño’s government hit those companies with a big excise tax, to help pay for tax cuts for nearly everyone else. There are hopes that the United States Treasury will grant the affected companies a separate tax break, to cushion the blow.

Manufacturing jobs have been dwindling for years, and the economy went into a tailspin in 2006, after lawmakers hit an impasse and the government ran out of cash, forcing a two-week shutdown. Puerto Rico created a special entity, called the Cofina, much like the Municipal Assistance Corporation that helped New York City stay afloat during the fiscal crisis of 1975.

The Cofina has borrowed to balance the budget every year and has virtually used up its $15 billion borrowing capacity. But the budget deficit, while smaller than before, keeps coming back. In 2009, it was $2.9 billion, according to the Center for the New Economy, a research group in San Juan; now it is closer to $1 billion.

Outstanding public debt has exploded to about $67 billion, although tallies differ depending on what types of debt are counted. Relative to personal income, Puerto Rico’s public debt is almost 10 times that of Hawaii, which has the highest debt-to-income ratio of the 50 states, according to Moody’s Investors Service.

Puerto Rico does not have the extra $2 billion a year it would need to pay its retirees if it exhausts its retirement fund. A collapse of the fund would set off a broader fiscal emergency, with officials forced to make excruciating choices among paying schoolteachers and the police, fixing the roads, providing drinking water and paying all those far-flung bondholders on time.

Republican members of the Joint Economic Committee warned this fall that some state pension funds were at risk of running out of money, and “governors and mayors will inevitably come to Washington requesting bailouts.”

The group recommended imposing penalties now — like federal aid cuts — on laggard states, to show that bailouts were out of the question. The report, issued in September, did not mention territories, however.

An outside audit of Puerto Rico’s pension system in 2009 found that it had been mismanaged practically from its inception in 1951. Lawmakers never appropriated enough money to cover the benefits, but layered on more and more extras — Christmas bonuses, summer bonuses, medication bonuses, health plan contributions, and others. There was even a provision that allowed people to enlarge their lifetime benefits by 50 percent with a single day’s extra work.

Mr. Ramón said his benefits were not exactly princely — after 31 years of service, he gets just $1,000 a month and the government deducts health premiums from it.

But even modest benefits can be costly when retirees draw them over many years — Mr. Ramón retired at 54, for example — and when the government fails to set aside anywhere near enough money in advance.

Mr. Ramón said he was following news about the pension fund intently.

“I am quite aware that this is not a problem unique to Puerto Rico,” he said, “but that doesn’t calm your nerves.”
559 2012-11-27 Company executives said they had done so based on their “good faith” interpretation of how the F.D.A. would act if it publicly released the report under the Freedom of Information Act. But both an F.D.A spokeswoman and a lawyer who specializes in medical devices took exception with that view, saying that names of approved products typically do not qualify as the type of confidential business information that the F.D.A. would redact.

Among other things, F.D.A. inspectors found significant flaws in the company’s testing and oversight of the Durata. It was those revelations and the implications that the problems could lead to further F.D.A. action against St. Jude that led to the sharp fall last week in its stock price.

In 2005, Guidant, a device maker that no longer exists, also found itself under scrutiny. Back then, its executives decided not to tell doctors that one of its defibrillators could short-circuit when a patient needed an electrical jolt to save a life. The expert who brought the Guidant problem to light, Dr. Robert Hauser, a heart specialist in Minnesota, has also raised concerns about the St. Jude wires, adding that he believes that its executives have been less than forthright.

“Patients and physicians would appreciate more information,” Dr. Hauser said.

In an earlier interview, St. Jude’s chief executive, Daniel J. Starks, said the company had hidden nothing about the Durata or another heart wire named the Riata, which it stopped selling in 2010.

“We’ve been more transparent than others,” said Mr. Starks, referring to company competitors like Medtronic.

Still, some Wall Street analysts share Dr. Hauser’s view. And if one St. Jude executive can claim credit for shaping their opinion, it would be Mr. Starks.

Earlier this year, he sought, among other things, to have a medical journal retract an article written by Dr. Hauser that was critical of the Riata. The publication refused.

Now, after St. Jude’s latest misfire, Wall Street analysts, who usually agree more than disagree, are placing wildly differing bets on St. Jude, with some valuing it at $48 a share and others at $30. On Monday, St. Jude closed at $31.86 on the New York Stock Exchange.

One of those bearish analysts, Matthew Dodds of Citigroup, said he thought the Food and Drug Administration might act soon on Durata. “I believe that a lot of their actions have made the situation worse, ” he said of the company’s executives.

A St. Jude spokeswoman, Amy Jo Meyer, reiterated the company’s stance that it had interpreted agency rules in “good faith” when releasing the redacted report about the Durata. An F.D.A. spokeswoman, Mary Long, said the agency did not consider the names of approved products to be confidential. And a lawyer, William Vodra, said that while device makers try to make a confidentiality argument for product data they consider embarrassing, like injury reports, they rarely succeed.

“In my experience, the F.D.A. consistently rejects” such arguments, Mr. Vodra wrote in an e-mail.

For patients, the dilemma may become more excruciating. The company’s earlier heart wire, the Riata, has begun failing prematurely in some of the 128,000 patients worldwide who received it. And those patients and their doctors face a difficult decision: whether to leave it in place or have it surgically removed, a procedure that carries significant risks.

St. Jude executives say that the Durata, which uses a different type of insulation than the Riata, is not prone to such problems.

And with the Durata already implanted in 278,000 people, many heart specialists certainly hope they are right.
560 2012-11-27 Mr. Guyot was taken to a cell and beaten some more. The cell door was left open to the outside, with a knife lying just beyond. The guards’ apparent idea was to entice him to try to escape, but he saw two men lurking outside and stayed in his cell. “I didn’t fall for that one,” he is quoted as saying in “My Soul Is Rested: The Story of the Civil Rights Movement in the Deep South” (1977), by Howell Raines.

Mr. Guyot was released after Medgar Evers, another civil rights activist, was assassinated in Jackson, Miss., on June 12. Mr. Guyot thought that the authorities feared the effects of another assassination of a civil rights worker when national attention was focused on Mississippi.

Later in 1963, Mr. Guyot was imprisoned at the infamous Mississippi penitentiary Parchman Farm. He was beaten, and went on a 17-day hunger strike. He lost 100 pounds. “It was a question of defiance,” he said in an interview with NPR in 2011. “We were not going to let them have complete control over us.”

In a recent interview with The Afro-American Newspapers, Timothy Jenkins, an educator who worked with Mr. Guyot in the 1960s said: “He is significant because he knew there is a price more ultimate than death. It is disgrace.”

Lawrence Thomas Guyot Jr. was born in Pass Christian, Miss., on July 17, 1939. His father was a contractor. Mr. Guyot attended Tougaloo College in Tougaloo, Miss., a historically black college that had some white faculty members and welcomed white students. He graduated with a degree in chemistry and biology in 1963.

While in college, he became involved with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and traveled around the state conducting civil rights workshops and doing other organizing. He and his colleagues concentrated on voter registration, not desegregation. When he took someone to the courthouse to register, he was often followed by two cars of whites.

Mr. Guyot was haunted by a 1964 conversation he had with Michael Schwerner, the civil rights worker who would be murdered that year along with his fellow workers Andrew Goodman and James Chaney. As Mr. Schwerner was preparing to drive to Mississippi from a training session in Ohio, he asked Mr. Guyot if it was safe to go. Mr. Guyot said yes, and always felt responsible for what happened later.

“I told him to go because I thought there was so much publicity that nothing could happen,” Mr. Guyot said in an interview with The Sun Herald of Biloxi, Miss. “I was absolutely wrong.”

In 1968, while in Chicago as a delegate to the Democratic convention, Mr. Guyot went to a doctor after falling ill. The doctor told him that he had heart trouble and was overweight, and that if he went back to the civil rights struggle in Mississippi he had perhaps two months to live. Instead he went to Rutgers School of Law and, after graduating in 1971, moved to Washington, where he did legal work for city agencies and was an informal adviser to Mayor Marion Barry, a fellow native Mississippian.

In addition to his daughter, Mr. Guyot is survived by his wife of 47 years, the former Monica Klein; his son, Lawrence III; and four grandchildren.

Mr. Guyot favored same-sex marriage when it was illegal everywhere in the United States, noting that he had married a white woman when that was illegal in some states. He often gave inspirational speeches on the meaning of the civil rights movement.

“There is nothing like having risked your life with people over something immensely important to you,” he said in 2004. “As Churchill said, there’s nothing more exhilarating than to have been shot at — and missed.”
561 2012-11-27 Emily Squires, who brought a flair to musical numbers as an Emmy Award-winning director and producer of “Sesame Street,” died on Wednesday in Manhattan. She was 71.

The cause has not yet been determined, her husband, Len Belzer, said.

Ms. Squires was a member of a team of “Sesame Street” directors — among them Jon Stone, Lisa Simon and Ted May — that won six Daytime Emmys for outstanding directing of a children’s series between 1995 and 2007. Over her 25 years as a director, starting in 1982, Ms. Squires received 18 Emmy nominations.

“She would do the street pieces as well as the Muppet pieces,” said Dulcy Singer, who was executive producer of “Sesame Street” throughout the 1980s. “But in those days we were doing big musical numbers within the shows, and she had a terrific eye for that.”

Sonia Manzano, who played Maria, the co-owner of the “Sesame Street” fix-it shop, for nearly 40 years, recalled a 1984 segment in which Ms. Squires directed a takeoff of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers in the 1935 movie “Top Hat.”

In an elaborate gown, Maria and her tuxedo-clad husband, Luis (Emilio Delgado), glide across the floor, dancing to a song titled “Hola” — a teaching device for the Spanish word for hello. “It was a perfect balance between wide shots and close-ups,” Ms. Manzano said in an interview.

Ms. Squires was the first woman to be a director on “Sesame Street,” and she helped break other barriers. “She wanted to work on the show because it was making changes in racial stereotypes in America, in addition to gender stereotypes,” Ms. Manzano said.
562 2012-11-27 When the Knicks cobbled together their roster this summer, they emphasized experience. As they did, there were inherent risks. Now they were the oldest team in the N.B.A., and if a key veteran or two were injured, issues involving chemistry and depth would arise.

Jason Kidd, the most valuable of those new veterans, was the first casualty among their starters, only 12 games into the season.

Because of back spasms, Kidd did not play against the Nets, who won, 96-89, in overtime Monday. Kidd had the same injury last season, forcing him to miss four games with the Dallas Mavericks.

“I don’t know much yet,” Coach Mike Woodson said. “We’ll evaluate him tomorrow.”

Kidd is questionable for Wednesday’s game against Milwaukee.

“J does a lot for them, even if doesn’t show up in the stats,” said the Nets’ Deron Williams, who finished with 14 assists, the same amount as the Knicks. “He’s one of the greatest point guards to ever play the game, so the ball is going to definitely move a lot better with him out there. I think they are going to push the ball a little bit more in transition, but we did a great job of getting back and stopping them. But you can definitely tell they missed him out there.”
563 2012-11-27 The Coast Guard ended a search Monday for a teenager whose parents were killed after they plunged into the powerful surf in a nightmarish chain of events that started when their son tried to save the family dog from drowning. Eureka residents Mary Elena Scott, 57, and Howard Gregory Kuljian, 54, both drowned Saturday. The boy, Gregory James Kuljian, is presumed dead. Ten-foot waves had pulled the dog into the ocean as it ran to retrieve a stick at Big Lagoon, about 300 miles north of San Francisco, the authorities said. The dog returned to shore.
564 2012-11-27 With the free app Bump, users can bump or tap their phones together to share contact information. The phones vibrate when they, or the hands holding them, make contact, and information is exchanged between the users’ address books.

If both users are signed into Facebook or LinkedIn, a list of acquaintances they have in common on those sites and in their address books will be displayed. Users can also transmit a photo, for example, of a product they sell if they are meeting at a trade show. Once two people have exchanged data, they can stay in touch using a messaging feature in the app. Bump works across platforms on Android and Apple devices.

With so many contacts flooding into business travelers’ address books, the details of how they met, what they talked about or why someone may be a good contact in the future can fade. Apps like Contacts Journal ($7.99 for iOS, or a free trial version) help users keep track of interactions. Documents like contracts or brochures can be attached to contact information, and users can see a map with pushpins denoting their contacts’ locations.

Many networking apps go beyond electronic business card exchanges and mobile contact databases. LinkedIn is the largest player in the business networking market, with more than 187 million members around the world. In addition to displaying their résumés online, LinkedIn members “connect” to people they know on the service, creating a virtual who-knows-whom map. Job seekers can look for a specific hiring manager and see if they have any connections in common. An employer evaluating a job candidate can get a trusted reference from someone they both know.

The basic functions of LinkedIn are free for individual users. For a monthly fee ranging from $16 to $500, users can gain access to additional search features and contact other members directly without waiting for an electronic introduction.

To network while on a business trip, travelers can use the free Planely Web site to type in their flight itineraries and see who else is traveling at the same time, with overlapping flight plans. Conference- or conventiongoers might find other attendees to share a taxi to the hotel, for instance. Nervous fliers might find someone to take their mind off a long or bumpy flight. The app lists all the Planely travelers on the user’s flight and those who are passing through the airport at the same time, to create a “social flying experience.”

Some networking apps use the phone owner’s location. The Friendthem app works with Facebook, displaying all members who are nearby and have signed up to be visible. This allows two people who meet at a conference, or perhaps at a hotel bar, to become Facebook friends easily, without having to search through a list of similar names to find the right person.

Friend requests can be sent to people who appear nearby, but no instant messaging is available because “our users don’t want creepy people sending them messages like, ‘I see you across the room,’ ” said Charles Sankowich, chief executive and founder of Friendthem. “We want our users to have total control of who communicates with them.” Friendthem also allows users to specify “hiding places,” like home or work, where they want to be invisible.

At home or on the road, the MeetMe app can offer two people convenient locations to meet. Users can choose the type of restaurant they want and use a slider bar to specify whether the meeting place should be equidistant from the two people or closer to one of them. The app also displays user reviews of meeting places and information from Yelp.com, along with directions.

There are, of course, downsides to the constant tracking of business colleagues. Networking apps make it harder to excuse not getting in touch with people by claiming you lost their card or did not know they had changed jobs. “The location-aware apps can also be tricky,” said James Sun, chief executive of Pirq, a mobile app developer in Seattle, “because once someone knows you are in the area, can you avoid having coffee with them?”

And the convenience and abundance of digital contact can be overwhelming, said David Domke, a communications professor at the University of Washington. People can become almost numb to the constant stream of data. “That’s why face to face, human interaction between people has become even more valuable in the digital age,” he said.

Still, users say social media can make initial business meetings less awkward. When she was applying for her current job, Ms. Avvari found the hiring manager’s Twitter stream and noticed they shared a love of baked goods. During the interview, Ms. Avvari brought up her own passion for food and her food blog, which she might not have mentioned otherwise, and the two hit it off.

“Whether it’s an employer or customer, I think few people realize how valuable researching them on social media can be for business,” she said.

Twitter also offers in-person networking on the road. At conferences, there might be a Twitter hashtag, Ms. Avvari said, like #CIAS for the Canadian International Auto Show, so attendees can see one another’s posts. “Sometimes I’ll see a funny or interesting tweet and ask to meet that person for coffee during one of the breaks,” she said.

Krista Canfield, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn, said she used the site to meet people when she traveled for her job. “If I am going to Japan or Brazil and I don’t know anyone,” she said, “I try to connect with people who know someone in my network and meet them for a meal, instead of eating alone.”
565 2012-11-27 This troubled me. Some of our patients were very young, very deserving. Aside from their kidney disease, there was nothing else wrong with them. I wondered then if it might be possible to do organ transplants, because kidneys are fairly simple in terms of their plumbing. I thought in gardening terms. Might it not be possible to do an organ graft, replacing a malfunctioning organ with a healthy one? I was told, “No, that’s impossible.”

Well, I’ve always tended to dislike being told that something can’t be done. I’ve always had a somewhat rebellious nature. Just ask my wife.

When did you first think it might be a real possibility?

Around 1957. I was teaching anatomy at Oxford. I attended a lecture there by the great biologist Sir Peter Medawar, who showed slides of successful skin grafts between white mice and black mice. Though he insisted that there was “no clinical application whatsoever,” I wondered, “Why couldn’t we do something like that with kidneys?”

Afterwards, I began to devote myself to the two main obstacles to transplantation. One was surgical and the other immunological. In America, at that time, Tom Starzl, then at Colorado, and Francis Moore at Harvard were separately working on the surgical techniques. But I was in Britain, and there was no one there who could teach me. And so I worked out the surgical problem for myself. I taught myself how to transplant kidneys in dogs.

Once I’d done that, the big problem was to find some way to prevent the immune system from rejecting the transplanted organs. I sought some way to make the immune system temporarily malleable, as it is in the fetus. If you performed the transplant during a period of plasticity, the hope was that you could avoid rejection. In those days, the only described method for doing that was X-ray irradiation, shutting down the immune system by destroying it.

Well, that didn’t work. It just made the dogs desperately ill and it didn’t stop rejection. That led me to wonder if there wasn’t some other method of immunosuppression we could consider — a drug perhaps?

How long did it take you to find something effective?

The first sign that we might have something came in 1959, when we tried the anti-leukemia drug 6-mercaptopurine with dogs who’d had kidney grafts. Some lived quite a long time. And this was a big step. It changed something that had been total failure to a partial success. Even Peter Medawar thought we were on to something.

But cyclosporine was the real watershed. We tested it in my laboratory at the University of Cambridge during the mid-1970s. By 1977, it had moved the success rate from 50 percent to 80 percent. That really changed attitudes. Before cyclosporine, you had only 10 centers around the world doing organ transplants. Afterwards, it was 1,000. And now we had a whole new problem: not enough donor organs to meet demand.

Is there any solution to the shortage of donor organs?

I think an “opt out” program would work better than what you currently have in the United States. They are doing this in Spain, and it has worked very well. It offers the option for people to say “no” to have their organs used after death. If they don’t take it, this is regarded as permission. This changes the atmosphere and the perception.

Are you intrigued by the ethical questions your discoveries have brought?

Well, one of the reasons we have them is that the results are so good. If we hadn’t had successes, we wouldn’t have ethical concerns.

Still, it’s one thing to transplant organs from deceased donors and another to pressure people to donate while alive. My profession has been very cavalier about taking organs from live donors — especially livers. Sometimes adults are willing to donate half their livers because of tremendous pressure from their families. With half a liver, there’s a definite mortality rate, probably around 1 percent, maybe 2 percent, for the donor.

I’ve seen tremendous disruption in families where a wife said, “My husband wants to give half his liver to his brother, but he’s the breadwinner in our family and I don’t want him to do it.”

What about the growth of “transplant tourism,” where patients from wealthy countries travel to poorer ones to find organs?

That’s terrible — verges on the criminal, really. We’ve heard stories where a well-respected surgeon is asked to go to a third world country, and he gets there and the recipient has cirrhosis and the donor is his “cousin.” In fact, the donor is probably some poor peasant who is apparently being paid for it. One hears of disasters where the surgeon has to work in countries with poor facilities and both the donor and the recipient have died. The surgeon returns home to this horrible news.

These kinds of events can occur in countries where power is abused. We can just imagine what would have happened in Nazi Germany if organ transplantation had existed in the 1930s.

You did a lot of your early experiments on dogs and pigs. What do animal rights activists think of your work?

They once sent me a bomb. I was suspicious and phoned up the army — who blew it up. This was right around the time cyclosporine was first being used. A BBC director did a program on a child who’d been saved with it. And after that, I had no more trouble with animal rights. Not because they loved me. But that they thought it wouldn’t do them any good if they killed someone treating children.

The Lasker prize, which you and Tom Starzl just won, is often called the Pre-Nobel. Were the Lasker judges saying to Stockholm, “Hey, isn’t it time you honored this world-changing discovery?”

Well, I don’t know how they work in Stockholm. If you look at the amount of good that resulted from organ transplantation it fits very much into what Alfred Nobel wanted the prize to be used for.

I get a lot of satisfaction a different way. I have a patient and it’s been 38 years since his transplant. He’s just come back from a 150-mile trek bicycling through the mountains. That’s my reward.
566 2012-11-27 “I’ve been doing this for over two decades and talking to hospital leaders about readmissions, and I used to get polite but blank stares,” said Dr. Eric Coleman, a professor at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus who has devised widely adopted methods to reduce hospitalizations. “Now they’re paying attention.”

With nearly one in five Medicare patients returning to the hospital within a month — about two million people a year — readmissions cost the government more than $17 billion annually.

Hospitals’ traditional reluctance to tackle readmissions is rooted in Medicare’s payment system. Medicare generally pays hospitals a set fee for a patient’s stay, so the shorter the visit, the more revenue a hospital can keep. Hospitals also get paid when patients return. Until the new penalties kicked in, hospitals had no incentive to make sure patients didn’t wind up coming back. The maximum penalty is set to double next October and then reach 3 percent of reimbursements in October 2015. Medicare also is expanding the list of conditions it will assess in setting punishments.

Right now it only evaluates readmissions of heart attack, heart failure and pneumonia patients, counting every rebound, even ones not related to the original reason for hospitalization. The penalties are based on readmission rates in the past and applied to future payments for all Medicare patients.

Researchers say that while some readmissions are unavoidable, many are caused by the short shrift hospitals have given patients on their way out.

Jonathan Blum, principal deputy administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the penalties had helped galvanize hospitals’ efforts to avoid readmissions. “We’ve seen a small but significant reduction,” he said. “That tells me we’ve focused the industry on improvement.”

Medicare’s tough love is not going over well everywhere. Academic medical centers are complaining that the penalties do not take into account the extra challenges posed by extremely sick and low-income patients. For these people, getting medicine and follow-up care can be a struggle.

At Barnes-Jewish Hospital, Dr. Lynch said physicians from all over the Midwest referred their sickest heart patients to his facility for transplants and other major interventions. But those patients can skew his hospital’s readmissions numbers, he said: “The weaker your heart, the more advanced your emphysema, the more likely you are to be readmitted to the hospital.”

Dr. Lynch said Barnes-Jewish set up follow-up appointments for patients who didn’t have their own doctors. But about half of the patients never showed up, he said, even after the hospital made reminder phone calls and arranged for free rides. Sending nurses to see patients at home did not significantly reduce readmission rates either, he said.

“Many of us have been working on this for other reasons than a penalty for many years, and we’ve found it’s very hard to move,” Dr. Lynch said. He said the penalties were unfair to hospitals with the double burden of caring for very sick and very poor patients.

“For us, it’s not a readmissions penalty,” he said. “It’s a mission penalty.”

Various studies, including one commissioned by Medicare, have found that the hospitals with the most poor and African-American patients tended to have higher readmission rates than hospitals with more affluent and Caucasian patients. But the studies also determined that some safety-net hospitals performed better than average, showing that hospitals can overcome the challenges posed by the kinds of patients they treat.

In some ways, the debate parallels the one on education — specifically, whether educators should be held accountable for lower rates of progress among children from poor families.

“Just blaming the patients or saying ‘it’s destiny’ or ‘we can’t do any better’ is a premature conclusion and is likely to be wrong,” said Dr. Harlan Krumholz, director of the Center for Outcomes Research and Evaluation at Yale-New Haven Hospital, which prepared the study for Medicare. “I’ve got to believe we can do much, much better.”

Some researchers fear the Medicare penalties are so steep, they will distract hospitals from other pressing issues, like reducing infections and surgical mistakes and ensuring patients’ needs are met promptly. “It should not be our top priority,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health who has studied readmissions. “If you think of all the things in the Affordable Care Act, this is the one that has the biggest penalties, and that’s just crazy.”

With pressure to avert readmissions rising, some hospitals have been suspected of sending patients home within 24 hours, so they can bill for the services but not have the stay counted as an admission. But most hospitals are scrambling to reduce the number of repeat patients, with mixed success.

A few days after Eda Laurion was discharged from the Banner Del E. Webb Medical Center near Phoenix after treatment for her congestive heart failure in August, a nurse showed up at her house.

“She helped explained the medicines I’m taking, the side effects, what they do for you,” said Ms. Laurion, 91, of Sun City West.

Still, readmissions can’t always be prevented. The nurse, Sue Koner, sent Ms. Laurion back to the hospital after two weeks for dangerously low sodium caused by an undiagnosed kidney problem. However, Ms. Laurion avoided re-hospitalization in October when Ms. Koner deduced that her hallucinations were a reaction to an antibiotic.

Overseeing former patients is expensive and time-consuming, so many hospitals are relying on financing from community health organizations and foundations. Ms. Koner works for Sun Health, a foundation-supported nonprofit. Since Sun Health started its program in November 2011, only nine of 213 patients have been readmitted.

Dr. Krumholz said hospitals should think of readmissions as a challenge to overcome. “One day, we’ll look back,” he said, “and we’ll be incredulous that one out of every five patients ended up back in the hospital.”
567 2012-11-27 The horror-themed memorabilia collection of Kirk Hammett, the lead guitarist for the band Metallica, is the subject of “Too Much Horror Business,” a new coffee table book from Abrams.  The 228-page book features photographs of hundreds of items in Mr. Hammett’s vast collection, which includes toys, costumes, dolls, games, masks, original artwork and other mementos.

Following is a selection of horror movie posters featured in the book, along with links to the films’ trailers.
568 2012-11-27 He said that the president meant all along to follow an established Egyptian legal doctrine suspending judicial scrutiny of presidential “acts of sovereignty” that work “to protect the main institutions of the state.” The judicial council had said Sunday that it could bless aspects of the decree deemed to qualify under the doctrine.

Mr. Morsi had maintained from the start that his purpose was to empower himself to prevent judges appointed by former President from dissolving the constituent assembly, which is led by his fellow Islamists of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party. The courts have already dissolved the Islamist-led Parliament and an earlier constituent assembly, and the Supreme Constitutional Court was widely expected to rule against this one next week.

But the text of the original decree had exempted all presidential edicts from judicial review until the ratification of a constitution, not just those edicts related to the assembly or justified as “acts of sovereignty.”

Legal experts said that the spokesman’s explanations of the president’s intentions, if put into effect, would amount to a revision of the decree Mr. Morsi issued last Thursday. But lawyers said that the verbal statements alone carried little legal weight.

How the courts would apply the doctrine remained hard to predict. And Mr. Morsi’s opposition indicated it was holding out for far greater concessions, including the breakup of the whole constituent assembly.

Speaking at a news conference while Mr. Morsi was meeting with the judges, the opposition activist and intellectual Abdel Haleem Qandeil called for “a long-term battle,” declaring that withdrawal of Mr. Morsi’s new powers was only the first step toward the opposition’s goal of “the withdrawal of the legitimacy of Morsi’s presence in the presidential palace.” Completely withdrawing the edict would be “a minimum,” he said.

Khaled Ali, a human rights lawyer and former presidential candidate, pointed to the growing crowd of protesters camped out in Tahrir Square for a fourth night. “The one who did the action has to take it back,” Mr. Ali said.

Moataz Abdel Fattah, a political scientist at Cairo University, said Mr. Morsi was saving face during a strategic retreat. “He is trying to simply say, ‘I am not a new pharaoh; I am just trying to stabilize the institutions that we already have,’ ” he said. “But for the liberals, this is now their moment, and for sure they are not going to waste it, because he has given them an excellent opportunity to score.”

The attempt to qualify Mr. Morsi’s position follows four days of rising tensions and flashes of violence set off by his edict. He argued that he was forced to act because of indications that the Mubarak-appointed judges of Egypt’s top courts were poised to dissolve the constitutional assembly as soon as next week. The courts had already shuttered the democratically elected Parliament and an earlier constitutional assembly — both dominated by Islamists — and the courts had also rejected an earlier decree he issued to try to reopen Parliament.

By enabling the current assembly to complete its work, Mr. Morsi said, he would expedite the transition to a stable democracy with a written constitution and an elected parliament that would limit his own powers. His supporters portrayed his assertion of executive power over the judges as a triumph of democracy over Egypt’s unelected arms of the old Mubarak government.

But infringement on the courts touched a nerve. Under Mr. Mubarak’s authoritarian rule, the Egyptians had grown cynical about corrupt and politicized judges but still cherished their courts as the source of at least the promise of impartial justice and some check on power. And over the past decade, a judges’ campaign for judicial independence had helped lay the groundwork for the 2011 revolt.

To his surprise, according to at least one adviser, Mr. Morsi’s decree exempting himself from judicial scrutiny set off a furious reaction. The president’s fractious political opponents galvanized together into a unified coalition against him. Vandals attacked more than a dozen headquarters of his political party. Thousands demonstrated in the streets. Judges called for a national strike, which has begun in some places.

And the justice minister, a former leader of the judicial independence movement, publicly dissented, arguing that Mr. Morsi should limit his attempt to assert from judicial oversight to acts only related to protecting the constituent assembly or other elected bodies — something the clarification offered Monday appeared to do.

In , a State Department spokeswoman said Monday that Secretary of State had spoken about the decree on Monday with her Egyptian counterpart, Mohamed Amr. Mrs. Clinton had told him, “We want to see the constitutional process move forward in a way that does not overly concentrate power in one set of hands,” the spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said, and she suggested that the Egyptian government had offered signs that a compromise was in the works.

“Our understanding from the Egyptian side is that there are now discussions ongoing among a number of the stakeholders, that President Morsi is conducting consultations with various groups, including with the judiciary,” Ms. Nuland said. The clarification Mr. Morsi offered on Monday also pulled back one of the most popular elements of his decree. He had called for retrials for officials of the former government, including Mr. Mubarak, accused of directing the killing of civilians during the revolt. Many Egyptians have been outraged at acquittals or what they consider to be inadequate sentences handed down in such trials; Mr. Mubarak’s life sentence was accompanied by a convoluted court statement that appeared to pave the way for a release on appeal.

But on Monday, Mr. Morsi’s spokesman said the president’s decree had not meant to provide new trials for the same crimes, a violation of Egyptian and international law. Instead, the spokesman said the decree had only meant to provide for new trials if new evidence emerged. That is already a part of Egyptian law, so the clarification rendered that provision of the decree moot.

Mr. Morsi’s decree had also sought to replace the Mubarak-appointed chief prosecutor, who was widely blamed for failing to pursue corrupt Mubarak government officials aggressively. But Egyptian law had blocked Mr. Morsi from removing him. It was unclear whether Mr. Morsi would now argue that replacing the chief prosecutor was justified as an “act of sovereignty,” the doctrine the spokesman cited to justify immunity from judicial scrutiny of other presidential edicts “to protect the main institutions of the state.”

Hossam Bahgat, executive director of a human rights group that has filed a lawsuit challenging the decree as unlawful, said he had “more questions than answers” after the statement. “Right now, these are just verbal explanations that contradict the written word of the declaration, so that discrepancy needs to be settled,” he said.

In a television interview, Hisham Raouf, an assistant to the minister of justice and the president of the court of appeals, described the spokesman’s statements as an “explanation memorandum” that complemented the original decree. He acknowledged that the explanation made much of the decree superfluous because the spokesman had asserted that all the powers the president claimed were already found in longstanding Egyptian legal doctrine.

But he said the explanation was a step forward because without it, the decree suggested that until the passage of a new constitution any act Mr. Morsi took was beyond judicial scrutiny. Now, courts would decide what qualified as a “sovereign act,” he said, adding that all sides had to accept small compromises because “the crisis isn’t small.”
569 2012-11-27 ATHENS — A video showing the spokesman of the extremist right-wing party Golden Dawn threatening the lives of anti-fascist protesters at an event in Crete has been sent to prosecutors, the Greek police said on Monday.

In a video posted on the Internet, the spokesman, Ilias Kasidiaris, can be heard arguing with police officers after demonstrators gathered near the site of one of the party’s events on the island on Sunday. Mr. Kasidiaris, who in June was charged with assaulting two rival lawmakers during a live television debate, told the police there would be deaths if the protesters were not removed.

“Believe me, you’ll have dead people by tonight,” Mr. Kasidiaris can be heard telling a senior police official. On Monday, as political parties condemned his outburst, the Greek police said the video had been sent to a prosecutor in Crete.

Members of the increasingly popular Golden Dawn and its sympathizers have been linked to a rise in violence and intimidation against immigrants in Greece.

The new scrutiny of the party comes as the government is trying to avoid social unrest, as many people are struggling to cope with the country’s worst economic crisis in a decade. Obtaining relief from foreign lenders for Greece’s huge debts has meant agreeing to increasingly painful austerity measures.
570 2012-11-27 “Greece has already come a very, very long way and tonight the Eurogroup has rightly recognized that,” said Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, referring to the group of finance ministers who met here.

But officials, including Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, said the payout would be made only once one part of the agreement — a debt buyback — had been completed.

During the talks, which lasted about 12 hours, the I.M.F. pressed ministers to agree that Greece’s debt should be cut by about 20 percent of G.D.P. through methods that include the debt buyback program at discounted prices, lowering interest rates, lengthening the deadlines for debt repayments, and returning profits to Greece made on bonds bought by the European Central Bank.

In exchange, the I.M.F. compromised by loosening its debt target to about 124 percent of Greece’s gross domestic product by the end of the decade. The fund had been insisting on a target of 120 percent by 2020.

Christine Lagarde, managing director of the I.M.F., emphasized at a news conference that agreement had also been reached to ensure Greek debt was “substantially lower” than 110 percent of G.D.P. by 2022.

“What remains to be done is a lot of nitty-gritty work, of course — national parliaments are going to have to consult with their respective authorities,” said Ms. Lagarde, referring to steps that needed to be taken to release aid beginning next month.

The haggling has been going on against the background of a financial catastrophe unfolding in Greece, where the economy has shrunk by about one-fifth in three years and unemployment is hovering around 25 percent.

The unrelenting gloom means suffering for the Greek public and also made it more improbable that the country can pay its debts in full.

The seemingly endless round of meetings over Greece has been a sign that after nearly three years of crises, the politicians are still trying to contain contagion in the euro zone, which began with a huge hole in Greek accounts, even as that country’s debt prospects continue to worsen.

In June, creditors froze aid from the current program, valued at 130 billion euros ($169 billion), after determining that Greece was failing to meet the conditions of that bailout, its second. Since then, “Greece has fully delivered its part of the agreement, so we expect our partners to deliver their part, too,” Yannis Stournaras, the Greek finance minister, said Monday before the meeting.

But because of factors like worsening economic conditions, delays to fiscal reforms and disappointing earnings from the privatizations of state companies, Greek debt is now estimated at 175 percent of G.D.P., and its economy could shrink again, pushing that figure to 190 percent next year, and even up to 200 percent by 2014.

The negative outlook has made earlier calls by the I.M.F. that Greece pare its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020 look unfeasible under current plans. That led the I.M.F. to increase pressure on major creditors like Germany to take politically unpalatable losses, or haircuts, on their holdings of Greek debt to keep the country in the euro zone.

The result had been a standoff, with Germany trying to keep the bill for Greece as low as possible at least until after the German elections in 2013.

Under the deal reached Monday, ministers laid out a range of options for making Greece’s debt more manageable — including lowering interest rates on bilateral loans made to Greece by 100 basis points.

The two sides took weeks to reach their deal because of conflicting views about how quickly Greece can grow its economy, lure investors, pay down its towering debt and return to the markets to borrow money once aid programs expire later this decade.

Since June, the Greek economy has worsened and social problems in the country have become more acute as unemployment has climbed. Those factors have already led Greece’s lenders to agree that the government in Athens will need two years longer than previously agreed, or until 2016, to meet its budget targets.

But that concession will cost more money because of a range of factors, including revenues from privatizations that will not be as large as expected. The cost could come to nearly 33 billion euros ($43 billion) on top of existing bailouts to help Greece reach its budget targets.

The prospect of paying more to Greece perturbed some lenders, particularly Germany, where transferring more wealth to the poorer-performing economies of Southern Europe is politically risky, particularly as Chancellor Angela Merkel prepares for a re-election fight next year.

Those concerns were on display over the weekend. Jörg Asmussen, a member of the European Central Bank’s executive board, told the German newspaper Bild that a write-down of Greek debt should not be part of the deal, echoing repeated statements from Mr. Schäuble, the German finance minister, who said it would be illegal.

On the other side was the I.M.F., which has insisted that fresh money, or even a write-down, will be needed to put Greece on a path to manageable debt by the end of the decade. By its own rules, the I.M.F. can lend money only if the debt is “sustainable” or can be paid back by a recipient country, like Greece.
571 2012-11-27 Toddlers just learning to speak associate words with shape, not size or texture. Anything shaped like a telephone, for instance, might be called “phone.”

But a new study suggests that dogs tend to associate words with size rather than shape.

This difference makes it “very doubtful that there is a single mammalian feature in word learning,” said Emile van der Zee, a psychologist at the University of Lincoln in England and the first author of the study, which appears in the journal PLoS One. “This study may help us understand why humans are more special when it comes to learning language.”

The researchers worked with Gable, a 5-year-old Border collie with an understanding of more than 40 words. The dog was shown a horseshoe-shaped object that the scientists called a “dax.”

After some training, the dog began to identify other objects of similar size with the same name. After taking the object home for about a month, Gable also began to associate the word with other objects of similar texture, but never objects that were simply of similar shape.

The smells of the objects were kept neutral, but the results may differ if scent is incorporated, Dr. van der Zee said.

“That would be something that we would like to do in our future research,” he said, adding that he would like to repeat the study with other mammals, including pigs and primates.
572 2012-11-27 In 1979, taxes and benefits increased the share of the nation’s income received by the poorest households from 2.9 to 7.1 percent. As inequality has increased over the last three decades, the government has lost power to boost the income share of the poor.
573 2012-11-28 In a closely watched copyright infringement case, a British man who created a Web site that linked to pirated content online has reportedly agreed to a deal that will let him avoid extradition to the United States....
574 2012-11-28 With a transportation system still operating at less than full strength, New York City public transit officials said riders were already paying for the storm indirectly, sitting on more crowded trains and often waiting longer for them to arrive....
575 2012-11-28 RIM's market share fell further in the United States, but the biggest surprise was the slippage in Europe and Latin America....
576 2012-11-28 The GT-R is still a monster and still putting out 545 horsepower....
577 2012-11-28 Not long after adopting an elaborate new tasting menu, an acclaimed restaurant has dropped a basic menu that underpinned it....
578 2012-11-28 The Office of Financial Research was created to conduct independent research on the sweeping risks to the financial system, but it was hobbled from the get-go by a poor design....
579 2012-11-28 As the debt-ceiling debate intensifies, John Boehner tries his hand at extortion....
580 2012-11-28 In times of austerity, should governments be subsidizing green energy? If so, how long should those subsidies stay in place?...
581 2012-11-28 Tijuana will face Toluca in the two-leg finals for the Apertura title in Mexico beginning on Thursday....
582 2012-11-28 The recent loss of seven Yellowstone wolves wearing high-tech research collars is renewing the decades-old arguments about when and where hunters should be allowed to shoot the charismatic predators....
583 2012-11-28 Adolescents from households headed by a low-income worker are more likely to drop out of school, to be obese, and to take on adult roles too young....
584 2012-11-28 The United States has resumed sharing radar intelligence with Honduras after a four-month suspension, reviving an international effort to stop drug planes from using the tiny Central American country as a way station for cocaine smuggling to the United States. American officials said the suspension, which began in August after the Honduran Air Force shot down two suspected drug planes in violation of international law, ended on Nov. 19. Honduran officials revised their procedures, retrained their pilots and confirmed in writing that Honduran authorities would not use American intelligence to “damage, destroy, disable or threaten civilian aircraft,” according to State Department officials. Other forms of security cooperation between the United States and Honduras are still suspended. About $50 million due to be assigned to antidrug and security efforts is being withheld by Democrats in Congress over concerns about American involvement in deadly drug raids this year, and accusations of death squad involvement by senior Honduran police officials.
585 2012-11-28 Authorities have arrested six government officials suspected of involvement in a scheme to rob and extort a New York businessman jailed in a money-laundering investigation, Interior Minister Carlos Romero said Tuesday. He said those arrested included the judge who first jailed the American, Jacob Ostreicher and officials in the agency that seized 18,000 metric tons of rice from him. Mr. Ostreicher has been jailed without charge since June 2011. He says several officials tried to extort money from him in return for his freedom.
586 2012-11-28 On Tuesday, nearly 100 children at the Dream Charter School on East 103rd Street in Manhattan shuttled into an auditorium in single file, sat down and then noisily chatted with one another, as fourth graders and fifth graders are apt to do when brought together for a school event.

Shortly after 10 a.m., the school’s principal, Eve Colavito, clapped her hands, and the students came to attention. It was a special day, Colavito told her students. It’s not often when a school is visited by a reigning Cy Young Award winner, who had quite a story to tell.

The Mets’ ace, R. A. Dickey, who was at the school to promote literacy through the Capital One Bank Book by Book program, told the students that his love of reading had made his remarkable career possible. Reading taught him to dream, he said, it taught him imagination, and most important, it taught him patience, a virtue that may serve Dickey well these days during his ongoing and uncertain contract discussions with the Mets.

Although Dickey wore a Mets jersey at the event, the appearance was not arranged by the team. It remains possible that Dickey, who is signed only through the 2013 season, could be traded next week at the winter meetings if the Mets conclude that at age 38 he may never again have a season like the one he just did. They could decide that his best value to a team like the Mets, who have so many holes to fill, is in a trade that brings several prospects in return.

On the other hand, the Mets understand that Dickey, with his unusual personal story, has become one of the few players on the team that fans can rally around and that his departure would create considerable resentment in an already discontented fan base.
587 2012-11-28 Marvin Miller called me about six weeks ago to say goodbye. He told me he had terminal liver cancer and wanted his close friends to know. He did not want us to view the news as tragic. He was 95, he said, and the last two years had been difficult. That call was as remarkable as Marvin was.

He was, in my opinion and that of most baseball savants, the most important figure in baseball in the last 40 years, yet many fans may not recognize his name. His death on Tuesday should give rise to some serious feelings of regret by those who failed to elect this good man, the former head of the players union, to membership in the Baseball Hall of Fame. More than anyone else, he transformed baseball.

Yet the failure of the Hall of Fame to recognize the enormous contribution Marvin Miller made to our great game cannot detract from the facts. The shame of his rejection should greatly embarrass those who voted to exclude him.

When he came on the scene at the players union in 1966, he found a group of ballplayers with no sense of how to achieve the kind of collective benefits that unions in this country had been seeking and realizing for their members for years. Miller had been a high official at the United Steelworkers union, and he brought to his baseball constituency the intense convictions of a dedicated trade unionist. He was soft-spoken and almost gentle, but his analytical skills were sharp. Before his arrival, the players were without experienced professional direction. Some players wanted the benefits of collective action but demanded Miller promise he would never call for a strike. Indeed, Phillies pitcher Robin Roberts claimed Miller had assured him and his colleagues of this. Miller, many times and firmly, denied any such promise.

As he took charge of the union, Miller was shocked to find how poorly the players were being treated by the owners. In an oral history interview he did that is — some irony here — at the Hall of Fame, he explained how he had to persuade players to stand with him in asking for substantially improved terms in their collective bargaining agreements. Along the way there were bitter strikes in 1972 and 1981 before the union was able to achieve the set of remarkable benefits that currently accrue to all major league baseball players. Today, the player pension and health benefits are so good and so well financed, the union is in many ways limited by law from seeking greater funding.

Miller and his successors, Donald Fehr and Michael Weiner, created a union that stands as a model. Their union is brilliantly led, honestly managed and extremely successful. The average member today earns more than $3 million per year. In many ways, this union is in control of baseball. And baseball is booming. It is not possible to ignore Miller’s achievements.
588 2012-11-28 More than a year has passed since Joseph Lin became the latest first violinist of the Juilliard String Quartet, a venerable institution formed in 1946 at the school whose name it bears. After the departure of Robert Mann, who helped to found the group, two more fine players assumed the position, then left it: Joel Smirnoff, who slid over from his second-violin seat in 1997, then departed in 2008; and Nick Eanet, whose health limited his tenure to only a year.

Chemistry is paramount in a string quartet, especially one with so distinguished a legacy. The concert on Monday night at Alice Tully Hall illustrated the bond that has formed among the current members of the lineup, who also include the second violinist Ronald Copes, the violist Samuel Rhodes and the cellist Joel Krosnick.

The program, offered free by the Juilliard School for a near-capacity audience, consisted of just two works: Beethoven’s String Quartets in C sharp minor (Op. 131) and in A minor (Op. 132). Both were produced during an extraordinary efflorescence of inspired writing during the 1820s, initiated by a commission from a Russian noble, Prince Nikolas Galitzin, an amateur cellist.

Both works were included in the Juilliard String Quartet’s Grammy Award-winning CBS Masterworks collection of Beethoven’s late string quartets, recorded live in 1982 by Mr. Mann, Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Krosnick with Earl Carlyss, then the second violinist.

That set remains a benchmark for its poise and lucidity, but Monday’s performance showed that the current lineup has developed a sound of its own, based on a constantly fascinating tension between Mr. Lin’s passionate, honeyed tone and a more businesslike selflessness among his colleagues.

What results is not always pristine: the playing included moments of shaky intonation, as well as instances of rough ensemble in some of the more treacherous passages of the demanding C sharp minor Quartet. But along with those impressions came a general sense of rightness and shared vision in the interpretations, a feeling that the players were expressing Beethoven’s very humanity, physical challenges included.
589 2012-11-28 “It’s nerve-racking,” said Maureen Colon, who walked out of the building crying after dropping off her son, who is in the second grade. “Friday, they were pulling out sopping-wet cartons. And Tuesday, they are back?”

“There’s been so little communication, it’s scary,” she added.

That nerves are frayed and emotions fraught is not surprising. Many families at the school have lost their homes and have endured several relocations while grappling with the emotional aftermath of a devastating storm that many watched in the dark alongside their frightened children. They want the routines and familiar comforts of school.

But a significant percentage opted not to return until they had further assurances that the air their children would breathe was safe. Before the storm, the school enrolled 779 students in kindergarten through eighth grade. On Tuesday, 55.1 percent of the students attended school.

“I don’t see what the rush is,” said Christine Charles, whose two children are now attending Public School 207 in Brooklyn. “I think the D.O.E. wants to get out there and say, ‘We opened it in a month.’ ”

Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Education Department, said that on Saturday officials tested relative humidity, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, among other things at the school.

“There were 26 sets of measurement taken throughout the school building,” Ms. Feinberg said, adding that the results showed the air quality was acceptable. “We’re happy to share the information with parents, and we will reach out to the principal about arranging a meeting.”

Some parents defended the decision to reopen the school and reveled in the chance to be back with familiar faces. “I am thrilled, to put it mildly,” said Kristine Memoli, whose three children had just entered the school. “Thank God our kids are having some kind of routine.”

Mr. Grill said that to characterize his school’s communication as poor would be unfair since he, too, received very little information from the Education Department.

“We only knew as fast as they knew,” he said, referring to parents, adding that the school “banded everyone together with what we had.”

He added that he was confident the building’s air quality was safe because the department had told him as much.

“I trust the D.O.E. would not sacrifice anybody,” he said.

But many parents who have spent the past four weeks gutting basements and rifling through debris said they remained concerned about mold, asbestos, fiberglass materials and debris that children would bring in off the streets.

“I am a nurse; I don’t claim to be a doctor,” said Sabina Mills, whose three children attended P.S./M.S. 114 until the storm. “But there are things that can hurt you that you can’t see.”

Ms. Mills said she would keep her children at P.S. 312 in Bergen Beach, Brooklyn, until she saw evidence that the school had successfully passed multiple air-quality tests.

Her husband, a firefighter, was involved in the cleanup after the Sept. 11 attacks, Ms. Mills said. “Our elected officials said it was safe for them, and we know how that turned out,” she said.

The art on the walls at P.S./M.S. 114 recounts a prestorm era. Personal narratives about a significant event included tales of sharks, goals scored in hockey and a first triple hit in Little League, sweet memories that would no doubt be superseded by tales of watching floodwaters rise and fires burn and dumping a childhood of memories into the trash.

Upstairs, in Classroom 308, teachers asked seventh-grade students what they had learned in the relocated schools they had been attending (square roots, rates and ratios, scientific notation) and what books they had read (none, none and “The Omnivore’s Dilemma”).

Did they know where their missing classmates were?

“We’re not going to see some of our classmates until next year,” a teacher said. “Hopefully, they will be back for eighth grade.”
590 2012-11-28 BEIJING — At least five Tibetans have set fire to themselves in recent days to protest Chinese rule in Tibetan regions, while at least five Tibetan students were in critical condition and 15 others were being treated for injuries after security forces cracked down on a large protest in western China on Monday, according to reports by Radio Free Asia and Free Tibet, an advocacy group.

The protest took place in an area of Qinghai Province that the Chinese call Hainan Autonomous Prefecture, and that Tibetans call Tsolho. More than 1,000 Tibetans, mostly students and teachers, took to the streets to demand equal rights for ethnic minorities and the freedom to study and use the Tibetan language. Several reports said the protest began after local officials distributed a booklet that condemned Tibetans who had self-immolated and that belittled the Tibetan language.

With the five recent self-immolations, at least 22 Tibetans have set fire to themselves this month alone, and 86 since 2009, according to Radio Free Asia. The first case was a monk from Kirti Monastery, which became the heart of the self-immolations last year and earlier this year, though the acts have since become more widespread and now constitute one of the largest such phenomena anywhere in the world in recent memory. The latest five cases were reported Sunday through Tuesday in the western China provinces of Gansu, Sichuan and Qinghai, which all have significant Tibetan populations.

The students who protested Monday were from the Chabcha Sorig Lobling School, according to Free Tibet. They gathered at 5:40 a.m. and marched peacefully into the town of Chabcha. Chinese security forces began a violent crackdown at 9 a.m., the report said. “It’s still unclear what happened next, but many young students were so badly injured they were taken straight to hospital,” Free Tibet said. Security forces locked down the town, the group added. Radio Free Tibet reported that security forces fired tear gas and beat students with rifle butts. At least four students have been detained.

The events could not be independently confirmed; Chinese officials have barred foreign journalists from traveling to the sites of protests or self-immolations by Tibetans. Phone calls made Tuesday to offices of the prefecture government and party committee went unanswered. A woman answering a call on the prefecture emergency hot line said she had not heard of any protests.

Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government, said the school in Chabcha, known as Gonghe in Chinese, trained students in medicine. The booklet that inspired the protests was called “Ten Real Views of Tsolho Area,” and the medical students burned all the copies given to them and “called for equality among nationalities and freedom to study the Tibetan language,” according to a person who was quoted anonymously by Radio Free Asia.
591 2012-11-28 If that deadline is not met, under current law a series of sharp tax increases and spending cuts will come into effect. Economists have warned that the measures could push the economy back into a recession.

“The markets are getting whipped around, rather sharply, on headlines,” said Sal Arnuk, co-founder of Themis Trading. “For example, Harry Reid feeling we’re not making enough progress on the fiscal cliff.”

Last week stocks pared some of the losses that came after the election. President Obama plans to make a public case this week for his strategy for dealing with the issue as he pressures Republicans to allow tax increases on the wealthy while extending tax cuts for families earning $250,000 or less.

While stocks have gained this year as the Federal Reserve has maintained its bond-buying stimulus program, concern about global growth and the budget fight in Washington might limit further advances, said Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners, a New York-based hedge fund. The S.& P. is up 11 percent this year and the Dow 5 percent.

“The glass is half-empty right now,” Mr. Landesman said.

A report that suggested that the outlook for the nation’s economy might be improving failed to encourage investors to push stocks higher.

The government said companies in the United States increased their orders for machinery and equipment last month, a sign that business investment is rising. Orders rose 1.7 percent in October, the best showing since a 2.3 percent rise in May.

ConAgra advanced $1.34, or 4.7 percent, to $29.63 after it agreed to buy Ralcorp for $5 billion in a deal that will make it the nation’s biggest maker of private-label foods. Ralcorp surged $18.57, or 26.4 percent, to $88.80.

Corning, a specialty glass maker, rose 78 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $12.13 after it said that North American television sales were stronger than expected in the fourth quarter, increasing demand for its products.

Las Vegas Sands rose $2.33, or 5.3 percent, to $46.36 after the casino operator said it would pay a special dividend of $2.75 a share, distributing about $2.26 billion to shareholders before the end of the year.

Monster Beverage, a maker of energy drinks, rose $6.09, or 13.3 percent, to $51.97 as concerns eased about increased regulation for the company after a letter to senators from the Food and Drug Administration was made public on Tuesday.

Interest rates were lower. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 8/32, to 99 28/32 and the yield fell to 1.64 percent from 1.67 percent late Monday.
592 2012-11-28 WASHINGTON — Home prices increased in September in most major American cities, more evidence of a housing recovery that is providing a lift to the fragile economy.

The Standard & Poor’s Case Shiller national index, measuring prices in 20 cities, rose 3 percent in September compared with the same month a year ago. Prices also gained 3.6 percent in the July-September quarter compared with the same quarter in 2011.

Across the nation, prices increased in 18 of 20 cities compared with a year ago. In Phoenix, prices jumped 20.4 percent over that stretch to lead all cities. Prices in Atlanta showed a modest 0.1 percent increase, ending 26 consecutive year-over-year declines.

Prices also rose in September from August in 13 cities. Five metro regions posted declines, and two were unchanged. Monthly prices are not seasonally adjusted.
593 2012-11-28 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A gauge of planned business spending increased by the most in five months in October, the Commerce Department said Tuesday, raising optimism that the sharp cutbacks in capital investment during the summer were abating.

Fears of deep reductions in government spending and big tax increases early next year had caused firms to hunker down.

But orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending plans, rose 1.7 percent last month, the department said.

“While the improvement in demand offers some encouragement that the worst of the malaise in capital investment may be behind us, there is little to suggest that this may be the beginning of any meaningful upturn,” Millan Mulraine, a senior economist at TD Securities in New York, said.

The increase in so-called core capital goods orders well surpassed economists’ expectations for a 0.5 percent decline.

Lawmakers and the Obama administration are engaged in talks to avoid automatic spending cuts and tax increases that could remove $600 billion from the economy early next year and threaten a new recession. Few visible signs of progress have emerged.
594 2012-11-28 Mr. Patten and another witness, Tim Davie, the acting BBC director general, were speaking just days before an another inquiry into the separate phone hacking scandal, mainly at Rupert Murdoch’s British newspaper outpost, is to deliver a long-awaited report that could lead to tighter regulation of the press.

The combination of inquiries and findings seemed to illustrate once more the intense scrutiny faced by journalists and editors in Britain at a time when the news business is struggling to make a painful and costly adjustment to the digital era. But Mr. Davie said that while the BBC was going through a “major crisis,” it was not in chaos. “This is not an organization that is falling apart internally,” he said, adding, “I’ve been overwhelmed by journalists at the BBC who are aghast at the errors that were made.”

Mr. Patten, too, described the failings that led to the scandal as ones that the BBC would quickly put right. “The BBC tells the truth about itself, even when the truth is appalling,” he said. He contrasted the broadcaster’s readiness to clean its stables with what he said had been an opaque and truculent reaction among Britain’s newspapers when confronted by their own scandals.

But Mr. Patten’s composure faltered under aggressive questioning by one lawmaker, the Conservative Philip Davies, who pressed him to provide an itinerary of his work schedule at the BBC. “Certainly not,” he said. “I think it’s a thoroughly impertinent question.

“What is the role of it? Do you want to know my toilet habits?”

Mr. Entwistle appeared before the panel on Oct. 23 when its attention was focused on a decision a year ago by the editor of the current affairs program “Newsnight” to cancel an investigation into the sexual misconduct of Jimmy Savile, a longtime television host who died in last year at age 84. The BBC was also preparing Christmastime programs paying tribute to Mr. Savile.

At that time, Mr. Entwistle was in charge of television programming, while the director general was Mark Thompson, who resigned in September to become the president and chief executive of The New York Times Company. Mr. Thompson appeared Friday before a separate closed-door inquiry in London into the cancellation of the “Newsnight” segment last year.

Since the panel’s session with Mr. Entwistle, the scandal has widened after a “Newsnight” broadcast on Nov. 2 wrongfully implicated a former Conservative Party politician in sexual abuse at a children’s home in North Wales during the Thatcher era.

Mr. Patten said the second “Newsnight” program showed “appalling editorial judgment.”

“The journalism was — to be polite — shoddy,” he said, adding, “This was a terribly elementary journalistic failure.”

Mr. Davies’s irascible exchanges with the BBC chairman were set off when the lawmaker widened his questioning to include Mr. Thompson’s role in the Savile scandal.

Mr. Patten said he would have nothing to say about Mr. Thompson’s role until the completion of an inquiry into the BBC’s handling of the pedophile allegations against Mr. Savile.
595 2012-11-28 The Price of Delay for the Military’s Biggest Program

It has taken longer to develop the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter — and cost more — than planners originally forecast when the project was proposed more than a decade ago.
596 2012-11-29 As Tibetan self-immolations spread to Chinese provinces, the newly restored Hall of Rectitude, the center of Tibetan Buddhism during China's last imperial dynasty, is unveiled....
597 2012-11-29 The world premiere of Mohammed Fairouz's opera "Sumeida's Song" will open the Prototype festival in January....
598 2012-11-29 While most of the discussion about taxes is focused on the expiring Bush-era tax cuts, a host of other deductions and credits that directly affect small businesses are on the line - and on the table....
599 2012-11-29 Brook Lopez missed nearly all of last season after breaking a bone in the same foot, but this injury does not appear to be related, based on the initial report from the team....
600 2012-11-29 Witch hunts and conspiracy theories abound in Washington....
601 2012-11-29 The Hi-Cross is what Nissan North America's vice president and general manager, Al Castignetti, calls "sculpted style with everyday utility."...
602 2012-11-29 A stay of a federal judge's order on debt payment may provide an opportunity for Argentina's lawyers to raise questions that an appeals court may not have fully considered before....
603 2012-11-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
604 2012-11-29 The opportunity to choose strong reformers to head key agencies may yield to the goal of pleasing prominent people in the financial sector....
605 2012-11-29 I.B.M. is opening a new data analytics center in Ohio, where it plans to hire 500 business analysts and researchers over the next three years....
606 2012-11-29 IDC, a technology research firm, predicts that 2013 is the year when Microsoft must sharply increase its support among mobile applications developers if it is to avoid “a gradual track to demise.”...
607 2012-11-29 The tours he scheduled in that network, which proved hugely successful, provided his clients with freelance income (10 percent of which was his); functioned as a farm system for artists in need of seasoning; and established the basic landscape of the rock concert circuit as it now exists in the United States.

“You cannot exaggerate the role Frank played in creating the infrastructure of the rock ’n’ roll world as we know it today,” Steven Van Zandt, the longtime guitarist with Bruce Springsteen’s E Street Band, also a Barsalona client, said in an interview on Tuesday. “It was his unique vision that rock ’n’ roll was here to stay, and that it wasn’t just going to be about records, but about how good a band plays live.” (In the age of digitized music sharing, many rock artists earn more from concert tours than from record royalties.)

In 2005, when Mr. Barsalona was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, Mr. Van Zandt gave introductory remarks in which he credited Mr. Barsalona with seeing beyond the conventional wisdom in the early-’60s music business, which was that rock ’n’ roll had no future (and that Elvis Presley was a fluke). His innovations — financially risky but highly profitable — signaled the music’s long-term viability and “created stability, and consistency and longevity” in the industry for the first time, Mr. Van Zandt said.

Mr. Barsalona is the only talent agent to be inducted into the Hall of Fame since the first honorees were named in 1986.

Dave Marsh, the rock critic and biographer, called Mr. Barsalona a founding father of the rock business. “The most significant entrepreneur of ’60s rock was not a record company president like Atlantic’s Ahmet Ertegun or CBS’s Clive Davis, or even a sharp promoter like Bill Graham,” he once wrote. “That title belongs to a balding, rotund booking agent named Frank Barsalona.”

Mr. Barsalona retired in 2002 and sold his company to the William Morris Agency.

Frank Samuel Barsalona was born on March 31, 1938, on Staten Island, one of three children of Peter and Mary Barsalona. From early childhood he shared a passion with his father, a bus driver, for Broadway show tunes and country music. While working his way through Wagner College on Staten Island and St. John’s University in Queens, he later told his daughter, he yodeled in a country-western band.

He was a new employee at General Artists Corporation, a New York talent agency, when an agent, Sid Bernstein, signed the Beatles for their first American appearance. As the youngest agent on the staff, Mr. Barsalona was asked to partner with the older Mr. Bernstein. He told interviewers later that he made most of the arrangements for that 1964 tour, and for tours soon after by the agency’s other new British clients, the Yardbirds and the Rolling Stones.

When Mr. Barsalona established his own company, he told Bob Spitz, the author of “The Making of Superstars,” a book about the rock business: “I started off with the acts nobody wanted, like Freddy Cannon, who at the time was on the descent of his career, and I put Little Anthony and the Imperials back together. We had the Chiffons, Jay and the Americans.”

It was after he met June Harris, a British rock ’n’ roll journalist in New York who later became his wife — and who survives him, as does his daughter — that Mr. Barsalona began to appreciate the depth of the talent pool from which the Beatles and Stones had emerged. She told him about, or took him to see, groups still unknown in America, like the Who, the Animals and the Jimi Hendrix Experience. He had already seen the crush of fans mobbing the Beatles and the Stones, and saw its virtual replay at concerts by others in England.

“He saw that this was a new form of music,” June Barsalona said in an interview on Tuesday. “He realized that rock ’n’ roll was the future.”
608 2012-11-29 League and players union officials met separately with federal mediators Wednesday in an effort to jump-start stalled negotiations on the 74th day of the N.H.L. lockout.

Commissioner Gary Bettman and Donald Fehr, the executive director of the union, were believed to be meeting with Scot L. Beckenbaugh and John Sweeney of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, but neither the league nor the union provided details.  “We expect that these discussions will resume on Thursday,” Fehr said.

It was the first time the league and the union had met since a Nov. 21 bargaining session, when the union made a new proposal that moved within $182 million of the league’s offer over a five-year deal. But Bettman said the two sides remained far apart.

Wednesday’s meeting took place on the same day that Forbes magazine released its annual team valuation report.

The Maple Leafs top the list at $1 billion, the first N.H.L. team to reach that level. The Rangers are next, valued at $750 million, followed by the Montreal Canadiens at $575 million.
609 2012-11-29 The mother of a 2-year-old boy who was mauled to death after falling into an exhibit of wild African dogs at the Pittsburgh Zoo will not be prosecuted, but the authorities are still investigating the zoo for possible criminal negligence. District Attorney Stephen A. Zappala Jr. of Allegheny County said Wednesday that the boy, Maddox Derkosh, had vision problems and wore glasses, and that was partly why his mother, Elizabeth Derkosh, 34, had lifted him on a railing to look at the dogs. Mr. Zappala said witnesses described the boy lunging forward, as if he thought there was some sort of clear barrier to stop him.
610 2012-11-29 It was a simple question, posed by one of New York’s most prominent business leaders at an economic forum with an audience of hundreds: What would you do as mayor to keep business confident about the city’s progress?

But the replies, offered by four presumptive Democratic mayoral candidates gathered at a Midtown hotel on Wednesday, illuminated a sharp divide in the race to succeed Michael R. Bloomberg.

Bill de Blasio, the public advocate and a frequent critic of the Bloomberg administration, disputed the question’s basic premise, saying “continuity” is not necessarily desirable. “We’re not on the right track for the economic future,” he said bluntly, citing concerns about income disparity and a surfeit of regulations that he said had stymied small businesses. “The status quo,” he added later, “is unacceptable.”

Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and an ally of Mayor Bloomberg, was more uncritically enthusiastic. Calling herself “very optimistic,” she praised the mayor — along with the Council she leads — for promoting a resilient business climate amid a world-shaking recession. New York, she said, “weathered this storm better than any other city in America.”

Continuity, or change? To build on Mr. Bloomberg’s legacy, or to go back and revise it? These were the underlying themes that emerged from an hour’s worth of discussion among the candidates — including John C. Liu, the comptroller, and William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller — as they tackled hurricane relief, tax policy and the travails of small businesses at an event sponsored by Crain’s New York Business and Partnership for New York City.
611 2012-11-29 Coaches’ salaries have soared in recent years at colleges throughout the country, often reaching several million dollars a year, as university officials have intensified efforts to claim some of the sport’s growing riches that come from billion-dollar television contracts, merchandise sales and alumni contributions. But college officials do not seem encumbered by the large contracts; rather, they appear willing to pay the coaches handsomely to go away and make room for new hires — despite little evidence that coaching changes generally result in better teams.

The forced its offensive coordinator to resign after one game. After two games, Wisconsin dumped its offensive line coach.

“The pressure has gotten out of control to win,” said Bradley Dale Peveto, whose contract was terminated last week after four seasons at Northwestern State of Louisiana.

Over the past decade, about 1 in 10 universities at the major college level replaced their head football coaches annually for performance-related reasons. But a recent study suggests that replacements do not tend to make underperforming teams much better in subsequent seasons and frequently make them worse.

Anecdotal evidence and scientific analysis indicate that replacing a coach is no guarantee of success. finished 5-7 this season after changing its coordinator. Wisconsin is a middling 7-5 after firing its line coach. The Badgers reached the title game only because penalties left and ineligible.

A study published last month in Social Science Quarterly may provide sobering news to Auburn, Tennessee and other universities that have fired their coaches. Using data from 1997 to 2010, the study compared the performance of major college teams that replaced their coach with teams with similar records that kept their coach.

The results, tracked over a five-year period following the coaching changes, might surprise many. The lowliest teams subsequently performed about the same as other struggling teams that did not replace their coach. Mediocre teams — those that won about half their games in the year before a coaching change — performed worse than similar teams that did not replace their coach.

The reasons for this are not clearly understood, but may stem from an adjustment period required by a coach at a new university, the time players need to learn a new system and disruptions made to recruiting networks, said E. Scott Adler, an associate professor of political science at the and the lead author of the study.

Statistically speaking, Adler said: “There’s not much to be said for every few years dumping a coach who’s had a couple bad seasons. In the long run, you are about in the same situation down the road if you had done nothing and ridden out the storm.”

There are exceptions, of course, which lend urgency to efforts by fans and administrators to throw out one coach and bring in another. Auburn measures itself against a fierce intrastate rival, , which is seeking its third national title in four seasons after hiring Nick Saban at a hefty salary that has reached $5.5 million per season, the highest in the country.

Universities view football as a kind of front porch to their campuses, drawing attention in a way that no other endeavor can. Administrators are increasingly reliant on football to support other sports and try to spur donations at a time when the vast majority of universities lose money on athletics. Desperation to win has increased as universities chase the payouts from billion-dollar television contracts.

Some football coaches have become the highest-paid employees of their states. The average salary for a head coach at a big-time university is $1.64 million, an increase of more than 70 percent since 2006, according to an analysis by USA Today.

Auburn expected better results from Chizik’s team this season. The Tigers were 3-9, including an 0-8 record in the Southeastern Conference and an embarrassing 49-0 loss to the Crimson Tide. Reports of an N.C.A.A. investigation into possible rules violations also have surfaced in the news media.

“This could be a prophylactic move by Auburn — we know what’s coming, let’s get on the front end of this and maybe lessen sanctions,” said Robert H. Lattinville, chairman of the sports division of the law firm Stinson Morrison Hecker, which represents numerous coaches.

Chizik’s firing comes at a time of growing scrutiny of coaches on talk radio and cable television; rising costs for tickets, TV packages and merchandise; and increased access by fans to administrators via social media.

“People have gotten impatient for a lot of reasons,” Lattinville said. “They want more immediate results.”

At the college sports level, Lattinville said, “you can’t fire the players,” so the coach takes the fall for a lack of success. “It sends a message to the fan base and recruits that this is important, we’re trying, we’re doing something.”

At Tennessee, the chancellor, Jimmy G. Cheek, said the university would try to make up for the loss in academic funding through private contributions — a scenario that has raised concerns among faculty members.

“My long-term concern is the arms race for coaches’ salaries,” said Toby Boulet, an associate engineering professor and a former president of Tennessee’s faculty senate. “If athletics are going to remain self-supporting in , we’re going to have to find a way to be successful and fund that. I’d like to see the budget set up so that if the football team encounters a rocky patch, scholarships don’t go away.”
612 2012-11-29 Now the talking points could also affect the chances of a top candidate for C.I.A. director, Michael Morell, the agency’s acting director, who on Tuesday accompanied Ms. Rice to a briefing for some of her most vocal Senate critics and misspoke about changes in the original draft of the talking points.

Intelligence officials said Wednesday that Mr. Morell’s flub, which prompted a sharply worded statement from three Republican senators, was an insignificant mix-up: He said the F.B.I. had taken out a specific reference to Al Qaeda, when in fact that change was made by the C.I.A. The F.B.I. had added another phrase to the same sentence.

“This was an honest mistake, and it was corrected as soon as it was realized,” one official said. “There is nothing more to this.”

But such earnest attempts to lower the political temperature have so far failed. As so often in Washington, the clashes over Benghazi have a semi-hidden personal element that adds to the emotion. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who led the initial lambasting of Ms. Rice, had been subjected to withering criticism by her in 2008 when he was running for president. And senators considering Ms. Rice’s future are quite aware that her main rival for the job of secretary of state is their colleague Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts.

For now, the focus of Congress and the news media is mostly on language. For weeks after the Benghazi attack, Republicans accused Mr. Obama and his aides of avoiding labeling it “terrorism” for fear of tarnishing his national security record in the weeks before the Nov. 6 election. Since his re-election, that issue has faded, and the debate has shifted to the talking points.

The facts about the talking points, like those about the Benghazi attack itself, have dribbled out slowly and awkwardly from intelligence officials who generally do not relish airing their internal deliberations. But there is now a fairly clear account.

The C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies rarely prepare unclassified talking points; more often, policy makers submit proposed public comments, and intelligence analysts check them for classified information or errors of fact. But in the storm of news media coverage after the killings in Benghazi, C.I.A. officials responded quickly to Mr. Ruppersberger’s request on Sept. 14.

C.I.A. analysts drafted four sentences describing “demonstrations” in Benghazi that were “spontaneously inspired” by protests in Cairo against a crude video lampooning the Prophet Muhammad. (Later assessments concluded there were no demonstrations.) The initial version of the talking points identified the suspected attackers — a local militant group called Ansar al-Shariah, with possible links to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, an offshoot of the terrorist network in North Africa.

But during a subsequent review by several intelligence agencies, C.I.A. officials were concerned that such specific language might tip off the malefactors, skew intelligence collection in Libya and interfere with the criminal investigation. So they replaced the names with the blanket term “extremists.”

Ms. Rice has been skewered by Republican senators for her comments on Sunday television news programs on Sept. 16, which they have suggested were part of an administration cover-up of the terrorist nature of the attack and links to Al Qaeda. The criticism has barely been affected by the revelation that she accurately recited the talking points the intelligence agencies prepared.

On Wednesday, as she and Mr. Morell continued their meetings on Capitol Hill, an evident preamble to her possible nomination as secretary of state, Republican senators were not mollified.

“I continue to be troubled by the fact that the United Nations ambassador decided to play what was essentially a political role at the height of a contentious presidential election campaign,” Senator Susan Collins of Maine told a throng of reporters waiting for her after her hourlong meeting with Ms. Rice and Mr. Morell.

Ms. Collins said she “would need to have additional information” before she could support Ms. Rice for secretary of state.

Ms. Rice and Mr. Morell also met at length with Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who said that he too was deeply troubled by what he has learned. “The whole issue of Benghazi has been, to me, a tawdry affair,” he said. Though he did not mention Ms. Rice by name, he seemed to question whether she would be an appropriate choice for a position as vital as secretary of state.

Mr. Morell — thrust into the acting directorship of the C.I.A. on Nov. 9 when David H. Petraeus stepped down in a sex scandal — might himself soon be asking for the senators’ support. He is among a handful of top candidates to lead the agency, and it is uncertain whether the flap over his misstatement about the Benghazi talking points will be held against him.

Thomas Fingar, a former intelligence official and veteran of highly politicized disputes over Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction and Iran’s nuclear program, said that such Congressional scrutiny could be disconcerting for an analyst unaccustomed to the political fray.

“Michael is a very, very capable guy,” said Mr. Fingar, now at Stanford University. “But until you’ve sat at the table to undergo the grilling in this kind of atmosphere, it’s hard to imagine what it’s like. I might forget my own birthday.”
613 2012-11-29 To celebrate the national introduction of a Christmas version of the Peeps Easter chick, Just Born is bringing out a campaign that proposes Peeps Candy Cane Flavored Dipped Marshmallow Chicks as the perfect way to acknowledge the holiday season as “a time for peace, love, joy and reconciliation.”

The campaign, by a New York agency named the Terri & Sandy Solution, suggests that consumers send “Peeps Offering” e-cards to each other through portals like Facebook and the Peeps Web site.

“We’ve been doing Christmas products for some time,” said Mark Hoffman, senior brand manager for Peeps and seasonal products at Just Born. He cited items like Peeps reindeer, snowmen and trees.

With the new Christmas chicks, “we felt we could bring a little more to the party,” Mr. Hoffman added, particularly after a test version of the product “did fabulously well” last year at Walmart stores.

The e-cards are meant to tap into what Sandy Greenberg, co-president at Terri & Sandy with Terri Meyer, called the “cultish phenomenon” surrounding Peeps. She noted “the dioramas constructed with Peeps,” playful skits about the brand on programs like “Late Show With David Letterman” and videos uploaded to YouTube in which “people put Peeps in the microwave and blow them up.”

The e-cards, to be available starting on Monday, feature the new Christmas Peeps next to mock apologies like “I’m sorry I sneezed in your eggnog,” “I’m sorry you slipped on the snow that I didn’t shovel” and “I’m sorry for using mistletoe as an excuse to kiss your mom.”

Another Christmas newcomer is the Smart Balance line of dairy products, which has a significant presence in social media like Facebook and Twitter.

The premise of the campaign, from TBC in Baltimore (formerly Trahan, Burden & Charles), is laid out in a commercial in which a doctor tells Santa Claus during a physical to “start cutting back on the bad stuff” like “high-fat milk and cookies.”

Santa turns to his mobile device and sends a message to his Twitter followers: “Doc says I need better milk & cookies! #HelpSanta.”

Help, according to the campaign, comes in the form of Smart Balance Blended Butter Sticks, Smart Balance Spreadable Butter and Canola Oil, and Smart Balance Fat Free Milk and Omega-3s.

“Steve always said, ‘We ought to do a spot for the holidays,’ ” said Allan Charles, chairman and creative director at TBC, referring to Stephen Hughes, chairman and chief executive at Smart Balance. The expansion of the Smart Balance blended-butter line was a catalyst for finally doing that.

Many consumers who use spreads during the year “shift to butter” for baking and other purposes during the Christmas season, Mr. Hughes said, so the company would “pull over to the sideline” at this time of year.

“This is an opportunity to give people a simple step in the right direction to make it a healthier holiday,” he added.

ADT Security Systems is running its first holiday-centric commercial for the ADT Pulse interactive system, which was introduced in 2010. The campaign, with a budget estimated at $7.8 million, is being created by Doner in Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners.

The commercial gives the ADT Pulse’s everyday tasks a seasonal twist. “ADT can help you turn on a few lights,” an announcer says, as on screen a house lavishly decorated with Christmas lights is illuminated, and “even let you know when an old friend has arrived,” he adds, as two children in bed use a tablet to watch a video feed of Santa Claus captured by a living room camera.

“By tapping into the magic of the season, we believe we can better connect with consumers to demonstrate how our offerings help to enhance their lives,” said Sarah Cohn, a spokeswoman at ADT.
614 2012-11-29 Gov. Jan Brewer, an ardent critic of President Obama’s push to overhaul the health care system, said on Wednesday that Arizona would not establish a state-based health insurance exchange under the Affordable Care Act. Citing lingering questions about the exchanges and concerns about high costs that she said would be passed on to Arizona families and small businesses, Ms. Brewer, a Republican, said her state would opt instead for a federally run exchange. Such networks, designed to function as online insurance markets where consumers can shop for private coverage at federally subsidized rates, are an integral provision of the act, a centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s first term in office. About 17 states have told the Obama administration that they plan to move ahead on their own exchanges, while at least nine Republican governors in recent days have rejected the plan outright, as Ms. Brewer has, or chosen to cooperate with Washington in setting up hybrid federal-state networks.
615 2012-11-29 “Without the development of new medicines by innovator companies, there would be neither the new treatments essential to progress against diseases nor generic copies,” Josephine Martin, executive vice president of the group, said in a statement.

The report cited the growth of specialty drugs, which treat diseases like cancer and multiple sclerosis, as a major reason for the increase in spending on branded drugs. Spending on specialty medicines increased nearly 23 percent during the first three quarters of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011. All but one of the new medicines approved in the third quarter of this year were specialty drugs, the report found, and many of them were approved to treat advanced cancers only when other drugs had failed.

Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota, said the potential benefits of many new drugs did not always match the lofty price tags. “Increasingly it’s going to be difficult for drug-benefit programs to make decisions about coverage and payment and which drugs to include,” said Mr. Schondelmeyer, who conducts a similar price report for AARP. He also helps manage the drug benefit program for the University of Minnesota.

“We’re going to be faced with the issue that any drug at any price will not be sustainable.”

Spending on traditional medicines — which treat common ailments like high cholesterol and blood pressure — actually declined by 0.6 percent during the period, the report found. That decline was mainly because of the patent expiration of several blockbuster drugs, like Lipitor and Plavix, which opened the market for generic competitors. But even as the entry of generic alternatives pushed down spending, drug companies continued to raise prices on their branded products, in part to squeeze as much revenue as possible out of an ever-shrinking portfolio, Dr. Miller said.

Drug makers are also being pushed by companies like Express Scripts and health insurers, which are increasingly looking for ways to cut costs, said C. Anthony Butler, a pharmaceuticals analyst at Barclays. “I think they’re pricing where they can but what they keep telling me is they’re under significant pressure” to keep prices low, he said.

Express Scripts earns higher profits from greater use of generic medicines than brand name drugs sold through their mail-order pharmacy, Mr. Butler said. “There’s no question that they would love for everybody to be on a generic,” he said.

Dr. Miller acknowledged that was true but said that ultimately, everyone wins. “When we save people money, that’s when we make money,” he said. “We don’t shy away from that.”
616 2012-11-29 Most of the buyers interviewed on Wednesday acknowledged that their chances were not especially good.

A standard practice in news media coverage is to compare lottery odds unfavorably with odds of dying in peculiar ways (shark attack, lightning), but even that morbid exercise does not do justice to the long shot. The odds of picking the winning numbers in Wednesday’s drawing were longer than the odds of picking an American man completely at random and having him happen to be Alan Alda.

Granted, the odds were slightly better than they were last year. This year, the officials who oversee Powerball, a game consisting of five numbered white balls and one red ball, reduced the number of red balls to 35 from 39. They also doubled the price of a ticket to $2, but the increase in the size of the jackpot has apparently overcome any sticker shock from the new, higher-priced tickets. There is math, and there is wishful thinking. The contest between the two is not even close.

“It only takes one to win,” said Katherine Scott, amid the lunch-hour traffic at a 7-Eleven in Chicago. “I bought two.”

Ken Menno, who has been buying Powerball tickets every week for years, bought five on Wednesday morning at a Shell station in Denver.

“If I win, I’m going to buy this joint,” he said. “And send everyone here on a vacation.”

Lines were particularly long in places that sat just over the line from the few states that do not participate in Powerball, places like the Purple Cow convenience store in Slidell, La., a few minutes’ drive from Mississippi.

And some people seem to have decided that certain stores are just luckier than others.

One of the three winning tickets from the $656 million Mega Millions prize was sold at the MotoMart convenience store in Red Bud, Ill., about an hour southeast of St. Louis. The electronic marquee outside on Wednesday read “Lightning can strike twice!” which is inarguable. Enough people believed it could strike twice at this MotoMart that the store doubled the number of working staff members to accommodate the rush.

“It’s constant traffic,” said Denise Metzger, the manager. She declined to release her sales numbers because they were so high she feared she would be robbed.

Some buyers, like Katie Flom, 28, who works at an advertising agency in Chicago, still had rather ill-formed ideas of what to do with all of that money.

“I’d first buy a plane ticket somewhere warm and then figure it out from there,” she said.

But she appeared to be in the minority.

Despite the long odds and the cautionary tales about past winners, most people knew exactly what they would do, the bills they would pay, the student debt they would retire, the charity they would start or the car they would finally send to the dump.

Outside the Viva Deli in East Harlem in New York, Manny Colon talked of buying his two daughters a house and setting aside college tuition for grandchildren and great-grandchildren. “They’re the ones that are coming up,” said Mr. Colon, a retired doorman, smiling at his wife of 61 years. “We’re all right.”

His wife, Gloria, nodded. Then, she added: “I would like to go to Hawaii.”
617 2012-11-29 The American Mardy Fish will miss the Australian Open in January as he continues to recover from problems related to heart surgery, his agent said. Fish, 30, who had an operation in May to correct a form of arrhythmia, plans to return to the ATP Tour in February at the SAP Open in San Jose, Calif.
618 2012-11-29 SAN FRANCISCO — Several events finished here on Monday evening. The Mitchell Open Board-a-Match Teams was won by Michael Becker and Aubrey Strul of Boca Raton, Fla.; Steve Garner of Chicago; Howard Weinstein of Omaha; and Walid Elahmady and Tarek Sadek from Egypt. They finished one-and-one-third boards ahead of Ralph Katz of Burr Ridge, Ill.; Nick Nickell of New York City; Eric Rodwell of Clearwater Beach, Fla.; Bobby Levin of Henderson, Nev.; and Steve Weinstein of Andes, N.Y.

The Marsha May Sternberg Women’s Board-a-Match Teams was captured by Sylvia Moss of Boca Raton; Joann Glasson of Pennington, N.J.; Cecilia Rimstedt from Sweden; and Meike Wortel, Laura Dekkers and Marion Michielsen from the Netherlands. One-and-a-half boards back in second were Geeske Joel of Palo Alto; Tobi Sokolow of Austin; Jill Meyers of Santa Monica, Calif.; Janice Seamon-Molson of Hollywood, Fla.; and Bénédicte Cronier and Sylvie Willard from France.

The Super Senior Pairs, for players 70 and older, was won by Ed Lazarus of Baltimore for the third time with a third different partner, Mark Laken of Glyndon, Md. They were almost a board clear of Loretta Bromberg of Bel Tiburon, Calif., and Don Friedman of San Francisco.

In the Mitchell Open Board-a-Match, Garner gained one point for his team in the diagramed deal from the final session.

Both Souths were in four hearts. At each table West led a club, East won with his ace and returned a club. West took his king, cashed the diamond ace and played another diamond, dummy’s jack being covered by East’s queen.

After ruffing, the other South led a heart to dummy’s queen and played a heart back to his ace. When West discarded, declarer could not recover.
619 2012-11-29 THE editors of Vogue, once notoriously media shy, sure do seem reluctant to give up the spotlight.

Three years after the release of “The September Issue,” the behind-the-scenes documentary that made Grace Coddington a star, the magazine’s charismatic editors are back in a new documentary that will be broadcast on HBO on Dec. 6. This one, called “In Vogue: The Editor’s Eye” and directed by the team of Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato, highlights the work of the many strong-willed women who have helped create fashion images for the magazine over several decades.

It also coincides with the publication of a book of the same title, as well as Ms. Coddington’s memoir, and the magazine’s 120th anniversary issue, so you may be wondering what could possibly be left to tell, unless there’s a documentary somewhere in development on the janitors of Condé Nast.

“Oh, there’s a million stories,” Mr. Barbato said. “We feel like this is Chapter 1.”

To differentiate their film from “The September Issue,” Mr. Bailey and Mr. Barbato, whose credits include “The Eyes of Tammy Faye” and “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” focused on the stories behind the famous photographs. They are told by Vogue editors, past and present, all of whom share a tendency to decorate their homes with images from the magazine, and most of whom speak in fabulously entertaining ways, like Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele, who pronounces the word “real” like a howler monkey clearing its throat.

While reverential (Mr. Bailey and Mr. Barbato describe themselves as “obsessed” with the Vogue editors), “The Editor’s Eye” still flicks at the intensely competitive environment of Vogue.

“There’s a certain loneliness to being a fashion editor,” Polly Allen Mellen says in the film, describing her years as a protégé of Diana Vreeland. When other editors became jealous of her fast success, Ms. Mellen said that Ms. Vreeland gave her this advice: “Who needs friends? Get on with it.”

No one said working at Vogue was going to be a walk in the park, but this show makes the job look as if it should come with hazard pay.

Phyllis Posnick once asked a fearless model to pose with a bee on her lips. And Susan Train, a Paris bureau chief, described a photo shoot on a remote mountainside in Turkey, where a general mistook her crew for members of the Peace Corps.
620 2012-11-29 Skeptics also point to Germany’s demand that Greece impose another round of spending cuts in return for this latest dispensation as further proof that the architects of monetary union have decided that the last, best hope for the euro’s survival is to continue subscribing to the principle that punishments and threats from Brussels will keep spendthrift nations from falling into hock.

But some economists contend that as long as countries in trouble continue to think that they will be bailed out when they run out of money, there will be scant incentive for them to accede to the demands of the euro zone’s stability and growth pact, which requires countries to keep their debts and deficits at reasonable levels.

“There is an acknowledgment in Brussels and Berlin that the stability pact has not worked because it was not strong enough — so now they have tried to make it tougher by imposing more punishments,” said Charles Wyplosz, an international economist at the Graduate Institute in Geneva who contends that the latest Greek debt deal is nothing more than another bailout. “But what they don’t realize is that this will not work as long as local Parliaments remain sovereign.”

In a recent paper, Mr. Wyplosz argues that the only way sovereign states will become fiscally responsible over the long run is by truly grasping that Brussels will abide by the founding treaty’s prohibition against countries bailing out one another.

He points to the United States as an example.

With dozens of states that manage their own fiscal affairs, yet operate comfortably within a federal system, the common currency system in the United States has long been seen as a model by those who seek improvements in euro zone policy.

At the root of this success, say proponents of the United States model, is the fact that Washington has not had to rescue a penniless state in the last 150 years despite no law or constitutional provision against a federal bailout.

The last time a state went bankrupt was in 1933, when Arkansas stopped paying investors who held its highway bonds.

The economist C. Randall Henning, an expert on the topic, has described in detail that, in the early years of the United States, the federal government presided over numerous bailouts, until Congress stopped it in the mid-1840s.

For better or worse, American states got the message, and a majority of them have adopted various legal statutes that require them to balance their budgets each year.

As Mr. Wyplosz sees it, if countries like Greece, Portugal and Ireland, as well as Spain and Italy, were to become convinced that Brussels — and Berlin in particular — would rather have them default than deploy other countries’ taxpayer money to give them another chance, then they might put in place similar laws that would prevent them from running up budget deficits.

Of course, the process would not be pretty. As has been the case in the United States, defaults might occur and markets would convulse. But only then, these economists say, would politicians learn that it was in their own interest to be fiscally responsible.

“At the end of the day, these countries are sovereign — we can’t just send in the troops to get things done,” Mr. Wyplosz said. The no-bailout treaty rule, he said, “works via incentives and not enforcement.”

Despite all the financial difficulties suffered by California, Illinois and others, the average debt of American states relative to the size of their own economies is 7.7 percent of G.D.P., far below the federal figure of 107 percent and Greece’s current figure.

To some extent, Europe may be edging toward the American model. As part of a new fiscal compact agreed to by the European Union last year, but not yet ratified by all members, governments must establish laws that, among other things, will make it illegal in the future for a country to have a budget deficit of more than 3 percent of G.D.P.

Already, five countries in the euro zone have written such debt limits into their constitutions: Germany, Italy, Spain, Slovakia and Malta. But most of the rest aim to do it through new laws.

And as Nicolaus Heinen, a Deutsche Bank analyst, points out in a detailed study on the topic, laws are easier to override or rewrite than constitutions. And under the new fiscal compact, the punishment by Brussels if a Parliament overturns one of those new laws is but a fiscal slap on the wrist: a penalty of only 0.1 percent of G.D.P.

“This is all part of a strategy on the part of Europe to change the fiscal mentality of these countries,” Mr. Heinen said.

Whether governments follow their own new rules remains to be seen.
621 2012-11-30 What they didn't know hurt them....
622 2012-11-30 Apple has introduced the free iTunes 11 for download. It's still the front end for music, videos and iGadgets, and its features and personality are much the same. But the design has been overhauled - deeply, controversially, but, in general, succe...
623 2012-11-30 The Hindsight Career Project, which taps into experience of advertising executives, is joining with the Art Directors Club....
624 2012-11-30 A 2010 case study of a security breach at an unnamed Fortune 500 company appears to offer new details of a breach at Coca-Cola....
625 2012-11-30 Opportunistic hedge funds are adding to their positions on the expectation that the government and its creditors will have to buy back Greek debt at 35 cents on the euro or more -- a significant premium to today's average price of around 30 cents....
626 2012-11-30 The inquiry into Steven A. Cohen's hedge fund intensified. | The race to run the S.E.C. shifted. | Andrew Ross Sorkin examined the peril of "expert networks." | A news analysis finds a housing tax break is vulnerable. | And Lehman sold a property ...
627 2012-11-30 The San Antonio Spurs turned an early-season N.B.A. game into a national debate....
628 2012-11-30 Warren E. Buffett and his sizable insurance team are betting that at least one Spanish firm is in good financial shape, even as its home country remains on shakier economic ground....
629 2012-11-30 The lesser flamingo is in danger of losing one of its premier mating lakes, in Tanzania, East Africa, to industrial construction....
630 2012-11-30 While the prime minister rails against a soap opera for desecrating Turkey's Ottoman past, he and his party are parodying that history with grandiose construction projects....
631 2012-11-30 In Red Hook, Brooklyn, business owners Susan Povich and Ralph Gorham are overwhelmed with to-do lists.
632 2012-11-30 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
633 2012-11-30 Israeli citations of the Iron Dome's shoot-down rate have generated renewed interest in missile defenses around the world, spurring discussions with several nations that may wish to purchase it....
634 2012-11-30 This architect-turned-podcaster says much of the traffic is driven by iTunes. You have a good chance to be discovered "if the title of your podcast, the description, and the title of the episodes are similar to what keywords people are typing into...
635 2012-11-30 As excitement heats up in India about the affordable health care industry, some questions remain....
636 2012-11-30 Results have been disappointing, officials say....
637 2012-11-30 “Shady Lady” is a docudrama born out of love for aviation history and a scrupulous, reverent devotion to period details. Though the film falters, the World War II story that inspired it — a B-24 bombing mission seemingly cursed from the outset (beginning on a Friday the 13th), flying from Australia to destroy enemy refineries in Borneo — is certainly compelling. Its crew members survived tropical thunderstorms, antiaircraft fire, attacks from Japanese Zeros, low fuel and a perilous landing on Australia’s remote north coast, where they were aided by aborigines. The flight is widely believed to have been the longest airplane bombing mission up to that time.

But “Shady Lady” has all too many deficiencies: an overreliance on narration (“The situation seems hopeless,” intones Michael Dorn, from “Star Trek: The Next Generation”); an apparently weak effects budget; an awkwardly applied musical score; and trite dialogue (“I’ve got a bad feeling about this”). The actors, their characters outlined in quick strokes, do their best, with Ross Neuenfeldt, as First Lt. Douglas S. Craig, the crew commander, providing the necessary stoic authority. All of them must take a back seat to loving, lingering shots of wireless radios, aircraft artillery, navigation equipment and cockpit control panels. It comes as no surprise that the director, Tristan Loraine, comes from a background as an airline captain and a documentarian. Perhaps those jobs make best use of his skills.
638 2012-11-30 Lobsang Sangay says fight for independence mirrors that of Baltic states during the Cold War....
639 2012-11-30 A woman locked in an isolation cell moaned in confusion, and staff members reported shortages of medicine and inconsistent care by doctors. A Chilean psychiatrist accompanying the investigators examined several patients and found signs that some had been given improper doses or poorly prepared medications.

Patients with mental, psychiatric and physical disabilities, including many accused of violent crimes, are sent to the hospital and mixed together.

Privately, the groups said in a report, staff members reported that the guards and the gangs controlled the place and fomented a climate of fear.

“This is not a safe place for people with mental disabilities — or anyone,” said Eric Rosenthal, executive director of Disability Rights International, based in Washington. “Everyone in this facility could be immediately moved to safe places in the community — starting with the children and women, who are most at-risk.”

Guatemalan officials did not respond to requests for comment.

The commission, an arm of the Organization of American States, did not rule on the merits of the case but found sufficient concern to ask the Guatemalan government to take several steps, including separating children from adults, providing appropriate medical care and putting in place measures to prevent patients from being abused by guards, staff members and other patients.

It asked Guatemala to report back on its progress in a month, but the commission has no official power to compel the changes. Still, few countries proclaiming their respect for human rights, as Guatemala has done, wish to have actions pending in the commission.

The commission’s acceptance of the groups’ “precautionary measures petition” is a rare step; last year it granted only 57 such requests out of the 422 it received.

Disability Rights International has focused on care in psychiatric facilities, calling them an area often neglected or mismanaged in several countries. Two years ago it issued a report condemning the level of care for the mentally and physically disabled in Mexico, prompting the government to promise changes, though human rights groups have said problems persist.

Still, Mr. Rosenthal of Disability Rights International said the Guatemala ruling would serve notice on governments. He said the group would seek a settlement with the government that would open the door to more community-based clinics and care for people with disabilities.
640 2012-11-30 Even the time-honored methods of flagging down taxis could soon face competition, with a glut of smartphone apps — allowing New Yorkers to hail yellow taxis electronically — poised to flood the marketplace. On Thursday, the taxi commission held a public hearing for proposed rules governing the apps’ use.

“You’ve allowed the use of technology to change, and to change the way people ask for transportation,” John L. Acierno, the president of the Executive Transportation Group, which offers sedan and limousine service, said at the hearing.

But while many opponents have focused arguments on legal grounds — contending, for instance, that smartphone apps violate the city’s longstanding ban on prearranged rides in yellow taxis — critics of other industry changes have made a simpler case: The old way is what everyone is used to. And it has often served the city just fine.

“People still say to me, ‘Can’t you bring back the Checker cab?’ ” Mr. Yassky said.

Iris Weinshall, the city’s former transportation commissioner and a member of the taxi commission’s board, cast the lone vote against the new roof-light rules on Thursday. The goal of the change was to curb “cherry-picking fares,” she reasoned, and regardless of the policy, “it’s still going to go on.”

“Why mess with it?” she said in an interview. “I’m also a traditionalist. My father was a cabdriver.”

On Monday, when the City Council’s transportation committee held a hearing concerning the new decal rules, the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents yellow-taxi operators, submitted testimony arguing in part that fare information should be displayed because “rate of fare decals have been a ubiquitous feature of the iconic New York City taxicab for decades.”

Ashwini Chhabra, the taxi commission’s deputy commissioner for policy and planning, said in his testimony that the industry had changed since those guidelines were devised. “We now have technology aides that we didn’t have back when the exterior fare markings were originally conceived,” he said.

Many critics of the commission have cited the singularity of New York City’s taxi culture as grounds for opposing the proposed policy changes, particularly for the hailing apps that have spread across many major cities.

“I take personal offense when people tell me that we need to copy what’s being done in London or San Francisco,” said Avik Kabessa, the chief executive of Carmel Car and Limousine Service and a member of the Livery Roundtable, a group representing livery drivers and base owners.

Mr. Taylor, the court stenographer with an eye for off-duty but available cabs, said the roof light changes were clearly more egalitarian and less confusing for non-New Yorkers. And that was why he opposed them.

“It’s pro-tourist,” he said from a bench in City Hall Park on Thursday. “We don’t mind sharing, but tourists come and go. We’re here to stay.”
641 2012-11-30 Diverging views among Thursday’s panel of state regulators pose a problem because the transactions often involve an insurer in one state, a subsidiary in another, and policies sold to customers in any number of other states. States, rather than the federal government, are the primary regulators of the nation’s insurance companies.

“Our entire financial solvency system falls apart if there is not uniformity” among state regulators, said Joseph Torti, a panelist from Rhode Island. “We need to be able to understand what our sister states are doing.”

Separately, New York State is conducting its own investigation of the off-balance-sheet insurance deals. This year it called on the insurers under its jurisdiction to provide detailed information about their special-purpose subsidiaries, why they had created them, and whether the subsidiaries were counting assets that the insurer itself would not be allowed to include on its balance sheet.

In recent years, some states passed laws allowing insurance companies to set up the subsidiaries, because they were perceived as creating good jobs.

Conventional state insurance regulation protects policyholders by requiring companies to set aside enough of the premium money they take in to build reserves to pay all future claims. Companies are also required to maintain a healthy surplus, and regulators can make them stop selling new policies if they fall too far short.

When the life insurers secure their policies through special-purpose vehicles, however, they can do so without building up a body of liquid, cashlike reserves, as prescribed by regulators.

Instead, they offer some form of collateral, like a letter of credit, to stand behind the policies. Some regulators said there were cases in which the collateral was inadequate and would not have been admitted under the usual regulatory standards.

Data compiled by SNL Financial, a data and news company, shows that the practice of securing life policies through a wholly owned subsidiary has grown sharply in the last five years. In 2006, the companies SNL surveyed used such subsidiaries for 31 percent of the policies they reinsured; by 2011, it was up to 45 percent.

SNL also found that while the practice was very popular at some companies, others did not use it at all. The American International Group used subsidiaries for nearly 80 percent of the life policies that it reinsured in 2011, for instance, while Northwestern Mutual used only unaffiliated reinsurers, where the terms would be set in an arms’ length transaction. Still others, like State Farm, were not reinsuring their life policies as of 2011.

New York Life, a modest user of affiliated reinsurers at 15 percent, submitted a written comment letter to the panel, warning of “a system that encourages companies to circumvent statutory reserving standards by using complex structured transactions.” It called for “strong regulation” that would allow only “clean, unconditional collateral” to backstop the reinsured policies.

New York Life also said that after artificially lowering their costs through the complex transactions, some companies were coming back to market and selling new policies to consumers at low prices.

“Although lowering prices to consumers is generally a worthy objective, doing so at the expense of effective solvency regulation is inappropriate,” the company stated. “It can result in reserves being reduced below the level needed to protect policyholders.”

The off-balance-sheet vehicles are designated “captives,” under state insurance law, even though they do not resemble conventional captives, which are typically used by noninsurance companies as a vehicle to insure the company’s own risks.

Conventional captives were not subject to the regulatory panel’s scrutiny. Some of the regulators expressed concern that the insurers were using the “captive” designation inappropriately, to take advantage of state laws that allow captives to keep all financial information secret.

The secrecy of the transactions was the biggest source of disagreement among the regulators.

“We think there are things that are legitimately held confidential,” said David Provost, the delegate from Vermont, the first state to allow captives. The captives often house just one very large transaction, and some companies say more disclosure would allow their competitors to find out their confidential strategies. Mr. Provost said insurance regulators in Vermont worked hard to keep their counterparts in other states informed.

Mr. Torti, the delegate from Rhode Island, disagreed. “I have not heard, in all these deliberations, why any of this information should be confidential,” he said. “I think it should be available to the public, available to investors. It should be out there.”
642 2012-11-30 The effort in the gulf is envisioned to include advanced radar as well as sets of two antimissile systems with accompanying radar: Patriot Advanced Capability interceptors and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense. Those weapons would be linked with the radars and missiles carried aboard American Aegis warships in nearby waters.

There is a similar effort in the Pacific centered on radars in Japan, Aegis warships at sea and land-based interceptors in Alaska and California.

The Obama administration’s more recent focus has been the system to protect NATO allies in Europe with advanced radars based in Turkey and long-range interceptors to be based first in Romania and subsequently in Poland. American officials have emphasized that the limited number of interceptors in Europe are all about Iran, and would be inadequate to blunt Russia’s vast nuclear arsenal; but the system remains an irritant in relations with Moscow.

During the conflict with Hamas, Israeli officials report that Iron Dome knocked down more than 400 rockets on flight paths to populated areas, with a kill rate of 85 percent. Hamas is said to have fired off more than 1,400 rockets in all, but Israel was able to limit Hamas’s ability to launch more of its arsenal of 12,000 rockets with pre-emptive attacks on the storehouses where they were kept.

But some antimissile experts have expressed doubt about Israeli claims for Iron Dome, which is built by Israeli defense firms but has received about $275 million in financial support from the United States. Bright flashes can create a visual impression of overwhelming interceptor success, when in fact they may represent nothing more than the interceptor warhead blowing up, these skeptics warn.

“I’ve met the guys in Israel, and they’re smart,” said Richard M. Lloyd, an antimissile expert with more than a dozen patents and two major textbooks on warhead design to his credit. “But I’m not seeing the things I want to see” to prove that Iron Dome actually succeeded to the extent described by Israel.

Mr. Lloyd, who works for Tesla Laboratories Inc., a defense contractor in Arlington, Va., said he had studied dozens of publicly available photographs of spent rockets that landed on Israel. Few of them, he said, showed signs of damage from Iron Dome’s exploding warhead and the specific mechanism by which the interceptor is designed to make its kill — a dense spray of speeding metal fragments.

He acknowledged that some of the photographs may have been of enemy rockets that Iron Dome had not targeted because they were not headed toward populated areas. “I’m not saying the system is no good,” he stressed. “I’m saying I need more information.”

The president of Tesla Laboratories, George Stejic, echoed the doubts and said that the Israelis might have been tempted to exaggerate the degree of antimissile success as a calculated maneuver. “From a military perspective, the Israelis have every interest in overstating the efficacy of the system in order to deter missile launches,” he said. Israeli officials reject such skepticism, and stand by the statistics of Iron Dome’s success that they have released.

“The numbers are very accurate,” said one Israeli official who discussed sensitive internal assessments of Iron Dome on the condition of anonymity. “Many of these video clips and pictures were taken by citizens, not professionals. You cannot learn very much from videos taken with an iPhone.”

Iron Dome is wholly different from what would be required to defend a nation against long-range launchings by Iran or North Korea, even with their limited arsenals of those weapons, and it would do nothing to defend against a larger arsenal of intercontinental warheads, likely accompanied by decoys, from nations like Russia or China.

But South Korea has expressed interest in buying Iron Dome to defend the populated areas that have pushed toward the border with North Korea, which fields thousands of short-range rockets. Officials say Singapore has also been in discussions to purchase Iron Dome.

Israel acknowledges that Iron Dome is insufficient for its full missile-defense needs, and development is under way for David’s Sling, an antimissile system against medium-range rockets like those fielded by Hezbollah in Lebanon. An Arrow system is in the field to watch for a potential missile attack by a more distant Iran.

Missile defense enthusiasts in the United States now urge the American military to consider Iron Dome for support of ground units like those deployed in Afghanistan. “I think the successes of Iron Dome create a pretty big opening,” said Riki Ellison, chairman of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance.
643 2012-11-30 Curiosity, the NASA Mars rover, has not found the building blocks of life in that planet’s dirt, the agency said Thursday. “Rumors and speculation that there are major new findings from the mission at this early stage are incorrect,” NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said in a statement. Tamping down expectations about a news conference scheduled for Monday, NASA said, “The instruments on the rover have not detected any definitive evidence of Martian organics.” Speculation was fueled last week when the mission’s project scientist told a reporter that data from Curiosity would be “one for the history books.” NASA later clarified that the scientist was speaking generally.
644 2012-11-30 Images from the new exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art....
645 2012-11-30 “We never doubted he was authentic,” Vladislav Kaskiv, the director of the Ukrainian state investment agency, who signed the document with the man, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Kaskiv was reportedly initially shocked by Gas Natural’s denial.

The agency had harbored no suspicions, Mr. Kaskiv said, because Mr. Bonvehi, a bald man with a goatee, had been regularly showing up for talks over two months, once even traveling to the resort town of Yalta on the Black Sea, far from the capital, for a meeting about the investment fund.

At the signing ceremony in Kiev, however, the man had appeared nervous and spoke often on his cellphone. Soon afterward, the Spanish-speaking man brushed past journalists who tried to speak to him.

Mr. Kaskiv missed a cabinet meeting this week and said he was “disappointed” by the confusion. A phone number Mr. Kaskiv provided for Mr. Bonvehi was not answered Thursday.

Reuters reported a telephone conversation with a man in Barcelona who identified himself as Mr. Bonvehi and said he had signed the agreement, though he had no authorization from Gas Natural to do so.

“I thought I could sign it and then settle it with the company,” he said, according to Reuters, which added that it could not independently establish the man’s identity.

The development was a peculiar setback for a high-profile project, and one with geopolitical overtones. The Ukrainian state investment agency had been seeking financing to form an investment fund worth 850 million euros ($1.1 billion) to build the re-gasification terminal on the Black Sea.

The contract was a nonbinding memorandum of understanding; Ukrainian officials have said they will continue talks with other potential investors.

The terminal was intended as a first, significant step for Ukraine to diversify its energy supplies away from Russia’s Gazprom, which has shut off natural gas supplies twice in the last few years in politically charged price disputes.

The facility to import gas from the Persian Gulf or the Caspian region would give Ukraine leverage in these talks.

With so much at stake, Ukraine’s government announced the deal on Monday with Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and Yuriy Boyko, the energy minister, presiding over the ceremony.

Edward Scott, a vice president of Excelerate, a company based in Woodlands, Tex., that specializes in liquefied natural gas equipment, signed a separate contract to supply equipment for the terminal. His identity is not in question.

At one point during the event, a live video feed showed welders, sparks flying, at work on a pipeline ostensibly being built for the new gas terminal.

“We can call Nov. 26 energy independence day for Ukraine,” Mr. Kaskiv said at the event.

In a statement, the agency identified the man who signed the contract as a Gas Natural executive, Jordi Garcia Tabernero.

Gas Natural, though, denied in a statement having signed any agreement and said Mr. Tabernero was not in Ukraine on Monday. Mr. Tabernero, as a photograph on a company Web site shows, has a full head of hair.

Mr. Kaskiv said the initial statement had misidentified the man because of a clerical error. The agency had expected Mr. Tabernero to attend, he said, but when he did not, another Spanish speaker signed in his place.

That man, of course, is still something of a mystery.
646 2012-11-30 Autonomy was audited by the British arm of Deloitte. H.P., which is audited by Ernst & Young, hired KPMG to perform due diligence in connection with the acquisition — due diligence that presumably found no big problems with the books.

That covered three of the four big firms, so it should be no surprise that the final one, PricewaterhouseCoopers, was brought in to conduct a forensic investigation after an unnamed whistle-blower told H.P. that the books were not kosher. H.P. says the PWC investigation found “serious accounting improprieties, misrepresentation and disclosure failures.”

That would seem to make the Big Four tally two for Autonomy and two for H.P., or at least it would when Ernst approves H.P.’s annual report including the write-down.

But KPMG wants it known that it “was not engaged by H.P. to perform any audit work on this matter. The firm’s only role was to provide a limited set of non-audit-related services.” KPMG won’t say what those services were, but states, “We can say with confidence that we acted responsibly and with integrity.’

Deloitte did much more for Autonomy than audit its books, perhaps taking advantage of British rules, which are more relaxed about potential conflicts of interest than are American regulations enacted a decade ago in the Sarbanes-Oxley law. In 2010, states the company’s annual report, 44 percent of the money paid to Deloitte by Autonomy was for nonaudit services. Some of the money went for “advice in relation to remuneration,” which presumably means consultations on how much executives should be paid.

The consulting arms of the Big Four also have relationships that can be complicated. At an auditing conference this week at New York University, Francine McKenna of Forbes.com noted that Deloitte was officially a platinum-level “strategic alliance technology implementation partner” of H.P. and said she had learned of “at least two large client engagements where Autonomy and Deloitte Consulting worked together before the acquisition.” A Deloitte spokeswoman did not comment on that report.

To an outsider, making sense of this brouhaha is not easy. In a normal accounting scandal, if there is such a thing, the company restates its earnings and details how revenue was inflated or costs hidden. That has not happened here, and it may never happen. There is not even an accusation of how much Autonomy inflated its profits, but if there were, it would be a very small fraction of the $8.8 billion write-off that H.P. took. Autonomy never reported earning $1 billion in a year.

That $8.8 billion represents a write-off of much of the good will that H.P. booked when it made the deal, based on the conclusion that Autonomy was not worth nearly as much as it had paid. It says more than $5 billion of that relates to the accounting irregularities, with the rest reflecting H.P.’s low stock price and “headwinds against anticipated synergies and marketplace performance,” whatever that might mean.

Some of the accounting accusations relate to how Autonomy booked expenses. The H.P. version is that the British company made sales of hardware — personal computers it bought and resold — look like sales of valuable software. It hid some costs as marketing expenses when they should have been reported as costs of goods sold.

All that, if true, would inflate operating profit margins and growth rates for the most important part of the business. But it would not change net earnings.

What might change profits would be so-called round-trips, which became notorious a decade ago when it turned out that companies like Global Crossing and Qwest had pumped up profits by selling “dark fiber” cables of dubious value to each other for high reported prices. It is sort of like you buying my painting for $1 million, while I buy yours for the same price. No money changes hands, but we each say we have a lot of profits, and an asset worth $1 million.

H.P. thinks Autonomy did such deals, but it has presented no examples. Software accounting can be complex, subject to varying interpretations, and that is especially true under international rules. Some part of a sale of software must often be deferred over the life of the service contract involved. That means the company must separate out the cost of the basic software and the value of the services it will perform later. Those sometimes arcane calculations can have a major impact on how much revenue is reported in any one year.

American rules, known as generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, are much more specific on how to decide the relative values, while international rules tend to state principles the company should apply and offer limited examples to guide the decision. Similarly, the American rule aimed at preventing round trips has a lot more detail than the international one.

H.P. thinks what Autonomy did was improper under any set of rules. But the flexibility of the international rules could make that harder to prove.

The United States and international rule makers have been trying to unify revenue recognition rules, with a result that seems likely to relax American rules a little while providing more guidance internationally. But that project won’t be finished until next year.

After H.P. acquired Autonomy last year, the companies’ financial officials met to discuss how Autonomy’s accounting practices needed to change. H.P. views those meetings as routine, but Mr. Lynch, in a letter to the H.P. board this week, put a different spin on them. He said officials from H.P., KPMG and Ernst & Young undertook “detailed studies of Autonomy’s software revenue recognition with a view to optimizing for U.S. GAAP.”

The word “optimizing” stuck some people as being, well, not optimal. “One would rather hear ‘appropriate’ or ‘proper,’ ” said Charles M. Elson, the director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “The other term seems to push you in the direction of managing a number rather than reporting it.”

Neither Ernst nor KPMG would comment on the meeting. Abraham Briloff, a Baruch College accounting professor and a longtime critic of the accounting profession, has joked about a chief executive asking prospective auditors, “How much is two plus two?” The job goes to the one who replies, “What number are you looking for?”

This case does nothing to reassure investors that such humor has no basis in fact.

Perhaps coincidentally, the accounting firms tended to reach the conclusions desired by those who paid them.

Deloitte, the auditor that certified the Autonomy books, was doing a lot of nonaudit work for the company, evidently including advising on how much the managers whose work it was checking should be paid. KPMG, which evidently found no problems at Autonomy last year, was hired by H.P. when it wanted to make the acquisition. PWC, which found major problems this year, was hired by H.P. when it believed that it had been defrauded. Ernst, the H.P. auditor, last year signed off on H.P.’s books that included the large amount of Autonomy good will. Now it will sign off on books that say much of the good will was fake.

I hope the Securities and Exchange Commission and Britain’s Serious Fraud Office, which H.P. has asked to investigate, make the evidence public. It will be interesting to hear the auditors explain how they came to such differing conclusions.
647 2012-11-30 Millions of Britons were justifiably outraged over last year’s serial revelations of illegal and unethical behavior by the powerful and influential tabloid press in Britain. But the regulatory remedies proposed Thursday by an official commission of inquiry seem misplaced, excessive and potentially dangerous to Britain’s centuries-old traditions of a press free from government regulation.

In a nearly 2,000-page report, the commission, led by Lord Justice Sir Brian Leveson, cataloged the glaring misdeeds of Rupert Murdoch’s sensationalist tabloid, The News of the World, which is no longer published.

Noting, among other things, the tabloid’s “reckless disregard for accuracy,” and “lack of respect for individual privacy,” it called on Parliament to create an independent regulatory body with the authority to fine newspapers up to $1.6 million for violating its guidelines. This new organization, which newspapers could join voluntarily, would replace the largely ineffective Press Complaints Commission, run by the news industry itself, which is supposed to uphold a code of ethical journalistic practices agreed to by participating publications.

Creating an independent regulatory body would require new legislation. To his credit, Prime Minister David Cameron seems opposed to proceeding in that direction. Conscientious members of all political parties should oppose it as well.

British newspapers operate in a harsher legal environment than the American press. They must navigate an Official Secrets Act, which criminalizes the publication of classified information and a plaintiff-friendly libel law, which lacks American-style exceptions for public figures. But they have been free from government licensing since 1694. A regulatory panel backed by law is a big step in the wrong direction.

Press independence is as essential a bulwark of political liberty in Britain as it is everywhere. That independence should not, and need not, be infringed upon now. Much of the conduct described in the report on Thursday — hacking into voice mail messages of ordinary citizens and illegally obtaining medical records — is not news gathering. They are illegal acts under British law. So are bribery, corrupt relations with police officials and political figures and other abuses attributed to the tabloid press.
648 2012-11-30 The F.D.A. spokeswoman, Sarah Clark-Lynn, said the affected lots were not made at “the same facilities whose conduct gave rise to the consent decree.” Nonetheless, she said in an e-mail Monday, “the consent decree provides the F.D.A. with additional tools to address violations for other Ranbaxy facilities.”

A spokesman for Ranbaxy declined to comment beyond an informational statement on the company’s Web site.

Some drug manufacturing experts said Ranbaxy’s latest troubles highlight the disparities in oversight of plants in the United States versus those overseas. “I have pretty good faith in companies and plants that make drugs in this country because I know from my own experience that they try to do a good job,” said Prabir K. Basu, executive director of the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Technology and Education, who previously worked in manufacturing and global outsourcing for pharmaceutical companies, including Searle and Pharmacia. “But my confidence is not that high when we are getting products from outside the country.”

He pointed to studies that have shown the F.D.A. inspects foreign generic manufacturing plants about once every seven to 13 years, compared with once every two years for domestic manufacturers. A law passed over the summer will eventually require the F.D.A. to apply the same standards when inspecting all manufacturing plants, regardless of which country they’re in.

Allan Coukell, director of medical programs at the Pew Health Group and an expert on drug safety, said the new law would level what he described as an uneven playing field, but “it’s incumbent on F.D.A. to hire the staff and to make the shift to a risk-based inspection system.” Under the law, fees collected from generic manufacturers will help pay for more inspectors.

Mr. Basu said the law, called the Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2012 and known as Gdufa (Gah-doofuh) was a step in the right direction, but fixing the problem would require more than simply hiring more people. “This is a very difficult and complex system, and how do we ensure the integrity of this supply chain?” he said. “I don’t know how much Gdufa will help.”

Ranbaxy has held a significant share of the market for generic Lipitor, also known as atorvastatin, since it became one of the first companies to sell it after Pfizer lost patent protection for the top-selling drug last November; another company, Watson, sold a generic version that was authorized and manufactured by Pfizer. In October, Ranbaxy’s product accounted for 43 percent of prescriptions for atorvastatin, a widely used drug to lower cholesterol levels, according to an analysis by Michael Faerm, an analyst for Credit Suisse who used prescription data from the research firm IMS Health.

In its statement on Thursday, the F.D.A. said it did not expect a shortage of atorvastatin. Erin Fox, who tracks drug shortages as director of the Drug Information Service at the University of Utah, said drugs in pill form have long shelf lives and suppliers can keep large quantities in stock. Other generic manufacturers with approval to sell the drug include Apotex, Dr. Reddy’s Labs, Mylan, Sandoz, and Teva, according to the F.D.A. Web site.

Ranbaxy has posted a list of the recalled lots on its Web site, and has warned that patients should not stop taking the drug without guidance from their doctor. The lot numbers are found on the side of Ranbaxy pill bottles and the company advised patients to check with their pharmacist if customers received pills in a container dispensed by the pharmacy.

The agency said the potential for injury because of the contamination appeared to be low and “if any adverse events are experienced, they would be temporary.”
649 2012-11-30 After months of hearings, a long-awaited report on the behavior of British newspapers embroiled in the recommended on Thursday a new system of press regulation that would be backed by parliamentary statute, setting up what threatened to develop into an acrimonious political debate about curbs on ’s 300-year-old tradition of broad press freedom.

Weighing in at 1,987 pages in four hefty volumes, the report reprised nine months of testimony by 337 witnesses at an inquiry led by Lord Justice Sir Brian Leveson. The judge was appointed by Prime Minister to lead a review of newspaper ethics and practices at the height of the scandal that erupted around The News of the World , a now-shuttered Sunday tabloid owned by ’s British newspaper subsidiary.

Exploring an issue with deep resonance in British politics, the report examined the nuances of the relationship between Mr. Murdoch, as the country’s most powerful media baron, and a generation of British politicians. It specifically rejected the suggestion that Mr. Cameron and Mr. Murdoch struck a “deal” trading election support for Mr. Cameron’s Conservatives in 2010 for policies favoring the Murdoch empire in Britain.

It also advocated for a new form of independent self-regulation for the newspaper industry that would be much tougher than the widely discredited system that has been in place for the past 60 years. Under the new plan, embraced by Mr. Cameron and other party leaders, the existing Press Complaints Commission would be replaced with a body that would be independent of the newspapers and the government and have wide investigative powers and the authority to set fines of up to $1.6 million.

But the political leaders vehemently split over the Leveson recommendation that the new system be backed by a parliamentary statute. Supporters of the provision, in the opposition Party and the left-of-center Liberal Democrats, but also numerous among Conservatives, saw statutory underpinning as giving the new body real teeth. Opponents, including Mr. Cameron, described legislating any part of the new system as “crossing the Rubicon” on the way to state-sanctioned press controls, and reversing a tradition dating to the abandonment of newspaper licensing in 1695.

“I’m proud of the fact that we have managed to last for hundreds of years in this country without statutory regulation,” Mr. Cameron said, “and if we can continue with that, we should.”

That was countered by , the Labour leader, and, more awkwardly for Mr. Cameron, by , leader of the Liberal Democrats, who is deputy prime minister in the coalition government led by the prime minister. Both said that sticking with self-regulation with no legislative framework to sustain it would invite newspapers to slide back into the old pattern of abuses.