1 2013-07-01 MANDELL--Emily, 95, of Lynbrook, NY, beloved wife of the late Samuel, devoted mother and mother-in-law of Ellen and James Edmundson, Andrew and Marilyn Mandell, grandmother of Spencer. Funeral: July 1, at 10:30am, New Montefiore, Farmingdale, NY....
2 2013-07-01 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
3 2013-07-01 Alison Lundergan Grimes announced on Monday that she would take on Senator Mitch McConnell in what is likely to be one of the most costly, high-profile and sharp-elbowed races of 2014....
4 2013-07-01 Transcranial magnetic stimulation, which uses magnetic pulses to stimulate parts of the brain connected to mood, has helped some patients with severe depression....
5 2013-07-01 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, will probably be the favorite against Alison Lundergan Grimes, who entered the race on Monday. But he is unlikely to sail to re-election....
6 2013-07-01 It shows how much Laura Robson’s expectations have increased that she left a 7-6 (6), 7-5 loss to the former world No. 15 Kaia Kanepi feeling disappointed in herself....
7 2013-07-01 The Metropolitan Museum of Art opens its doors on Monday, the beginning of its new seven-day-a week schedule....
8 2013-07-01 Rowing isn’t all Thomas Eakins-oil-painted calm and aquatic recreation. And those aren’t boats out there; they’re torture devices....
9 2013-07-01 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s case against Jon S. Corzine in the collapse of MF Global will come down to whether the agency can show that a chief executive should be held responsible for the conduct of an employee fairly well remove...
10 2013-07-01 Despite signs of economic strength in several sectors, demand for labor remains sluggish, and that’s an especially big problem for low- and middle-income workers, an economist writes....
11 2013-07-01 N.H.T.S.A. will investigate owner complaints of 2007-8 Honda Odysseys applying its brakes without driver input....
12 2013-07-01 The European Commission says it has found evidence that the banks had tried to prevent exchanges from entering the credit derivatives business between 2006 and 2009....
13 2013-07-01 With the sale, Intuit will retain Mint.com, the popular personal finances tracking service, and its Open Financial Exchange connectivity unit....
14 2013-07-01 Is Yelp a bully? Or just misunderstood? Plus other highlights from the year’s first half....
15 2013-07-01 12.5 grams (1 tablespoon) extra virgin olive oil, plus additional for brushing the pizza crusts

5 to 6 ounces mozzarella, shredded if fresh, sliced if low-moisture

1. In the bowl of a stand mixer, or in a large bread bowl, dissolve the yeast in the water. Add the sugar and stir together. Let sit 2 or 3 minutes, until the water is cloudy. Stir in the olive oil.

2. Using a stand mixer: Combine 310 grams (2 1/2 cups) of the flour and the salt, and add to the yeast mixture all at once. Mix together using the paddle attachment, then change to the dough hook. Knead at low speed for 2 minutes, then turn up to medium speed and knead for 8 minutes. Add flour as needed. Hold on to the machine if it bounces around. Turn out onto a clean work surface and shape the dough into a ball. The dough should be firm and slightly sticky.

If you are kneading the dough by hand: Mix together the yeast, sugar, water and olive oil as directed in a medium or large bowl. Combine 310 grams (2 1/2 cups) of the flour and the salt. Fold in a cup at a time, using a large wooden spoon. As soon as you can scrape the dough out in one piece, turn out onto a lightly floured work surface, and knead for 10 minutes, adding flour as necessary, until the dough is firm. Shape into a ball.

3. Transfer the dough to a clean, lightly oiled bowl, rounded side down first, then rounded side up. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and leave it in a warm spot to rise for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until doubled.

4. Weigh the dough and divide into 3 equal balls. Shape each ball by cupping it between your hands, with the bottom of your hands touching your work surface, and moving the dough in a clockwise circle between your hands, working round and round the dough until it becomes a ball. Put the balls on a lightly oiled baking sheet, cover with lightly oiled plastic wrap or a damp towel, and leave them to rest for 15 to 20 minutes. At this point, the dough balls can be placed in a wide bowl and covered with plastic wrap, or in a resealable bag, and refrigerated for 1 to 2 days. You will need to punch them down again when you are ready to roll out the pizzas.

5. Lightly flour the dough if it is sticky. While turning the dough, press down on its center from the heel of your hand to your fingertips, gradually spreading it out to an approximately 10-inch circle. You can also stretch the dough by pressing it out and laying it over a closed fist; with your other hand, rotate it around, balancing it on the fist, while you gently stretch it out with your fingers. Do not shape a raised rim; the entire circle should be flat. You can also use a rolling pin to roll out the dough.

6. If not planning to grill right away, you can make these in advance and keep them in the freezer. Dust a piece of parchment with flour, semolina or cornmeal and place a rolled-out pizza shell on the parchment. Top with another piece of parchment and dust with flour, semolina or cornmeal. Stack the remaining two shaped pizza rounds between sheets of parchment, then wrap airtight in plastic and place in the freezer.

1. Prepare a hot grill. You will be placing the pizza directly over the heat. Next to the grill, set up a bowl of olive oil, some paper towels and tongs or a grill brush. Have your toppings ready. Lightly dust a baker’s peel or a rimless baking sheet with flour, cornmeal or semolina. Take your shaped pizzas from the freezer if you have stored them there. Place one on the peel or baking sheet.

2. When the grill is hot, oil the rack with olive oil, either by brushing with a grill brush or by dipping a folded wad of paper towels in olive oil and using tongs to rub the rack with it. Slide the pizza dough from the peel or baking sheet onto the grill rack. If the dough has just come from the freezer and is easy to handle, you can just place it on the rack without bothering with the peel. Close the lid of the grill – the vents should be closed — and set the timer for 2 minutes.

3. Lift the grill lid. The surface of the dough should display some big air bubbles. Using tongs, lift the dough to see if it is evenly browning on the bottom. Rotate the dough to assure even browning. Keep it on the grill, moving it around as necessary, until it is nicely browned, with grill marks. Watch closely so that it doesn’t burn. When it is nicely browned on the bottom (it may be blackened in spots), use tongs or a spatula to slide the dough onto the baking sheet or peel, and remove from the grill. Cover the grill again.

4. Make sure that there is still some flour on the peel or baking sheet and flip the dough over so that the uncooked side is now on the bottom. Brush the top lightly with oil, then top with a thin layer of tomato sauce (no more than 1/4 cup) and shreds or slices of mozzarella. Slide the pizza back onto the grill. If using a gas grill, reduce the heat to medium-high. Close the lid and cook for 2 to 3 more minutes, until the bottom is brown. Open the grill and check the pizza; if the cheese hasn’t melted, leave for a few more minutes. If the bottom is getting too dark, move the pizza to a cooler part of the grill and close the top. Use a spatula or tongs to remove the pizza to a cutting board. Arrange fresh basil leaves on top, cut into wedges and serve.

Advance preparation: The crusts and the marinara sauce will keep for several months in the freezer.

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
16 2013-07-01 The requirements have generated considerable criticism. Business and industry groups have complained that they are onerous and make American companies less competitive than their European counterparts, which are also surging into Myanmar.

Human-rights advocates argue that they are not strong enough — and lack explicit penalties for companies that do not comply — to manage a headlong rush to invest in an impoverished country afflicted with ethnic conflicts and still dominated by the military and state-owned enterprises that operate with little transparency.

The U. S. Chamber of Commerce lobbied against the rules as the administration drafted them after President Obama’s decision to lift sanctions last July. American investment in Myanmar “should be encouraged, not hindered,” said John Goyer, the chamber’s senior director for the region. The organization has called on the administration to extend trade privileges to Myanmar.

“Other countries are not putting similar obligations on their own companies, so it is an additional requirement that our competitors do not have,” Mr. Goyer said. “Larger companies can put forth the resources necessary to adhere to the reporting requirements, but for smaller companies, it is much more difficult to do so.”

The administration imposed the requirements using the legal authority it has from a raft of economic sanctions that were imposed after Myanmar harshly repressed the opposition movement led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, refusing to recognize her party’s victory in elections in 1990. Her party has since been legalized, and last year she won a seat in the country’s Parliament.

Mr. Obama has welcomed the initial steps to loosen the military dictatorship and met Mr. Thein Sein in the White House in May, but the sanction laws remain on the books and can be reinstated if the reforms are reversed. The president used his authority to waive the sanctions and grant companies licenses to operate there. The State Department then spent months drafting the requirements after holding public hearings and inviting comments from companies and advocates.

The requirements apply to any company investing more than $500,000, and to all investments with the country’s state energy monopoly, Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise.

In addition to ensuring the rights of workers and providing protections for the environment, the companies must report any payment exceeding $10,000 to government agencies or officials, any contact with Myanmar’s military, arrangements with private security companies and the details of any purchase of land or real property.

Companies are required to submit their reports within 180 days of reaching the threshold and by July each year thereafter. The reports will be made public on the Web site of the newly reopened American Embassy in Yangon, also known by its colonial-era name, Rangoon. Companies can separately submit to the State Department a report with any privileged competitive information that will not be made public.

American companies are already subject to laws governing foreign investments, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the Securities and Exchange Commission now requires companies to report on investments in oil, gas and mineral industries overseas under the Dodd-Frank legislation that Congress adopted in 2010. But the requirements for Myanmar are the first to apply to investments across the entire economic spectrum.

While there are no explicit penalties for not reporting, the State Department expects that most companies will comply to avoid public criticism from advocates for human rights and the environment who are closely watching Myanmar’s political and economic opening.

“It puts companies in the uncomfortable spot of saying they’re not doing anything,” said Lisa Misol, a researcher at Human Rights Watch, which reports regularly on Myanmar. “It might cause companies to slow down and think harder.”

The extent of American investment in Myanmar so far remains unclear, but officials and experts expect it could expand significantly given the country’s population of nearly 60 million and the dearth of American and European products after so many years of international isolation.

Dozens of American companies have already announced investments, including prominent ones like Coca-Cola, General Electric and Ford, which is opening its first franchise dealership in Yangon, selling Ranger trucks made in Thailand and F-150s made in America.

John F. Kwant, Ford’s director of international government affairs for Asia and Africa, said the lifting of decades of sanctions had happened so quickly that companies had little certainty about the requirements for receiving licenses to invest. He said the State Department’s requirements clarified the parameters for investors and, at least in Ford’s case, did not seem burdensome.

“We don’t find the reporting requirements onerous,” he said, adding that big companies were well versed in laws like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. “Those are all things we do as a matter of course.”

Michael H. Posner, who was assistant secretary of state for human and labor rights until joining the Stern School of Business at New York University this year, said the intent of the requirements was to force companies to examine the murky connections between the business and power in “a very embryonic system,” with undeveloped institutions and regulations.

“This is part of a greater trend — not only in the business world, but in our world generally — toward transparency,” said Mr. Posner, who helped draft the requirements while at the State Department. “I think it’s a very healthy trend.”
17 2013-07-01 “I just tried to stay calm and I think I did,” Park said. “I’m just very glad I could put my name in history.”

In her last 24 events, Park has won eight times and finished second five times, broadening the gulf between herself and the others in the L.P.G.A. field. She has become the latest iteration of the tour’s line of recurring champions, from Annika Sorenstam to Karrie Webb to Lorena Ochoa to Yani Tseng, who together amassed 24 major titles between 1995 and 2011.

Sorenstam, watching all week as an analyst for the Golf Channel, noted imperturbable composure. For four days, Park’s expression hardly changed.

“She can still improve in some areas,” Sorenstam said. “And that’s a scary thought.”

Nothing seems to faze Park anymore, said her caddie, Brad Beecher. On the course, he avoided mentioning the possibility of another major victory, even with a multiple-stroke lead, until Park finished her third shot on No. 18.

“I said, Enjoy this walk,” Beecher recalled. “You’re about to join history.”

Park smiled. “Funny enough,” she said to him. “I don’t feel that nervous.”

Park said experience, and weekly conversations with a mental coach, have helped her remain calm during rounds. Her unusual cross-hand putting style, which she has used since she was 10, worked magic on Sebonack’s greens, where she finished tied for second in putts (28.50) per round.

“Her eye for it at the moment, her feel for it,” Beecher said, “it’s the best I’ve seen.”

Sebonack, in just its seventh year of existence and bookended by two of the most recognizable courses in the nation, Shinnecock Hills and the National Golf Links of America, proved to be a stern test for the rest of the tournament’s field.

Weather was a continual factor. After heat baked the course early in the week, the wind off Great Peconic Bay picked up over the weekend, fierce enough to blow Angela Stanford’s scorecard right out of Lizette Salas’s hands on the 18th.

A heavy fog rushed in Friday evening, suspending play for 41 golfers in the second round.

When the sun returned Saturday, the greens and the fairways hardened again, adding another hurdle for golfers to overcome.

The course design — a Jack Nicklaus and Tom Doak collaboration — offered a blend of Nicklaus’s bunkers and strategy with Doak’s contoured fairways and greens, along a mile of bay coastline, with sandy dunes and deep fescue. Few shots came from flat lies. Few putts did not require multiple deviations.

The course flustered the former teenage sensation Michelle Wie, who withdrew 17 holes into her second round, at 11 over, with the official cause given as illness. It caused a rift between Jessica Korda and her caddie, Jason Gilroyed, midway through the third round. Korda abruptly fired Gilroyed after the ninth hole and replaced him with her boyfriend, Johnny DelPrete, who carried her bag the remainder of the tournament, which she completed at two over and in a tie for seventh place.

“It’s a U.S. Open, it’s tough out there,” Korda said Saturday. “It just wasn’t working out.”

Park entered Saturday’s round with a two-stroke lead over I. K. Kim, but after bogeying three consecutive holes on the back nine, her play looked shaky for the first time all week. She rescued her round — and perhaps her eventual victory — with a 34-foot downhill birdie putt on the 14th.

On Sunday, mist and fog early in the day made conditions tricky for everyone. Jodi Ewart Shadoff, who began the day seven strokes back in third place, bogeyed her first three holes, quickly falling out of contention.

With that, the tournament was whittled to two — Park and Kim, her playing partner and Korean compatriot, gunning for her first career L.P.G.A. major. It all but ensured that an Asian-born player would win a 10th consecutive women’s major.

Kim, another sharp putter, birdied the second hole to cut Park’s lead to three strokes. But a bogey on the fourth set her back again, and Park pushed her lead to five strokes with nine holes to play.

“I had a good opportunity,” Kim said. “It was just hard to make mistakes.”

After bogeys on 14 and 15, Park finished with pars on the final three holes, sticking her third shot within 10 feet on the 18th. She missed the birdie putt by fractions of an inch — an ordinary conclusion to a remarkable achievement.

“It’s something I’ve never dreamed of,” Park said. “All of a sudden I’m there.”
18 2013-07-01 ISTANBUL — Not long after a security crackdown smothered the antigovernment protests that convulsed Turkey for weeks, thousands of people took to the streets of Istanbul again on Sunday, this time for a march to demand better treatment and equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.

When the first gay rights parade was organized here in 2003, only a few dozen people dared to take part. But on Sunday, at least 20,000 people joined the march, many of them holding rainbow flags and chanting slogans denouncing government policies that discriminate based on sexual orientation. And although memories of the police crackdown on protesters were still fresh, Sunday’s event was peaceful.

Demonstrations initially focused on saving Istanbul’s central Gezi Park from destruction grew in response to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s autocratic and dismissive reaction toward the protests, a criticism that echoes the longstanding complaints of lesbians, gay men and bisexual and transgender people in Turkey.

“Together with Gezi Park resistance that got spread throughout Turkey, we cried out loud our demand for a world that is not homophobic, transphobic and sexist,” a statement issued by the organizers of Sunday’s parade said.

“Today, we together stand against the government’s attack on homosexuals and trans individuals’ rights to live, work and housing.”

In 2002, before he became prime minister, Mr. Erdogan promised greater legal protections for members of the L.G.B.T. community, but in March he called homosexuality “a sexual preference” that “contradicted” Islam, according to a report in the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet.
19 2013-07-01 Re “Military Says Law Barring U.S. Aid to Rights Violators Hurts Training Mission” (news article, June 21): American military leaders should embrace the rights protections of the Leahy Law, not criticize them. The United States should not train or equip foreign military personnel who violate the rights of those they are supposed to protect.

The law blocks less than 1 percent of prospective recipients. Arguments that this cripples the military’s ability to develop partnerships are bogus.

The Leahy Law has spurred military reform initiatives in Turkey, Colombia and Indonesia. By blocking certain people and units in those countries from receiving training, it creates incentives for officers to investigate past wrongdoing.

Recent revisions to the law help ensure that Washington will not be complicit in the human rights violations of its allies. The United States should be careful about the company it keeps.
20 2013-07-01 The use of confidential informants, or C.I.’s, is widely accepted in the criminal justice system. The Simmons case, as detailed in highly redacted court documents, offers a look at how the authorities protect such sources and what happened when a judge felt that they had gone too far.

The informant at the center of the dispute began working for the New York Police Department in January 2012 after he was arrested in a marijuana case, his “handler,” Sgt. Robert Nicholson, testified last fall at a suppression hearing requested by Mr. Simmons’s lawyers, who were seeking the exclusion of the gun as evidence.

Sergeant Nicholson said that the informant had been debriefed and had undergone a background check, and that he had agreed not to commit further crimes — a condition he violated when he was later arrested in a theft case.

But while he was active, the informant provided crucial information about shootings and narcotics and guns cases, the sergeant said.

The informant’s role was considered so sensitive that when Sergeant Nicholson testified, Judge Hellerstein closed the courtroom at the government’s request and even ordered that Mr. Simmons be removed from the proceeding. “I am convinced that if Simmons knew who the confidential informant was,” the judge said, the informant “would be at great danger.”

The sergeant testified that he received the informant’s call around 11 p.m. on April 17, 2012, and after hearing his information, told him to dial a police hot line that offers callers anonymity and financial compensation for information about illegal guns; a hot line detective then called the 911 operator.

Two days later, when the complaint was sworn before a magistrate judge, it omitted any mention of the informant and said merely that “an anonymous individual had placed a 911 call” with the information about Mr. Simmons. Sergeant Nicholson said he had taken this step to protect the source. Mr. Simmons, who had a robbery record, had been charged under a federal law that makes it illegal for a felon to possess a firearm.

Last fall, before the suppression hearing began, a prosecutor told the judge that the government had informed the defense about some recently discovered “misstatements” in the complaint. For one thing, the original caller had not been anonymous but was rather a known informant.

The complaint had also stated that Mr. Simmons, when he saw the police, immediately began to run to the north. “He did not run,” the prosecutor said.

Finally, Officer Matthew Barber, who had seized the gun and arrested Mr. Simmons, now recalled that he saw “a bulge” in Mr. Simmons’s waistband — a detail that had not been in the complaint.

At the hearing, a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, who had helped a prosecutor prepare the complaint, testified that he had omitted the informant’s role at the behest of either the prosecutor or another A.T.F. agent — he could not remember which one.

Asked by the judge whether that was a practice of his office, the agent responded that if there was other evidence that established probable cause for an arrest, and “you do not have to risk the safety of an informant by exposing them, then you try to do that if possible.” (The identity of the agent is being withheld at the A.T.F.’s request because he remains involved in undercover work.)

Judge Hellerstein said the agent was “shading the truth” in not telling the magistrate judge about the informant.

The agent testified that the detail that Mr. Simmons had begun to run had come from one of the responding officers, Ramon Rolon. He quoted Officer Rolon as telling him, “Simmons fled in the other direction.”

But Officer Rolon, when he testified, denied that he had said that to the agent.

Judge Hellerstein concluded, “The idea that he turned and began to run is nonsense.”

The judge also dismissed Officer Barber’s claim that he had seen “a bulge” in Mr. Simmons’s waistband, noting that the claim had not appeared in any police document.

“I give no credibility to Barber’s statement that he saw a bulge,” Judge Hellerstein said.

The judge even questioned whether the grand jury that indicted Mr. Simmons after hearing testimony from a Drug Enforcement Administration agent had received “accurate information.”

Judge Hellerstein found that to protect the informant, investigators had “created a different story to justify the stop” — namely, that Mr. Simmons had started to run away.

“That testimony was false,” the judge said. “Special agents were taken in with the story and implemented it knowing that it was less than truthful.”

He added, “A decision was made to tell perhaps the truth but not the whole truth.”

Judge Hellerstein said the observations of three officers were “not credible, not worthy of belief,” and added that if a confidential informant “is to be protected, there are ways to do it which do not require misstatements to a federal grand jury or a judge.”

Nonetheless, he ultimately refused to suppress the gun, finding that the informant’s tip had been accurate. Mr. Simmons pleaded guilty to a conspiracy count, and in March he was sentenced to five years in prison, the maximum.

His lawyer, Peggy Cross-Goldenberg, a federal public defender, said that despite her client’s conviction, the judge’s findings were important.

“If law enforcement purposely provides half-truths and contrived stories to conceal even the existence of a C.I.,” Ms. Cross-Goldenberg said, “there is no check on the reliability of confidential informants and no way for courts to determine whether the information provided was sufficient to justify the actions undertaken by law enforcement.”

Mr. Bharara’s office declined to comment. But in letters to the judge, prosecutors defended the officers’ accounts and said there was no evidence of collusion.

“Any confusion or lack of clarity about the underlying facts,” they wrote, “resulted from an entirely good faith but poorly executed attempt by this office, in drafting the complaint, to protect the existence and identity of a confidential source.”

They also argued that the officers, at the time of the arrest, were not aware of the informant, and that they thus had no motive to fabricate a story to protect him.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said the prosecutors’ “response speaks for itself.”

An A.T.F. spokesman, Charles J. Mulham, said, “The agency regrets that some of the facts in this investigation were articulated in a way that left the judge with concerns.”

“The special agents acted in complete good faith,” Mr. Mulham said, “with the purpose of pursuing appropriate law enforcement interests.”
21 2013-07-01 In Guilford, Conn., you can drive around most of the town and not hear any cicadas. But along a stretch of County Road, the red-eyed insects buzz lazily from tree to tree, sometimes devoured in midflight by birds. Even now, there are still fresh, dime-size holes in the ground where new adults are emerging. Meanwhile, the cicadas that came out earlier this year are dying off, their bullet-shaped bodies littering forest trails and roads.

“It makes my 6 a.m. run a little grim,” said Sarah Williams, a County Road resident, as she cupped a live cicada in her palm.

But the cicada season was neither a bust nor another example of media overhype. At least scientists do not think so. In fact, scientists agree that the current brood has had a good year.

Dr. Simon and other cicada experts spent the past few weeks traveling from patch to patch to create the first highly detailed maps of the cicadas’ emergence. In their cars, they have used new GPS dataloggers to record the precise location of each population they encounter. They have built several Web sites for people to submit cicada sightings online. And they are analyzing the DNA of this year’s cicadas to understand how they are related to one another.

This new research promises to give scientists a better understanding of why the cicadas emerge where they do. In future cycles, we may be able to know if their numbers are shrinking, as some researchers fear.

The data that cicada researchers have gathered this spring is vastly richer than what they had in earlier cycles. In the late 1800s, American entomologists created the first good maps of the cicadas’ ranges. Using a Victorian form of crowdsourcing, they sent circulars to all the postmasters in the Eastern United States each year and recorded the responses.

It became clear that the so-called periodical cicadas live in widespread broods containing billions of insects. Each brood consists of scattered populations across the country, which all appear simultaneously on either a 13- or a 17-year cycle. This year’s brood is known as Brood II.

Some people who were disappointed by this year’s Brood II may have gotten it confused with other broods. Brood X, for example, emerged in 2004 in much of the Eastern United States as well — but nowhere did it overlap with Brood II. The next generation of Brood X cicadas will not reappear until 2021.

The early reports of Brood II revealed a range concentrated in the Eastern states, but included pockets of cicadas as far west as Michigan. In 1979, Dr. Simon gathered a fresh batch of data on Brood II by writing an article in Natural History. She asked readers to report cicada sightings to her. She was flooded with responses, mostly from the East Coast, which she combined with the earlier reports to create an updated map.

Scientists have used Dr. Simon’s map to judge this year’s performance.

“Brood II has been exuberant here in Pennsylvania,” said Marten J. Edwards, a biologist at Muhlenberg College in Allentown who has been mapping the insects in the state. “I have been amazed by the extent of the range, which was not documented in the historical record.”

Dr. Edwards has encountered most of that exuberance in thinly populated parts of the state, however. “It’s very understandable that there is a sense of disappointment,” Dr. Edwards said.

This year has also brought some surprises. People in Oklahoma saw Brood II cicadas for the first time — 800 miles west of the next closest emergence this year. Dr. Simon suspects that at some time in the past, some of the cicadas from a different brood in Oklahoma fell out of their regular cycle and emerged in the wrong year. They’ve been part of Brood II ever since.

“That’s what keeps happening all through the United States,” Dr. Simon said. “That’s why you get the jigsaw pattern.”

Another reason for the jigsaw pattern is that cicada populations sometimes disappear. Cold springs may kill off some of the insects. And humans have played a part, too.

By clearing trees for farming, early colonists made it harder for female cicadas to find places to lay their eggs, and for larvae to find tree roots to feed on.

In 1907, the entomologist Charles L. Marlatt was already mourning the cicada’s decline. “To the lover of nature,” he wrote, “there is something regrettable in this slow extermination of an insect which presents, as does the periodical Cicada, so much that is interesting and anomalous in its habits and life history.”

Marlatt did not realize it at the time, but the Eastern forests were about to rebound. As they grew back, it is possible that some cicada broods grew as well. But by the 1970s, development had stopped the recovery. Now the forests are on the decline again, and cicadas may be becoming even more fragmented than before.

Dr. Simon can see the effect on the cicadas when she goes back to historical sites. In Port Jefferson Station on Long Island, for example, Dr. Simon went to a forest where she had collected cicadas before, only to find a Walmart in its place.

“A big asphalt parking lot instead of a forest would definitely put a damper on the population,” she said.

Unfortunately, Dr. Simon and her colleagues do not have enough data to tell the full story of Brood II’s expansions and fragmentations over the centuries. “It’s too bad that back in the 1700s we didn’t have GPS dataloggers,” she said. “It would be nice to know what they looked like before the colonists cleared the trees. We’re starting now too late.”
22 2013-07-01 ■ E*Trade Financial, New York, and Grey New York — part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP — are parting ways after working together since November 2007; during that time, Grey New York created the popular character known as the E*Trade baby, which appears in commercials and online ads. E*Trade Financial spent more than $110 million on advertising last year. Grey New York said it had resigned as the E*Trade Financial creative agency; E*Trade Financial said it had begun a review of its creative account and Grey New York decided not to participate. The end of the relationship came after Nick Utton, the chief marketing officer at E*Trade Financial who hired Grey New York, left the company and was replaced by Liza Landsman.

■ Bernstein-Rein, Kansas City, Mo., and LAK Public Relations, New York, which worked for Hostess Brands, Kansas City, before the company went bankrupt, were hired by the new owner of Hostess Brands — a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and C. Dean Metropoulos & Company — to handle advertising (Bernstein-Rein) and public relations (LAK) for the return of Hostess products like Twinkies, which is scheduled for July 15. Spending has not been determined.

■ Rubio’s, Carlsbad, Calif., a chain of 196 restaurants that is known for its fish tacos, hired BarrettSF, San Francisco, as its creative agency. Spending was estimated at less than $1 million. The assignment had been handled by M.A.D.E., Long Beach, Calif.

■ Peter Sherman joined JWT New York, part of the JWT North America division of JWT, as chief executive, assuming duties from David Eastman, who will continue as chief executive of JWT North America. Mr. Sherman, who will report to Bob Jeffrey, chairman and chief executive of JWT, had been executive vice president and managing director at BBDO Europe, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. JWT is owned by WPP.

■ Andrew Benett, global president at Havas Worldwide, was named to a new and additional post, chief executive of the Havas Worldwide New York unit of Havas Worldwide, as part of a reorganization. He assumes duties from Matt Ryan, co-chairman and president for global brands at Havas Worldwide New York, who will leave, the agency said. Also as part of the reorganization, Marty Susz, managing director of Havas Worldwide Tonic, will additionally serve as director for client services at Havas Worldwide New York; Alex Bombeck, co-president at Havas Worldwide Digital, will additionally serve as chief digital officer for New York; and Jason Jercinovic, co-president at Havas Worldwide Digital, will additionally serve as head of social media for North America. Havas Worldwide is part of the Havas Creative division of Havas.

■ VML, Kansas City, Mo., part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP, bought a majority stake in Native, Johannesburg and Cape Town, South Africa, a digital agency that will be renamed Native VML. Financial terms were not disclosed.
23 2013-07-01 Worlds collide with the utmost courtesy in “Special Flight,” a somber and beautifully modulated documentary filmed at a Swiss detention center for undocumented immigrants and asylum seekers.

Fernand Melgar spent nine months recording life at the Frambois prison in Geneva for “Special Flight,” being shown on Monday in PBS’s “POV” series. The title refers to a quirk of Swiss law that hangs in the air through the 55-minute film. Deportees who leave voluntarily can return to their home countries freely and anonymously; those who don’t are handcuffed, bound, put on a “special flight” (vol spécial) and delivered to their country’s government.

In vérité style, with no narration and minimal interviews, Mr. Melgar portrays a kind of double captivity: the bored and desperate inmates, mostly African, who can be held for two years without charges, and the Swiss warders, whose amiability and painstaking politeness go hand in hand with paternalism and a manic devotion to correct procedures.

There isn’t a slack moment in “Special Flight,” and while some of the speeches and encounters might not have been so resonant had there not been a camera present, everything rings true. A meeting between a Swiss official and a Congolese asylum seeker is a rare occasion when the utter disconnect between the prison’s first-world and third-world populations is openly confronted. “I can’t resolve all the problems in the world,” the official says, trying to limit the discussion to the logistics of deportation. “Your situation is probably rather sad and complex, but I can’t resolve it.” The prisoner replies that while he is powerless now, “one day the world will explode and things will be different.”

Mr. Melgar documents the day of a special flight, when one after another five men learn that they will be leaving within hours and are immediately strip-searched and handcuffed. His cameras are also present when the warders and prisoners find out that one of the Frambois inmates has died of suffocation at the Zurich airport while being prepared for his flight.

The most interesting portraits in “Special Flight” are of the jailers: the center’s director, who tells the prisoners after a deportation, “I’ll have you know that the staff are just as sad as you are,” and Denis, a particularly sympathetic staff member who believes that any situation can be helped by a soccer or foosball game. They can seem obtuse, but the director also shows dignity, not to mention courage, when he stands in the middle of the prison yard answering questions about the death at the airport. After which Denis looks around and announces, poignantly and pathetically, “O.K., let’s try to do some sport.”
24 2013-07-01 In the decades since, the Ducal House of Medinaceli Foundation in Seville, Spain, over which the Duke of Segorbe presides, has always supported that attribution.

But art historians have almost universally disagreed. In 1958, Roberto Longhi, then the dean of Italian art historians, rejected the association with Michelangelo, saying the statue was “low-quality.”

Like many of his contemporaries, he cited other sculptures that were more likely to be “San Giovannino.” When those attributions fell through, one by one, the statue “was given up for lost,” said Francesco Caglioti, a professor of art history at the University of Naples Federico II who on Tuesday presented a paper linking the Úbeda statue to Michelangelo at the conference here.

Professor Caglioti made his case by pointing to stylistic similarities between “San Giovannino” and other works by Michelangelo, including a statue of Bacchus in the National Museum of the Bargello in Florence that dates to the 1490s, and an unfinished painting in the National Gallery in London known as the Manchester Madonna, which most scholars today ascribe to Michelangelo.

He also tried to explain how the sculpture could have ended up in Úbeda.

The statue that Michelangelo carved for Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de’ Medici was later inherited by Cosimo I de’ Medici, the Grand Duke of Tuscany. In 1537 Cosimo forged a political alliance with the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his powerful secretary, Francisco de los Cobos y Molina, who was from Andalusia, he noted.

Professor Caglioti tracked down Medici correspondence in the Florence State Archives that confirms that in the summer of 1537, Cosimo sent a present, a “statue,” to the art-loving Cobos in Andalusia, following the example of several other Italian aristocrats of the time, who courted the powerful Spaniard by dispatching artworks including paintings by Titian and Sebastiano del Piombo.

Cobos, who died in 1547, is buried under the main altar of the Holy Chapel of the Savior in Úbeda, a church he had built as a mausoleum for his family. The sculpture was in a niche to a side of the elaborate main altar by Alonso Berruguete.

The documents and the stylistic similarities point directly to Michelangelo, Professor Caglioti told the conference participants, who greeted his paper with sustained applause.

“This is such a big discovery,” said Carmen Bambach, a curator in the department of drawings and prints at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, who said she found Professor Caglioti’s arguments convincing. She used a flashlight to zero in on the statue, a composite of original marble and modern materials.

But doubts remain. Some have questioned the comparison to the Manchester Madonna in London because that attribution to Michelangelo is not unanimously accepted, either. And based on photographic images of the statue, Frank Zöllner, author of a lengthy catalogue raisonné of Michelangelo’s works, had some doubts about stylistic touches — the shapes of the eyes and mouth are quite flat compared with earlier works, and the fingernails and toenails appear “less strong than in authentic works by Michelangelo,” he wrote in an e-mail. And why, he added, “do the documents on the provenance not mention Michelangelo’s name, given that he was the most famous sculptor at that time?”

“Still, I find the line of reasoning very interesting,” including the provenance, he wrote.

Other art historians will be able to weigh in on the attribution, now that this “San Giovannino” is on view at the Opificio museum pending its return to Úbeda later this year.

A photograph of the sculpture displayed next to the work outlines in green all the areas — about 60 percent of the statue — that restorers had to reconstruct to make it whole.

When it arrived here in 1994, the sculpture was in rough shape. It had been smashed and burned in 1936 when Republican forces attacked the chapel. According to one report, the militia played soccer with the head of the sculpture, causing “the dents on the head of the child,” the Medinaceli Foundation said.

“It was a very complex restoration, believe me — it made my veins and pulses tremble,” said Maria Cristina Improta, the Opificio official who oversaw the final phases of the restoration. Those handling the reconstruction worked with Unocad, a company in Vicenza that used free-form modeling to recreate the missing pieces, basing measurements on the existing fragments and more than a dozen photographs of the work that Professor Caglioti tracked down. “Our good fortune was finding the photographs; huge chunks of the statue were missing,” said Ivano Ambrosini, president of Unocad. “It was hard work.”

The restored pieces were cast in a lightweight fiberglass-nylon material and joined to the original with magnets so that the modern parts can be removed should any other original fragments materialize. In line with current restoration philosophy, the modern reconstruction is clearly visible. “We can’t mislead viewers,” Ms. Improta said. “We have to guarantee that the original work will speak for itself.”

The statue will be installed in a separate space in the church in Úbeda, displayed along with information on the restoration. The duke predicts that it will boost tourism in the town, already on the Unesco World Heritage List.

“We already get 70,000 visitors a year at the chapel,” he said. “I think now that we have a Michelangelo, we will get many more.”
25 2013-07-01 HONG KONG — The police in the volatile far-western Chinese region of Xinjiang on Sunday said a deadly confrontation with members of the Uighur ethnic minority days before was set off by religious extremists who attacked the police after one of their group was arrested, the state media reported.

China’s Communist Party leadership has demanded an unyielding security response in Xinjiang after two violent clashes with Uighurs, on Wednesday and Friday. Those episodes have kindled fears of a repeat of the events of July 5, 2009, when protests in Xinjiang’s regional capital, Urumqi, grew into street attacks that left at least 197 residents dead, many of them Han Chinese, by far the country’s biggest ethnic group.

Over the weekend, the government mounted an intimidating display of force in Urumqi, where convoys of People’s Armed Police patrolled the streets. And the report that the police had swiftly identified all the suspects involved in the violence on Wednesday also appeared to be part of that show of strength.

Advocates of Uighur self-determination and international human rights groups, however, say China’s heavy-handed security policies in Xinjiang are exacerbating tensions with Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking people, nearly all of whom adhere to Islam. Many of those critics are also likely be skeptical of the government’s account of the bloodshed that broke out in Lukqun, a town in Turpan Prefecture, which left a total of 35 people dead.

According to that account, published by China’s state-run Xinhua news agency, the attack was mounted by a group of religious extremists who in February formed a “violent terrorist gang.” The report did not identify their religion, although their Uighur names left scant doubt that they were Muslims.

Fifteen members of the group attacked the Lukqun town police station, government offices and shops after the police arrested one of the members, Xinhua said. Their attack left 24 people dead, 16 of them Uighur.
26 2013-07-02 The chic red number the Knicks star wore to his wedding reception last weekend was the result of a year-long collaboration....
27 2013-07-02 An advertisement promoting Motorola Mobility’s new smartphone borrows familiar themes from Apple, including the emphasis that it is made in America....
28 2013-07-02 The private equity-backed education company has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as part of an effort to shrink its $5.8 billion debt load....
29 2013-07-02 Apple, typically, is being secretive about its intentions, and may — or may not — be developing a watch that does more than tell time....
30 2013-07-02 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
31 2013-07-02 There are plenty of days when Eliza can’t manage to get herself out of the house. On others, she can’t even get out of bed. And in between, she often can’t sleep, can’t concentrate and can’t remember things. She definitely can’t hold down a job. At least not right now.

Eliza, who asked that I not disclose her last name, successfully battled for most of her life. She persevered through college and graduate school and worked steadily for more than a decade as a pharmacist. Then, about two years ago, she suffered from an unusually debilitating stretch in which she didn’t respond to , and her company refused to pay for experimental treatments that her doctors recommended. Now in her 40s, she has become one of the more than 1.4 million Americans on the federal disability rolls for mood disorders. She also receives , food stamps and fuel assistance. “I never wanted a handout,” Eliza told me last month, adding that she has held on to her pharmacy license in the hope that her condition may yet improve. “I would give anything to get out of this and go back to where I was before.”

Mental illness has been an increasingly significant health concern over the past several decades, but it’s now becoming an economic one too. The number of Americans who receive Disability Insurance for mental disorders has doubled during the past 15 years. Eliza is now one of an estimated 11.5 million American adults with a debilitating mental illness, on whom the country spends about $150 billion annually on direct medical costs — therapy, drugs, hospitalizations and so forth. But the biggest blow to the overall economy are the many hidden, indirect costs. People with serious mental illness earn, on average, $16,000 less than their mentally well counterparts, totaling about $193 billion annually in lost earnings, according to a 2008 study published in The American Journal of Psychiatry. And many mentally ill workers, who are more likely to miss work, also suffer from what social scientists call presenteeism — the opposite of absenteeism — in which they are very likely to be less productive on the job when they show up.

Reduced earnings and a lower likelihood of being, or staying, married compound the problem. The mentally ill are at higher risk of poverty than their peers, which subsequently increases their need for other public safety-net services like food stamps and subsidized housing. Their use of those services, according to one recent estimate, probably costs taxpayers another $140 billion to $160 billion a year. All together, our cumulative mental-health issues — depression, and , among others — are costing the U.S. economy about a half-trillion dollars. That’s more than the government spent on all of during the last fiscal year.

With a major expansion of slated to take effect next year under Obamacare, policy makers are obsessing over how to bring down such costs. But listening to Eliza talk about getting back to work, it was hard not to wonder whether the best way to cut the long-term costs associated with mental illness was, paradoxically, to spend more money on directly treating it now. Economists refer to this as the cost offset, and it’s sort of like a return on an investment that comes from helping mentally ill people become more productive and less dependent on taxpayers.

There is evidence that suggests this might work. A study published in 2007 in The Journal of the American Medical Association, for example, enrolled depressed employees at 16 large companies in a randomized controlled trial. Some of them received telephone outreach, care management and optional psychotherapy, while others received their usual care. The employees in the “enhanced care” group not only worked longer weeks than those in the other group but also demonstrated greater job retention. Those increases in hours on the job brought companies an average annual value of $1,800 per worker, which was estimated to exceed the cost of both the outreach program and the roughly 10 additional mental-health specialty visits made by subjects in the treatment group. Another study conducted at 12 primary-care facilities found increased productivity and reduced absenteeism for patients who received enhanced treatment.
32 2013-07-02 An award-winning series on burlesque dancers in Israel brought Dan Balilty into their homes, where he noticed that many of them had dogs....
33 2013-07-02 Forget the gilded dreams of 90th-floor penthouse-dwelling hedge fund masters for just a second. We’ll mourn the ridiculously high price tag for brownstones in another column. The economic comebacks of New York, of and of so many states ride piggyback on the growth of low-wage jobs, on the hiring of those who dip French fries in boiling oil and pull flesh off the bones of factory chickens.

Fast-food businesses have added 25,000 jobs in New York in the past decade. Last week I sat in a low-ceiling City Council hearing room and listened and squirmed as fast-food workers — the Wendy’s hamburger slinger, the bike delivery man, the woman who mops floors in KFC — recounted the prosaic facts of their lives for a fact-finding panel.

There was a Mexican man with gray hair and a bushy mustache who trained as an architect. His two daughters live in and depend on him, and he sleeps in a basement and makes $5 an hour delivering Papa John’s pizza.

“I delivered during ,” he said in Spanish. “They told us to ride bent over, so that the pizzas didn’t get wet.”

Naquasia Legrand, a 22-year-old from Canarsie, Brooklyn, works at two KFCs. She washes dishes at one for $7.75 and mops floors at the other for $8. She says she must work four or five hours each week off the clock.

She needed to buy a last week so she skipped lunch. She shakes her head. “I think I deserve to eat lunch.”

The apostles of our new economy advise us that the middle and working classes need to “retool,” to learn new skills, to become more productive. Yes, well, O.K. When, where and with what time and whose money?

There is good news to be heard here. Workers who earn minimum wage realize their employers have no real hold on their tongues.

“I’m making the minimum wage plus 50 cents,” notes Ms. Simon. “I definitely can find another job.”

A great ferment brews. The car washers of the and Brooklyn have voted to form unions, as have security guards at . Twice in the past nine months, fast-food workers — with the aid of Fast Food Forward, a community organizing and labor coalition — have rallied and demanded higher wages and an end to wage theft.

How this ends is uncertain. American labor law is a beaten cur. Strikes are risky, and fast-food corporations are well-heeled adversaries. The current campaigns hope to embarrass these corporations.

As often, though, this sector carries an to shame.

Papa John’s chief executive, John Schnatter, makes $2 million per year and lives on a faux medieval estate outside , Ky. He spoke recently of trying to subvert Obamacare’s provisions by cutting the hours of all of his workers to less than 30 hours. , which owns KFC and Taco Bell and whose chief executive makes $11.3 million per year, helped lead the battle against paid sick days.

Mention long odds to these workers and they lead you back to the mathematics. They bob along the poverty line in an impossibly expensive city. What’s to lose?

Ms. Simon, still dressed in the black KFC shirt with “The Original Original” logo, shakes her head when asked if she’s worried about annoying her employer. “I have no lies to tell,” she says. “This is just my life.”
34 2013-07-02 As prime minister, Mr. Colombo, a member of the conservative Christian Democratic Party, juggled his and three other parties to form coalitions that would keep power from falling to the Communists, whose political strength in Italy exceeded that of any country in Western Europe. He also faced down the neo-Fascist right, survived waves of strikes and violence, and imposed new and higher taxes to successfully fight galloping inflation.

His foreign policy included establishing diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China and maintaining Italy’s strong support for the United States.

Communists said the Central Intelligence Agency had interfered in Italian politics on behalf of the Christian Democrats. Mr. Colombo denied the accusation. But in his 2007 book, “Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA,” Tim Weiner, a former reporter for The New York Times, quoted former C.I.A. employees in Rome as saying that they had indeed distributed $25 million to anti-Communist parties in Italy beginning in 1970.

Mr. Colombo’s coalition collapsed in February 1972, partly over his signing, in 1970, of Italy’s first law legitimizing divorce. Like the Vatican, his own Christian Democrats opposed the legislation, while leftist members of the coalition demanded it.

In 1974, the law survived an attempt at a repeal, with 59.3 percent voting to support it.

Emilio Colombo was born on April 11, 1920, to a lower middle-class family in Potenza, 100 miles southeast of Naples. A bishop in his home region persuaded him to go into politics. Many called him “Cardinal Colombo” because of his strong faith.

Mr. Colombo earned a law degree from the University of Rome and joined Catholic Action Youth, a Vatican-backed political organization, rising to vice president and gaining enough prominence to win a seat in Parliament in 1946. That year he was elected to a convention charged with writing a new republican constitution to replace Italy’s monarchy. He was the last surviving member of that constitutional convention.

In 1948, after being re-elected to Parliament, Mr. Colombo was given his first leadership post, undersecretary of agriculture. He used the position to develop programs to help his native region in the South.

Mr. Colombo was twice foreign minister, in 1980-83 and 1992-93. In his first term, he was a strong backer of American plans to base medium-range ballistic missiles in Europe. A Soviet radio commentary said a long article he wrote on the subject sounded as if it had been written in Washington by the State Department.

Mr. Colombo was known for his total immersion in politics, which he considered “a priesthood,” a Milan newspaper wrote in 1970. He wore dull ties and well-pressed suits, and his crispness of bearing prompted a friend to suggest that he needed only an umbrella to be British.

In 2003, just after being appointed a senator for life, Mr. Colombo disclosed that he had used cocaine three or four times a week for more than a year. He said that he had used the drug for “therapeutic purposes,” and that he was making the admission to prevent his bodyguards from being prosecuted as his procurers. Consumption of cocaine in Italy is not a criminal offense, but trafficking is.

At the same time, Mr. Colombo also disclosed that he was homosexual. For years he had told interviewers that he was too busy to marry. Information on survivors was unavailable.

When Mr. Colombo visited the United States in 1971, an editorial in The Times praised his political agility, saying he had “surmounted more perils than Pauline.”

His sense of humor surely helped. When meeting with Mayor John V. Lindsay, who was grappling with huge fiscal challenges in New York City, Mr. Colombo invited him to Rome if he wanted to see real problems.

“I believe this would be a great source of comfort for you,” he said.
35 2013-07-02 Scott I. London, a former senior partner with the accounting firm KPMG whose clients included Herbalife and Skechers USA, pleaded guilty on Monday before a federal judge in Los Angeles to a charge of securities fraud arising from his involvement in insider trading.

Mr. London, 50, who supervised more than 500 accounting professionals at KPMG, faces a maximum of 20 years in federal prison and a maximum fine of $5 million, according to the plea agreement.

Mr. London admitted that he gave the jeweler Bryan Shaw inside information regarding at least 14 separate earnings announcements or acquisitions by KPMG clients. The information included Herbalife’s earnings announcement on May 2, 2011, and an announcement by United Rentals on Dec. 16, 2011, on its acquisition of RSC Holdings, according to prosecutors.

Mr. London was accused of taking cash, concert tickets and jewelry, including a Rolex watch, from his onetime golfing buddy Mr. Shaw, who pleaded guilty earlier.

“I did it to help someone whose business was struggling,” Mr. London said in an interview after the hearing. “It was a bad, bad mistake.”
36 2013-07-02 Campaigning in New York City takes blood, sweat and tears.

These days, the emphasis is on sweat.

As the mercury rises and humidity hovers, no candidate wants to get caught on the trail looking like a sopping Richard Nixon. So the City Hall hopefuls are stocking up on sunscreen and flipping wardrobes like singers in a musical, trading sweat-soaked shirts for fresh ones up to three times a day.

Take Sal F. Albanese, a Democrat who, in the cooler months, prefers a conservative suit. On Sunday he showed up at a Puerto Rican parade in Brooklyn sporting a Tommy Bahama-style shirt with a seasonal floral print, which he had bought in San Juan.

“I knew I was going to start sweating profusely,” Mr. Albanese explained.

His aides keep fresh button-downs on standby, usually on hangers to avoid wrinkles, and Mr. Albanese has started packing an additional provision: sunscreen, which the balding candidate applies to his face and increasingly exposed scalp.

“I don’t have much hair, so I make sure that I have suntan lotion all over my face and head when I’m out there,” Mr. Albanese said, citing a few dermatologic issues over the years.

With the dog days approaching, he recently switched to S.P.F. 50 from a more delicate 35. “You’re basically exposing yourself to an awful lot of sun,” he said.
37 2013-07-02 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s lasting legacy will most likely be in the area of health and nutrition — the mandatory listing of calories on menus and the smoking ban in bars and restaurants. Mr. Bloomberg has been an excellent barker for all things N.Y.C.

Unfortunately, one promotion, the Nathan’s hot dog eating contest in Coney Island on the Fourth of July, contradicts the mayor’s otherwise well-meaning efforts.

I have filmed one of these “contests,” and I can assure you that frantically cramming as many hot dogs down your gullet as fast as you can is not a sport. To encourage it is to glamorize gluttony.

On this last July 4 of his mayoralty, I urge Mr. Bloomberg to continue his efforts to better the health habits of New Yorkers by discreetly ignoring this disgrace.
38 2013-07-02 Second, the court affirmed that it consistently favors manufacturers over consumers. Two years ago, in Pliva v. Mensing, it held that those injured by generic drugs couldn’t sue manufacturers for failing to adequately warn patients of side effects. This is crucial because nearly 80 percent of all prescriptions in the United States are filled with generic drugs (it would be 90 percent if it were not for drugs for which there is no generic equivalent).

On June 24, the Supreme Court went further. In Mutual Pharmaceutical Company v. Bartlett, it held that makers of generic drugs could not be sued for defects in product design. The case involved a woman who was disfigured after taking a generic pain medication. The court said that federal law pre-empted any recovery under state law for failure to warn of the defects.

Third, the court continued to sharply limit class-action suits against companies. Two years ago, in AT & T Mobility v. Concepcion, the court held that a clause in a consumer contract requiring arbitration of disputes precluded a class-action suit. Vincent and Liza Concepcion were upset when they were charged $30.22 in sales tax after getting “free” cellphones. They wanted to be part of a class action against AT & T for fraud.

The Concepcions, like so many of us, had signed an agreement when they got their phones, and it had a clause that said any dispute with AT & T had to be resolved in arbitration. The California Supreme Court had ruled that such arbitration clauses were not enforceable, because consumers had no realistic choice but to sign. But the United States Supreme Court held, 5 to 4, that the arbitration clause was to be enforced and that since it had to be individual arbitration, it could not be a classwide case. Justice Scalia’s majority opinion spoke of the terrorizing effects of class actions, which can force corporations to settle even frivolous suits. But the reality is that class actions are essential when a large number of people suffer damage, especially when the amounts are small: no one will sue, or even go to arbitration, for $30.22.

On June 20, the court again restricted class actions, in American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant. The restaurant and other small businesses had brought a class-action suit accusing American Express of violating antitrust law in imposing excessive fees on merchants. The individual plaintiffs could have each recovered just $38,000 under the antitrust statute, but proving an antitrust violation would have cost exponentially more. Therefore, denying a class action meant that the suit could not realistically go forward. The result: a company can violate antitrust law yet immunize itself from liability through an arbitration clause.

These cases evince a disquieting theme about the conservative majority of the Roberts court. It obviously believes, and sometimes expressly says, that there is a need to protect big business from litigation. But in discrimination, product liability and arbitration, it has left injured employees, consumers and small businesses without recourse.

Congress could revise these statutes to allow the suits to go forward, and in the discrimination case, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg called on Congress to do just that. But deadlock in Washington does not leave much confidence that Congress will reopen the courthouse doors.
39 2013-07-02 How serious? Consider that the race begins in the hellfire depths of Death Valley at Badwater, the lowest elevation in the Western Hemisphere, and continues day and night for 135 miles westward over scorching desert and across two California mountain ranges, before ending at 8,360 feet up Mount Whitney.

Lessons for the rest of us? Well, even golfers sometimes forget that extreme heat, which is often deceptive when accompanied by very dry conditions, needs to be approached with extreme caution. And business travelers, who typically tug on the sneakers after arrival at a hotel and look for a place to run anywhere they are, might find it useful to hear from the true masters of the running universe, especially now that it’s so darn hot, literally on the road.

The Badwater race often starts with temperatures in the 120-degree range, when asphalt on that sunblasted road out of the valley can radiate over 180 degrees. What kind of runners seek this out?

“It bothers me sometimes when you hear people say these people are insane or have some kind of death wish,” said Chris Kostman, whose title is chief adventure officer at Adventurecorps, a California-based organizer of ultra-endurance sports events that runs the Badwater 135. Mr. Kostman, an archaeologist and endurance athlete who is also the Badwater race director, said that the runners who come to Death Valley — he said 80 percent of them cross the finish line — are at their physical peak: superbly conditioned, aware of the difficulties, driven to endure.

“A lot of people just focus on the Death Valley heat part, which is just the first third of the race,” he added. After the long, desolate valley, there are mountain ranges and finally that 13-mile climb to the finish line on Mount Whitney. “It can be like 30 degrees up there, and the day before, it could have been 130 in the desert,” he said.

Even for everyday runners, heat is a big factor in unfamiliar places, said Jenny Hadfield, a top-ranked endurance athlete and coach who is the author of books like “Running for Mortals” and “Marathoning for Mortals.” In dry, hot places “your body sweats, of course, but you don’t realize it because it dries so quickly,” said Ms. Hadfield, who has crewed at the Badwater 135.

Heat exhaustion and heat stroke can occur quickly to the unaware, whether in dry climates or humid ones. “On a hot day in Chicago, you’re sweating so profusely, sometimes even before you run, it doesn’t evaporate in the humidity. Your body dehydrates quickly and heats up quickly because your body is on overtime trying to cool itself,” said Ms. Hadfield, who offers tips for conditioning and running in heat on her Web site, Jennyhadfield.com.

“One good tip is to run intervals, the easiest way to keep your body cool,” Ms. Hadfield said. “If you go into a situation where it’s really humid or really, really hot and you’re struggling; you’re breathing heavily at your normal effort, just add a minute or two of power-walking to bring everything back down,”

She added: “When I travel, which is a lot, I typically do some running. But in extreme weather, frankly, I just run inside. I always book my travel for a hotel chain where I know they’re going to have a nice treadmill.”
40 2013-07-02 It has been known for more than a year that Mr. Karzai would be appointing new commissioners: among the former members, one was killed in a terrorist attack, another was forced out by the commission, and three more were dismissed by presidential decree.

The dismissals, in particular, were widely seen as a move to retaliate against the former rights commissioner Ahmad Nader Nadery, whose shepherding of a study of war crimes by all factions in Afghanistan had made him powerful enemies. In particular, the report was said to anger Marshal Muhammad Qasim Fahim, the first vice president and a leader of the fundamentalist Jamiat-i-Islami party, which includes several former warlords. The report, though completed two years ago, has yet to be released publicly because it is awaiting Mr. Karzai’s approval.

Concerned, donor countries and United Nations agencies leaned on the Afghan government to assure that new commissioners would be chosen for their political independence, human rights experience, and after widespread consultation with civil society leaders.

The resulting list of appointees, they say, fell far short.

“Serious concerns have been raised whether the new commissioners meet these important eligibility standards,” Ms. Pillay said in a news release from her agency. She also said the commission might lose its “A” accreditation under international human rights standards known as the Paris Principles. That, in turn, “would have serious consequences for continued international donor support for both the A.I.H.R.C. and for the government,” she said.

A spokesman for the president, Aimal Faizi, said that Mr. Karzai’s appointments were “in full consultation with civil society.” And he admonished Ms. Pillay, saying that the commission “is a purely internal issue of Afghanistan, and the U.N.'s human rights commissioner had better to also raise its concerns on the issue of civilian casualties in the war on terror.”

The commission, with offices throughout Afghanistan and 650 staff members, gets scant financial support from the government; most of its $7.5 million annual budget is provided by European countries, along with Canada, Australia and the United Nations.

“I was very outraged and felt very bad to see that all those demands from civil society and human rights groups were not respected in this process” to appoint new commissioners, Mr. Nadery said.

Wazir Ahmad Khorami, the deputy director of the Civil Society and Human Rights Network, said that his group had given Mr. Karzai the names of 27 potential candidates for the commission but that none were chosen.

“I think he just wants to destroy the commission because in the last 10 years they were so very active and so effective, and now he is under so much pressure from different warlords who are against it,” Mr. Khorami said.

In interviews on Sunday and Monday, all five of the new commissioners maintained that their human rights credentials were sound. But the policy stances and political affiliations of two, in particular, have concerned many analysts.

One new commissioner, Maulavi Abdul Rahman Hotak, is a mullah, Islamic scholar and former Taliban government official who, for three years, was detained by the American military at its Bagram prison. And he is adamant in opposing the Elimination of Violence Against Women Act, one of the A.I.H.R.C.'s signature lobbying achievements.

“First, I’m a Muslim, and Islam is a good source of human rights standards,” Maulavi Hotak said. “The people who have written that law do not know Afghanistan and Afghan society very well — perhaps they think Kabul is Afghanistan.”

Another appointee who has stirred questions is Qadria Yazdanparast, a longtime stalwart in the Jamiat-i-Islami party.

Ms. Yazdanparast maintained she had resigned her post in Jamiat-i-Islami a month ago, thus fulfilling the requirement for commissioners to be nonpolitical. But she also said that she hoped to run for president in 2014, and hoped to have Mr. Karzai’s support.

Ms. Yazdanparast bristled at suggestions that she was closely associated, through Jamiat-i-Islami, with Afghanistan’s warlords, many of whom maintain private armies even while holding government posts.

“When we were fighting during jihad against the Soviets, every country like the U.S. saw us as champions of human rights, and now we are war criminals and other people are human rights champions?” she said.

“It’s very questionable why some international organizations are supporting some individuals and criticizing others,” Ms. Yazdanparast added. “Maybe they don’t like me because I wear my head scarf like this. This is my human right, too.” She indicated how the scarf covered every single hair. “Or because I believe in religion?”
41 2013-07-02 The Food and Drug Administration has rejected an application by Merck to sell a new sleeping pill, but indicated that it would probably approve the drug in lower doses.

The agency concluded that safety data presented by Merck did not support approval of the drug, called suvorexant, in 30- and 40-milligram doses, the company said Monday, and recommended that most patients start on a 10-milligram dose, which the company had not proposed selling. Two higher doses, at 15 and 20 milligrams, could be used in patients for whom the 10-milligram dose didn’t work, Merck said.

The agency’s decision is similar to the findings in May of a federal advisory panel, which concluded that lower doses of the drug were safe and effective, but expressed concern that higher doses led to daytime drowsiness and other side effects. It is also in keeping with a recent decision by the F.D.A. that women who take the sleep drug Ambien reduce their dosage by half, because of similar concerns about drowsiness.

During the meeting of the advisory panel, representatives for Merck argued that the 10-milligram dose would not be effective. On Monday, a company spokesman said the F.D.A. concluded that the dose was effective, and is “in keeping with the agency’s more cautious approach toward sleep medicines; approving them in the lowest effective dose.”

Merck’s drug is the first in a new class of insomnia treatments that work differently than others on the market, by blocking the neurotransmitters in the brain that help keep a person awake.

The company said it would need to conduct additional manufacturing studies to develop the 10-milligram dose, but that extra clinical studies would not likely be necessary. It said it was also discussing with the agency what studies would be needed to prepare a five-milligram dose, which it said the F.D.A. recommended for patients who were also taking certain other drugs.
42 2013-07-02 It is merely a coincidence that Petke had a sit-down with Lade last week, perhaps with a hint that the veteran defender Heath Pearce would be lost for the season because of an injury and that Roy Miller would decide to stay with Costa Rica’s national team (to the club’s chagrin) to prepare for the Concacaf Gold Cup, which does not begin for another week.

“He went to Spain, the national team,” Petke said, referring to Lade. “He really wasn’t on at the beginning of the season. I had a long talk with him, ironically, three days ago, a real long talk and I was very blunt with him because he knows I care about him. I want to see him succeed. I think it is important for someone like Connor to succeed here. At the end of the day, I’m not going to play him because he is a homegrown player or just because he’s a local boy or just because he had a very good year last year. He has to earn it. It’s even been a question of his work ethic. It’s his decision-making, and he knows that. He earned the start today over the last couple of days, specifically with how he played in practice.”

In addition to playing in college for Coach Dave Masur, a New Jersey native, at St. John’s, Lade had been a member of the Red Bulls’ academy system since December 2007. He played in high school in Morristown, N.J.

Though he held his own on the defensive end in a scoreless first half, Lade, perhaps understandably, did not have the confidence or comfort to complete a number of easy passes. The rust showed.

“Mike and I had a talk and he told me that I needed to get in the mind-set I had last year,” Lade said. “Then, I didn’t expect anything, and now I know I have to earn my way back. Every season brings a new story.

“I realize we have a deep team, but it’s what every professional thrives on, competition. It’s about being pushed every day and how you’re going to get better. This was an opportunity to step in, and I will take it. For now, all I can do is try to make the position my own.”

The win over Houston was the first and only Red Bulls victory in June and the club’s first home game since June 1. After just three league games in the month (plus a U.S. Open Cup match), the Red Bulls return to play at Colorado on Thursday, a place they often seem to end up on July 4 (the club has also played the Rapids on Independence Day in 1996, ’98, 2008 and ’10).

It is more than a coincidence that the Red Bulls snapped a two-game losing streak, a streak that began when Tim Cahill left at the end of May to play for Australia in World Cup qualifying matches. With Cahill back as the engine in the midfield, goals by Fabian Espindola and Jonny Steele were enough to push the Red Bulls (8-6-4, 28 points) back into second place in the Eastern Conference, a point behind first-place Montreal (a team the Red Bulls host July 13).

Cahill also took notice of Lade’s efforts on the left side of the defense.

“For him it’s great, for him to play and to get the opportunity and to play the way he did,” Cahill said. “He’s part of a winning team. I’m happy for him because he has waited his turn and he has been really disciplined and he’s a true professional.”
43 2013-07-02 The deal for Bargnani, the No. 1 overall pick in 2006, will not cost the Knicks much in the near term. They are sending away Steve Novak, Marcus Camby and Quentin Richardson (in a sign-and-trade deal), none of whom were key rotation players. But they also are surrendering a first-round pick in 2016 and second-round picks in 2014 and 2017, mortgaging future assets to add a questionable piece in the present.

When the Bargnani trade becomes official, the Knicks will have traded away every draft pick permitted under the N.B.A. rules from now to 2017. They will have two first-round picks remaining (in 2015 and 2017), and zero second-round picks in that five-year period.

The Nets also borrowed against their future last week, sending three first-round picks to Boston in the deal for Pierce and Garnett. The difference, of course, is that Pierce and Garnett are likely Hall of Famers who, despite their age, are still highly productive, whereas Bargnani is one of the biggest draft busts of the last decade. The trade-off is much harder to justify.

But the Bargnani deal is consistent with the Knicks’ philosophy for the last two years — to win at all costs now, with Carmelo Anthony in his prime, without much regard for what happens down the road. They have repeatedly given up young players and draft picks in favor of adding veterans in pursuit of a championship.

There is some logic to this trade: Bargnani is 27, more than a decade younger than Camby, and he has a broader offensive skill set than Novak. He converted 40.9 percent of his 3-point attempts in 2008-9 and averaged 21.4 points a game in 2010-11 before injuries derailed him. Bargnani converted just 30 percent of his 3-pointers the last two seasons and averaged just 12.7 points last season.

The Knicks are counting on Bargnani’s rediscovering his shooting touch and hoping he will be more at ease playing as a third or fourth option on a contender, rather than carrying the weight of a No. 1 pick on a bad team. In theory, he should be an ideal “stretch” big man who can keep the floor spaced for Anthony.

But Bargnani is a poor rebounder and defender, which will make it difficult to play him at center or in any lineup with Amar’e Stoudemire, who is also a poor defender and below-average rebounder. The Knicks still need bodies to fill out their frontcourt rotation and to take some pressure off Tyson Chandler.

They also need help at point guard, shooting guard and small forward, needs that will become even more glaring if their own free agents leave. The Knicks are limited in what they can offer Smith, Copeland and Prigioni, and they could lose all of them to teams with salary-cap room.

The most the Knicks can pay Smith is about $5.5 million, or about $24.5 million over four years — a sum that could easily be topped by the Milwaukee Bucks or the Detroit Pistons, who are said to be pursuing Smith.

Copeland, a restricted free agent, drew immediate interest Monday from the Los Angeles Lakers, the New Orleans Pelicans, the Dallas Mavericks and the Indiana Pacers. Copeland has not heard from the Knicks, who apparently are content to let the market set his value before they decide whether to match an offer sheet. It is a risky stance; the most the Knicks can pay Copeland is $3.18 million, using the so-called mini-midlevel exception. They might also need part of that exception to keep Prigioni.

The Knicks are said to be chasing two top free agents, Monta Ellis and Tony Allen, but both are certain to receive far more lucrative offers elsewhere.

The Nets are also facing a significant departure. C. J. Watson, their backup point guard, reportedly reached agreement on Monday on a two-year deal with the Pacers.

The rosters will keep fluctuating in the days to come, and impressions are bound to change. But the Knicks have a lot of work to do to change those impressions.
44 2013-07-02 In the basement of a co-op in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, the superintendent’s workshop includes all the usual accessories, like screwdrivers and saws, a bare floor and a vise grip, as well as a whole lot of paint — but it’s not that kind of paint.

This super, Hiram Rodríguez, is a painter. Most evenings he can be found sitting in that narrow room with a brush in his hand and a canvas propped up on his workbench, just next to a circular saw. And for the next few weeks, two of his finished works will hang in another office space where the delicate urgency of artistic endeavor is not generally the first thing that springs to mind: the headquarters of 32BJ, the country’s largest building service workers union.

For the last eight years, 32BJ has invited its members, who spend their days working as doormen, porters, janitors and window washers, to submit their artwork for a monthlong art show. Each year it has quietly grown, bringing more paintings, photographs, poems and sculptures to hallways sheathed in sharp fluorescent light. And behind each agitated portrait and every glowing photograph that hangs in this giant union, there is the shared reality of nearly every artist’s experience.

“It doesn’t pay medical,” said Robert Santorelli, a carpenter, a photographer and a doorman at 301 East 78th Street on the Upper East Side.

José Enrique Tarazona Ocharán, a painter and musician from Peru, started working as a doorman about 10 years ago so he could afford to buy instruments. He supplied two large pieces this year, composed of fragmented photographs and brightly colored paint. Naja Quintero, a union shop steward from Ecuador who works at a commercial building in New Jersey, submitted a three-dimensional scene of vibrant pink and yellow flowers made of discarded paper and Styrofoam. Radislav Krstic, a window washer from Bosnia and Herzegovina, supplied a striking abstract painting of sharply twirled reds, oranges and black.

“I have maybe 200 paintings in my home,” said Julio Pantoja, who has been a janitor on Wall Street for 31 years. “I put them under the bed, in the closet. I had to take a lot of the canvas off the stretchers to roll them up.
45 2013-07-02 TOKYO — Business sentiment among major manufacturers in Japan is at its highest in more than two years, a closely watched central bank survey showed Monday, in a sign that the economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe are continuing to lift Japan’s corporate outlook.

The Bank of Japan’s “tankan” survey for the three months through June showed that the headline index for major manufacturers rose to 4 from negative 8 in the previous quarter, the second consecutive quarter of improvement.

The index beat market expectations that it would rise to 3; the reading Monday was the highest since March 2011, and the first positive reading since September that year. It compares with a dismal result of negative 48 four years ago, in the depths of the global economic crisis.

The Nikkei average climbed 1.3 percent to a one-month high after the upbeat tankan, finishing the day at 13,852.50, its third straight session of gains.

The corporate improvement comes six months into Mr. Abe’s bid to jump-start Japan’s economy with a combination of aggressive monetary easing, government stimulus and a package of promised economic changes.
46 2013-07-03 Tomas Berdych had seized the momentum from Novak Djokovic in a quarterfinal at Wimbledon on Wednesday, then promptly gave it back....
47 2013-07-03 Some Luna Park attractions, the Wonder Wheel and many shops on the Coney Island Boardwalk remained closed on Wednesday as city officials considered the stability of a former ride....
48 2013-07-03 Only one of the four remaining women at Wimbledon is ranked in the top 10, and none has won a Grand Slam event....
49 2013-07-03 Asset sales show that the company is making progress on improving its balance sheet, but its financial straits have made it tough to secure top-notch valuations....
50 2013-07-03 The chic red number the Knicks star wore to his wedding reception last weekend was the result of a year-long collaboration.

Last Saturday evening, shortly after tying the knot with his longtime partner, Alexis Welch, at the Vizcaya Museum and Gardens in Miami, Amar’e Stoudemire, the New York Knicks’ power forward, orchestrated a surprise costume change. He shed the Calvin Klein Collection tux he’d worn for his nuptials in favor of a bold red number that had been custom-made for him by Lanvin.

The suit was almost a year in the making. After the Knicks fell to the Miami Heat in the first round of the 2012 N.B.A. playoffs, Stoudemire took Welch to Paris for a vacation. There, he presented her with an 8.5-carat engagement ring (a piece of jewelry big enough to become a hot topic on sports radio programs), beforethe two of them took in several of the spring/summer 2013 men’s runway shows, including Maison Martin Margiela, Paul Smith, Givenchy and Lanvin.

Stoudemire had already become familiar with Lanvin after buying a pair of sneakers he loved because they could go with either jeans or a suit. After the show in Paris, he met Lanvin’s artistic director, Alber Elbaz, and its men’s-wear designer, Lucas Ossendrijver, and discussed having a made-to-measure suit created for his wedding rehearsal dinner. At 6-foot-11, with exceptionally broad shoulders and a trim waist, Stoudemire is no stranger to custom clothing. In New York the following April, he found time during the playoffs to visit the brand’s Madison Avenue boutique to have his measurements taken. When he returned for a final fitting in June, he decided that he liked the suit too much to wear it at the rehearsal dinner. He wanted to wear it at the reception instead.

Here, Stoudemire recounts the process of the suit’s creation.

T checked in with Stoudemire shortly before the big day to talk about the process of creating the suit and how his sense of style has evolved.
51 2013-07-03 A new report concludes that passengers absorb little radiation from X-ray backscatter scanners....
52 2013-07-03 What do you think? Are the business owners protesting paid sick leave laws overreacting?...
53 2013-07-03 Nicole Farhi, named after the designer who founded the company in 1982, appointed the restructuring adviser Zolfo Cooper to take over the business and find a buyer....
54 2013-07-03 The chic red number the Knicks star wore to his wedding reception last weekend was the result of a year-long collaboration.

Last Saturday evening, shortly after tying the knot with his longtime partner, Alexis Welch, at the Vizcaya Museum and Gardens in Miami, Amar’e Stoudemire, the New York Knicks’ power forward, orchestrated a surprise costume change. He shed the Calvin Klein Collection tux he’d worn for his nuptials in favor of a bold red number that had been custom-made for him by Lanvin.

The suit was almost a year in the making. After the Knicks fell to the Miami Heat in the first round of the 2012 N.B.A. playoffs, Stoudemire took Welch to Paris for a vacation. There, he presented her with an 8.5-carat engagement ring (a piece of jewelry big enough to become a hot topic on sports radio programs), beforethe two of them took in several of the spring/summer 2013 men’s runway shows, including Maison Martin Margiela, Paul Smith, Givenchy and Lanvin.

Stoudemire had already become familiar with Lanvin after buying a pair of sneakers he loved because they could go with either jeans or a suit. After the show in Paris, he met Lanvin’s artistic director, Alber Elbaz, and its men’s-wear designer, Lucas Ossendrijver, and discussed having a made-to-measure suit created for his wedding rehearsal dinner. At 6-foot-11, with exceptionally broad shoulders and a trim waist, Stoudemire is no stranger to custom clothing. In New York the following April, he found time during the playoffs to visit the brand’s Madison Avenue boutique to have his measurements taken. When he returned for a final fitting in June, he decided that he liked the suit too much to wear it at the rehearsal dinner. He wanted to wear it at the reception instead.

Here, Stoudemire recounts the process of the suit’s creation.

T checked in with Stoudemire shortly before the big day to talk about the process of creating the suit and how his sense of style has evolved.
55 2013-07-03 At least 69 suspects accused of plotting an Islamist coup in the United Arab Emirates received prison sentences of up to 15 years on Tuesday, in a mass trial that underscored the widening crackdowns on dissent across the entire Gulf Arab region. Scrutiny of opposition sentiments, particularly those with an Islamist tone expressed online, has greatly tightened in the region, though there have been almost no street protests.
56 2013-07-03 The team owner A. J. Foyt will miss Sunday’s race at Pocono after having hip replacement surgery in Houston. Foyt, 78, a four-time Indianapolis 500 champion as a driver, had had pain in his left leg for months. He fell at his ranch in early June. In April, Foyt had back surgery that caused him to miss three races.
57 2013-07-03 Another hard-throwing Texan who wears No. 34 made some no-hit history Tuesday night.

That Texan, Homer Bailey, threw his second no-hitter in 10 months for the Cincinnati Reds in a 3-0 win over San Francisco.

Bailey became the third Reds pitcher with more than one no-hitter, joining Jim Maloney and Johnny Vander Meer — still the only big leaguer to toss two in a row. Bailey no-hit the Pirates, 1-0, in Pittsburgh last Sept. 28 and got another no-hitter 17 starts later.

This one was at home with 27,509 fans standing and chanting “Homer! Homer!” as he finished it off in a tidy 102 pitches with one walk — in the seventh inning — and nine strikeouts.

“It was a pretty easy no-hitter,” Giants Manager Bruce Bochy said. “We didn’t hit too many balls hard. He was really overmatching us all night.”

Yes, it was reminiscent of Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Famer from Texas who holds the record with seven no-hitters.

Bailey threw the last of the majors’ seven no-hitters last season, and now the first of 2013. The last pitcher to throw one no-hitter and then another before anyone else in the majors was Ryan, according to STATS. Ryan, baseball’s career strikeout king, did it for the California Angels on Sept. 28, 1974, against Minnesota, and on June 1, 1975, versus Baltimore.
58 2013-07-03 After two and a half days of rain, the skies cleared for Rodriguez, who bumped Dante Bichette Jr. from third base to designated hitter. Against the right-handed offerings of Williams Perez, a 22-year-old Venezuelan, he tapped into a 5-4-3 double play after Eduardo Nunez, another rehabbing Yankee, singled leading off the bottom of the first. Rodriguez struck out looking in his second at-bat.

He was tested in the field on two bunt singles, the first by Kyle Wren leading off the game.

“The bunt was a pretty good test right off the bat,” Rodriguez said. “I thought I was going to have to dive.”

He did not, thankfully.

“He looked at me, like, what is that?” said Nunez, who started at shortstop.

Charging on the bunt and running down the first-base line, Rodriguez looked like a lumbering 37-year-old who, as he noted, had been virtually inert for almost nine months.

On the plus side, he was greeted with restrained appreciation by an overflow crowd of 8,255 (171 short of a ballpark record) and, in summary analysis, said: “I had a blast out there.”

Of course, how Rodriguez responds to his first game action is the next question.

“He came out good after the game, which is good,” Manager Joe Girardi said after the Yankees defeated the Twins, 7-3, in Minneapolis. “Hopefully, he feels good tomorrow, and he can get back at it.”

“Where’s Nunez?” he asked as he reached the RiverDogs’ clubhouse.

Nunez, who is recovering from a rib cage injury, was already inside.

There has been no shortage of injured Yankees this season, plenty of brand names for autograph seekers to pursue at the Tampa complex. But even in partnership with Nunez — they played long toss and took batting and fielding practice apart from the young RiverDogs — there is no denying that Rodriguez’s return stands alone as pure theater.

“Let’s be honest, the way my year ended last year was pretty bloody,” he said. “We got swept, I got benched and pinch-hit for.” He laughed at what once upon a time would have sounded absurd and added, “I have no one to blame but myself because I stunk up the house, that’s for sure.”

Just by the way last season ended — with Rodriguez enduring the worst in a series of Yankees postseason comedowns — would have made his comeback compelling. The threat of suspension by Major League Baseball over accusations of his involvement in another steroid scandal makes it that much more fraught with uncertainty. It is a career crisis wrapped in a conundrum.

Asked if he had any news on the status of the evolving Biogenesis story, Rodriguez said: “Nope, right now we’re just waiting to see what’s next and we’ve kind of been instructed to leave everything right there. Any comment will come from the commissioner’s office.”

From Commissioner Bud Selig to Cashman, Rodriguez has made an art form of drawing the ire of baseball authorities. But with the Yankees, at least, he said all had been smoothed over since Cashman profanely suggested he shut up and honor the chain of organizational command when releasing information to the public.

“I think right now everybody’s lined up — we all have the same interests, the same goals,” he said. “That is to get me back to New York as soon as possible, and hopefully, like in 2009, win a championship.”

First things first. Rodriguez was encouraged by how his body responded to an increased workload in the last 10 days. To what level of play he might be capable of eventually reaching, he said, “I think we’re all, including myself, intrigued to see how my body reacts and to see if there’s a big difference to the way I ended last year to the way I’m going to play this year.”

Living in the moment, he was content to be back in uniform, any uniform. He wore No. 13, which happened to be the one normally used by Al Pedrique, the RiverDogs’ manager. Pedrique switched to No. 1, on one condition.

“I’m going to let him know that in order for him to wear that number he’s going to have to take care of the players,” Pedrique said.

Rodriguez had had enough trouble taking care of himself and was content to get through the night without physical incident. He will try again Wednesday night, hoping the clouds and controversies stay away.
59 2013-07-03 A St. Louis County judge reinstated Adam Paul as mayor of Ellisville on Monday, nearly three months after the City Council removed him in an acrimonious and personal dispute. Judge David Lee Vincent III nullified the Council’s impeachment proceeding, saying it violated Mr. Paul’s due process rights by not giving him enough time to prepare a defense to charges that he had failed to respond to a subpoena. “The irony is that the old Council accused Adam Paul of violating the City Charter and they used that as the basis to remove him from the office of mayor,” said Chet Pleban, Mr. Paul’s lawyer. “Ironically, he was restored to the office of mayor because the Council violated the City Charter.” Mr. Paul was a political novice who came to power on the back of a campaign against providing tax incentives for a developer to build a Walmart in Ellisville. Mr. Paul claimed that the Council had it in for him because of his opposition to the Walmart, while council members accused him of being brash, disrespectful and violating rules.
60 2013-07-03 WASHINGTON — An independent telecommunications lawyer filed a petition with the Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday, claiming that Verizon Wireless had vastly understated the amount it collected from false data charges on customer bills when it agreed to refund the levies in 2010.

The lawyer, Arthur V. Belendiuk, of Washington, said in a petition for investigation that Verizon and F.C.C. documents obtained through a Freedom of Information request contained evidence indicating that the company might have taken $240 million or more from the false charges, more than four times the almost $53 million it agreed to refund.

A Verizon spokesman, Torod B. Neptune, said that the allegations were without merit, and declined to comment further. F.C.C. officials and the Office of the Inspector General declined to comment.

The Verizon charges came to light in 2009 in articles in the Cleveland Plain-Dealer and The New York Times.

Thousands of Verizon Wireless customers had been complaining about mysterious $1.99 data charges on their cellphone bills. The customers said they had not used the Internet connection function on their phones; some demonstrated to Verizon employees that the charges had occurred randomly, often when the phone was turned off or the battery removed, and at times on accounts that did not have a phone capable of connecting to the Internet.
61 2013-07-03 We treat the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights almost like sacred texts, inevitable and immutable. But if you’re in Manhattan on Wednesday, you can see drafts of the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights when they were still works in progress. To celebrate the Fourth of July, the New York Public Library is displaying these documents side by side for the first time.

The library’s copy of the Declaration of Independence, handwritten by Thomas Jefferson, includes a condemnation of slavery. King George III, Jefferson wrote, “has waged cruel war against human nature itself, violating its most sacred rights of life and liberty in the persons of a distant people who never offended him, captivating and carrying them into slavery in another hemisphere, or to incur miserable death in their transportation hither.” To appease delegates from Georgia and South Carolina, the denunciation was excised.

The copy of the Bill of Rights sent to the states for ratification in 1789 contained 12 amendments, which sounds as wrong as the Twelve Commandments. Originally, the First Amendment said that the number of seats in the House should grow with the population — a system that could have resulted in a 6,000-member Congress today. The Second Amendment dealt with Congressional pay, and was finally accepted some 200 years later as the 27th Amendment.

If Jefferson’s “cruel war” passage had stood, the founders’ endorsement of liberty wouldn’t need an asterisk. If the Bill of Rights began with a technical explanation for an unwieldy system of representation, the whole text would feel less inspiring. It seems fitting that the founding documents of our democracy were written by committee — products of debate, revision and compromise, which could have turned out differently.
62 2013-07-03 From the start, privacy and civil liberties protections were central to the program. Unlike the N.S.A., we assumed it would eventually have to endure public scrutiny — in America and abroad.

Given the importance and confidentiality of its data, Swift demanded that the government’s access be targeted and limited, preventing broad data-mining but allowing focused searches and analysis to prevent terrorist attacks. Searches for any other purpose were forbidden.

Both the Treasury and Swift ensured that the constraints on the information retrieved and used by analysts were strictly enforced. Outside auditors hired by Swift confirmed the limited scope of use, and Swift’s own representatives (called “scrutineers”) had authority to stop access to the data at any time if there was a concern that the restrictions were being breached. These independent monitors worked on site at government agencies and had real-time access to the system. Every time an analyst queried the system, the scrutineer could immediately review the query. Each query had to have a reason attached to it that justified it as a counterterrorism matter. Over time, the scope of data requested and retained was reduced.

This confirmed that the information was being used in the way we said it was — to save lives.

When European data privacy advocates and politicians objected to the program, the eminent French counterterrorism judge Jean-Louis Burguière was assigned to review the program in detail for the European Parliament. He reported in 2008, and again in 2010, that Treasury had complied with civil liberties protections.

The program was also highly effective. The financial intelligence it provided helped thwart terrorist attacks in America, , and . Information gleaned from Swift databases provided thousands of leads — including ones that helped capture ’s principal representative in Southeast Asia and uncover a terrorist-financing network in and .

The use of the data was legal, limited, targeted, overseen and audited. The program set a gold standard for how to protect the confidential data provided to the government. Treasury legally gained access to large amounts of Swift’s financial-messaging data (which is the banking equivalent of telephone metadata) and eventually explained it to the public at home and abroad.

It could remain a model for how to limit the government’s use of mass amounts of data in a world where access to information is necessary to ensure our security while also protecting privacy and civil liberties. The Times’ revelation did damage to the effectiveness of the program while ignoring the innovations that balanced security and civil liberties.

The debate over T.F.T.P. was in many ways a precursor of today’s debate about the N.S.A.

To give American citizens confidence that their privacy isn’t being violated today, the government must demonstrate that there is adequate oversight of the programs and that constraints on the use of N.S.A. data are being respected vigilantly. The private companies that are affected should be briefed on how their data is being used and given some say in how the programs are structured, limited and defended in public. It’s possible that the government is already doing some of this — but the people must be told.

Ultimately, the Obama administration needs to demonstrate that the programs are not only valuable and legal, but also that the government’s use of that data can be constrained and verified.
63 2013-07-03 While praising the department on the considerable resources devoted to auditing crime statistics, the committee noted that most of those efforts were directed at identifying “human error” — that is, unintentional mistakes in a police officer’s paperwork. But for “an officer who wishes to manipulate crime reporting,” the report said there were “few other procedures in place that control the various avenues of potential manipulation.”

The committee represented a rare example of Commissioner Kelly inviting outside scrutiny of the department. The move came amid questions over whether police commanders across the city were artificially suppressing crime statistics to advance their careers.

The 60-page report describes several instances of manipulation in which felony crimes were marked down as misdemeanors. In one instance “a desk officer scratched out the item values in order to bring the total to below the $1,000 threshold for grand larceny,” which is a felony.

In another instance, police paperwork for lost property “described a complainant who ‘lost property’ following an assault by multiple individuals,” according to the report, which added, “On its face the narrative appears to describe a robbery.”

In the aggregate, the report found, the effect of such errors, intentional or otherwise, on crime statistics was not negligible. “A close review of the N.Y.P.D.’s statistics and analysis demonstrate that the misclassifications of reports may have an appreciable effect on certain reported crime rates,” the report said.

The report noted, for instance, that Police Department auditors had already detected an error rate in 2009 suggesting that grand larcenies were undercounted that year by 2,312. The adjusted figures represent a 4.6 percent increase over the figures that the department issued that year.

The findings do not change the overall picture of a decline in crime in recent decades. “Even considered in light of the committee’s findings, the accomplishment of the N.Y.P.D. in reducing crime compared with 20 and even 10 years ago is indeed historic,” the report said.

The committee members were three former federal prosecutors: David N. Kelley, a former United States attorney in Manhattan; Sharon L. McCarthy, who also had worked as a special counsel to the state attorney general; and Robert G. Morvillo, a prominent defense lawyer. Mr. Morvillo died in December 2011.

At a news conference with Commissioner Kelly on Tuesday, Mr. Kelley noted that a certain amount of error was unavoidable, given the complexities of the penal code and in determining whether an incident met the threshold for one crime or another. As to whether officers intentionally sought to misclassify or suppress crime reports, Mr. Kelley said, “the answer is, from time to time yes.”

The report noted that within the Police Department “performance is — at least in part — measured by the ability to ‘reduce crime.’ ” But the report did not uncover direct evidence that such pressure resulted in direct orders by superiors to incorrectly classify crimes.

Granted access to internal department paperwork about disciplinary proceedings, the committee noted that at least 30 police officers or supervisors had received disciplinary action between 2008 and 2012 after complaints that they had misclassified crimes.

Mr. Kelley said the committee “held the N.Y.P.D. to the highest of auditing standards, a bar that I do not believe any police department has ever endeavored to meet.”

“Nevertheless,” he added, “we identified a number of areas in which the N.Y.P.D. could improve its audit program to better control for the risk of error or manipulation.”
64 2013-07-03 If Mr. Perry, 63, announces on Monday that he is not seeking re-election, he would add further momentum to Ms. Davis and to other Democrats, who have been struggling to break the lock Republicans have on statewide offices.

In recent weeks and months, Mr. Perry has suggested to reporters that he has not ruled out running again, either for governor or for president. Mr. Perry has turned his failed presidential bid in 2012, in which he often stumbled on the national stage, into a lessons-learned experience that has become part of his public persona. In a speech at the state Republican Party convention in Fort Worth in June 2012, Mr. Perry seemed to be on the presidential campaign trail months after withdrawing from the race.

“I’m not riding off into the sunset,” Mr. Perry told the crowd. “I’m mounting up for the next operation.”

Political observers said it appeared unlikely that Mr. Perry would seek another term as governor, because his state campaign team has largely been dismantled and because he wants to better prepare for running for president in 2016.

“I believe he wants to be a candidate for president again and knows an early start is critical to his success in the primaries,” said Bill Miller, a lobbyist who works with Democrats and Republicans. “He is a confident politician who is never scared out of a race.”

Calvin Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, added: “I don’t know what he will do, but I know what he should do if he wants to be president. He should forgo another race for governor, as he will have held that office for 14 years by 2014, in favor of systematically preparing himself to run for president.”

Others said the defeat of the filibuster was only a temporary victory for Democrats, adding that since the bill was likely to pass the Republican-controlled Legislature, the fight over abortion had helped, not hurt, the governor’s political future.

“It has allowed him to signal to the largely pro-life Republican base nationwide that he is staunchly pro-life as well as willing to stand up to liberal activists to protect the lives of the unborn,” said Mark P. Jones, a political science professor at Rice University in Houston.
65 2013-07-03 The production has been co-directed by Kevin McKenzie, Ballet Theater’s artistic director; Gelsey Kirkland; and Michael Chernov. The most obvious flaw is the way Prince Désiré and his four male companions enter — like nobody else in the ballet — with applause-winning rounds of clichéd jumps and turns. This fondness for empty stunts indicates a profound lack of faith in the detailed choreography of this masterpiece of ballet classicism. People new to ballet may well think that these athletic show-off moments are the best part of the evening; actually, they erode your appreciation of all the subtleties in this work’s master plan.

If you know “Beauty” well, you can see how the details of its text have been assembled according to balletomane principles, plucking bits from alternative versions, item by item, without any overarching concern for how the ballet connects as a whole. What this leads to is a maddening inconsistency of classical style. Whereas the fairy godmothers eat up space, Princess Aurora’s approach to stage geography is extremely limited; she’s meant to be the essence of youthfulness (according to the program, Act I is her 16th birthday), but her gingerly progress around the stage makes her seem far more inhibited than the rest.

On Monday Ms. Herrera danced as fine an Aurora as the circumstances would allow. It’s her best full-length role: she understands where good manners, joy and reticence are appropriate. I think she could cut loose and show twice as much vitality at several points, but she’s been carefully coached to remain relatively demure. She and Mr. Gomes (who was replacing the injured Cory Stearns) respond marvelously to each other; in the ballet’s finale, the way he, holding her in a lift, took a breathtaking length of time to lower her to the floor was something that delighted both them and us. Here and in his solo dancing, Mr. Gomes embodies virile chivalry.

The central factor in “The Sleeping Beauty” is Tchaikovsky’s music. This production includes some passages that are routinely cut and omits other passages that are among the score’s finest — dismayingly, the astonishingly poetic Act II Sleep music. Charles Barker, who did well last week by Delibes’s “Sylvia,” conducted the “Beauty” music as if turning the bass knobs up and the treble ones down; the brass, even in relatively oompah passages of accompaniment, almost always made more impression than the violins, and staccato dramatic effects counted for more than legato melodies.

Mr. Vasiliev’s Act III Bluebird was luxury miscasting. He’s not the fluttering, shimmering creature this choreography is about; he’s a golden eagle in the wrong role. The costume and makeup did him no favors. But Isabella Boylston, playing his partner, Princess Florine, and he danced as if their romance were as vital as that of the leading couple; their whole pas de deux was alive.

Veronika Part, that strangely inconsistent dancer, began the role of the Lilac Fairy by reverting to her worst mannerism — dropped eyelids — as if asking the audience to bear with her while she finished some hard work. At the awakening, where she has no dancing, she was suddenly at her most potent, dismissing Carabosse with gestures that combined beauty with might. Martine van Hamel as Carabosse is as lively as the ghastly costume and foolish production will permit; I think she could have 10 times the menace and comedy, but it’s not going to happen in these conditions.

No “Sleeping Beauty” production quite does full justice to Tchaikovsky’s miraculous score. This one, though, both focuses and hinders its greatly talented performers. It displays their potential while hellbent on belittling it.
66 2013-07-03 PARIS — Authorities searched the French offices of Apple and some affiliated companies as part of an investigation into retailing practices, a spokesman for the French competition regulator said on Tuesday.

The raids took place last week on “some of Apple’s premises in France, as well as those of some of its wholesalers and distributors,” said André Piérard, a spokesman for the regulator, the Competition Authority.

Mr. Piérard said the investigation was carried out by competition officials accompanied by judicial police officers. Authorities seized documents in the raids.

Apple is known for maintaining strict controls over its product image and marketing, extending those efforts to its highly profitable stores. But its leading market position has prompted scrutiny in Europe and elsewhere. European regulators, for example, have been examining Apple’s contracts with the cellphone carriers that sell its iPhone for possible antitrust violations.

The news of the investigation in France was first reported Monday by Les Échos, a financial newspaper. The article said the investigators were interested in Apple’s relations with its distributors.

The article cited the case of eBizcuss, an Apple premium reseller that operated about 15 stores until it collapsed last year. The eBizcuss chief executive, François Prudent, accused Apple of abusing its market dominance and of unfair competition, contending that the company had opened Apple stores around the country while starving its other authorized retailers of popular products like the newest iPads and iPhones. Mr. Prudent filed a complaint with the regulator.

According to Les Échos, the competition authorities want to know if Apple ordered its wholesalers, with which the distributors like eBizcuss were in almost daily contact, not to deliver the products on time. Les Échos reported that Mr. Piérard also said that the competition authorities were investigating Apple and other Internet companies on suspicion of abuse of market dominance with their online app stores.
67 2013-07-03 It is indeed a team effort, with riders taking turns at the front of the group, striving to keep a fast pace going. Wearing their team’s white-blue-and-green jersey, Gerrans and his team surprised the field.

“We were by no means the favorite, but we’re a well-balanced, strong team,” said Gerrans, the sixth Australian to wear the yellow jersey as leader of the Tour. “We thought that if everyone could play their role, if people didn’t try to do too much or too little, we would have a chance to finish very close to the top.”

It was not as close as Gerrans’s victory Monday in Stage 3, however, when he beat Peter Sagan to the line by less than a wheel’s length to claim the team’s first Tour de France stage victory.

Started in 2011, Orica-Green-Edge is Australia’s answer to Britain’s Team Sky. Built around a deep corps of Australian riders like the sprinter Matt Goss and Stuart O’Grady, who is in his 17th Tour de France, it has quickly achieved success.

Nothing, however, prepared it for what has happened this Tour.

“Yesterday was big,” said Matt White, the team’s general manager. “The biggest win for the team ever. Today, we didn’t really expect it.”

Gerrans said that his victory Monday was the result of months of preparation, but he could have said the same thing about Tuesday’s stage. Of all of the sport’s disciplines — climbing, sprinting, individual time trials — the team time trial demands the most precise timing and coordination. Teams do not just show up at the start line. They rent former Formula One tracks in Marseille to experiment with different bikes, wheels and rider formations, as BMC Racing did after the Giro d’Italia in May. Garmin-Sharp, which won the Tour’s last team time trial, in 2011, abandoned race radio in favor of giving riders direction over a loudspeaker mounted on the trailing car. And Sky, with four of its nine riders based in or around Nice, had intimate knowledge of the course.

But none of them were able to best Orica-GreenEdge: Garmin-Sharp finished sixth, Sky third and BMC Racing ninth, 26 seconds off the pace. Riders on each team are given the same finishing time; Tuesday’s time trial was not decisive in terms of the overall classification, but BMC’s finish put Cadel Evans 23 seconds behind Chris Froome, the Sky captain, who is three seconds behind Gerrans.

A time trial is perhaps the only time professional cycling resembles golf. Riders or teams who finish early are left to watch their rivals complete the course. Orica went off toward the end of the afternoon, but there were still four teams behind it. As the day ended, though, with only RadioShack left on the course, the excitement was palpable.

“We did a great time trial, we’re happy,” Gerrans told French television as he waited for the final results. “We’ll have to see what happens,” he said diplomatically, but then broke into a big smile.
68 2013-07-03 Mr. Cuomo appointed the panel using his authority under the Moreland Act, a 1907 law that gives the governor the power “to examine and investigate the management and affairs of any department, board, bureau or commission of the state.”

The commission will be able to issue subpoenas and to examine witnesses under oath. While the Moreland Act only allows direct scrutiny of the executive branch, Mr. Cuomo will expand the scope of the commission’s work by joining with the attorney general’s office, a notable move considering Mr. Cuomo has shown little eagerness to work with Mr. Schneiderman since he succeeded Mr. Cuomo as attorney general.

Under the arrangement, members of the panel will be empowered as deputy attorneys general.

“There’s no substantial legal argument against them looking into every aspect of the state government,” Mr. Schneiderman said in an interview. “Their jurisdiction is as broad as we can grant using the full authority of my office and of the governor’s office.”

The commission will report preliminary recommendations by Dec. 1.

It remained to be seen how lawmakers would respond to the commission. More than two decades ago, when Mr. Cuomo’s father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, put in place a similar commission, lawmakers at first refused to provide money for it, and then largely ignored its recommendations.

Senate Republicans — whose leader, Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, warned on Monday that “a witch hunt is totally inappropriate” — declined to comment. Eric Soufer, a spokesman for the independent faction of Democrats that shares control of the Senate with the Republicans, said, “Our members would have preferred a comprehensive anti-corruption package, but if this commission helps root out corruption, then we welcome it.”

Michael Whyland, a spokesman for the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said Assembly Democrats had long-sought new campaign-finance laws, and were eager to work with the commission on reform measures “so we can finally have a system in place that reduces the influence of money in our elections.”

The panel, called the Commission to Investigate Public Corruption, will have three leaders: Kathleen M. Rice, the Nassau County district attorney, a Democrat; William J. Fitzpatrick, the Onondaga County district attorney, a Republican; and Milton L. Williams Jr., a partner at the law firm of Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard and a former prosecutor.

Law enforcement officials make up a large portion of the panel. The commission includes 10 district attorneys, among them Robert T. Johnson of the Bronx, and will be advised by Raymond W. Kelly, the New York City police commissioner, and Robert M. Morgenthau, the former Manhattan district attorney.

Mr. Cuomo is a prolific fund-raiser, with more than $22 million in his campaign account as of January. Mr. Fitzpatrick suggested the panel would not shy away from scrutinizing the governor’s fund-raising.

“He’s not looking for rubber stamps,” he said. “He’s looking for an independent commission, and we’ll do what Deep Throat told Bob Woodward to do: follow the money.”
69 2013-07-03 One of the appointees, Qadria Yazdanparast, declared in an interview on Monday that she intended to run for president next year. Another, Maulavi Abdul Rahman Hotak, is a former Taliban official who said he believed his background as an Islamic scholar qualified him in human rights.

Ms. Yazdanparast, who resigned only recently from her leadership position in the central bureau of the fundamentalist Jamiat-i-Islami party, took issue with criticism of her human rights record and described herself as a longtime women’s rights activist. She said that she had been the author of the Elimination of Violence Against Women Act, a landmark law in Afghanistan, when it first came before Parliament in 2009.

Women’s activists involved at the time said that was not true. Shinkai Karokhail, a member of Parliament who was one of the leaders of the effort to pass that law, said Ms. Yazdanparast’s contribution was to delay passage by six months. “She was an obstacle, actually,” Ms. Karokhail said. “Because she is a politically appointed woman doesn’t mean she was a women’s activist; she never supported women’s issues.”

Still, the commission’s chairwoman, Sima Samar, confirmed that Ms. Yazdanparast would be the commissioner overseeing women’s rights cases.

The top United Nations human rights official, Navi Pillay, last week publicly called on the government to “reopen the selection process in line with the requirements” of international human rights standards.

A spokesman for Mr. Karzai called the appointments “an internal matter” that was none of Ms. Pillay’s affair.

The commission is financed almost entirely by international donors, chiefly Canada and European countries, but not the United States. Its budget for the coming year will increase to nearly $12 million as it takes on additional monitoring in connection with election participation, especially by women.

“The donors are furious about the Human Rights Commission, particularly Canada,” said another Western diplomat. A spokeswoman for the Canadian Embassy declined to comment.

The countries that support the commission are also expected to contribute to the $4 billion in reconstruction aid that was agreed to in Tokyo, contingent on achievement of the benchmarks.

Of those requirements, the three that have been considered to be met are technical in nature — budgetary and fiscal controls and a plan for Afghanistan to join the World Trade Organization.

Much thornier issues remain, including human rights and the appointment of independent election officials for the presidential election in April 2014.

“The time for complacency is gone,” one diplomat said, adding that many Western countries will lose patience if the goals are not met.

Another sticking point is a benchmark calling for meaningful prosecution of the well-connected figures who were responsible for the nearly $1 billion looting of the Kabul Bank. Although 21 people were convicted, Western officials say that penalties for the worst offenders were too lenient and that too little of the money has been recovered.
70 2013-07-03 Instead, No. 15 Bartoli will play No. 20 Flipkens, and No. 23 Lisicki will play No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska, last year’s runner-up.

“If you would have told me in the beginning of the tournament who was going to be with the last four, I would never say the four who are still in, actually,” said Flipkens, a 27-year-old Belgian. “I mean, yeah, O.K., Agnieszka. But the other three are a little bit of a surprise.”

Flipkens acknowledged that she was the most surprising of all, and few would argue. She was the only one playing in her first Grand Slam quarterfinal.

But Flipkens was a champion here before, winning the girl’s championship in 2003 on her way to becoming the top junior player.

Then injuries started piling up. The year after winning at Wimbledon, she had a back injury that doctors said should have ended her career. There was wrist surgery in 2010. In March 2012, blood clots were discovered in her legs, and a doctor told her that if they weren’t treated, her next airplane flight could kill her.

“I’m just the kind of person that doesn’t like to break, and I keep on fighting back every time,” Flipkens said.

Shortly afterward, her financing was cut by her tennis federation because of her low ranking. She relied on the support of friends like Kim Clijsters, at whose academy Flipkens trains.

“She’s been there for me through the good and through the bad times,” Flipkens said. “Of course, I have to thank her for still believing in me.”

In the past year, Flipkens has reached three quarterfinals, three semifinals and two finals, winning her first WTA event last fall in Quebec. She arrived at Wimbledon as the No. 20 seed, achieving her highest career ranking in June.

The milestones have not stopped. On Tuesday, Flipkens, known for her glasses and strong net play, defeated an ailing eighth-seeded Petra Kvitova, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.

“Still drying my eyes,” Clijsters wrote on Twitter after the match. “So proud of how @FlipperKF handled the big occasion for the first time!”

For Flipkens, the big occasion was made easier by her difficult road to get there.

“I think winning or losing a tennis match doesn’t make a big difference,” she said.

That understanding also came to Lisicki after her ankle injury in 2010.

“Three years ago when I couldn’t walk, I had to learn how to walk again, and that made me appreciate every single moment out there a lot more,” said Lisicki, a 23-year-old German. “That’s why I don’t let anybody take that away from me.”

A day after ousting the overwhelming favorite Serena Williams, Lisicki quickly bounced back and deftly defeated Kaia Kanepi, 6-3, 6-3, to reach the Wimbledon semifinals for the second time in three years.

The average ranking of Lisicki’s opponents so far is 21, and it will not be easier in the semifinals. Radwanska survived a riveting battle with sixth-seeded Li Na, 7-6 (5), 4-6, 6-1.

Radwanska’s previous two matches took more than two hours, and Tuesday’s lasted nearly three, with two interruptions by rain for 42 minutes.

Li served for the first set at 5-4 and had four set points, including one where she appeared to hit an ace, but it was called out. She chose not to use a challenge, which would have shown the ball was in. Radwanska broke Li and took the set in a tiebreaker.

Then came the first rain delay, and Li recovered to take the second set, winning the last four games.

Radwanska took a medical timeout to have her legs massaged and her right thigh taped. She broke Li in the first game of the third set before the second rain delay, but she needed eight match points to put away Li.

“This is the quarterfinal of the Grand Slam, so I was really pushing myself even 200 percent to play till the end, fight till the end,” said Radwanska, a 24-year-old from Poland.

Bartoli’s match with the 17th-seeded American Sloane Stephens on Court 1 was more awkwardly disrupted by rain. Play stopped with Stephens serving at deuce, behind by 4-5 in the first set.

When play resumed more than two hours later, Bartoli won nine consecutive points to take the first set and get an early break in the second, which featured eight consecutive breaks of serve. Bartoli, a finalist here in 2007, was more solid down the stretch to win, 6-4, 7-5. For that, she credited her father, who had coached since she was 6.

“He has always been my strength to really be able to focus mentally and stay strong no matter what is happening,” she said.

Seeking a change at 28, Bartoli parted ways professionally with her father in March. She was coached briefly by the former champion Jana Novotna, but most recently has worked with coaches with the French tennis federation.

This unusual foursome will take the court Thursday, none of whom have won a Grand Slam title. Lisicki and Radwanska have known each other since juniors.

While Lisicki and Radwanska are old foes, Flipkens and Bartoli have never played each other.

“Tennis is kind of a crazy game, and now I am playing Kirsten Flipkens to be in the final of Wimbledon,” Bartoli said. “So it’s also very unexpected, but that’s also the magic of it.”
71 2013-07-04 The Statue of Liberty, which had been closed for eight months since Hurricane Sandy, reopened this Fourth of July.
72 2013-07-04 Tthe final four men at Wimbledon include three former Grand Slam champions and one of the game’s most promising young stars....
73 2013-07-04 No enjoyment allowed....
74 2013-07-04 Tom A.W. Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup charged with fraud related to the manipulation of a global benchmark interest rate, is to remain on bail until his next court hearing in October, a judge said on Thursday....
75 2013-07-04 Of course, it is unclear if traffic agents are the best group to approach New Yorkers with pamphlets.

“The sight of a traffic agent coming down the street distributing pieces of paper would scare off most voters,” quipped Kenneth Sherrill, an emeritus professor of political science at Hunter College.

Mr. Thompson, if he had any qualms on Wednesday, did not show them.

In fact, at a rainy ceremony on the steps of City Hall, it sometimes seemed as if Mr. Thompson was giving the traffic agents his endorsement, rather than the other way around.

He praised the union — whose 3,000 members also include sanitation agents and workers who direct traffic at intersections — as exemplars of the city’s working- and middle-class families.

And he defended the agents from accusations of overzealousness when it comes to parking tickets, saying pressure from the Bloomberg administration was to blame.

“I think that there is a huge difference between tickets that are issued and the people being pushed to do those tickets,” Mr. Thompson said, as the union’s president, Robert Cassar, nodded behind him. The agents, he said, “get caught in the middle.”

When a reporter asked if voters on the trail had been complaining about too many tickets, Mr. Thompson and Mr. Cassar both laughed.

Then Mr. Thompson embarked on a story about parking his car. He had pulled into a spot and asked a nearby traffic agent not to give him a ticket while he walked to the Muni-Meter to pay and collect his receipt. When Mr. Thompson returned, he said to the agent, “By the way, thank you.”

“The person — the traffic agent — looked at me and said, ‘Wow, no one says thank you,’ ” Mr. Thompson recalled. “ ‘No one says it.’ ”

Several political consultants said on Wednesday that Mr. Thompson was unlikely to pay a price for his affiliation with the traffic agents, noting that it was highly unlikely for an opponent to attack him on the topic.

Mark Green, a Democrat who narrowly lost to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the 2001 campaign, said that voters were unlikely to change their minds because of a single small union’s endorsement. And he noted that endorsements can often be viewed in different ways.

“Bloomberg might regard the U.F.T. endorsement as the kiss of death,” said Mr. Green, referring to Mr. Thompson’s endorsement by the United Federation of Teachers. “But I assure you that Bill Thompson sees it as a breath of life.”
76 2013-07-04 Adli Mansour, the chief justice of the Egyptian Supreme Constitutional Court who will succeed the ousted President Mohamed Morsi, has no prior presence on Egypt’s political or public scene....
77 2013-07-04 Also still in effect is the requirement that people without insurance buy it by 2014 or face fines. Subsidies will be available for people who meet income requirements.

The companies affected by the delay — those with 50 or more full-time employees — were increasingly anxious about their ability to meet the law’s requirements, given the delay by the administration in issuing the final rules for the companies to follow to ensure they were in compliance, said Helen Darling, the president of the National Business Group on Health, which represents employers that offer health benefits.

“This is a recognition that they were not going to meet some key deadlines,” she said.

Companies that employ fewer than 50 workers have already been given a reprieve from the law’s requirements.

Many of the companies being granted the latest reprieve either offered no coverage or provided it only to certain workers — like managers or those working 40 hours a week. Some employers had been expected to pay the law’s penalty of $2,000 a worker for every employee rather than provide insurance, while others said they would go ahead and offer it.

“We don’t know how many people would have gained coverage or won’t because of the delay,” said Paul Fronstin, a senior researcher at the Employee Benefit Research Institute. “It’s not a big deal because it doesn’t affect many people, but it’s a big deal if it affects you.”

A large majority of larger employers — 94 percent — already offer coverage, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, which studies the market. “We do believe the practical effect of this will be really quite modest,” said Drew Altman, the foundation’s president.

The reprieve will give companies more time to consider what they should do over the next year. Bill Petersen, who owns a franchise of the elder-care business Visiting Angels in South Elgin, Ill., outside of Chicago, for example, does not offer coverage to his 100 full-time employees and had been deciding whether to cut back their hours to avoid the law’s requirement or start providing health benefits.

When he heard about the delay, Mr. Petersen, who celebrates any good news by ringing a bell in the main office, said he “went down there and rang the bell.”

“It was just a relief to know that we had some time to be able to look at our options and understand the act just a little bit more,” he said.

Others say they plan to proceed with their plans to expand their coverage, although they are waiting for final guidance from the administration before deciding what benefits they will offer. “I still want to stay on the same time line,” said Don Fox, the chief executive of Firehouse Subs, a chain of restaurants based in Jacksonville, Fla. At the company-owned restaurants, only general managers and headquarter personnel are now offered coverage, and Mr. Fox said the company was going to cover the additional 90 to 100 employees required under the law. “I’ve been setting an expectation with our employees,” he said.

Thom Mangan, the chief executive of United Benefit Advisors, described the delay as “a nice gift that the government gave.” He said that companies that employ many part-time and hourly employees would probably delay providing additional benefits in the next year. “They would be crazy not to,” he said.

One of employers’ main concerns was how the law defined which of their workers would have to be covered, and how businesses should treat seasonal and other part-time workers in calculating whether they worked 30 hours or more. “There are still a lot of questions,” said James A. Klein, president of the American Benefits Council. The 30-hour cutoff “doesn’t fit neatly into how people actually work,” he said, and many employers found the regulations very complex.

The law still requires employers who provide coverage to meet the new federal requirements, like offering policies that provide free preventive care.

While the delay “provides some cost relief,” said Tracy Watts, a benefits consultant at Mercer, “there’s still a significant cost being passed onto employers in 2014.” She estimated that the health care law would add an additional 3 percent to the cost of coverage.

Advocates for the uninsured said the delay would have little impact on most of the people who did not have health care coverage. “The key goal is to extend health care coverage to the tens of millions of people who don’t have it,” said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal advocacy group. He said the bulk of those people would receive coverage through the expansion of Medicaid in many states or through federal subsidies that would help them pay for insurance they bought through state marketplaces. “The employer mandate will have a relatively small impact on extending coverage.”

But the question for many people is whether there will be more delays. Mr. Pollack, for one, did not think so. “I think the key features of the Affordable Care Act that are most helpful to families across the country will be implemented on a timely basis,” he said.

While federal officials have certainly put in place some provisions of the law without delay, there is no question that the adoption of such a large and sweeping set of provisions is complicated, said Mr. Fronstin, the employee benefits expert. “It certainly raises the question of what’s next, because this isn’t the first delay,” he said.

“Ultimately, you have to make adjustments,” Mr. Fronstin said.
78 2013-07-04 A state legislative committee seeking a compromise plan to rein in the state’s huge unfunded public pension liability will not meet a Tuesday deadline set by Gov. Pat Quinn, the committee’s chairman said on Wednesday. State Senator Kwame Raoul, who heads the bipartisan conference committee, said actuarial studies of various proposals, including recent ones submitted by the governor, would take more time. “It’s not as easy as flipping a switch and this thing is over and we have a consensus and we can put something to the General Assembly for a vote,” Mr. Raoul said, adding that Mr. Quinn had just delivered his own pension reform plan to the committee. Brooke Anderson, the governor’s spokeswoman, said the governor was sticking with the deadline for the legislature to deliver a plan for his signature. She declined to comment on what he would do if the deadline was missed.
79 2013-07-04 “It is evident from this announcement and many previous announcements that our top priority here is making sure this policy gets implemented correctly, in a way that expands coverage and reduces costs for families and business owners all across the country,” said Josh Earnest, the deputy White House press secretary.

After returning from late Tuesday, and with in turmoil, did not publicly address the latest development for his signature domestic policy achievement, nor did senior advisers brief reporters. The action confirmed Mr. Obama’s prediction last month, at an event in lauding that state’s progress in carrying out the law, that “when you’re implementing a program this large, there will be some glitches.”

However limited the postponement was technically, it was sure to ripple out as a matter of both policy and politics. The delay also raised questions about whether new federal and state insurance exchanges, or the computer systems crucial to their operation, would be ready on time.

The federal government is creating a data network to help verify the income and citizenship of individuals buying policies in the marketplaces, which are to start enrolling people on Oct. 1, to determine if the buyers qualify for subsidies. Through the network, each state exchange is supposed to be able to swap data with the , the , the and the , among other agencies.

People with knowledge of the administration’s work to put the law into full effect said the postponement was in part a result of delays by the I.R.S. and the Treasury Department in finishing proposed rules and regulations for businesses.

Catherine E. Livingston, who was the health care counsel at the I.R.S. until February, said the delay was “a recognition of practical realities.” Employers and insurers are supposed to inform the agency of the people they cover. But without the final rules, employers and insurers could not program their computers to comply, said Ms. Livingston, a lawyer at Jones Day, a Washington firm.

That uncertainty, in turn, fueled a campaign by employers lobbying for a delay. Business groups on Wednesday continued to praise the administration for the postponement, which mainly provided regulatory relief to businesses that already insure their employees. With the threat of penalties also delayed, larger businesses that do not cover their workers will be under no pressure to do so before 2015.

“With this temporary reprieve from a complex compliance regime, U.S. companies will have additional time to find workable solutions to these challenges while continuing to provide employees and their families with certainty and peace of mind about their employer-provided coverage,” said Gary W. Loveman, the chairman of and the leader of a health committee of the Business Roundtable, which represents corporations.

While businesses played down the effects of the delay, Republicans played up what they saw as the political perils for Democrats as both parties tried to gauge the impact for 2014. Republicans portrayed Democrats as the party of big business interests for delaying the employer mandates while keeping in place the individual mandate requiring most Americans to have health insurance starting in January.

A nonpartisan expert, Professor Robert J. Blendon of the Harvard School of Public Health, said, “The delay will raise an issue of fairness: why would the administration give a one-year grace period to employers and not to employees?” In addition, he said, “this sends a signal politically that things are not going well and there may be problems ahead.”

Behind Republicans’ bravado is a party split over whether to propose alternatives to the health care law or to seek its repeal without any replacement benefiting the 49 million uninsured Americans — an internal debate that the more numerous pro-repeal conservatives have won for now. They united this week to characterize the delay as a ploy by Mr. Obama to help Democrats ahead of the 2014 elections.

Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from and a current party strategist, disputed that idea, however. “I have to believe that this is not political because I don’t think there’s a political gain for the Democrats — in fact, just the opposite,” Mr. Weber said.

“The Republicans will be able to warn about the consequences of implementation with greater credibility, not less credibility,” he said, adding, “If I were a Democrat, I would want to get it implemented and have the maximum amount of time to go and say to my constituents, ‘You see, it’s not as devastating as the Republicans predicted.’ ”

A senior Democrat close to the administration, who asked not to be identified speaking about its strategy, said the delay reflected officials’ fear that if the employer mandate took effect on schedule in January, Republicans might be able to force a vote for its repeal in an election year.

“This allows them to focus on the exchanges and the individual market first,” the Democrat said of administration officials. “That was a calculation that they made this week — let’s take a hit for the delay, remove one major , and focus on making the rest work well.”

Representative of California, the House Democratic leader, sought in a statement to emphasize the limits of the policy’s impact, as well as the law’s broader benefits.

“Already, this law has offered essential protections to millions of children, students, seniors, families and small-business owners,” she said. “Soon, Americans will benefit from greater wellness and prevention, more choices and competition in the insurance market, and increased access to quality, affordable care.”
80 2013-07-04 Further complicating the market calculus, volatility will most likely be heightened on Friday. Many traders are off for the long weekend after the Independence Day holiday, so trading volumes could be thin.

“Any number between 150,000 and 175,000 is a nonevent,” said Ethan Harris, co-head of global economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Anything over 200,000 would get people really concerned about a Fed exit, while a really weak number would force everyone to rethink if the economic recovery is going well. So no news is good news.”

The possibility of a change in Fed policy has caused recent swings in financial markets. Yields on 10-year government bonds have risen sharply, lifting mortgage rates, while stocks have sold off slightly.

On Wednesday, shares edged higher in an abbreviated trading session ahead of the holiday. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has risen more than 13 percent this year.

Friday’s figures could provide a clue as to whether the stock market rally continues in the second half of 2013. But even veteran economists admit the intensity of the focus on a sliver of one month’s worth of data is a bit much.

“There is double the normal focus on a number, which already gets too much of a reaction,” Mr. Harris said. “And payroll surprises of 100,000 happen every year.”

What is more, there is added uncertainty since seasonal factors make June numbers particularly hard to predict. High school and college graduates enter the work force, for example, while teachers in some cases exit for the summer. Uncertainty in the jobs survey is greatest at the beginning of the summer, the end of the summer and the New Year, Mr. Harris noted.

And this time, economists are struggling to gauge the impact of the recent budget cuts in Washington in certain sectors, like military contractors. So far, sequestration, as the process of mandatory spending cuts is known, has not had a sizable effect on the labor market, at least according to government data.

Last month, the chairman of the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank could begin easing back stimulus efforts later this year if the job market continued to show signs of strength, with the $85 billion monthly bond-buying program wrapping up when unemployment sinks to 7 percent. The Fed currently expects that to happen by the middle of 2014. The June unemployment rate, which is based on a separate survey from the one that calculates the change in overall payrolls, is expected to fall by 0.1 percentage point, to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent.

“They’re always significant but Bernanke’s tying it to the 7 percent rate does ramp up the employment figures’ importance,” said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays. Mr. Maki is estimating that the economy added 150,000 jobs, slightly below consensus, but not enough to alter the Fed’s plan to begin tapering later this year, possibly as early as September.

Job creation has been slowing, however, he said. The average number of jobs created each month over the last three months — a better indicator than one month alone — totaled 155,000. That compares with a three-month average of 233,000 for December, January and February.

If the economy were to reverse course and add 250,000 jobs, and the rate fell more sharply in June, Mr. Maki said, the tapering could begin as early as late July, when Fed policy makers next meet. “We’re not in that camp,” Mr. Maki said. More likely, he said, the scaling back will be announced after the Fed meeting in mid-September, when Mr. Bernanke will hold a news conference as well, unlike the July meeting.

On Wednesday, Automatic Data Processing, which tracks private payrolls, reported an increase of 188,000 jobs in June, a bit above the 160,000 consensus and significantly stronger than in May, when A.D.P. reported a jump of 134,000 jobs. A.D.P.’s data often varies from the government figures, however, adding to the confusion on Wall Street. New claims for unemployment fell slightly last week to 343,000, the Labor Department also reported Wednesday, in line with the trend of the last four weeks.

The robust A.D.P. number prompted Ian Shepherdson, chief macroeconomist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, to lift his estimate for Friday to 175,000 jobs. But he, too, admits the Wall Street guessing game is hardly scientific. “You can have a Platonically perfect model and still get the number wrong.”
81 2013-07-04 The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday signaled its intention to permit generic drug makers to make changes to their safety labels, a move that could open the door to lawsuits against generic drug companies for the first time since a Supreme Court decision barred such suits two years ago.

Consumer advocates applauded the development, calling it a necessary fix for a system that they say is unfair to patients who take generic medicines.

“It’s common sense,” said Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, a senior adviser to the Health Research Group at Public Citizen, which in 2011 petitioned the F.D.A. to pass just such a rule. “It will obviously end this situation where people are being harmed physically and yet, although they are harmed, they have no right to go into court and get redress for serious damages.”

Dozens of lawsuits against generic drug manufacturers have been dismissed since 2011, when the Supreme Court ruled that because the generic companies must, by law, use the same label warnings as their brand name counterparts they cannot be sued for failing to alert patients about the risks of taking their drugs. Last month, the Supreme Court ruled — on similar grounds — that patients also may not sue generic drug makers by claiming that the drug was defectively designed.

The F.D.A.’s intentions came in the form of a bureaucratic step in which the agency must notify the Office of Management and Budget of its plans to publish a proposed new rule. In a summary posted Wednesday on the budget office’s Web site, the F.D.A. said the proposed rule would “create parity” between generic and brand-name drug makers with respect to how they update their labels — the lengthy list of a drug’s uses, dosages and risks.
82 2013-07-04 “I know some of you may find this distasteful,” the mayor said, “but the press eats it up.”

While Mr. Bloomberg does not always seem eager to hold court at Groundhog Day festivities or parody shows, his aides say he is a willing marketer, capable of almost anything to promote the city he has led for three terms.

“He knows a big part of the mayor’s job is to sell N.Y.C., and sometimes that means corny events,” Marc La Vorgna, a Bloomberg spokesman, wrote in an e-mail. “He gets a laugh out of them, or should I say he relishes them.”

But his appearances have not always stayed on script. Take the case of Staten Island Chuck, the reclusive groundhog who crossed paths with the mayor in 2009. Mr. Bloomberg, dangling an ear of corn, tried to lure Chuck out of his cottage for a weather forecast. But Chuck had another idea: he chomped the mayor’s left hand, piercing his leather gloves.

The incident came perilously close to setting off a public-relations nightmare, as Mr. Bloomberg’s aides learned that the only way to determine whether the rodent had rabies was to kill it, recalled Stu Loeser, then the mayor’s spokesman. In the end, Chuck was saved, after his veterinarian ensured City Hall that he had not been in contact with other animals.

Still, Mr. Bloomberg seemed to hold a grudge about the groundhog, at whom he directed an obscenity during the festivities in 2011. This year, in the final months of his mayoralty, he skipped the event entirely.

It was not the first time the mayor had resorted to vulgar language at a public event. Last year, at the hot dog ceremony, he cut short a series of frankfurter puns and wondered aloud about how anyone could write such drivel.

On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg seemed to make reference to his widely reported remark the year before. “Before you ask me who wrote this shrewd prose,” he said, “let me just say: Speeches are like sausages. It’s better not to see them being made.”

For mayors of New York City, the most humiliating event of the year can be the Inner Circle Show, a parody revue sponsored by journalists. Mr. Bloomberg has appeared as Spider-Man and a hippie from “Hair.” This year, he performed variations on a variety of shows, including “The Phantom of the Opera.” His predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, once appeared as Marilyn Monroe.

At times, Mr. Bloomberg has embraced the carefree spotlight, even if the subjects at hand were not climate change or pension costs. Last year, at a news conference announcing the most popular baby names in the city, he turned to a baby and said: “Don’t start crying. You’ll make me look bad.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg ate his last ceremonial hot dog as mayor — heavy on the mustard, like usual — and promised to return to the festivities next year as a private citizen.

“He is even gonna miss Staten Island Chuck,” Mr. La Vorgna said. “A little.”
83 2013-07-04 Sleep Studio, an emporium for slumber, opens in SoHo on Monday. The 3,700-square-foot store offers apothecary items, teas, loungewear and everything needed to dress a bed. But the star is a proprietary sleep system, developed with the German manufacturer Froli, that can be added to your existing bed or custom-ordered with one of the beds the shop sells. The system features plastic springs that look like pods, which can be adjusted to provide different degrees of resistance. “The pods move laterally as well as up and down, so we can customize the support level for different zones of your body, and on each side of the bed,” said Michael Rothbard, Sleep Studio’s president. The Froli system starts at $2,000; other items range from an $18 essential oil blend by the Aromatherapy Company to a $33,000 walnut dresser by Chi Wing Lo for Giorgetti; 73 Wooster Street (Spring Street), (212) 756-1280, sleepstudio.com.
84 2013-07-04 BEIJING — The Chinese government is investigating possible price fixing by foreign companies that produce infant milk powder for Chinese consumers, according to reports this week by the state news media.

Targets of the investigation include some of the largest foreign producers, including Nestlé of Switzerland, Danone of France and Mead Johnson Nutrition of the United States. A Danone representative said in an e-mail on Tuesday that Danone was cooperating with the investigation, and representatives of other companies have acknowledged the investigation to various news organizations.

Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, reported on Tuesday that foreign companies were being investigated by the National Development and Reform Commission, an agency that helps set and execute economic policy. Xinhua said the foreign companies “are believed to have manipulated and raised the price of baby formula in the China market.”

The report said the companies were suspected of retaliating against sellers in China who refused to raise their prices. The actions included imposing fines, halting the supply of the products and reducing available rebates, the Xinhua report said.

In mainland China, foreign-made infant milk powder can be more than twice as expensive as the same brands in Western countries, and costs much more than Chinese-made formula. Chinese who travel to Hong Kong or overseas often buy milk powder there. This has led the Hong Kong government to impose limits on the amount of milk powder that can be taken out by visitors. Some stores overseas limit sales.
85 2013-07-04 “The thrill of holding a Tony, the thrill of being a winner, the thrill of being up onstage during the Tonys telecast on CBS — these are great ways to recruit people to invest,” said Barry Weissler, one of the lead producers of “Pippin.”

Tonys are given free to two lead producers, like Mr. Weissler, in each show category. That leaves many who are opening their checkbook one more time before putting their hands on an award, even though it may not bear their name — but rather the title of their producing company, like Independent Presenters Network or Broadway Across America.

Of the winning shows this year, “Pippin” has 22 individuals, investor pools and companies who qualify to buy the award; “Kinky Boots” has 20; “Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,” which won for best play, has 19; and “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf,” which won for best play revival, has 18.

If all 79 purchased Tonys, revenue would total $197,500. Since the investor pools and companies can each buy up to four Tonys for their principal members, the total revenue is expected to be higher.

The cost of purchasing the award has risen sharply in recent years. Mr. Reinis said he paid only $450 for one in 2000 for his Tony-winning show “Dame Edna: The Royal Tour.” Another producer, Jamie deRoy, said she paid $750 in 2009 for her Tony for “The Norman Conquests,” which won for best play revival.

Ms. deRoy said she learned about the current $2,500 price tag only after she was offered the chance to buy a Tony for “Vanya and Sonia,” for which she contributed $12,500 of the $2.75 million cost and recruited several investors.

“I thought that was a pretty steep jump in such a short time,” she said. “But it’s not fair for us to expect them to give away Tonys for free to all these producers.”

Tony Award Productions, which puts on the annual ceremony, declined to provide precise data about the rising costs for buying the prize, citing proprietary concerns. In a statement, the organization said only that the cost had been $2,500 “for several years now.”

“The cost has certainly risen over the past decade to accommodate growing production costs,” the statement read. “The Tony Management Committee makes the decision on all pricing matters and takes into consideration the many costs of producing the show.” A spokeswoman for the management committee and Tony Award Productions declined to say when the option to buy began — the Tonys date to 1947 — or provide the total cost of the ceremony; it is believed to be at least in the high seven figures.

Among the other major American entertainment awards, the Emmys also allows winners in program categories to buy up to three commemorative awards “which are meant for a network, studio or production company’s trophy cabinet,” a spokesman for the Emmys wrote by e-mail. The spokesman did not reply when asked for the cost of the Emmy.

The lead producers for “Kinky Boots” and “Vanya and Sonia” did not respond to phone messages seeking comment; Jeffrey Richards, a lead producer of “Virginia Woolf,” declined to comment.

But several other veteran producers described the chance to own a Tony as crucial for attracting investors, considering that the odds of making a profit on a Broadway show are long at one in four. They also chalked up the $2,500 cost to the unexpected need for revenue in 2011 and 2012 when the Tony ceremony was held at the Beacon Theater, which had far fewer seats to sell to producers and others than at Radio City Music Hall, the usual home of the Tonys. This year orchestra seats at Radio City cost $1,250 each.

Mr. Reinis, the “Pippin” producer, said he viewed his $2,500 payment for a Tony as equivalent to a donation toward putting on the awards ceremony.

“Our CBS awards show is the only national celebration of theater in this country,” Mr. Reinis said. “Theater is a dinosaur in the Internet age, and we need to do everything we can to put on the best awards ceremony possible to try to get people interested in Broadway.”

Anyway, he said, he planned to deduct it as a business expense.
86 2013-07-04 Independence Day joins the long list of national holidays that are quickly becoming reasons to shop. If you’re headed out East, Sperry Top-Sider and Esquire magazine invite you to kick off your extra-long weekend in “vacationland” with an oyster shucking party at Ruschmeyer’s in Montauk from 2 to 7 p.m. Thursday at 161 Second House Road.

On the North Fork, the popular summer pop-up Lido, which stocks lines like Faherty Brand, Pamela Love, Gypset and Paige Novick, as well as a beach-ready in-house label, is back for a second season and offering up to 40 percent off pieces like a maxidress ($105) and caftan ($75). Thursday through Sunday at 119 Main Street, Greenport, N.Y.

If you’re sweating it out back in the city, take advantage of the A.C. at any of a number of sales. The July sale at the Swarovski Crystallized concept store continues through July 15, with sparklers like Tom Binns electro clash ear posts ($40) and a Shourouk daisy pendant ($52) up to 70 percent off. At 499 Broadway.

If you’re feeling crafty, BaubleBar will offer customers a free wrap bracelet for every $20 spent at its SoHo pop-up through Sunday. At 131 Greene Street. ... John Bartlett is also saying “Happy July” with the introduction of Tiny Tim Kids, a line of dog-print cotton tees ($25) and onesies ($20) for the under-12 set. Ten percent of sales this month will go to his favorite charity, Rebound Hounds, an organization that rehabilitates shelter animals.

Comptoir des Cotonniers started its end-of-season sale this week, with spring merchandise up to 60 percent off, including pieces like a hydrangea print tank ($76) and a twill dress with tulle sleeves ($212) from its collaboration with Calla. At 345 Bleecker Street.
87 2013-07-04 They are all part of Mr. Thum’s new project, Liberty United, a jewelry line created from guns and bullets, with the goal of taking firearms off the streets. A percentage of the profits is donated to groups working to reduce gun violence in the United States.

As he grabbed a spot on a nearby chair (and helpfully repositioned a reporter’s tape recorder from a padded stool to the table, for better sound), Mr. Thum explained the process involved in getting Liberty United off the ground. He e-mailed and called county, city and state officials across the country, seeking guns, ones released from evidence rooms when no longer needed in criminal cases or materials collected in gun buyback programs.

“They were incredibly resourceful in trying to figure out how to make something that is basically brand new — that they’ve never had to do before — happen,” he said. “I realize they do things like this all the time, usually related to the budget or solving a problem the city faces. It’s not about trying to figure out how to do something, to solve a problem, in what could be called an orthogonal kind of way.”

He paused and he and his wife shared a smile, seemingly at the word orthogonal, as if it were a private joke. Or perhaps it was a smile at Mr. Thum’s passion for his project.

To date, Philadelphia, and Newburgh and Syracuse, N.Y., have signed on. The goal is to add more.

In 2009, Mr. Thum started Fonderie 47, a project in Africa responsible for the destruction of more than 32,000 assault rifles, primarily AK-47s, which were made into high-end, one-of-a-kind pieces of jewelry. Signet rings start at $16,000.

Liberty United, by contrast, sells brass and bullet casing rings starting at $85. A silver and gunmetal bracelet is $695. Made in New York and Rhode Island, the jewelry has been available online at libertyunited.com since June 17. Liberty United includes the serial number of the gun used to create it on the jewelry piece, a tradition Mr. Thum began with Fonderie 47.

The music for the party was cranking up as Mr. Thum described his first visit to Africa as a management consultant working for McKinsey & Company. On a later project in England, he advised a soft drink company on creative ways to selling bottled water more profitably. The experiences sparked the idea of selling water and using the profits to ensure that people who needed water got it. “I like this part: He wrote the idea for it on a paper napkin in a train,” his wife said.

How did Mr. Thum select guns for his latest project? “Both of my parents died of cancer, so you would think I’d be out riding bikes and giving out pink T-shirts,” Mr. Thum said. “When I saw kids with guns in Africa, I realized this is a problem people are afraid to even think about, even to do something about. And I felt if there was any talent I had refined from Ethos, it was the ability to think about things differently.”

The party for the cycle of transforming weapons to art got under way. Guests lined up for bracelets that were being engraved on the spot. Most guests opted for initials or, inspired by the serial numbers, birth dates or anniversaries. On the table were guns with evidence tags.

Mr. and Ms. Crangi created the debut collection, having met Mr. Thum through a friend at the Council of Fashion Designers of America. Mr. Crangi, a past recipient of the CFDA Swarovski Award for accessory design, is on the board.

Ms. Crangi said that, in the workshop, bullets are sawed into pieces to ensure there are no impurities that could damage equipment during the casting. It’s a labor of love. “We always joked in the studio when things went wrong, ‘We are making earrings, not saving lives.’ Now we are saving lives,” she said. Her brother nodded, “It’s cool.”

Helen Hudson, a founder of Mothers Against Gun Violence, in Syracuse, showed a bracelet engraved with the name of her stepson who died from a gun wound in 2005. Her group will receive money from the Liberty United project. She was looking forward to meeting the program’s originator. “I thought Peter Thum’s idea was phenomenal when I heard it,” said Ms. Hudson, who learned about it from Stephanie Miner, the mayor of Syracuse. “Hopefully, it will get guns off the street.”
88 2013-07-04 PARIS — The Swiss government said on Wednesday that it had found a way to allow the country’s banks to turn over data to the United States in spite of strict banking secrecy laws, potentially opening the way for hundreds of lenders to end the threat of criminal prosecution by the Justice Department.

The governing Federal Council said in a statement that banks wishing to hand over information would be able to seek authorization from the Swiss government on an individual basis, “within the scope of existing law and particularly data protection and employment law provisions.”

The central government’s plan is needed to address the vacuum left after Parliament adjourned for the summer without having approved an information-sharing agreement with the United States. The lower house of Parliament refused to hear that proposal last month, effectively killing it, but both houses called on the government to “take every measure within the scope of existing law to enable the banks to cooperate with the Department of Justice.”

Some sort of Swiss government approval is essential for any sharing of information, because it is a crime under Swiss law to transfer bank data to foreign authorities. But the announcement Wednesday was notable for its lack of detail, suggesting that the government had not yet come up with a way to satisfy both sides of the dispute.

As with the failed parliamentary measure, the Federal Council’s proposal does not provide for any transfer of individual client data, something that is handled through requests from one government to another. Banks could, however, seek permission to turn over information on employees who had dealt with American tax evaders, as well as information about how tax dodges that targeted American clients actually worked. The Federal Council acts as the head of state.
89 2013-07-04 CAIRO — A top adviser to President Mohamed Morsi issued an open letter Wednesday afternoon lamenting what he called the imminent takeover of Egypt’s first freely elected government.

“As I write these lines I am fully aware that these may be the last lines I get to post on this page,” the adviser, Essam el-Haddad, wrote on his Facebook page. “For the sake of Egypt and for historical accuracy, let’s call what is happening by its real name: Military coup.”

Mr. Haddad and his family went to the streets two years ago to help oust former President Hosni Mubarak, he wrote. “We stood, and we still stand, for a very simple idea: given freedom, we Egyptians can build institutions that allow us to promote and choose among all the different visions for the country. We quickly discovered that almost none of the other actors were willing to extend that idea to include us,” he wrote, charging that the opposition and bureaucracy had refused to collaborate with elected leaders from the Muslim Brotherhood.

“Today only one thing matters,” he wrote. “In this day and age no military coup can succeed in the face of sizable popular force without considerable bloodshed. Who among you is ready to shoulder that blame?”

And he warned with new force that the president’s Islamist supporters would not go quietly. “Hundreds of thousands of them have gathered in support of democracy and the Presidency,” he wrote. “And they will not leave in the face of this attack. To move them, there will have to be violence. It will either come from the army, the police, or the hired mercenaries. Either way there will be considerable bloodshed.”
90 2013-07-04 “The idea that people can build a business selling products they care about and believe in is a win-win situation for all,” she said.

Ms. Renfrew started the company after seeing the Al Gore documentary “An Inconvenient Truth,” upon the urging of Ms. Rose. “It made me connect the dots between the health of the earth and human beings,” Ms. Renfrew said in a speech to guests explaining how she subsequently measured her life and consumption habits against the Environmental Working Group’s Skin Deep Index.

She could find household cleaning products that were sustainable, she said, “but there was a real void in the beauty industry.”

Whole Foods might beg to differ. But Ms. Renfrew’s Web site does offer a glossy, feminine look unusual for the category. The site was started in March with Ben Fischman, the founder of the flash-sales site Rue La La, and Candice Kislack, a former executive at Toms shoes, among others, and named, she said, in part for the double entendre of going “counter” to the rest of the beauty industry. “There are many brands sold in a very earthy way, struggling to be all-natural and organic,” Ms. Renfrew said, “but I wanted that stylish, high-fashion feel.”

Though anyone can buy products from the site, the business focuses on memberships nurtured by Beautycounter’s network of consultants, many of whom give “socials” like the one at Ms. Rose’s loft to introduce the product in a convivial setting, like the Tupperware parties of yore.

“We want to meet our clients wherever they want to shop with us,” Ms. Renfrew said. “Women have had great success in the mornings after they drop off the kids or doing it over breakfast.”

She said that Beautycounter.com already had 2,500 clients and 600 consultants in more than 40 states.

Stephanie Eolin, 42, a consultant based in Westport, Mass., said Beautycounter.com had yielded better dividends for her than when she worked for the Swiss-developed cosmetics company Arbonne, which uses a similar profit model. “My income in the past three months has exceeded the one of the company which I had built over the past six and a half years,” she said.

Consultants are encouraged to promote the products on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, in addition to personal Web sites set up by Beautycounter.

“Women share information and products with each other all the time,” Ms. Renfrew said. “It’s time for women to be able to monetize this and their social networks.” (Beautycounter also benefits, of course: consultants work on commission, currently 25 percent of sales.)

Ms. Renfrew employs a staff of 16 from offices in Santa Monica, Calif., including Christy Coleman, vice president for creative design and a makeup artist whose clients include Connie Britton and Emmy Rossum. With the Environmental Working Group, the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics and Healthy Child Healthy World, the team has created a “Never List” of ingredients posted on its site detailing what they will not use in any of their products, like parabens. Among the shunned ingredients are 1,300 that the European Union has either banned or restricted, many of which, like benzalkonium chloride (found in mass-market hand sanitizers) and lithium hydroxide (found in hair-straightening serums), the United States still permits.

“We’re hoping to create a situation where people don’t need to read our labels because we’re telling you the truth and trying to make you an informed consumer,” Ms. Renfrew said. “We believe we have the strictest ingredient selection process in the country.”

While all this scrutiny doesn’t come cheap, prices are comparable to lines like Fresh and Bobbi Brown, starting at $18. The entire 14-product line is available as a package for $455.

“I always hated the message that if you can’t afford to buy the organic raspberries, that’s not acceptable,” said Ms. Renfrew, who is planning to release a children’s line at the end of the summer and color makeup beginning in 2014.

She acknowledged that her own mirror still reflects compromise. “I’m not preaching perfection,” Ms. Renfrew said. “I still love to wear nail polish even though I know it’s not perfectly healthy.”
91 2013-07-04 In a statement, Mr. Prokhorov, who owns the Brooklyn Nets basketball team, said, “The demonstrative seizure of the head of the city elected by the people is a blow to the human rights and freedoms of every citizen of Russia.”

State-controlled television showed video of Mr. Urlashov, wearing a blue dress shirt open at the collar, being detained by armed security agents wearing green camouflage uniforms, bulletproof vests and black ski masks. Television also showed more than $420,000 in cash, being pulled from an attaché case — just a portion of more than $1.2 million in bribes that investigators said Mr. Urlashov and his aides had sought to extort from a contractor who provided cleaning and road repair services.

The authorities deployed riot police officers throughout the city. But by evening the situation appeared calm, with only 150 to 200 people gathered in a square outside City Hall, shouting, “Free Urlashov!”

Mr. Urlashov, speaking on television, denounced the corruption allegations as retribution. “Nothing has been confiscated,” he said. “They looked, made a search in practically all of my deputies’ offices, found nothing.” He said that he had been set up by a man who is a member of United Russia, the party that nominated Mr. Putin for president.

“The man from whom I did not accept city cleaning, road repairs, wrote a report that I extorted bribes from him,” he said. “I was warned that I would be removed one way or another.” He added: “This is a political game, which is linked to the September 8th election. This is very unpleasant to me because I am a patriot of my country.”

But even as Mr. Urlashov issued his forceful denials, federal officials were declaring his guilt. “Testimonies of some suspects confirm the suspicions of extortion and expose the mayor as the criminal mastermind,” Vladimir Markin, the spokesman for the federal Investigative Committee, said. “Besides, one of the suspects has expressed his wish for a plea bargain, which implies the full acknowledgment of one’s guilt and active cooperation with the police.”

Officials said that they had also seized $500,000 from Mr. Urlashov’s apartment, and an additional $200,000 from the office of Mr. Urlashov’s press secretary, Svetlana Yefimova.

Mr. Urlashov was arrested along with a deputy mayor, Dmitry Donskov; the head of the city agency for municipal contracts, Maksim Poykalaynen; and a mayoral adviser, Aleksei Lopatin. They were charged with large-scale extortion and bribery — charges that carry a potential jail sentence of 8 to 15 years.

Mr. Prokhorov, who ran for president last year, said that he would still make a planned trip to Yaroslavl on Saturday in support of Mr. Urlashov’s and Civic Platform’s other candidates in the coming regional parliamentary elections.

In his statement, Mr. Prokhorov said the highly publicized detention of Mr. Urlashov “was staged with one purpose: to intimidate Yevgeny himself as well as all independent political figures and simply active citizens.”
92 2013-07-04 “It is essential to keep the E.T.S. as the main market-based instrument to fight against climate change,” said Mr. Seeber, referring to the emissions trading system.

The market for carbon credits reacted positively, rising to about 4.70 euros, or $6.13, per ton, a 9 percent increase for the day, on heavy volume.

The approved proposal will try to shore up prices for permits to emit greenhouse gases by delaying the auctioning of some of these allowances in the coming years through what is called backloading.

Carbon permits are licenses for companies to release greenhouse gases. The idea behind the European cap-and-trade system is to tighten the amount of permits available each year so as to make polluting more costly, forcing companies to switch to greener technologies.

But Europe’s prolonged economic downturn and generous allocations of allowances have created a glut of permits that cut the price to as low as about 2.75 euros a ton after the negative April vote.

In a sense, the system is working by providing relief at a time of economic stress. But analysts say that a price of 30 euros a ton or higher is needed to persuade companies to switch to cleaner fuels like natural gas, the main alternative to coal for generating electric power. Coal use in Europe boomed last year.

Analysts caution that the number of allowances that will be held off the market, about 900 million, is estimated to be only about half of the surplus of permits that would otherwise have built up by 2020, so it will not by itself shift the carbon market from bear to bull mode.

“I think the backloading itself will have limited impact on prices because the market remains significantly oversupplied,” said Roland Vetter, head of research at CF Partners, a carbon trading firm based in London.

In addition, there are still negotiations with Europe’s national governments and other hurdles to clear before the changes are put into effect, perhaps in the early part of next year. “This is a marathon, not a sprint, so today is not the end of the story,” said Miles Austin, the executive director of the Climate Markets and Investment Association, an industry group based in London.

Business groups, some of which had lobbied against the measure, were critical of what they described as interference in a market system.

“Even a one-off intervention undermines the principles of the emissions trading system and will make it more difficult for businesses to produce cost-effectively in the E.U.,” Arnaldo Abruzzini, secretary general of Eurochambres, which represents European chambers of commerce, said in a statement.

But the world’s pioneering carbon market has a pulse again. Among supporters of carbon trading there is now hope that Europe will in a couple of years adopt structural changes that would lead to permanently higher prices.

Connie Hedegaard, the European Union’s commissioner for climate action, said the purpose of the backloading measure was to “stop the bleeding with the drop in the carbon price while we were discussing more challenging issues.”

The simplest overall change that would raise the price would be to “reduce the cap,” or permanently reduce the number of allowances available, said Robert N. Stavins, director of the Harvard Environmental Economics Program.

But such a move “is very difficult to do at a time like this,” he said. With Europe mired in recession, politicians do not want to saddle Europe-based companies with even higher costs, especially considering that their American competitors are benefiting from lower energy prices thanks to the discoveries of shale gas.

Also, the United States seems to have more or less permanently rejected a cap-and-trade system after the House of Representatives passed one in 2009 that later failed in the Senate. For some businesses, that left the European system looking like yet another burdensome and costly regulatory initiative.

“Europe thought it would take the lead and the U.S. would follow,” Mr. Stavins said. Instead, the United States rejected cap and trade and that is affecting the cost of carbon-intensive services in Europe, he said.

Mr. Stavins said that countries like Australia, Japan and China were all experimenting to various degrees with systems like the one Europe adopted.
93 2013-07-04 Food and grooming products have intersected for years, but booze in one’s body wash is a relatively recent development. Herein, some new products based on popular warm-weather cocktails.

This Toronto brand, known for its luxurious paraben- and sulfate-free lip shades, is offering a limited-edition collection of four lipsticks derived from Champagne grapes. The combination of these with Japanese silk powder and Tahitian black pearl may not counter fine lines as it claims, but it sure sounds luxurious ($72, sephora.com).

A fruity and crisp scent using dry white wine rather than sangria’s traditional red. Like all fragrances from the company, which specializes in single-note smells, this one has no artificial colors or phthalates ($6 to $20, demeterfragrance.com).

A rum tonic comes to mind when using this foaming, fragrant body wash from the New York-based apothecary. And unlike a night full of daiquiris, it feels hydrating to the skin ($36, malinandgoetz.com).
94 2013-07-04 PARIS — Global stocks fell and oil rose above $100 a barrel on Wednesday as concern about the political crises in Egypt and Portugal added to traders’ growing anxieties.

Egypt was at the center of geopolitical concern after President Mohamed Morsi on Tuesday night defied an army ultimatum that he resign, raising the risk that the country would descend into bloodshed and chaos.

“Egypt’s not a major oil producer compared with Libya next door,” said Damian Kennaby, director of research for oil market services at IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates in London. “But there’s a whole lot of ‘what if’ going on right now, and that’s being built into the oil price.” Egypt produced 728,000 barrels of oil a day on average last year, while Libya produced about 1.5 million, according to figures from BP.

American crude oil for August delivery was trading at $100.72 a barrel, up 1.12 percent, its first time above $100 in nine months.

At the close of trading Wednesday, the Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips was down 1.3 percent. In London, the FTSE 100 index ended 1.2 percent lower. On Wall Street, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 0.2 percent in midday trading.
95 2013-07-05 Martin Ashwood-Smith returns with a really decent quad stack....
96 2013-07-05 Even with the better-than-expected jobs report, it may be premature for investors to conclude that a winding down of the Fed’s stimulus program is near, an economist writes....
97 2013-07-05 In a rich Long Island summer resort, businesses blast the A/C with doors wide....
98 2013-07-05 Bookselling was once a local business. Now Amazon has a larger market share of new and used printed books than any company has ever. That gives it extraordinary power....
99 2013-07-05 If the generic pain reliever offers grape and cherry and my child will only swallow bubble gum, I’m shelling out for whatever does the trick....
100 2013-07-05 The proportion of both large and small American companies paying dividends has been rising since the ’90s, and the dividend rate for large companies has rebounded to record levels. But over the last 12 months, the number of companies reducing or eliminating their dividends has begun to rise.
101 2013-07-05 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a body of central bankers, said it found significant differences in how some of the world’s large banks continue to assess risks on their balance sheets....
102 2013-07-05 The British police said Thursday that they had begun their own investigation into the disappearance of Madeleine McCann, who vanished in Portugal six years ago at the age of 3, saying they had new leads and had identified 38 potential suspects. Madeleine went missing from her room at a resort in May 2007 while her parents were at a restaurant, leading to a global search. Despite numerous reported sightings, her fate remains a mystery. Her parents were named as official suspects by Portuguese police four months after Madeleine’s disappearance, but in 2008 they were cleared and Portugal’s public prosecutor later dropped the case, citing a lack of evidence.
103 2013-07-05 A Greek parliamentary committee on Thursday recommended that former Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou be indicted on criminal charges over his handling of a list of more than 2,000 wealthy Greeks with Swiss bank accounts — a potential source of tax revenue that was never used by the authorities, fueling public anger in the debt-racked nation. Mr. Papaconstantinou, above, has denied accusations that he removed the names of four of his relatives from the list, known as the Lagarde list after Christine Lagarde, currently the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, who gave him a computer disk bearing the names in 2010 when she was France’s finance minister in a bid to aid Greece’s efforts to fight tax evasion. But last month, Greece’s financial crimes squad said it had traced more than $7.8 million in undeclared assets in the bank accounts of the four relatives. Mr. Papaconstantinou faces charges of tampering with a document, breach of faith and violation of duty after 7 of the 13 lawmakers on a cross-party panel formed in January proposed that Greece’s Parliament should vote on whether to indict him.
104 2013-07-05 In an age when terabytes of data can be stashed inside palm-size devices, the new details about Mr. Snowden’s training and assignments underscore the challenges that the N.S.A. faces in recruiting a new generation of free-spirited computer experts with diverse political views.

Mr. Snowden, who is now marooned at an airport in Moscow waiting to see if another country will grant him asylum, has said he leaked the documents to alert the public to the sweeping nature of the American government’s surveillance. He took a job as an “infrastructure analyst” with Booz Allen Hamilton in April at an N.S.A. facility in Hawaii, he has said, to gain access to lists of computers that the agency had hacked around the world.

Mr. Snowden prepared the résumé shortly before applying for that job, while he was working in Hawaii for the N.S.A. with Dell, the computer maker, which has intelligence contracts. Little has been reported about his four years with Dell, but his résumé, as described, says that he rose from supervising computer system upgrades for the spy agency in Tokyo to working as a “cyberstrategist” and an “expert in cyber counterintelligence” at several locations in the United States.

In what may have been his last job for Dell in Hawaii, he was responsible for the security of “Windows infrastructure” in the Pacific, he wrote, according to people who have seen his résumé. He had enough access there to start making contacts with journalists in January and February about disclosing delicate information. His work for Dell may also have enabled him to see that he would have even more access at Booz Allen.

Some intelligence experts say that the types of files he improperly downloaded at Booz Allen suggest that he had shifted to the offensive side of electronic spying or cyberwarfare, in which the N.S.A. examines other nations’ computer systems to steal information or to prepare attacks. The N.S.A.’s director, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, has encouraged workers to try their skills both defensively and offensively, and moving to offense from defense is a common career pattern, officials say.

Whatever his role, Mr. Snowden’s ability to comb through the networks as a lone wolf — and walk out the door with the documents on thumb drives — shows how the agency’s internal security system has fallen short, former officials say.

“If Visa can call me and say, ‘Are you in Dakar, Senegal?’ when they see a purchase that doesn’t fit my history, then we ought to be able to detect something like this,” said Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the N.S.A. and the C.I.A. “That continuous monitoring does not seem to have been in place.”

But Michael Maloof, a software developer who supplied internal monitoring systems to private companies, said that with Mr. Snowden’s training in hacking, he “would have known to keep his probes low and slow, a little bit here, a little bit there, so there was nothing to detect.”

If alarms went off as he grabbed documents, Mr. Maloof said, Mr. Snowden might have been able to explain away the alerts by saying that he was merely testing the protections as part of his security job.

Mr. Snowden grew up in Baltimore’s southern suburbs, where many of his neighbors would have been tech-savvy N.S.A. employees working at the agency’s headquarters at Fort Meade. Conventional schooling did not agree with him, and he dropped out of high school and eventually sought technical training in a series of courses.

As early as 2003, when he was 20, he showed interest in the skills, prized by hackers, required to operate anonymously online. “I wouldn’t want God himself to know where I’ve been, you know?” he, or someone identified as him from his screen name and other details, wrote on a forum on the tech news site Ars Technica.

Three years later, about the time he joined the C.I.A., he had discovered the long list of jobs available to anyone with computer expertise who could pass a detailed “lifestyle” polygraph test and get a security clearance. “If you’re cleared, have a lifestyle, and have specialized I.T. skills, you can go anywhere in the world right now,” he wrote under the screen name TheTrueHOOHA.

By the next year, he was a C.I.A. technician posted in Geneva, operating under cover as a “diplomatic attaché,” as his résumé calls the job. His C.I.A. job appears to have been standard I.T. work, though in an exotic high-security setting.

He was “called upon repeatedly” for TDYs, he wrote, using government jargon for temporary duty, “including support of U.S. president.” That reference, government officials say, is probably related to assistance with computer security or other routine assignments during presidential trips to Europe.

Mr. Snowden said he got “six months of classified technical training,” and he claimed to have served as “technical adviser to 3rd countries across the region,” presumably meaning Europe.

Evidently still in Switzerland in early 2009, Mr. Snowden referred to the United States’ aggressive high-tech spying, but with a sarcastic edge.

“We love that technology,” he wrote in a chat later published by Ars Technica. “Helps us spy on our citizens better.”

By 2010, he had switched agencies and moved to Japan to work for Dell as an N.S.A. contractor, and he led a project to modernize the backup computer infrastructure, he said on the résumé. That year also appears to have been pivotal in his shift toward more sophisticated cybersecurity.

He gained his certification as an “ethical hacker” by studying materials that have helped tens of thousands of government and corporate security workers around the world learn how hackers gain access to systems and cover their tracks.

The program, operated by a company called EC-Council, has a code of honor that requires ethical hackers to keep private any confidential information that they obtain in checking systems for vulnerabilities. Sanjay Bavisi, the company’s president, said he knew of only one person who had lost his certification for making information public.

For years, N.S.A. officials have visited hacker gatherings to promote the agency and recruit workers. General Alexander, the director, gave the keynote address a year ago at Defcon, a large hacker conference, in Las Vegas. But Mr. Snowden’s profile will now be carefully studied by intelligence officials for clues about how to hire skilled young hackers without endangering the agency’s secrets.

John R. Schindler, a former N.S.A. official who now teaches at the Naval War College, said that the background investigation for Mr. Snowden’s security clearance was clearly flawed. “For years, N.S.A. and now the Cyber Command have struggled with how to relate to the hacker community,” he added. “It’s obvious that some sort of arrangement to allow hackers to work for N.S.A. and the intelligence community in a systematic way is needed.”
105 2013-07-05 But building monuments to atheism from sea to shining sea is not really their goal. They figure that once atheists join the fray, every other group under the sun will demand the same privilege — including some that Christians might find objectionable, like pagans and Satanists. In the end, the atheists hope, local governments and school boards will decide that it is simpler to say no to everyone.

“It’s a very smart tactic,” said Charles C. Haynes, the director of the Religious Freedom Education Project at the Newseum in Washington, “because by countering the message, they make it unpleasant for people who want religious messages in the public square, and less likely that they will push for them.”

“I’m seeing a very messy and crowded public square, and I think we’re going to get more and more of these kinds of conflicts where people who feel they’ve been excluded want to be heard,” said Mr. Haynes, who added that he prefers crowded public squares that welcome religious diversity rather than empty ones.

The controversy in the town of Starke, Fla., began in May 2012 when the Community Men’s Fellowship, a local Christian group, put up an imposing black granite Ten Commandments monument on the National Day of Prayer in front of the Bradford County Courthouse. Two weeks later, atheists mounted a protest and sued the county, calling the monument a violation of the First Amendment’s establishment clause, which forbids government sponsorship of religion.

The county at first asked the Christian group to remove the Ten Commandments, but its members threatened their own lawsuit. The law was on their side, Mr. Haynes said. Courts have ruled that while government entities may not sponsor displays of religion, private groups can sponsor religious displays on public property.

The county, the Christian group and American Atheists then entered into mediation. The county decided to declare the space a “free speech zone,” and the atheists proposed their own monument, said Mr. Loukinen, who participated in the mediation. (Representatives of the men’s fellowship could not be reached for comment, but posted on their Facebook page that “God worked this out.”)

There are hundreds of Ten Commandments monuments and plaques across the country, many erected in the 1950s and ’60s by the Fraternal Order of Eagles, a charitable group based in Grove City, Ohio.

“We would perhaps defend our right to keep our Ten Commandments statues where they are if that’s where people want them,” said Nancy Schlagheck, the order’s marketing and communications director. “Would we battle other people? I can’t answer for that, but I can’t foresee it.”

In Starke, the atheists’ monument is dwarfed by the Ten Commandments. It was designed by Mr. Loukinen and Todd Stiefel, an atheist activist and the benefactor who paid for it. (The anonymous donor who has promised to pay for 50 more is not Mr. Stiefel, said David Muscato, the public relations director for American Atheists.)

At one end of the six-foot-long granite bench is a four-foot-tall square-top pillar bearing quotations from John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and Madalyn Murray O’Hair, who founded American Atheists in 1963.

“It will never be pretended that any persons employed in that service [writing the Constitution] had interviews with the gods or were in any degree under the inspiration of Heaven,” Adams is quoted as saying.

This week, the atheist monument was already drawing visitors. Teenagers in a summer camp from New Hope Baptist Church in Mayo, Fla., about 75 miles away, gathered around it and bowed their heads in prayer. For hours, no one ventured to sit on the atheist bench until David Roberson and a friend arrived from Tampa. Mr. Roberson declared it “fantastic” and took photographs of his friend posing on the bench.

“It’s very inviting,” said his friend, Maria, a nurse who did not want to give her last name because she said she was afraid of retaliation from Christians. “It’s hands on, to include people rather than exclude.”

Chad Reddish, who is from Starke, was not so enthusiastic.

“This is something we thought we would never experience in a small town,” he said. “It points out how many people don’t believe in God, and have different opinions.”
106 2013-07-05 The African-American artist Bill Traylor is the subject of two exhibitions at the American Folk Art Museum....
107 2013-07-05 The South Street Seaport is still mainly closed because of the damage wrought by Hurricane Sandy in October, but there is one bright spot: The TKTS discount booth, where people can buy half-price tickets to Broadway and Off Broadway shows, is scheduled to reopen at 11 a.m. on Friday in a temporary location at the corner of Fulton and South Streets. “We felt that we owed it to the community to be back for them this summer,” said Michael Naumann, the managing director of the Theater Development Fund, the nonprofit group that runs the booths downtown, in Times Square and in Brooklyn at 1 MetroTech Center. TKTS offers same-day tickets for evening performances and next-day tickets for matinees.

Correction: July 14, 2013 

 A report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on July 5 about the reopening of the TKTS discount booth at the South Street Seaport referred incorrectly to the Seaport’s status. While many sites are still closed because of damage from Hurricane Sandy, some are in fact open.
108 2013-07-05 HONG KONG — The Swiss food company Nestlé and its French rival, Danone, say they are cutting their prices of infant formula in China after Beijing began an investigation into possible price-fixing and anticompetitive behavior in the sale of milk powder.

Wyeth Nutrition, which Nestlé bought last year, said this week that it had been cooperating with the investigation by the National Development and Reform Commission of China and was responding by cutting prices and improving sales and marketing practices.

Danone, which has also acknowledged that its Dumex unit was cooperating with the Chinese commission, said in an e-mail statement that it was preparing a price cut proposal with details to be disclosed later.

Both companies, along with Mead Johnson Nutrition and Abbott Laboratories, said earlier this week that they were being investigated by the Chinese commission.

In a statement, Wyeth Nutrition said it “decided to implement a price reduction” of products from July 8 through 2014. “The average reduction will be at 11 percent, with the biggest single product price reduction at 20 percent.”

The company said it would not raise prices on any new products over the next year. Wyeth did not give any further details.
109 2013-07-05 For the first-time director with virtually no budget, the found-footage gimmick can be a lifesaver. Is your script spotty, your framing spastic, and your action scenes blurred beyond recognition? Not to worry; all will be embraced by a cheap and not-so-cheerful aesthetic that genuflects to reality television with direct-to-camera confessionals and narrative holes that the viewer is forced to fill in.

Though “Absence” offers, in many respects, a fairly standard example of the form, this mildly creepy debut from Jimmy Loweree does deliver a payoff — even if you have to sit through the end credits to experience it. A supernatural thriller featuring lights in the sky and levitation in the night, the story (by Mr. Loweree and Jake Moreno) revolves around Liz (Erin Way), a fragile young woman whose 7-month-old fetus has mysteriously disappeared overnight. To escape police questioning and news-media attention, Liz and her husband (Eric Matheny) head for a cabin in the woods and some much-needed R. and R.

Unfortunately they’re saddled with Liz’s brother, Evan (Ryan Smale), a film student who’s documenting their predicament for a school project. A grating, immature third wheel — he even leaves his camera running while making out with a girl he picked up in a convenience store — Evan hijacks the film, effectively blocking our connection to the increasingly troubled Liz. Mundane conversations and outings drag on while the central mystery takes baby steps forward, suggesting that a shorter running time or a more developed script might have better served the originality of the premise. And prompted a lot less viewer Googling of the phrase “fetal abduction.”
110 2013-07-05 It was important for the problem to look “big enough to be important, but not too big that it kind of spoils everything.”

The problem certainly did “spoil everything” and continues to do so. The Anglo Irish bailout turned out to cost tens of billions of euros from Irish taxpayers and the European Union. Had Irish officials acted more wisely then, the country would still be in bad shape now, but the cost to the government would be much lower. There probably would have been less need for the continuing austerity that has, once again, caused Ireland to lapse into recession.

But by then, the basic problem had been created. Ireland had inflated a property bubble far greater than the American one, and losses were going to be immense when prices collapsed. Regulators were clueless, or worse, about what was actually happening. There seems to have been no one in the government who was truly familiar with the bank. Outside experts were called in, but it is not easy during a crisis to evaluate something from scratch.

At the time, however, it was easy to think that the situation was not as bad as it turned out to be. Irish real estate prices had not collapsed — that would come soon — and it seemed possible that the problems affecting Irish banks, particularly Anglo Irish, were temporary.

The word was liquidity. If that was the only problem a bank had — if there was a temporary difficulty in raising money to reassure depositors but the underlying loans were solid — then a bailout could work with little or no long-term cost. But if the real problem was one of solvency, a bailout risked throwing good money after bad.

Two weeks before the Irish bank guarantee, the financial world was shaken by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the United States. It showed that large financial institutions were interconnected in ways that no one had really considered before and quickly led to a consensus that the American government had erred in not somehow keeping Lehman afloat.

We now know that Lehman was broke, but at the time it appeared to have ample capital. What was missing, one leading American regulator assured me at the time, was a requirement that the bank retain sufficient liquidity to deal with a panic.

In that atmosphere, it may be understandable that Irish officials fell for the tempting story that there was no real problem, just a bit of unfounded panic. But once they did, the power shifted to the bankers. The tapes show that the bankers were furious about government delays in releasing money once the guarantee was offered.

“You’re putting the government at risk with your delays,” said David Drumm, Anglo Irish’s chief executive, in discussing what he would say to officials at a meeting. Talk of due diligence was ridiculous. Ireland had told the world “we’re all solvent.” Now, it should simply write “a two or three billion check and get on with it.”

He described such a check as “very small.” Relative to the ultimate cost, he was right.

With the guarantee in place, Anglo Irish felt comfortable seeking deposits across Europe. After all, it was guaranteed by the government of Ireland, rated AAA at the time. Who cared if that upset German officials angry that their banks would have to pay more to keep deposits? Mr. Drumm laughed when Mr. Bowe began singing “Deutschland über Alles.”

“This plays into all the German concerns about moral hazard, that they have been taken for a ride by these people,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington said this week. “Stealth fiscal transfers to Ireland will not be politically possible in Germany unless this results in jail time for some of these people.”

There is plenty of sentiment in Ireland to provide such jail time. Patrick Honohan, the governor of the Irish central bank, called for a criminal investigation.

“This is new,” he said of the leaked tapes that indicated “Anglo Irish Bank was deliberately misrepresenting” its financial position.

It seems likely that investigation will extend to other banks, with searches for any internal memos or tapes that might indicate that other bankers were also dissembling. Mr. Kirkegaard suggested it could amount to an Irish “truth and reconciliation commission.”

Whatever such an investigation may or may not discover, we have learned a few things about how to do bank bailouts, since Ireland got it so wrong.

First, save only those whose failure would have disastrous consequences for the country. Anglo Irish had virtually no retail banking presence. It had lent primarily to real estate developers, using money it raised overseas. Letting its bondholders take the medicine, and even its uninsured depositors, would have spread the losses to foreigners rather than taxpayers.

Beware of the quick fix. Ireland thought the bank guarantee would halt a run rather than cost it a lot of money. When large banks failed in the United States, the first instinct was to save them by arranging a takeover. That avoided immediate investor losses, but at the cost of damaging the acquirers and, in the process, making “too big to fail” banks even bigger.

Try to use the industry’s expertise in dealing with problems by making everybody share the pain. Cornelia Woll, a German political scientist at Sciences Po in Paris, has studied the Irish and Danish bank crises that came after property bubbles. She said one reason the Danes did better was that the other banks were dragged in — banks that would have been aware of the games the troubled banks were playing.

Minimize the number of institutions whose failure would matter and subject them to tougher regulation. So far this year, 16 American banks have failed, with minimal public attention. If the regulators blow it at a small bank, the country is not in trouble. If they blow it at a large one, the story could be much different.

This week, American bank regulators approved capital rules that were a little weaker than originally planned, at least for banks that are not too big to fail. Smaller banks can continue to use some accounting gimmickry to make themselves look better than they really are, and they can continue to count as capital some dodgy securities known as trust preferred, which are designed to look like tax-deductible debt to tax collectors and like secure capital equity to bank regulators. At least no more such securities are to be issued.

It is perhaps regrettable that the regulators caved in response to the intensive lobbying of community banks, which ran out the usual threats of being unable to lend if they had to follow the rules that had been proposed. The result may be that some banks will fail that could have been saved with better rules.

But it is far more important for the regulators to show spine when dealing with the big banks, and it appears they are doing that. Those banks should have to hold more capital, and they will. The Dodd-Frank law calls for banks to prepare plans to allow them to close without infecting the rest of the industry, but there is no way to be sure they will work until they are tried.

In 2008, many regulators were afraid to force bank investors to take losses, worrying that such an example might prompt them to abandon other banks and create unnecessary failures. That decision may have been justified then, but by now every investor should understand that nothing — except insured deposits — is sure to be protected.

As I listened to the Irish tapes, what stood out the most was the sheer arrogance of bankers who felt no shame that their imprudent lending had created a crisis. If we could listen to similar tapes at other banks in other countries, would there be any real difference?
111 2013-07-05 LONDON — The International Monetary Fund and Pakistan reached a provisional agreement on Thursday on a $5.3 billion bailout package that aims to bolster Pakistan’s flagging economy and its perilously low foreign exchange reserves.

The rescue package is expected to soothe Western fears about the state of Pakistan’s economy, which has slumped in recent years amid unrelenting Taliban violence and deeply rooted corruption that have shaken investor confidence. The I.M.F. package also would provide a tangible lift for the newly elected prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, who has already become bogged down by a seemingly intractable energy crisis.

The I.M.F. has an unhappy history with Pakistanis, some of whom are likely to see the package negatively. The last government failed to meet the terms of the previous I.M.F. package six years ago, and the country is still struggling to repay billions of dollars of that debt.

Moreover, Mr. Sharif’s government is ideologically hostile to international financial assistance, and he campaigned before the election on a platform of economic autonomy. But, analysts say, his administration had little choice but to accept Thursday’s deal.

The $5.3 billion package will be used in part to service the existing I.M.F. debt, but also to create confidence in the economy and alleviate the severe energy crisis, which has included crippling electricity cuts across the country, even in the capital, Islamabad, in recent months.
112 2013-07-05 Financial shares were among the strongest gainers, with Royal Bank of Scotland stock rising 5.1 percent, Barclays up 4.7 percent and HSBC up 4.6 percent.

Earlier in Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index was the strongest gainer, rising 1.6 percent to 20,468.67 points. China’s Shanghai Composite rose 0.6 percent to 2,006.10.

Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 bucked the trend, slipping 0.3 percent to 14,018.93, despite remarks from the Bank of Japan governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, that the country’s economy is headed for recovery.

The dollar gained fractionally against the yen, just passing the 100-yen mark to 100.01 yen.

Mike McCudden, head of derivatives at Interactive Investor, noted that while physical exchanges are closed on Wall Street, futures are still trading, and they indicated Wednesday’s rally on the back of economic data has continued, with Dow Jones industrial index futures now trading above 15,000. The index closed at 14,988.50 Wednesday.

“Whether this can be sustained will clearly be reflected by what’s happening on a global basis,” he said in a note on markets. “The situation in Egypt remains hugely sensitive, whilst resurgent euro zone woes could knock sentiment.”

Investors around the world were also keeping a close watch on the price of oil, which has passed $100 a barrel for the first time since May 2012 because of Wednesday’s events in the Middle East: Egypt’s military overthrew Mr. Morsi, the country’s first democratically elected president, after he defied calls to resign despite the demands of millions of protesters.

Egypt is not an oil producer but its control of the Suez Canal — one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes, which links the Mediterranean with the Red Sea — gives it a crucial role in maintaining global energy supplies. Oil has eased somewhat from its Wednesday highs and was down 41 cents to $100.83.

Over the last few weeks, markets have sputtered amid speculation that the Federal Reserve might taper off its policy of buying $85 billion in bonds every month to keep interest rates low and encourage spending.

But on Wednesday, unemployment and jobs data out of the United States were just right for stocks, analysts said: good enough to restore confidence that the American economic recovery is continuing, but not so good that the Fed is likely to pull back on stimulus.

“We have had a period of extreme volatility, and now we have some settling going on,” said Lorraine Tan, director at Standard & Poor’s equity research in Singapore. “I think there’s a realization that the reaction may have been overdone.”
113 2013-07-05 LONDON — Embroiled in inquiries into the behavior of journalists and executives working for his newspapers here, the media tycoon Rupert Murdoch faced new questions on Thursday after a television broadcast of what appeared to be a clandestine recording of him criticizing the police investigation of Britain’s phone hacking scandal as “totally incompetent.”

In the recording, apparently made in March during a meeting with journalists at Mr. Murdoch’s tabloid The Sun, Mr. Murdoch is heard saying of the investigation: “It’s a disgrace. Here we are, two years later, and the cops are totally incompetent.”

“The idea that the cops then started coming after you, kick you out of bed, and your families, at 6 in the morning is unbelievable,” he said, dismissing the investigation as “the biggest inquiry ever, over next to nothing.”

Channel 4 News, which broadcast the recording, said it had been obtained by an investigative Web site called Exaro. The channel said the tone of the remarks seemed markedly at odds with Mr. Murdoch’s public insistence that he felt “humbled” by the hacking scandal.

Since July 2011, Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper outpost in Britain has been under close scrutiny by Parliament, by a separate judicial inquiry and by the police, who are investigating accusations of illicit phone tapping, corruption and other misbehavior, particularly at The News of the World, a Sunday tabloid that is now closed. Scores of former Murdoch employees have been arrested as the scandal raised questions about hidden ties among the news media, the police and the political elite.
114 2013-07-06 LISS--Elliott R. 7/6/31-5/18/04. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend to many. Your smile and the sound of your laughter live on in our hearts every day. Love, Dotty and the kids...
115 2013-07-06 In one of the most unexpected Grand Slam finals in years, Marion Bartoli, the 15th seed, prevailed over No. 23 Sabine Lisicki, 6-1, 6-4....
116 2013-07-06 Italy’s Luna Rossa is threatening to sit out Sunday’s opening race of the America’s Cup while it awaits the ruling of an international jury on a protest. The protest hearing is not scheduled until Monday, although the regatta director Iain Murray said there was a chance the matter could be resolved before then.

Luna Rossa and Emirates Team New Zealand have protested Murray’s authority to change rules as part of safety recommendations he made after the British sailor Andrew Simpson was killed May 9 when Artemis Racing’s 72-foot catamaran capsized during a training run in San Francisco Bay. They have also said that the change gives an advantage to the defending champion Oracle Team USA, which does not have to race until the start of the 34th America’s Cup on Sept. 7.
117 2013-07-06 Matt Every shot an eight-under 62 for a one-stroke lead over five other players midway through the Greenbrier Classic in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.

Phil Mickelson shot a 68 and finished the first two rounds at two over, missing the cut, which was at one under. It was the first time in his career that Mickelson has missed three consecutive cuts at one tournament.

Mickelson blamed his lackluster showings at the Greenbrier Classic on poor distance estimates on his iron shots.

“They end up not just a yard or two off from where I figure, but they’re 10 or 12 yards off from where I figure,” he said.

Every is at nine under for the tournament, one stroke in front of Russell Henley (65), Bill Lunde (66), Daniel Summerhays (67), Steven Bowditch (67) and the first-round co-leader, Johnson Wagner (70).

John Daly withdrew at seven over after playing three holes. He later wrote on Twitter that he needed elbow surgery and would be away from golf for up to four months.
118 2013-07-06 Gov. Jay Nixon on Friday vetoed a bill that would have called on the state to prosecute federal officials who try to enforce federal gun laws in Missouri and prohibit publication of the names of people owning guns. Noting that federal laws supersede state laws, the governor, a Democrat, said the bill was unconstitutional because it would nullify some federal gun laws and infringe on free speech rights by punishing anyone who published names of gun owners in Missouri.
119 2013-07-06 A lower salary cap for N.H.L. teams did not hamper the usual flurry of summer free-agent spending.

In perhaps the most stunning move completed Friday, the first day of free agency, the Senators’ captain, Daniel Alfredsson, left Ottawa after 17 seasons to join the Detroit Red Wings. Alfredsson, 40, has spent his entire N.H.L. career with Ottawa, collecting 426 goals and 682 assists in 1,178 games. He signed a one-year, $5.5 million contract. In another surprise, the veteran forward Jarome Iginla, 36, signed with Boston three months after he rejected the Bruins to join the Pittsburgh Penguins at the trade deadline.

The Islanders re-signed the 22-year-old defenseman Travis Hamonic to a seven-year, $27 million contract; kept their starting goaltender, Evgeni Nabokov (one year, $3.25 million); and added centers Pierre-Marc Bouchard and Peter Regin.

The Rangers signed the gritty forward Dominic Moore to a one-year contract. Moore, 32, broke into the N.H.L. with the Rangers and last played for them in 2005-6. He has played for eight teams since but did not play last season while he cared for his wife, who had a rare form of liver cancer. She died in January. The Rangers also added defenseman Aaron Johnson and the 6-foot-3, 205-pound forward Benoit Pouliot.

The Devils made a splash, signing the former Rangers forward Ryane Clowe to a five-year, $24.25 million deal. Clowe was acquired by the Rangers from San Jose at the trade deadline last season and had 3 goals and 5 assists in 12 games. He will replace David Clarkson, who left for a seven-year, $36.75 million contract with the Toronto Maple Leafs.

The Devils also signed two forwards: Michael Ryder, 33, to a two-year, $7 million deal, and Rostislav Olesz, 27, to a one-year contract.
120 2013-07-06 Two people, missing since they fell into the water while riding a Jet Ski during Fourth of July celebrations, were found dead at a nearby marina on Friday, the police said.

Willie Tom, 44, and Celine Fu, 29, had taken a Jet Ski into Coney Island Creek about 8 p.m. Thursday, the police said. They fell into the water, prompting divers from the Police and Fire Departments to search the area.

The divers returned on Friday morning, the police said. After noon, the bodies of Mr. Tom, who lived in Manhattan, and Ms. Fu, of Brooklyn, were pulled from the water at Marine Basin Marina in Brooklyn, the police said.

News reports suggested that Mr. Tom, described as an experienced Jet Ski rider and a strong swimmer, and his passenger had not been wearing life jackets. Police and fire officials declined to comment on the reports.
121 2013-07-06 But the Russian titanium strategy is paying off. Reliance on Russian titanium, thought it comes with geopolitical risks given tensions between the United States and Russia, is making the lightweight metal more economical, so Boeing uses more. Reducing the weight of planes makes them more economical to operate and thus more attractive to the airlines. The Avisma factory, deep in a pine forest, makes 35 percent of all titanium for Boeing civilian airplanes.

“There are parts that only we make. Nobody else,” Mikhail V. Voevodin, the factory director and a part owner, said.

Titanium parts are devilishly difficult to make. In the foundry’s forge, gigantic circular furnaces rise along the walls of the main smelting hall, like the pipes of some volcanic organ in a cathedral from hell, six stories high. Electricity melts the metal in these vacuum tubes.

Gigantic struts, poles and sheets are heated until they glow red and are plunged into water baths, where they are banged with hydraulic hammers weighing five tons. They emerge amazingly strong.

“Russia is a critical partner for 787 titanium parts,” Sergey Kravchenko, the director of Boeing’s office in Russia, said in a written response to questions. The factory “has the largest in the world press for titanium forgings and Boeing takes full advantage of this unique capability,” he wrote.

Russians began using titanium in Vostok, the space capsule Yuri Gagarin flew in 1961. By the 1970s, Soviet generals had taken a shine to the metal. A secret program began, requiring incredible resources. In addition to airplanes, the Soviets would make submarines from titanium.

A half-dozen Alfa, Mike and Papa class attack submarines came out with hulls that were 30 percent titanium by weight, according to a museum at the factory. Each required more than 2,000 tons of the metal. Light and strong, the subs, called “golden fish,” could travel at 44 knots, or 50 miles per hour, underwater.

This history allowed Boeing to be assured of a stable Russian supply. Besides Russia and other former Soviet states, only four countries smelt it in industrial quantities: the United States, Germany, Japan and China.

That cold war experience gave Avisma knowledge and astounding capacity. It once produced 90,000 tons a year, more than the rest of the world combined in the 1970s. The factory now makes about 32,000 tons, though of a higher grade. Over all, Avisma produces 45 percent of the world’s aerospace titanium.

Cooperation between Boeing and the Russians tightened after 2007, when Russian Technologies, a government conglomerate, took over the foundry. Russian Technologies sought to revive the Russian military industry by finding civilian buyers for dual-use products. It was eager to sell to Boeing as well as to Airbus, Boeing’s main rival. The factory also supplies Embraer, Bombardier and engine makers.

For Boeing, the alliance with Russia’s aerospace industry extends beyond titanium purchases. Supported by a United States government worried that unemployed Russian aerospace and rocket engineers were working for rogue states, Boeing opened a design center in Moscow in the 1990s. That center employs engineers on short-term leave from the Russian companies Ilyushin, Sukhoi and Khrunichev, a maker of the space capsules and satellites.

Much of the value is created in the smelting of alloys. Pure titanium costs about $7 a pound. Blended with zirconium, nickel and other alloys for aerospace parts, however, it can cost more than $150 a pound. The Moscow tech center has three patents for such alloys.

Avisma is the rare profitable Russian manufacturer. Russian Technologies sold a controlling stake to managers last year; Avisma’s shares trade on Russia’s Micex stock exchange. Its market capitalization hovers around $2 billion.

Avisma also still works for the Russian military. In a warehouse of rocket and airplane parts, huge titanium body rings for a Bulova rocket, Russia’s latest intercontinental ballistic missile, are stacked in a big uneven heap, like a serving of onion rings for the end of the world. (Most consumer goods of titanium, like golf clubs and mountain-climbing ice axes, are made in China of cheaper, unalloyed metal.)

Three years ago, Avisma started a sideline in medical titanium for implants, which quickly grew to capture about a quarter of this specialty market worldwide.

It is all the same for the factory, Mr. Voevodin, the director, said. The same process creates stamped parts. The only difference is that once it comes out of this gigantic Russia forge in the mountains, “it goes into a person, not an airplane.”
122 2013-07-06 The Federal Election Commission is already in a state of wretched dysfunction, but it will only get worse if Republican members succeed in crippling the agency further when the commission meets on Thursday. The three Republicans on the commission appear ready to take advantage of a temporary vacancy on the three-member Democratic side to push through 3-to-2 votes for a wholesale retreat from existing regulations.

Under their proposals, agency workers would no longer be allowed to routinely forward information about potential criminal violations by campaigners to the Justice Department, and the commission’s staff investigators would be severely hobbled in conducting preliminary inquiries. This would provide further aid and comfort to politicians and operatives who run roughshod over campaign laws.

The proposed changes amount to naked subversion from within. The F.E.C.’s own general counsel, Anthony Herman, felt compelled to warn last month against ending regular information sharing with Justice Department officials, a procedure he stressed has “greatly benefited” enforcement of the law and is standard procedure for all regulatory agencies. The proposals are being pushed by Donald McGahn, the Republican vice chairman of the commission who has engineered repeated 3-to-3 standoff votes to stymie approval of staff recommendations for penalties against campaigners found in violation of the law.

Mr. McGahn, a former ethics adviser to Tom Delay, the former House majority leader who left office under an ethical cloud, is a fierce proponent of weakening F.E.C. enforcement powers. He will soon be leaving his position, but not before attempting a final blow to its effectiveness. President Obama has proposed two new commission members to put it back to six members, which means it would take a 4-to-2 vote to undo the damage proposed by Mr. McGahn. The F.E.C.’s responsibilities should have been shifted long ago to a new body of politically independent regulators, but this has been a nonstarter in a Washington environment of tooth-and-claw partisanship epitomized by Mr. McGahn.
123 2013-07-06 WASHINGTON — A test launching of an advanced missile-defense interceptor failed to hit its target high over the Pacific Ocean, the Pentagon said on Friday, four months after the Obama administration announced that it would spend $1 billion to increase the number of interceptors along the West Coast in response to verbal threats from North Korea.

A brief Defense Department statement issued Friday said a long-range ballistic missile target had been launched from an Army test range in the Marshall Islands, and that an interceptor had been launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California to destroy it.

“An intercept was not achieved,” the statement said. “Program officials will conduct an extensive review to determine the cause or causes of any anomalies which may have prevented a successful intercept.”

Some skeptics of the missile-defense program saw the failure as additional evidence that the technology was unreliable and might not be worth the expense.

Philip E. Coyle III, who once ran the Pentagon’s weapons-testing program and is with the Center for Arms Control, said in a statement that the system “is something the U.S. military, and the American people, cannot depend upon.”

Mr. Coyle said there had been no successful tests of the ground-based, midcourse missile-defense system, like the one launched Friday, in five years. Pentagon officials acknowledge that the interceptors had a mixed record, hitting dummy targets just 50 percent of the time.
124 2013-07-06 More and more phones are being designed for consumers in emerging markets, who are expected to account for most of the growth in smartphone sales in the coming years. While Samsung is the biggest smartphone vendor in China, with a market share of 20 percent in the first quarter of 2013, according to Canalys, several Chinese companies have surged past Apple and its iPhone to contend for a greater market share. These are six of those contenders.
125 2013-07-06 Pictures From the Week in Business
126 2013-07-06 The Sixth European Open Bridge Championships took place in Ostend, Belgium, from June 15 to 29.

Three American representatives took home medals. Janice Seamon-Molson won the women’s pairs with Catherine d’Ovidio from France. Roy Welland captured the open pairs with Sabine Auken from Germany. And Zia Mahmood was second in the open pairs with Jan Jansma from the Netherlands.

The open pairs was decided on the final board. In second position, with neither side vulnerable, you pick up:

After a pass on your right, would you open one spade?

Both Welland and Zia did open, indicative of the aggressive style of bidding these days.

Then Zia and Jansma bid to six hearts. Welland and Auken stopped in four hearts.

The slam was slightly worse than the spade finesse. When the finesse lost, Jansma went down one, and Auken-Welland moved up to first, from second, extending their recent run of successes. They were second in the Reisinger Board-a-Match Teams last December and won the Vanderbilt Knockout Teams at the Spring Nationals in March.

The diagramed deal was the winners’ favorite.

After some poor scores, Welland (East) chose to open one diamond. Auken (West) responded two clubs, which was natural and nonforcing. (With a strong hand, Auken would have bid an artificial one no-trump.) Her second-round double promised extra values. And East, with good defense, passed.
127 2013-07-06 Friday’s 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (2), 6-7 (6), 6-3 victory over Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina now rightfully joins the club.

At 4 hours 43 minutes, it was the longest semifinal in the history of Wimbledon, which is the oldest tournament in the game, and yet it so rarely dragged, so rarely gave the predominantly British fans reason to crave resolution even if their own Andy Murray was being delayed from taking the court because of all this grit and brilliance.

They do have world-class reach, del Potro and Djokovic. Del Potro is 6 feet 6 inches and can produce astounding and precisely controlled power from the corners, particularly on his forehand. One of his wonder-thunder-strokes late in the fourth set was measured at 113 miles an hour and left Djokovic staring at the grassy spot where it had just landed in disbelief.

But Djokovic, the game’s elastic man, repeatedly returned the favor, stretching into splits in the backcourt and on his way forward to reboot rally after rally.

Asked if he had been surprised, del Potro sounded philosophical. “Sometimes, yes, but I know him,” he said. “He play here like clay courts or hard courts. That’s one of the reasons he is the number one of the world. He can play very good tennis on all surfaces. I need to hit harder my forehands the next time.”

“It was a really high-level match during four hours, hitting so hard the ball,” del Potro said, looking happier than one might have expected. “I think it was unbelievable to watch, but of course I’m sad because I was so close.”

In truth, he was and he was not. Yes, del Potro played and still lost a great first set when Djokovic made a sudden leap to a higher plateau and broke him at 5-6.

Yes, del Potro had chances to take command of the third set before losing it in a tiebreaker. And yes, above all, del Potro boldly saved two match points in the fourth-set tiebreaker to extend the match — quite appropriately — into a fifth set.

But Djokovic, one of the sport’s great managers of risk and reward, was never anywhere near the brink of defeat, and he will now play Murray in Sunday’s Wimbledon final after Murray absorbed all the force of Jerzy Janowicz’s serve and personality to win in four sets.

Murray missed the French Open with a back injury, but he and Djokovic will have played in three straight finals in the Grand Slam tournaments in which they both participated: the 2012 United States Open and this year’s Australian Open and Wimbledon.

Del Potro, still trying to get back to a major final after winning the 2009 United States Open, will continue waiting.

“In the end, I think he played unbelievable,” del Potro said of Djokovic. “I played my best tennis ever on grass court for a long time, but it was not enough.”

It is not as if the eighth-seeded del Potro did not know how to beat Djokovic on grass. He did it at the All England Club just last year, in the bronze-medal match at the Olympics, a best-of-three-set affair that contained all the emotional heft of a best-of-five.

Del Potro then beat Djokovic again in the semifinals of the prestigious hardcourt event in Indian Wells in March.

But those victories remain exceptions. Djokovic has won 9 of their 12 matches and all four of their Grand Slam matches.

Djokovic has an edge in mobility, even if del Potro moved remarkably well for man his size on Friday, and even better for a man who had hyperextended his left knee twice in earlier rounds. Djokovic has an edge in versatility, even if del Potro can do plenty of damage from disparate zones. Though del Potro has an edge in raw, flat power, Djokovic believed he had the edge on Friday in staying power.

“I have lost a long match in the French Open just a few weeks ago,” Djokovic said. “You can’t win all the matches. But I know that when we get to the fifth set, when I play a top player at the later stages of a major event especially, this is where your physical strength but also mental ability to stay tough can decide the winner of that match.

“So, yes, I was disappointed that I didn’t finish the match before in fourth set. But knowing that I have a chance, more chance of staying longer in the rally with him, and just as the match goes on I felt like physically I’m fit and I can go a long way. So that’s something that gave me that mental, probably, advantage.”

The match became the longest Wimbledon semifinal very early in the fifth set, surpassing the 1989 semifinal here between Boris Becker and Ivan Lendl that lasted a minute over four hours. Djokovic said Friday’s semifinal belonged high on his personal short list, although the 2012 Australian Open final in which he beat Nadal in a nearly six-hour match remained a solid No. 1.

Both Becker and Lendl were at Wimbledon on Friday, Becker as a BBC commentator and Lendl as Murray’s coach. But for all their power and attention to fitness and detail, Becker and Lendl never played points as relentlessly physical as these. And though this was attacking baseline tennis on the same court that was once a secular temple to the serve-and-volley style, it was hardly lacking in variety or net play.

Djokovic came to net 63 times and won 49 of those points; del Potro came to net 37 times and won 25. But the real showcase moments came on or behind the increasingly worn baselines, where del Potro managed to push Djokovic back farther than most mortals and where Djokovic launched himself into dives worthy of a goalkeeper or slipped hard as he tried to change direction. A less flexible man might not have gotten back up.

It was spectacular. It was grueling, but it was also surprisingly jaunty on occasion, with del Potro — lighter in spirit if not on his feet — producing a majority of the comedy. He stopped to chat with the fans in the front row after his defensive sprints left him within conversational range, and he even bantered with Djokovic when another sprint led him to Djokovic’s side of the net.

Djokovic said that he and the 24-year-old del Potro had long been friendly.

“I have lots of respect for him; he’s a very nice guy off the court,” Djokovic said. “It’s great, you know. The crowd enjoyed it so much. Yeah, he had some funny reaction. But look, in the end of the day, we’re playing this sport. Of course, you want to win when you’re on the court, but you try to enjoy, you try to have fun. Sometimes that’s also helping you to kind of release that stress because it’s so much tension going on back and forth.”

On Friday, there were so many magnificent strokes going back and forth, too. But then happily for long-form tennis fans, that is absolutely nothing new.
128 2013-07-06 Among smaller companies — defined as having market capitalization of less than $100 million — the proportion of companies making dividend distributions has always been smaller, but it too is growing. The current figure, 31 percent, is up from 28 percent at the end of last year and is higher than at any time since 1984.

The figures cover all common stocks traded in the leading American markets — the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. They exclude depository receipts on foreign stocks, as well as publicly traded partnerships.

The charts also show the annual rate of dividend payments at the end of each year, or, in the current period, at the end of June. All told, large companies are promising annual payouts of $460 billion, while smaller ones are promising $1 billion.

The charts show the annual changes in total dividends paid by each group. Large company payouts rose 18 percent in 2011, and nearly that much in 2012, and the rate has grown another 9 percent so far this year.

The actual increases, however, may not be quite that good. The figures are based on annual dividend payout rates for companies that had market capitalizations of at least $100 million at the date shown. Lately, with the stock market rising, that has caused some companies to move from the smaller group to the larger one. At the end of June, there were 3,875 large companies, 119 more than at the end of 2012, and 2,599 smaller ones, or 94 fewer than at the earlier date.

That shifting membership helps to explain one apparent anomaly in the charts. The figures show a large increase in small company dividends in 2008. That almost certainly is explained by the fact that many companies that had been classified as large ones were moved to the smaller group in 2008, as share prices plunged. As prices recovered in 2009, many of those companies — and their dividends — moved back into the larger category.

For many decades, Standard & Poor’s has been counting the number of companies that initiated or increased their dividends each year and compared it with the number that reduced or eliminated their payouts. Although there are still far more dividend increases than reductions, the number of the companies cutting back has been rising rapidly since the middle of last year. That is a possible indication that more companies are facing financial strain. Mr. Silverblatt said that most of the companies making cuts had been small ones.

In the first half of this year, 204 dividends were reduced or eliminated. That figure is well below the levels of 2008 and 2009, when the credit crisis was intense, but it is only one fewer than in all of 2002, as companies recovered from the 2001 recession, and is more than in any other full year from 1994 through 2007.
129 2013-07-06 Stocks on Wall Street closed higher on Friday as investors weighed whether a stronger-than-expected rise in United States jobs figures meant the Federal Reserve would rein in its monetary stimulus sooner rather than later.

By the end of trading all three major indexes — the Standard & Poor’s 500-share index, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite — were 1 percent higher.

United States employers added 195,000 jobs in June and hiring was more robust in the two previous months than earlier estimated, a Labor Department report said. The unemployment rate, however, remained at a relatively high 7.6 percent.

The report suggests growth is increasing in the world’s largest economy and that the Federal Reserve would likely begin winding down its monetary stimulus in the autumn.

Some investors took that as good news, having worried that the Fed might act earlier. But it disappointed others who appeared to have hoped the Fed would delay the move until next year.
130 2013-07-06 GENEVA — The top human rights official at the United Nations, Navi Pillay, expressed concern on Friday at the reported detention of Muslim Brotherhood leaders in Egypt and called on military authorities there to make clear the basis on which they are being held or release them.

“There should be no more violence, no arbitrary detention, no illegal acts of retribution,” Ms. Pillay, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a statement released at the commission’s headquarters in Geneva. She urged the military and all political parties “to deter and punish any acts of vengeance.”

“We don’t really know the details and what the basis of these detentions is,” Rupert Colville, a spokesman for Ms. Pillay, said in a reference to the fate of the ousted President Mohamed Morsi and other Muslim Brotherhood leaders. “If you detain or arrest someone there needs to be, according to the law, a very good reason to do so. There needs to be due process.”

Ms. Pillay, who had on several occasions criticized the Morsi government’s proposed laws and reforms, commented that Egypt had “so far failed to seize the opportunity to respond to the aspirations of all its citizens and move toward a truly tolerant and inclusive society, based on human rights norms and the rule of law.”

But Ms. Pillay also called for a “truly inclusive dialogue” involving all political parties and in doing so affirmed that the Muslim Brotherhood “have to be part of the future political landscape” of Egypt, Mr. Colville said.

Ms. Pillay also drew attention to “the appalling — and at times seemingly organized — sexual violence targeting women protesters,” calling for serious measures to halt and investigate it.
131 2013-07-07 KISSICK--Dr. William Lee, age 81, died peacefully in Denver, Colorado on June 30, 2013, surrounded by his family. He was born in Detroit, Michigan, on July 29th, 1932. He earned his B.A., M.D., Master's of Public Health and PhD from Yale Universit...
132 2013-07-07 For everything there is a season, and this is the season of the return of Randy Sowell....
133 2013-07-07 Andy Murray beat Novak Djokovic of Serbia in straight sets, 6-4, 7-5, 6-4, to become the first British man to win Wimbledon in 77 years....
134 2013-07-07 Lorraine Elizabeth Krall and Lewis Edward McCrary were married Saturday at Annunciation Church in Williamsport, Pa. The Rev. Austin Litke, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. McCrary, 29, is to begin a teaching and research fellowship at Villanova next month. She will teach a seminar on St. Augustine and culture. She graduated from Grove City College in Grove City, Pa., and received a Ph.D. in government from Georgetown.

She is a daughter of Sharon L. Krall and Michael J. Krall of Cogan Station, Pa.

Mr. McCrary, 30, is the managing editor of The National Interest, a bimonthly journal in Washington. He graduated from Catholic University of America and received a master’s degree in political thought and intellectual history from Cambridge.

He is a son of Robin A. Evert of Grass Valley, Calif. and Larry L. McCrary of Portola, Calif.
135 2013-07-07 Emily Alissa Welsch and Eamon Ryland Shumow were married Saturday at the 1909, an event space in the Topanga section of Los Angeles County. Steven Tupu, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.

Mrs. Shumow, 37, is the manager of entertainment industry relations for Fuel, a company in New York that pairs corporations, performers and celebrities with nonprofit organizations for publicity purposes. She also manages Edison Music, a recording studio in Boiceville, N.Y. She works from Topanga. And she is also a violinist with the Culver City Symphony Orchestra in Culver City, Calif. She graduated from Michigan.

She is the daughter of Grace Fiore Welsch and James R. Welsch of New York. The bride’s father is the principal of Great Neck South Middle School in Great Neck, N.Y. Her mother is the principal of the elementary division of the Churchill School, a private school in New York.

Mr. Shumow, 34, who uses the name Eamon Ryland professionally, is a freelance guitarist and composer for film and television. He wrote music for the film “Celeste and Jesse Forever” and for the HBO series “Entourage.”

He is a son of Michele Green Shumow of Topanga and the late William A. Shumow. The groom’s mother is the primary and lower-school librarian at the Viewpoint School, a private school in Calabasas, Calif. His father was an independent art director for commercials and music videos, and a property master for film and television in Los Angeles.
136 2013-07-07 And, as violence erupted throughout the country, the shifting media landscape hardened the feeling that Egypt was inescapably stuck in the past. As in the uprising more than two years ago, when Hosni Mubarak was toppled, bridges became battlegrounds and the country counted new dead. Rumors were treated like fact before evaporating, leaving nothing but doubt.

As Mr. Morsi’s supporters dialed up their language against the army and Islamists were accused of deadly attacks, the military seemed able to count on wide latitude from the public to exert its control.

In another echo of the last revolt, the military started accusing foreign news media of spreading “misinformation” and, in at least one case, interfered with their work. During a live broadcast, soldiers stopped a CNN correspondent as he reported on clashes in downtown Cairo, and briefly confiscated a camera. After the BBC and other outlets reported that pro-Morsi protesters had been killed by soldiers outside the Republican Guard club, an unnamed military source told the state newspaper, Al Ahram, that “foreign media outlets” were “inciting sedition between the people and its army.”

Some private outlets have also thrown their weight behind Egypt’s new leaders. A reporter at one newspaper said that her editor had given his staff explicit instructions not to report on pro-Morsi demonstrations and to make sure that articles indicated that the perpetrators of violence were always Islamists.

The reporter requested anonymity, and her claims about the editor’s remarks could not be independently confirmed. A look at Saturday’s articles on the Web site of the newspaper seemed to corroborate her assertions.

The arrests and closings affected longtime journalists, producers and technicians, as well as firebrand clerics at some of the channels who were widely seen as engaging in hate speech and promoting violence.

The shift of power and changing tone of coverage were apparent on Wednesday, even as Egypt’s defense minister, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, prepared to go on television and announce the end of Mr. Morsi’s presidency. Millions of people had marched for days, demanding that result.

State television prepared the public for the earthquake, in soothing segments that made no mention of Mr. Morsi or the Brotherhood, which instead was referred to as “that group.” A host interviewed a retired general, who spoke about the central, critical role of Egypt’s military over decades. Clips of fighter jets screeching through the sky were played, as well as patriotic anthems.

During another interview, a legal expert discussed the question at the center of Egypt’s crisis: whether constitutional or popular legitimacy was more important. The expert explained that any ruler had to have the support of the people to succeed, bolstering the case that the military was about to make, that the people had spoken.

General Sisi had hardly finished his announcement when, at an office of Al Jazeera’s local affiliate in the Agouza neighborhood, men in civilian clothes carrying guns broke down the door, according to journalists who were there. They asked for identification but provided none of their own. They took mobile phones, computers and iPads — anything the journalists could use to communicate. Then they took the employees, and others there, downstairs, where police wagons and other men with guns were waiting.

The other stations were closed down at almost exactly the same moment, in what appeared to be a well-coordinated clampdown.

Events stoked the growing sense of victimhood among the president’s supporters at a demonstration in Nasr City, where the sudden loss of privilege was acutely felt. As journalists were warmly welcomed at the sit-in, there was no talk of Mr. Morsi’s own prosecutions of his opponents in the news media, which while less draconian, were just as selective. The protests were covered live by at least three of the shuttered stations, including the local Al Jazeera network, which was seen, like its Arabic-language parent, as sympathetic to Mr. Morsi and the Islamists. After the arrests, Palestinian networks carried the protests, and people shared videos online. Al Jazeera now has a camera back up at the site.

Seif el-Bgeegy, a 29-year-old plumber who helps guard the protests and is responsible for cameras at the site, said that the images would be protected by “millions” of the president’s supporters inside.

“If they came in, they’d go to war with the masses,” he said.
137 2013-07-07 France defeated Uzbekistan, 4-0, in Istanbul to set up a semifinal against Ghana or Chile in the Under-20 World Cup and cement its status as one of the tournament favorites. Yaya Sanogo scored in the 31st, and Paul Pogba and Florian Thauvin both added goals from the penalty spot to give France a 3-0 halftime lead. A diving header from defender Kurt Zouma in the 64th ended the scoring.

Later, Felipe Avenatti scored in extra time to give Uruguay a 1-0 win over Spain in Bursa, Turkey. Uruguay will play Iraq or South Korea for a place in the final. The remaining quarterfinals are scheduled for Sunday.
138 2013-07-07 Mr. Wasserman has also become a big deal behind the scenes in his hometown. That new $116 million medical building at the University of California, Los Angeles? He had it built, with his foundation providing significant financing. A $300 million movie museum will soon rise on Wilshire Boulevard, a partnership of the Oscars organization and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, where he serves on the board. The alliance was his idea.

“I only see him growing in stature, and he’s already one of the most civically active philanthropists in the city,” said Antonio R. Villaraigosa, the former mayor of Los Angeles, citing the tens of millions of dollars that Mr. Wasserman and his foundation have funneled to the city’s beleaguered public school system. Mr. Wasserman also sits at the center of continued efforts to build a stadium that would bring the National Football League back to the Los Angeles after an 18-year absence. “His influence extends far beyond what you see on the surface,” Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, said.

As for political influence, well, put it this way: Hillary Rodham Clinton likely did not have a two-hour breakfast with Mr. Wasserman a few weeks ago just to shoot the breeze. Mr. Wasserman is a trustee of the Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation. He is also a significant Democratic donor and fund-raiser.

IT’S a big and wide-ranging portfolio, but perhaps not a surprising one given the head start he received at birth. Mention Mr. Wasserman’s success around Los Angeles, and some eyes will roll, conveying the sentiment: “What did you expect?”

Mr. Wasserman, whom GQ once called “a kosher Kennedy,” without question had a privileged upbringing. At 10, he helped carry the torch at the Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. At 12, he flew to Ohio to be a Cleveland Browns ball boy. At 18, when he wanted to go to a sold-out Guns N’ Roses concert, his grandfather told him to call David Geffen, one of Hollywood’s biggest power brokers. (“Slash was sweating on my head,” Mr. Wasserman said, recalling how close to the stage his seats were.) At 19, he worked as a production assistant on the hit television series “Murder, She Wrote,” which was taped at Universal, where his grandfather was chairman.

He inherited many important relationships from his grandfather, who died in 2002, including the one with the Clintons. “Casey has a keen intellect and a strong desire to make a difference in both business and society,” Bill Clinton said in an e-mail.

But ne’er-do-well heirs crash and burn all the time proving that access to money and power does not preordain success. Yes, Lew Wasserman lavished attention on his daughter’s son. Every Saturday or Sunday morning for 25 years, he took Casey to Nate n’ Al, a Beverly Hills delicatessen, for matzo brei and a life lesson. But the student had to be willing to learn, and to maintain and expand the relationships he inherited.

“Growing up with means gives a person one important thing, which is the ability to make choices,” Mr. Wasserman said last month as he lounged in his Gulfstream V en route to Los Angeles from Philadelphia. He took a sip of vegan black bean soup and glanced at a TV tuned to the N.B.A. finals.

“Good choices or bad,” he said, clearing his throat, “those are all on me.”

SPORTS was a very specific choice for Mr. Wasserman. He said Hollywood felt too incestuous — a place where, he says, he knew he could never “make a reputation” that was his own. Though not an athlete himself, aside from tennis in high school, he found himself fascinated by the business side of sports from an early age.

“I wasn’t the kid who cried if my team lost,” he said. “I was the kid who wanted to know what was going on in the front office after the game.”

His first business was a success. Mr. Wasserman and a childhood friend, the fashion designer James Perse, started a T-shirt and hat company while attending U.C.L.A., from which Mr. Wasserman graduated in 1996 with a political science degree.

He started Wasserman Media in 2002 using family money, and began assembling a client base. He was early to spot the potential of action sports (snowboarding, skateboarding, surfing), and that division of his firm has grown from an $800,000 annual business a decade ago to a $16 million one today.

Mr. Wasserman also learned how to wield a checkbook. His company has made at least 10 significant acquisitions over the last decade. Perhaps the most important was in 2006, when he paid an estimated $12 million to acquire the practice of Arn Tellem, the superstar agent.

Now, a big decision looms for Mr. Wasserman — one that he will surely be asked about at Allen & Company’s annual media and technology jamboree, which begins on Tuesday in Sun Valley, Idaho. IMG Worldwide, the world’s largest sports agency, is on the block. Will Mr. Wasserman bid?

He figures that his agency — which is profitable, although he declined to say to what degree — has enough internal momentum to double in size over the next five years. Growth has already been impressive. In 2007, Wasserman Media represented 400 athletes; its client roster now totals roughly 1,300.

Mr. Wasserman declined to comment about IMG. He has privately told confidants, however, that he may be interested in pieces of that company, whose operations range from athlete training to fashion show management.

“Casey is not interested in immediate gratification or being the biggest,” said Mr. Tellem, who now oversees the team sports division of Wasserman Media. “He’s about focus and being a leader.”

Friends say Mr. Wasserman learned the hard way not to expand into areas with uncertain promise. In 2003, for instance, he opened a music management branch. (Coldplay was a client.) The division never found its footing, and he pulled the plug. In 1998, he paid $5 million for the Los Angeles Avengers, an Arena Football League team, but called it quits after nine unprofitable seasons.

Becoming bigger brings problems along with rewards, Mr. Wasserman said. “The chances that one person could make a big mistake increase,” he said, “and that keeps me up at night.”

A case in point: last year, Wasserman Media paid a reported $2 million to Francisco Rodriguez, a Milwaukee Brewers relief pitcher and a former client who contended that his trade from the New York Mets had been bungled.

Mr. Tellem said Mr. Wasserman infuses a personal touch that is missing at what he called “faceless” agencies. “Casey sticks his neck out,” Mr. Tellem said. “People know there is a person who is responsible at the end of the day.”

Mr. Tellem pointed to April, when the basketball player Jason Collins, a Wasserman client, revealed his homosexuality. Among the many who expressed public support for Mr. Collins was President Obama — something that was not an accident. Behind the scenes, Mr. Wasserman had phoned Mr. Clinton, who had his staff reach out to Valerie Jarrett, the senior White House adviser.

As Mr. Wasserman contemplates a bid for IMG, he must weigh a challenge coming from an unlikely corner: Hollywood. The two biggest talent agencies, Creative Artists Agency and William Morris Endeavor, are both likely IMG bidders. Creative Artists, in particular, has been muscling into sports as the movie business shrinks and star wattages dim. Another movie company, Relativity Media, has also been coming on strong in sports; last year, it bought the football agency Maximum Sports Management and SFX Baseball.

“Sports will continue to be more and more valuable while movies and television will become more and more challenged,” Mr. Wasserman said. “Sports is predictable and unreplicable in a world where almost nothing else is.”

MR. WASSERMAN, who is married with two young children, works from an office near U.C.L.A. But he conducts much of his business in the field. Last month, he flew to Philadelphia and hung out around the putting green at the Merion Golf Club, where the United States Open was about to begin.

Wearing aviator sunglasses and chewing cinnamon gum, an asthma inhaler tucked inside a trouser pocket, Mr. Wasserman warmly greeted clients like Kyle Stanley and Rickie Fowler. United States Golf Association officials pulled Mr. Wasserman aside to ask for help with a new ad campaign. Perhaps one of his young players would participate? After some banter that took place outside of my earshot, Mr. Wasserman said brightly, “We will see if we can make it happen.”

While almost no one will say anything negative about him on the record — perhaps a sign of how influential he has become — some of his fellow Hollywood scions in particular grouse that Mr. Wasserman’s nice-guy persona is a well-practiced shtick. A few current and former employees say he can be controlling, aloof and impatient. Others fault his decision at 18 to change his surname to Wasserman from Myers, calling it a cynical effort to capitalize on his grandfather’s legacy.

Mr. Wasserman disputed that notion. “It was a simple reflection of the facts: I was raised by my mom and my grandparents,” he said. His parents divorced when he was 7, and his father, Jack Myers, largely exited his life. Mr. Myers, an avid golfer, died in 2010 and is partly remembered for a guilty plea in a 1990 drug money-laundering case.

“If I had any interest in trading on my grandfather’s success, I didn’t need to change my name to do it,” Mr. Wasserman added.

HE sounded mildly agitated but not defensive — similar to his demeanor later that day on the jet when he started losing at rummy. (Playing on an iPad against his public relations adviser, Melissa Zukerman, Mr. Wasserman eventually won.) Asked to point out one of his own flaws, Mr. Wasserman made a where-would-you-like-me-to-start face and pointed to the turbulence. To get over a fear of flying, he once took 60 hours of pilot training. But he said his “control issues” sometimes still get the best of him during choppy air, when the pilot and Mother Nature are in command, and he is not.

Still, Mr. Wasserman does seem to have a way for easily navigating life’s challenges. Back in Philadelphia, the golf course had been a swamp after days of rain; while my deck shoes were soon soaked and caked in mud, Mr. Wasserman managed to keep his suede oxfords perfectly clean.

“Gliding across the mud, not a spot on him,” said Gary Stevenson, the former president of the Pac-12 Conference’s television and digital media unit, who worked for a time at Wasserman Media.

Mr. Stevenson smiled and shook his head: “That is so Casey Wasserman.”
139 2013-07-07 Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland and Richard Sterne of South Africa shared a one-stroke lead after three rounds of the French Open in Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines. McDowell shot a one-under-par 70 while Sterne had a 71 on the tough Albatross course of Le Golf National, leaving both at five-under 208.

Bernd Wiesberger of Austria (68), David Howell of England (69) and Richard Green of Australia (70) were at 209. Soren Kjeldsen of Denmark and Simon Dyson of England were at 210.

Francesco Molinari of Italy had the day’s best round, a 67, which left him four shots back. Second-round leader Fabrizio Zanotti of Paraguay fell to 214 after a 78.
140 2013-07-07 “This one, in the context of our career, is probably up there at the top,” Mike Bryan said. “I didn’t think anything could feel as sweet as the gold medal, but this one just feels like there’s a cap, a lid or a ribbon around our career.”

Bob Bryan said accumulating so many victories has made continuing to pursue titles easier.

“I think that’s the reason why we’ve been playing so well, is because we have everything,” he said. “Everything now feels like a bonus. It just feels like we’re adding nuts and whipped cream and cherries to our great career. We said that a few years ago: if we retire today, we feel like we’ve done it all. Let’s go have some fun and add to whatever this is.”

“Whatever this is” is open to interpretation, but there is little argument that the Bryans are the most successful American men in tennis today, far outpacing any of their singles counterparts. There will be only one American man in the top 20 when the singles rankings are released Monday, with John Isner squeaking in at No. 19. The only active American man who has made the semifinals of a Grand Slam singles event is 30-year-old Robby Ginepri, who reached the final four of the 2005 United States Open but is now ranked 240th.

But although the Bryans play to nearly full stands wherever they appear, their matches are rarely televised. Television contracts for tour events are often exclusively for singles, and networks rarely choose to show doubles matches while singles is being played at Grand Slam events.

“Do we seek out doubles matches? Absolutely not,” said Jason Bernstein, the senior director of programming and acquisitions for ESPN. “And why is that? Because generally, big names aren’t playing doubles.”

Bernstein said that although the Bryans were a good story, they do not play opponents who might create especially intriguing matches.

“You could argue their dominance might hurt the sport,” Bernstein said.

The Bryans, 35, seem to have accepted that doubles is never going to be in the spotlight, no matter what they achieve.

“It’s ratings,” Bob Bryan said after their quarterfinal win. “Like Kim Kardashian’s TV show — it’s trash, but it’s the highest rated, you know? And she’s a star, and people want to see her, whatever, walk her dog on TV just because she’s a star.”

Mike Bryan said: “We always go on the court and say, ‘Let’s put on a great show.’ It’s not about getting in your shell and just grinding; you’re there to put on a show for the fans, especially when we play night matches in the U.S.

“N.B.A. players put on a great show. LeBron does his thing. And if we can do our part as well, and give them the chest bump when they’re asking for it, we will.”

With little to prove, the Bryans continue to set goals that only they can achieve: 100 career titles (Saturday’s was No. 91), and 10 years as the No. 1-ranked doubles team (this year will be the ninth).

“Then try to get to Rio and get another medal,” Mike said.
141 2013-07-07 In 1889, the editors of the original Oxford English Dictionary noted that the term Caucasian had been “practically discarded.” But they spoke too soon. Blumenbach’s authority had given the word a pseudoscientific sheen that preserved its appeal. Even now, the word gives discussions of race a weird technocratic gravitas, as when the police insist that you step out of your “vehicle” instead of your car.

“If you want to show that you’re being dispassionate then you use the more scientific term Caucasian,” Ms. Painter said.

Susan Glisson, who as the executive director of the William Winter Institute for Racial Reconciliation in Oxford, Miss., regularly witnesses Southerners sorting through their racial vocabulary, said she rarely hears “Caucasian.” “Most of the folks who work in this field know that it’s a completely ridiculous term to assign to whites,” she said. “I think it’s a term of last resort for people who are really uncomfortable talking about race. They use the term that’s going to make them be as distant from it as possible.”

There is another reason to use it, said Jennifer L. Hochschild, a professor of government and African-American studies at Harvard. “The court, or some clever clerk, doesn’t really want to use the word white in part because roughly half of Hispanics consider themselves white.” She added, “White turns out to be a much more ambiguous term now than we used to think it was.”

There are a number of terms that refer to various degrees of blackness, both current and out of favor: African-American, mulatto, Negro, colored, octaroon. There are not a lot of options for whites. In Texas, they say Anglo. And there is the pejorative we were so pithily reminded of when a witness in the racially charged George Zimmerman trial said the victim, Trayvon Martin, had called Mr. Zimmerman a “creepy-ass cracker.”

IN the South, I was often asked about my ethnic origins, and I had a ready answer. “My father is from India,” I would recite, phrasing it in such a way as to avoid being mistaken for an American Indian. “And my mom is white.” Almost invariably, if I was speaking to black people, they would nod with understanding. If I was speaking to white people, I would get a puzzled look. “What kind of white?” they would ask. Only when I explained the Norwegian, Scottish and German mix of my ancestry would I get the nod.

I theorized that this was because blacks understood “white” as a category, both historical and contemporary — a coherent group that wielded power and excluded others. Whites, I believed, were less comfortable with that notion.

But Matthew Pratt Guterl, the author of “The Color of Race in America, 1900-1940,” had a different take. “They’re trying to trace your genealogy and figure out what your qualities are,” he said. “They’re looking in your face, they’re looking in the slope of your nose, the shape of your brow. There’s an effort to discern the truth of the matter, because all whitenesses are not equal.” In other words, they weren’t rejecting the category, they were policing its boundaries.

Such racial boundaries have increasingly been called into question in the debate over affirmative action, once regarded as a form of restitution to descendants of slaves, but now complicated by all sorts of questions about who, exactly, is being helped. “What if some of them aren’t poor, what if some of them don’t have American parentage, what if some of them are really stupid?” Ms. Painter, the historian, asked. “There’s all kinds of characteristics that we stuff into race without looking, and then they pop out and we think, ‘I can’t deal with that.’ ”

Doubtless, this society will continue to classify people by race for some time to come. And as we lumber toward justice, some of those classifications remain useful, even separate from other factors like economic class. Caucasian, though? Not so much.
142 2013-07-07 IN a hurly-burly quarter, with some stock-market sectors sagging and others surging, managers of three of the top-performing mutual funds managed to find rising returns in places as varied as restaurants, roadsters and robots.

The Hodges Fund, based in Dallas, is a go-anywhere offering; it can buy “anything that looks like it ought to be trading higher in 18 months,” said Don W. Hodges, who manages the fund with his son, Craig. “We do small, medium and large companies. We go for growth and value stocks.”

The fund’s charter lets the two men invest abroad, but mostly they don’t, the father said.

“We’re at a disadvantage internationally,” he said. “You can’t be in close touch with the markets.”

Their only recent nondomestic holding was Toyota, which sells many of its cars in the United States.

The elder Mr. Hodges is an old-school stock picker who prefers chats with a company’s customers and competitors to computer algorithms when hunting for stocks. He encountered Michael Kors Holdings, the fashion design and retailing company, while visiting a mall with his wife. And he decided to buy shares of Luby’s, the restaurant chain, partly because he’d dined in other restaurants owned by the Houston restaurateurs Christopher J. and Harris J. Pappas. The Pappas brothers lead Luby’s, with Christopher serving as president and C.E.O. and Harris as a director.

“They’re good operators, and they make excellent food,” Mr. Hodges said.

Luby’s exemplifies a recent tendency for the managers: a focus on their home state. The fund’s top three holdings as of May 31 all hailed from Texas: the Texas Pacific Land Trust as well as A. H. Belo, the media company, and Luby’s. Over all, nearly a third of the 30 stocks in the portfolio were Texas-based.

Texas Pacific, one of the Lone Star State’s largest landowners, has been part of the portfolio since 2006, Mr. Hodges said. The trust, created out of the bankruptcy of the Texas and Pacific Railway in the late 1800s, owns nearly a million Texas acres and generates income from oil-pumping royalties and cattle-grazing leases. “Every year, the land is worth more,” he said.
143 2013-07-07 THE protests in Brazil last month were the latest vivid reminder of the perils of investing in emerging markets. Tens of thousands of demonstrators thronged the streets of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other cities, incited partly by a rising cost of living and a slowing economy. Cars burned. Tear gas billowed. And the Brazilian stock market sank.

Yet Brazil was one of the investment darlings of the last decade — the “B” in the ballyhooed BRIC quartet that also included Russia, India and China. Brazil’s economy at times grew at a rate of more than 5 percent a year. Most years, its stock market rose by double digits — in 2009, it returned more than 100 percent. Millions of people moved from poverty into the middle class, and Brazilian companies, like the oil driller Petrobras and the mining concern Vale, attained international prominence.

So far this decade, though, the Brazilian stock market has been a bust. It has dropped by a cumulative 25.3 percent over the last three years, and it has dragged Latin America stock mutual funds down with it. In the first half of 2013, Latin America funds tracked by Morningstar lost almost 17 percent, on average. Over the last three years through June, they lost 4.6 percent a year, annualized. But over the much longer term, they have still fared the best among emerging-market regional funds tracked by Morningstar, returning 16.7 percent, annualized, over the last decade.

“Brazil needs to grow,” said Will Landers, manager of the BlackRock Latin America fund. “It has to deliver a G.D.P. growth rate above 2.5 percent, or investors are going to stay away.” Growth sagged in 2012, with gross domestic product increasing less than 1 percent.

As the bellwether for South American bourses, Brazil has had problems that affect investors in the entire region. Brazilian stocks account for nearly 60 percent of the MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America index and thus the same amount of passively managed funds, like the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America exchange-traded fund, that track the index. “You’re going to be investing in Brazil if you run a Latin America fund,” said Andres Calderon, manager of the Natixis Hansberger Emerging Latin America fund. Brazilian stocks recently made up about two-thirds of the assets of both Mr. Calderon’s and Mr. Landers’s funds.

Add in Mexico, the region’s other big economy, and Latin America funds can end up looking like concentrated bets on a couple of countries. Mexican companies recently accounted for 25 percent of the MSCI index, 22 percent of the BlackRock fund’s assets and 22 percent of the Natixis fund’s assets. The remaining countries in the MSCI index are Chile, Colombia and Peru.
144 2013-07-07 Mr. Daftary owns a number of the stocks in the weak-balance-sheet basket. These include Anadarko Petroleum, Time Warner and CBS, all strong performers this year.

The Goldman market basket doesn’t include financial stocks. But the Quaker fund’s portfolio does: It holds A.I.G., a company that has “absolutely” benefited from Fed purchases of mortgage-backed securities, Mr. Daftary said.

Don Hodges, who with his son Craig manages the Hodges Fund, also emphasizes out-of-favor stocks. “The interest-rate environment is definitely a positive,” he said. Across all industries, he added, “companies are paying down debt.”

This is especially helpful to many companies whose share prices plunged as a result of the financial crisis. “When everything gets trashed, stocks at the bottom of the pit get doubly trashed,” Mr. Hodges said. He has done well with A. H. Belo, the newspaper chain, and Luby’s, the restaurant company.

Investors have recently fretted over the prospect of cutbacks later this year in the Fed’s bond-buying program. Still, officials at the Fed have emphasized that its policy of near-zero short-term interest rates will not end soon.

Low rates and strong investor demand for yield, meanwhile, have set a picnic table for some companies looking to raise cash and refinance debt at lower cost. Last year, there were 192 offerings of BB debt — at the top end of speculative-grade ratings — that raised $107.2 billion, according to Standard & Poor’s. That was up from 126 companies and $68.5 billion in 2011. This year, the pace of BB borrowing has accelerated further.

About half of the total $652 billion in speculative-grade bond and leveraged loan issuance in 2011 and 2012 has gone toward refinancing debt, typically at lower rates, according to S.& P.

Apart from the benefits of Fed policies, stocks of companies with relatively weak financials have outperformed for another reason: many had become very cheap.

In the aftermath of the financial crisis, stocks perceived as high risk were shunned, said Bill Miller, who manages the Legg Mason Opportunity Trust. “Anything which had high perceived risk would tend to be radically mispriced,” Mr. Miller said. The Legg Mason fund owns housing stocks like KB Home and Pulte, along with the mortgage insurers MGIC Investment and Genworth Financial, which declined sharply during the crisis. All have thrived lately.

Fed policies like quantitative easing — direct purchases of bonds and other securities — have helped stock prices even as earnings growth has slowed, noted Richard Bernstein, chief executive of Richard Bernstein Advisors. The positive effects of quantitative easing “and the accompanying lower interest rates have been more powerful than has been the slowdown in earnings growth,” he wrote in early June.

Here’s one example of how Fed policies have helped a company: MGIC, the mortgage insurer, suffered years of financial loses after the housing bubble burst. Share prices bottomed last August at less than $1 a share. But with Fed policies easing credit access while helping to lift both housing and equity markets, MGIC was able to raise more than $1 billion in March in convertible and secondary stock offerings

Among the funds with the largest holdings in Goldman’s weak-balance-sheet basket is DFA Tax-Managed U.S. Marketwide Value. Jed Fogdall is a manager of the fund, which has sizable holdings in Anadarko, Kraft Foods, Thermo Fisher Scientific and Time Warner, all big winners in the first half this year.

The fund isn’t necessarily looking for weak-balance-sheet stocks — just cheap ones. It focuses on the 20 percent of Russell 1000 Value stocks that have the highest ratios of book-to-market value. “We hold these stocks because they have a higher expected rate of return,” Mr. Fogdall explained.

If the Fed ends its stimulative monetary policy, stocks with weaker balance sheets could be hit hard, of course. While this is a risk, Mr. Hodges doesn’t foresee an early end to the Fed’s low-interest-rate policies.

SOME fund managers, however, are not convinced that weak-balance-sheet stocks will continue to outperform.

Jeff Constantino, manager of the MFS Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock fund, acknowledged the advantages that leveraged companies have had under Fed policies. “They can roll over debt if they need to,” he said. “And they can refinance at lower rates.”

But he says he thinks their run may be nearing an end. “It’s possible that a lot of the outperformance of highly leveraged companies is behind us,” he said. He’s especially cautious about leveraged companies that also have cyclical characteristics.

He cited the example of industrial supply companies, also known as industrial distributors. “In the financial crisis, a lot of smaller industrial distributors weren’t able to invest in inventory,” he said. “The financing was so tight and they didn’t have the free cash flow.” That provided an opportunity for a better-heeled company, W. W. Grainger, which the MFS portfolio holds. “Grainger invested aggressively during the downturn,” he said. “They took substantial market share.”

Mr. Constantino isn’t fighting the Fed. But he says he is trying to stick with quality. “Even if we remain in a low-growth world with low interest rates, I still prefer to invest in high-quality companies with pricing power and significant cash flow that can be allocated to create value,” he said.
145 2013-07-07 Q. What are some lessons you’ve learned from mentors over the years?

A. I’ve had a lot of them. From my parents and my grandfather — he started a dry-cleaning business — I learned a level of mental toughness and the intestinal fortitude to have the guts to make some tough decisions and never give up. I’ve tried to refine those skills over the years.

The time I spent working with Howard Schultz at Starbucks [as president of Starbucks Entertainment] was a tremendous learning experience for me in a lot of ways. He was very disciplined in that he was such a thorough and deep thinker, and would really commit to diving in and looking closely at any particular situation, and would turn over every stone. But he would not get stuck on the analysis side, and would have the guts to make the decision, and not accept the status quo.

Q. You were Magic Johnson’s business partner for 12 years, doing real-estate development in many cities across the country. Tell me about that.

The sincerity that he displays when he’s in a room with other people is a special gift that he has, because he truly likes people. As we built our business, that was probably one of the biggest assets we had. It wasn’t just that he was a superstar athlete. If it was a different athlete making an investment presentation to a pension board, the result would be different. He had this ability to really communicate with people at a high level and to help them understand how authentic he is.

People do business with people they want to do business with, and that’s why we were successful early on in areas where we didn’t have a long track record. They trusted us, and they trusted the commitment, and it started with him walking in the room and people seeing him and trusting him, and trusting the team that we had put together.

Q. He’s a big personality. You seem pretty low-key. I assume that was a good combination?

A. I’ve always enjoyed being behind the scenes. With Earvin, it was perfect, because if there were 100 people in the room, 99 wanted to go talk to him. The other one who didn’t want to wait in the line would probably come and talk to me. But it was perfect, because it allowed me to really do what I love doing, and that’s building the business and putting deals together and making sure that the day-to-day work was handled in an appropriate fashion.

Q. Any other broad career advice that you would give to business school students?

A. I’m a guy who comes from hard work, and I’m a guy who comes with an approach that says, before I make a tough decision, I want to be on the ground, I want to roll up my sleeves and understand the opportunity. While I understand that analysis tells you what you need to hear in how you need to structure a deal, there’s a difference between deal makers and analysts. Analysts can tell you everything wrong with the deal; the deal maker is going to try to figure out a way to come up with a structure that makes sense.

That doesn’t mean you should ignore what the numbers tell you, but you should try to figure out a structure that mitigates your downside. I try to make sure they understand that deal-making takes some guts. You can’t develop that in a short period. You have to be willing to go out and get the experience, and not think that this is going to happen for you overnight.

You can speed up the learning curve by positioning yourself in a way so people who have the experience want to help you. You have to make it conducive for them to really want to provide you with the information. Then become a sponge. That will help accelerate some of it. Go to someone who has done this before and try to get them to provide you with some guidance, so you’re not reinventing the wheel. Some people think you get bonus points only if you come up with something that’s really cutting-edge and brand new. But if something has worked before, and it applies to what you’re doing, you should figure out how you can run with it.
146 2013-07-07 Repairing the U.C.I.’s image is perhaps the biggest challenge that cycling faces in the immediate future. Usada’s investigation, the nearly 1,000-page dossier that supported its ruling to bar Armstrong for life from cycling and strip him of his seven Tour titles, included details of questionable decision-making by U.C.I. officials in the last two decades. In one instance, officials accepted two donations totaling $125,000 from Armstrong, which his former teammates Tyler Hamilton and Floyd Landis said were to cover up a positive test for the banned blood booster EPO at the 2001 Tour of Switzerland. The U.C.I. president, Pat McQuaid, agreed to form an independent commission last fall to investigate the claims, but that has still not occurred.

McQuaid, who was in office at the time of the second Armstrong donation, said in an interview Tuesday that he was “still committed to the process.” McQuaid has not been known for self-reflection in his eight-year tenure at the helm of U.C.I.; he has used leadership tactics criticized as draconian, even turning to legal action to try to silence critics.

McQuaid defended his leadership style. “You don’t make omelets without breaking a few eggs,” he said. “I don’t profess to be soft and easygoing.”

That attitude may leave him without a job. The U.C.I. presidential election is in September, and McQuaid, who is Irish, had been running unopposed for a third term until Brian Cookson, the president of British Cycling, announced his candidacy in early June.

“His bullying and haranguing style seems designed to antagonize everyone who does not share his approach to the governance of world cycling,” Cookson said of McQuaid last week.

Cookson, also a U.C.I. board member, oversaw a revival of cycling in Britain. His credits include developing Team Sky, with whom Bradley Wiggins became the first Briton to win the Tour de France last year.

In a news conference June 24 in Paris, Cookson unveiled a campaign plan aimed at “restoring trust” in the U.C.I., highlighted by a reform of antidoping measures. McQuaid said Tuesday that cycling’s drug testing was as independent as possible.

But the U.C.I. still finances and supervises its antidoping efforts. And though measures appear to have become more effective since a “biological passport” was implemented in 2008 — stars like Alberto Contador have been suspended for doping, an unlikely proposition during the Armstrong era — the cycling union’s proximity to testing remains problematic.

“At the moment, the antidoping service within the U.C.I. headquarters is just down the corridor of the president’s office, so that can’t be right,” Cookson said in Paris, adding on his blog the next day, “There is a fundamental conflict of interest for an international federation if it is promoting its sport on one hand, but policing it on the other.”

Cookson is not an outlier. Many in the sport support an independent antidoping agency; the supporters include the professional cycling teams association, known by its French initials A.I.G.C.P.

The budgets for most teams competing in the Tour this month are “85 to 90 percent” sponsor financed, according to the teams association’s managing director, Luuc Eisenga. In recent years, cyclists and members of support staffs on numerous teams were sent scrambling when corporations pulled their sponsorships in the wake of doping scandals. For teams, supporting antidoping reform has become about more than fair play; it is now an essential part of the business plan.

“For all of the sponsors, it’s now more important to have a clean and fair sport and accept a second-place finish than having to risk being in an environment where people are trying to win at all costs,” said Eisenga, a former communications director for the Rabobank team.

But doping is not the only issue giving sponsors pause

The U.C.I. WorldTour, cycling’s top level of racing, which includes all the Grand Tours and less prestigious events like Paris-Nice, does not have the structural stability offered by other pro sports.

The teams that compete in the WorldTour are not permanent members but face an annual review by the U.C.I. It is often a formality, but admission is not guaranteed.

And riders are not guaranteed to be at every major race. The racing calendar — this year, there are 29 events over 10 months — has become a game of choice for many riders and teams. Vincenzo Nibali, the winner of the Giro d’Italia in May and the third-place finisher in the Tour last year, is skipping France this month in favor of the Vuelta a España, which begins in August.

“For a really sort of lightweight fan, learning about the sport is complicated,” said Jonathan Vaughters, the general manager of the Garmin-Sharp team. “It’s like, ‘Is this the cool race? Or is it this one?’ It has got to be simplified.”

Organizers of World Series Cycling think so, too. Last year, the group was in talks with U.C.I. to apply a Formula One-like makeover to the sport, developing a season of 10 four-day “Grand Prix” events, the three Grand Tours and a handful of spring classics. After traditionalists scoffed and others wondered what would happen to smaller but traditional races like the Tour of the Basque Country, McQuaid now says the U.C.I. will “not have anything to do” with the proposed format. But he, like Cookson, is in favor of changing cycling’s calendar.

“Everyone wants one main Tour, with the best teams and best riders where there’s a narrative that takes place over the course of a whole season,” he said. “No clashes of schedule, no races overlapping.”

But these structural overhauls will very likely take time. If anyone knows this, it is Vaughters. Before Eisenga led the teams association, Vaughters was its president, advocating for teams to have more bargaining power in the sport.

Teams have long had little influence in cycling, save for an occasional in-race demonstration over drug testing or dangerous road conditions. Vaughters, a Colorado native who raced professionally for a decade and was a member of Armstrong’s U.S. Postal squad, worked hard to change this, in part by repairing vital relationships in a teams association that had fallen apart. During his two terms spanning the last half-decade, he met frequently with other WorldTour team officials, often in airport lounges across Europe, to build a coalition that would stand together on long-term goals like seeking television revenue-sharing deals and, eventually, developing permanent franchises.

Though their ranks have grown to more than a dozen, finding consensus has been often difficult — a potentially groundbreaking television-revenue-sharing negotiation last year with Giro d’Italia organizers collapsed at the last minute.

“It didn’t happen at the end, but not because the Giro didn’t offer it, but because some teams dragged their feet,” Vaughters said. “There was a lack of understanding over to what this means. And there still is a lack of understanding to what this means a lot of times.”

This July, the Tour de France organizer Amaury Sports Organization, or A.S.O., will haul in at least 20 million euros (about $26 million) from its French TV contract alone; the rider wearing yellow on the Champs-Élysées will make 450,000 euros, about $580,000, which he will divide among his eight-man team. Though the A.S.O. is reluctant to disclose its revenues, a glance at the French company’s cycling holdings — Paris-Nice, Critérium du Dauphiné and, since 2008, the Vuelta — shows that it is certainly the sport’s biggest power player. Any changes that will be made to cycling will have to be done with the cooperation of the A.S.O.

“They effectively have control of the direction of the sport,” Vaughters said. “They think, ‘Oh, if the teams and athletes get together, we would lose a lot of our TV rights revenue, and it might devalue our business model.’ They have the biggest piece of the pie right now, so why change anything? But my argument would be how about we make the pie bigger?”

It does appear that A.S.O. is helping to affect change publicly and behind closed doors.

“Globalization is necessary, but we need to respect the roots of cycling,” the Tour president, Christian Prudhomme, said in March, echoing sentiments that many had expressed about World Series Cycling.

Professional cycling has had chances to renovate its image and its business practices before, most notably after the Festina doping affair in 1998. The next year, Armstrong won the first of seven Tour de France titles that would eventually be stripped.

Toward the end of a recent phone interview, Eisenga was asked why he thought lasting changes to the sport could be achieved now.

“For the first time in years, there are discussions going with all parties sitting around the table,” he said. “Organizers, teams, U.C.I., riders — everyone is aware that only a model where there is a general consensus from all stakeholders is something that’s going to work.”
147 2013-07-07 Although the military ousted Mr. Morsi in the name of national reconciliation, Mr. ElBaradei’s apparent rejection underscored the difficulty a military-appointed government may have in bridging Egypt’s divides. Mr. ElBaradei, who is respected worldwide for his work on nuclear issues for the United Nations, was a strong advocate of toppling President Mubarak, but has not enjoyed wide popularity on the Egyptian streets. He had considered running for president after Mr. Mubarak’s fall, but when he dropped out, disappointing his liberal supporters, many assumed that it was because he was unlikely to win.

Signs emerged almost immediately Saturday that the reported appointment was not final, with state TV making only passing references to the news and the Web site of Egypt’s flagship newspaper, Al Ahram, saying that the selection would be announced at a news conference that never materialized.

“This is how it is with a revolution,” said Rania Azab, a news media adviser for Mr. ElBaradei, 71, who insisted late Saturday that he had been chosen to form an interim cabinet. “You have to bear with us.” She did not respond to telephone calls after it became clear that Mr. ElBaradei’s appointment was not final.

In Washington, President Obama met with the National Security Council by conference call and condemned the continuing violence in Egypt, the White House said in a statement. Speaking as the political struggle unfolded in Cairo, he said that the United States was “not aligned with, and does not support, any particular Egyptian political party or group.”

Much of Saturday’s confusion played out on the Web of state news media built by Mr. Mubarak to shape Egyptians’ views of the world and their government’s role in it. The television stations and Web sites have struggled at times to find their role under Egypt’s successive rulers since Mr. Mubarak’s fall: first the military, then Mr. Morsi, and now Adli Mansour, a little-known jurist appointed president by the military.

Al Ahram reported that Mr. ElBaradei had been charged with forming a government and that he and his ministers would be sworn in once the full cabinet was formed. State television referred only briefly to Mr. ElBaradei’s appointment, showing a video of a news conference he held without broadcasting his remarks.

At another news conference that began later and ended near midnight, Ahmed al-Muslimani, a spokesman for Mr. Mansour, was jeered by reporters after telling them that no prime minister had been selected but that talks were continuing.

A reporter for the national news service snapped that all had been invited to see Mr. ElBaradei being officially named prime minister.

“There is no name for a prime minister up to this moment,” Mr. Muslimani repeated, smiling sheepishly. Asked whether Mr. ElBaradei was still a candidate, he would say only that a decision would be reached soon.

The political breakdown came as Egyptians buried their dead and treated their wounded while struggling to come to terms with the widespread street violence that began on Friday and left more than 30 people dead and 1,400 injured.

Rubble, shattered glass and spent shotgun shells littered intersections and bridges in Cairo, where battles between Islamist supporters of Mr. Morsi and those celebrating his removal had raged into the early morning.

Many were shocked by the level of violence and by the abundance of guns in the hands of the combatants, whose stark disagreement over who should be ruling the country followed them into hospital wards. A Coptic priest was shot dead in the northern Sinai Peninsula, and a video circulated showing what appeared to be Islamists pushing two youths from a concrete tower atop a building.

The violence was the most widespread since the revolution that toppled Mr. Mubarak, and many feared that it would make it harder for the country’s populace to again accept the authority of a single leader.

“We have no idea what’s going on,” said Muhammad Ahmed, 27, standing near the bed of a friend, Muhammad Ali, in Qasr al-Aini Hospital in Cairo. Mr. Ali had been shot in the abdomen and sprayed with birdshot in his back during a clash near Cairo University with pro-Morsi marchers.

The director of the hospital’s emergency unit, Dr. Hisham Abu Aisha, said Saturday that the hospital had admitted 83 injured people from the previous night’s clashes in Cairo neighborhoods. Most had been shot with birdshot, while others had been stabbed, beaten or hit with rocks.

Four bodies had been brought to the hospital, and another person had died in the emergency room.

Most disconcerting, Dr. Abu Aisha said, were the 15 people who had arrived with gunshot wounds, indicating a presence of guns among protesters that many in Cairo would have once found unthinkable.

Dr. Abu Aisha said the hardest part was the continuation of street fights in the sprawling hospital’s wards.

“There were dead and wounded from both sides, and they wanted to finish each other off, so they beat each other inside the hospital,” he said. “There is no agreement and everyone is sticking to their views and we can’t come up with a plan to move the country forward.”

Also Saturday, security officials said Khairat el-Shater, the powerful financier and strategist of Mr. Morsi’s Muslim Brotherhood movement, had been arrested. Prosecutors ordered the detention of him and three other prominent Brotherhood members on charges of inciting violence against protesters.

About 200 Brotherhood members were put on arrest lists after Mr. Morsi’s ouster. Some prominent members have been released, while others remain detained.

Mr. Mansour met with Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, who is the defense minister and leader of the armed forces, and also with the interior minister, Mohamed Ibrahim, who is in charge of the police, at the presidential palace that had been occupied by Mr. Morsi just last week.

Mr. Mansour, a former chief justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court, has spoken publicly only once since his swearing-in. Islamist supporters who consider Mr. Morsi’s removal a military coup continued their sit-in in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City and in front of the officers’ club of the Republican Guard, where some believe Mr. Morsi is being held. The authorities have given no information on Mr. Morsi’s location since his ouster.
148 2013-07-07 The Kaesong industrial park, just north of the heavily armed border, had been the last and best-known joint project of economic cooperation between the North and South until the North pulled out all its 53,000 workers in April. The South responded by withdrawing its factory managers and engineers at the end of April.

Both Koreas have since locked themselves in a tense standoff that has also become a test of wills for the two relatively new governments in the North and South.

The North has threatened to shut down the complex for good. The industrial park had been the only successful economic project of its kind for the isolated North. Its permanent closing would not only deprive North Korea of an important source of badly needed hard currency but also could scare away foreign investors that its young leader, Kim Jong-un, wanted to attract.

The conservative South Korean government, whose tough stand on North Korea remains popular among its people, insists that it has no intention of reopening the factory park unless North Korea convinces the South that it will never again shut it down arbitrarily for political reasons. But the Kaesong complex remained the last remaining toehold for South Korea’s efforts to use economic cooperation to help the North open up and move eventually toward the reunification of the peninsula.

In the border talks that started Saturday at the border village of Panmunjom, the most contentious issue was the South Korean demand for North Korea’s assurance that it would not sacrifice the factory park again for political reasons.

But time was running out for both governments, forcing them to reach the temporary compromise. With the onset of the rainy season, factory managers said that their long-idled facilities would start deteriorating unless they were restarted soon.

Last week, they urged the two Korean governments to reopen the complex soon or allow them to disassemble their facilities and relocate them elsewhere in Asia.

During the meeting, North Korean officials insisted that the two sides first discuss allowing South Korean engineers to return to Kaesong for maintenance work on their plants, according to a pool report by South Korean journalists from Panmunjom, the site of the talks.

“Most urgent is how we prevent the damage from the monsoon season,” the report quoted Pak Chol-su, the chief North Korean delegate, as saying.

But South Korea called on the North to honor “norms in international business,” demanding that it first allow South Korean factory owners to retrieve finished goods and raw materials from Kaesong to help relieve their financial difficulties.

“The North must clarify its position on the damage it had caused by unilaterally shutting down the industrial complex and must provide a clear assurance that it will never happen again,” the South Korean pool report quoted Suh Ho, the chief South Korean delegate, as saying.
149 2013-07-07 It is plain a cataclysm has occurred outside the makeshift classroom in Catherine Trieschmann’s recent play “How the World Began” at the Penguin Rep Theater. Exposed flooring and splintering posts frame James J. Fenton’s troubling set with allusions to devastation, and the back windows look out on a blasted tree amid an incongruous stand of grain.

The nature of the calamity looming over this ambitious play, which attempts with mixed success to deal with themes of faith and science, comes into view early on. Micah, an earnest high school student, questions his biology teacher, a newcomer named Susan, about a remark that has upset him. In the course of her lesson on the origins of life on planet Earth, she has casually written off nonscientific explanations — presumably including the Bible’s — as “gobbledygook.”

As Susan immediately realizes, this is a serious mistake in God-fearing Plainview, Kan., where a recent tornado has demolished the high school, destroyed farms and businesses and killed 17 people.

The disaster has also scarred the seemingly devout Micah, although we will not know in exactly what way until the last scene of the play. What we see at the beginning is that a routine, once-a-month test of the town’s tornado siren sends the boy diving headfirst under Susan’s desk. In a remarkable demonstration of physical acting from the talented Drigan Lee, he cowers there helplessly until Susan coaxes him out and slowly gets him upright again, improvising a relaxation regimen from her years of yoga classes. Andrea Maulella’s vivid portrayal shows us that Susan, a New Yorker whose unhappy past has brought her to this new job, pregnant and alone, needs her spiky, combative veneer to protect a tender core.

Between the satisfying acting — guided by the skilled hand of Penguin’s artistic director, Joe Brancato — and Ms. Trieschmann’s smooth, effective dialogue, “How the World Began” neatly and efficiently ropes in the audience. Those of us familiar with “Inherit the Wind” may well be skeptical about another play in which a schoolteacher will be pilloried for trying to teach small-town, small-minded Christian fundamentalists basic biology. And we worry not just because we have seen this scenario before but because Susan’s response to Micah’s initial challenge is not all that smart. If the student can get the better of the science teacher in this argument, why should fact-based types stick around to hear more?

But as it turns out, Ms. Trieschmann is not primarily interested in the ideas she bats around to get our attention. She is not rewriting “Inherit the Wind,” or any of the other dramas about the forces of enlightenment battling the forces of belief. Instead, “How the World Began” uses this never-ending conflict as a prism through which to explore the relationships developing among this particular student, this particular teacher and this very particular town.
150 2013-07-07 The block will have its debut with two new shows: “Axe Cop,” an anime-influenced series based on a Web comic written primarily by an elementary-school-age boy (with his older brother’s assistance), and “High School USA!,” which takes an Archie Comics-esque exterior and infuses it with dark, dirty humor. (The first episodes of each will be broadcast the Sunday before, July 21.)

The shows are the first elements of a long-term strategy to create something of a farm team for Fox’s long-dominant Sunday-night animation lineup, which, anchored by “The Simpsons,” has been the genre’s juggernaut.

Fox’s chairman for entertainment, Kevin Reilly, has committed to providing financing for three and a half years — one year of development and two and a half years of programming. In addition to the shows that make it to air, High-Def is trying to build a robust Web presence, with animated shorts and topical daily video snippets called GIFs.

“I don’t want it running through these halls — that’s a disaster,” Mr. Reilly said in his office on the Fox lot about seven miles from the High-Def office. “It’s got to have its own ethos.”

He added, “It’s the most fun I’m having, just because it is so unfettered, and everything else I do is like turning a barge.”

Mr. Reilly has given a long leash to Mr. Weidenfeld, formerly head of development for Adult Swim. He and his team moved into the office on Sunset in January, and it houses an incredibly young staff. Mr. Weidenfeld said he had tried not to hire anyone who’d ever paid to consume television, preferring to understand his employees’ generational viewing habits as a means of learning how better to promote his shows.

Another morning, Ben Jones, the creative director, was leading a class on the graphics editing program Pixen for the young artists who work on shorts in the office annex next door. Every now and again, he’d make a 1990s reference — say, “Hangin’ With Mr. Cooper” — and it was generally lost on them. Still, so far the artists have proved quick studies; several were already promoted from the shorts team to the main shows.

High-Def can be thought of as a quick-strike response to the molasses-slow process of traditional animation, in which episodes are storyboarded more than a year before their air date. “That’s a long time to wait to see if your show is funny or not,” said Matt Silverstein, one of the in-house show runners. “Chances are it’s not. Then what do you do?”

Often, Mr. Reilly said, a second season has to be picked up before the first one even has its premiere. What’s more, most of the actual animating is outsourced, typically to South Korea, and in a scene out of “Das Kapital,” there is little collaboration among writers, storyboard artists and the animators.

“It’s incredible to be doing all the animation under one roof,” said Rich Arons, key animator for “Axe Cop.” “That really hasn’t happened, I’d say, in about 25 years in the U.S.”

In contrast to typical network series, Fox owns this content, which also means it free to distribute it however it like, or to let viewers do so. A signature of the High-Def Web site will be a simple GIF maker so fans can put together their own clips of the shows and share them on social media. Plenty of television shows do well in the GIF ecosystem, but generally those GIFs are made illegally.

But High-Def writers and animators are working with these sorts of sharing opportunities in mind — “moments inside the shows that become GIF-able moments,” Mr. Weidenfeld said. He speaks about the form like a zealot (“I have a vision for how our audience can engage with our content”) as well as an industrialist (“Especially because there’s no audio, it’s just an ad — all it is, is a promotional tool”).

To execute his vision, Mr. Weidenfeld assembled a team with flexible skills.

It includes Mr. Jones, the creative director, who got his start as part of the Paper Rad art collective, and a pair of show runners, Mr. Silverstein and Dave Jeser, veterans of “The Cleveland Show” and “Drawn Together,” who serve as utility players, patching holes, sometimes punching up scripts, sometimes guiding young talent through formulating plot.

At Adult Swim, Mr. Weidenfeld’s first responsibility was to reach out to developers outside the traditional animation pipelines. Here, he’s working with untested talent as well: Joshua Miller, creator of “Golan the Insatiable,” about a warlord from another dimension who ends up exiled in Minnesota, had never worked in a writers’ room before, and the comically lethargic Lucas brothers (Kenny and Keith), despite some work on “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon,” still come off as if they’re just talking to one another, not for public consumption.

“Animation was better for us” than a live-action show, said Kenny, the talkier of the twins, though not by much. “We just have a lot of bizarre ideas.”

What the Lucas brothers’ show has in common with the rest of the High-Def programming is, Mr. Weidenfeld insists, a lack of cynicism. By contrast, Adult Swim was “not an optimistic channel,” he said.

High-Def will celebrate, he said, “the paramount importance of youth and love and friendship and hanging out and being awesome — not ironically awesome, just awesome.”

High-Def still works with Fox oversight — the GIFs and shorts are still subject to vetting by the legal and standards and practices departments. But plenty of randy things make it through, an indication that Fox is willing to test boundaries for now.

Mr. Weidenfeld said, “You have a TV network saying, ‘We recognize not that television is dying but there’s a change, and we are investing in figuring out how to succeed in the new era.’ ”

Mr. Reilly is also rolling out a similar plan for live-action comedy development, and Fox recently announced a partnership with the YouTube channel Wigs, as part of a live-action drama development plan.

Even on the less-scrutinized real estate of Saturday nights — previous Fox programming has included “MADtv,” a direct “Saturday Night Live” competitor, and two talk shows, “The Wanda Sykes Show” and “Talkshow With Spike Feresten” — High-Def will have to contend with the usual pesky metrics: advertising dollars and ratings. Viewership, at first, is “not going to statistically look very big,” Mr. Reilly said.

Hend Baghdady, High-Def’s executive in charge of production, said: “It’s going to take at least a year for people to understand that they can tune in on Saturday nights. The majority of our audience on a Saturday night is, like, playing Xbox, partying with their friends.”

But advertisers will be there from the beginning, and not in the usual ways. As opposed to relying on 30-second spots, Fox hopes to sell the block as a whole via partnerships that include High-Def-created ads that will be stylistically consistent with the rest of the programming.

After Mr. Weidenfeld was finished recording Mr. Johnston, he headed back to his modest office for a meeting with representatives of a well-regarded podcast. They were pitching a show that had all the mature-animation hallmarks — adult-aimed content, well-known guest stars doing voice roles.

Mr. Weidenfeld was polite, said he’d read the proposal more closely. By old measurements, it felt like a sure thing, but it was hard not to feel that given what else had been happening in the building that day, it was in no way the future.
151 2013-07-07 The ground floor in each town house will have a bedroom and bath, with a private garage to the rear. The parlor floor, which will have 20-foot ceilings, will house a living room, a dining room and an open kitchen that leads to a garden terrace. The third floor will be an open landing off a floating stairway. The fourth will have the master bedroom and bath, while the fifth will have two bedrooms and a bath. A stairway will lead to a roof terrace with a covered dining area.

The location of the project falls within the Dumbo Historic District, which was created in 2007 and protects about 90 buildings, mostly industrial, dating from around 1880 to 1920, so the developers had to obtain approval from the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. The five town houses will replace a one-story garage built in the 1950s that is being demolished, Mr. Pires said.

Alloy has previously converted two warehouse buildings to loft apartments in historic Dumbo. The developers said, though, that the design of the Dumbo Townhouses, being built from scratch, presented a challenge. Alloy decided against creating the 12-story building it could by rights have put up on the lot, leaving about half the zoned square footage unused — an unusual move for property developers.

A 12-story building would have been “way out of scale and not really appropriate,” Mr. Pires said, because “the scale of neighboring buildings is right around that three-, four-, five-story world.”

The landmarks commission supported not only the scale of the project, but also the rather unexpected use of concrete for the facade. Jared Della Valle, the president of Alloy, says that a handful of concrete buildings in the Dumbo historic district are some of the earliest in the city, including 20 Jay Street where Alloy has its offices, and that these served as a precedent.

The design of the Dumbo Townhouses “completely fits in with the neighborhood,” he said, “but it doesn’t duplicate the material qualities or details of the old buildings. It’s invented a new version that fits within the context of the neighborhood.”

The commission agreed; at a meeting March 12, Frederick Bland, a commissioner, even commented that the town houses were “a little landmark in the making.” Mr. Bland said he particularly appreciated the camouflaging of the town houses in a neighborhood where town houses would be out of context.

Mr. Della Valle said Alloy went with town houses as opposed to apartments because they would maximize the value of the square footage — which was necessary since development rights were going unused.

“There’s no elevator core, common stairways or machine rooms in town houses,” he said, “and we’re not building any square foot that we’re not selling.”

Besides the large windows, Alloy incorporated several skylights, including one in the master bedroom over the bed area, to make the town houses light and airy. Floors will be limestone and obsidian oak, and bathrooms will have marble slabs and glass panels, giving the homes a sleek, minimalist feel. The living room and master bedroom will have gas fireplaces.

Reaction to renderings of the town houses so far has been polarized, with some online commenters calling them “gorgeous” and others spurning the project as reminiscent of an “ugly office building from the ’70s.”

Ted Moncreiff, a 10-year Dumbo resident who recently bought a condo at 192 Water Street, another Alloy project, said that he appreciated the subtle reinterpretation of the area’s industrial themes in the town houses and that he hadn’t heard any criticism within the tightknit Dumbo community.

“There’s some pretty hideous contemporary architecture that’s been put up in the neighborhood,” he said. “If these were badly done modernism, I would probably be singing a different tune, but I like the renderings.”

Alloy, which never actively marketed its first two Dumbo projects, recently listed a second town house at an even higher price of $4.3 million, or $1,410 a square foot. “We’re seeing velocity when we’re not really asking for it,” Mr. Della Valle said. “So we’ll see, but those numbers are likely to move from where they are now — and they’re not going to go down.”
152 2013-07-07 For the most part, all the pretty horses are gone, at least from the bridle paths in Central Park. They were sent to new pastures in 2007, when the Claremont Riding Academy on West 89th Street was closed. By that time the park’s trails had become as rutted and stony as a route through Tora Bora. There’s often talk of bringing horses back to Central Park, but if they return, will they have a place to go?

Construction of the bridle paths was a serious engineering project, and in 1860s the Board of Commissioners experimented with the depth of fill, type of rubble, gravel, sand and other materials. The paths were sprinkled in the morning to settle the dust, and raked and rolled at the end of the day. They were treated to as much care as prize rosebushes.

Writing in an 1887 issue of New Monthly Magazine, the pseudonymous “A. Rider” reported that since the opening of the park two decades before, the number of horses in New York kept purely for pleasure — as opposed to work — had increased a hundredfold, totaling about 1,200. The Rider-writer observed that the park’s designers “were censured at the time of laying it out for allotting so much space to so little purpose,” but that on a fine afternoon in some sections there was a “passage of horsemen and horsewomen so constant as to assume the character of a procession.”

The writer added as an aside that many were doctors, “whose profession notoriously induces a fondness for horseflesh.”

It was generally acknowledged that even if most park users could not afford the riding habit, the spectacle of their betters on parade served an uplifting, or at least entertaining, purpose.

Just as the cyclists of today continually cry for more, horseback riders were always feeling the need for additional territory, but it proved impossible to connect the park to the bridle paths of Riverside Drive and farther north. , at least in 1913, thought enough was being spent on a special-interest group:

“5 1/4 miles of soft pathway in our best park is enough for them.”

Ten years later, runners got a beachhead, although temporarily, when they were allowed to take over the bridle paths three nights a week for Olympic training. An official of the private Riding Club told The Times it was no big deal: “Most of our members leave town for the summer.”
153 2013-07-07 If you really want to know what shape your hometown is in, just take a good look at the street you live on, trying to see it as a stranger might. That’s the simple, heartbreaking truth Lori Roy delivers, sotto voce, in UNTIL SHE COMES HOME (Dutton, $26.95), a quietly shocking account of the tiny tremors in the life of a city that warn of cataclysms to come.

In 1958, the residents of Alder Avenue aren’t paying much attention to the signs of decay in their pleasant working-class Detroit neighborhood. They do notice when Dutch Elm disease starts to attack some of their beautiful old trees, and they can hardly ignore the empty factories (“rotting shells surrounded by boarded-up restaurants and taverns”). But most people just assume that if they keep to their daily rituals — husbands going off to work and coming home to a nice dinner and a tidy house, wives cooking, cleaning, taking care of their men (including the widowers, who never learned to take care of themselves) — maybe everybody will stay safe from whatever dangers are out there, just beyond the front door.

The one thing these families can’t ignore is the wave of poor people moving ever closer. Prostitutes solicit the men on payday; broken glass litters the alleys; unwelcome new families are squeezing into the Filmore Apartments. Although everyone is alarmed when a black woman is murdered, no one panics until a helpless, childlike white woman disappears after leaving Grace Richardson’s house.

Kind, generous, beautiful Grace and her best friend, neurotic but well-intentioned Julia Wagner, are the nicest people on Alder Avenue and the most reliable witnesses to its gradual disintegration. The sense of community remains intact for a while, as the husbands organize search parties for the missing woman and the wives go on cooking so the searchers can maintain their strength. But, one by one, these good people start breaking down, revealing the sad and in some cases shameful secrets they’ve kept locked away. Roy executes these transformations with such a delicate touch that the subtle alterations in a marriage, a friendship, a neighborhood hardly register — until the day someone looks around and realizes that all the trees have died.

Venetians love to dress up in costumes and masks, especially in winter, during La Befana, the Feast of the Epiphany, and, of course, at Carnivale. Jonathan Holt puts a breathtaking spin on this charming custom in his first novel, THE ABOMINATION (Harper, $25.99), by inventing Carnivia, an elaborate computer game in which masked visitors enter a creepy 3-D mirror world of Venice. He also pulls off a nasty twist on the rituals of disguise when the body of a woman dressed as a Roman Catholic priest washes up on the steps of a church.

Unfortunately, Holt jumps the genre boundaries of police procedural, international thriller and political conspiracy potboiler for his overstuffed tale of a military, religious, criminal and political cabal. The plot is preposterous, but there’s something truly haunting about those glimpses into the mysterious shadow world of Carnivia, where masked avatars meet for assignations in perfect replicas of Venetian landmarks. And while some interesting, even desirable, men figure in the story, the action is entrusted to two strong female characters whose commitment to solving crimes against women is so fierce they turn the whole adventure into a declaration of feminist rage.
154 2013-07-07 DATA YOU CAN BELIEVE IN

Jim Rutenberg wrote a fascinating article about how analysts in the Obama campaign used high-tech precision targeting to win the 2012 election. The pesky problem is that we have no idea if this technology actually influenced voters. For all we know, people were swayed less by targeted advertising spots than by the presidential debates, news of Romney’s 47 percent gaffe or well-publicized improvements in the economy. The article promotes the widely held perception that social media and other new technology can unlock the keys to electoral success, just as earlier writers attributed great powers to television advertising and, before that, radio. RICHARD M. PERLOFF, Professor of Communication, Cleveland State University, Cleveland

While Rutenberg’s article adds considerable tech sex appeal to the ongoing saga of how data analytics are changing our world, his statement that “political marketing has usually lagged behind commercial marketing” deserves pushback. From the invention of modern guerrilla marketing (Dick Tuck’s pranks on Richard Nixon in the 1950s and 1960s) to the creation of the television commercial as event (Lyndon Johnson’s “Daisy” spot) to the campaign-pioneered “microtargeting” techniques that are increasingly on commercial clients’ radar screens, political marketing has often been ahead of the curve. Of course, that hasn’t been universally true — campaign strategists were relatively slow to deploy cable as a cost-reduction strategy in TV advertising, which Rutenberg somewhat wrongly characterizes as “the most expensive and least efficient way to reach voters” (it’s comparatively very efficient, but he’s right, network is pricey). Then again, there aren’t too many companies — or consultants — who’ve had a billion dollars to work with, all targeted to a single “one-day sale.” JEF LOEB, Chief Creative Officer, Brainchild Creative, San Francisco

Way too into this NYT article. I think my inner poli sci nerd is showing. @thedarkbit



THE PRICE OF LOYALTY IN SYRIA

This beautifully written and well-documented article demonstrates why the U.S., and any other right-thinking country, should not provide military support in any fashion to anyone in Syria. Its civil war is rooted in far more than the dictatorial Assad regimes. Humanitarian aid to all in need is vital. Outside attempts to secure a cease-fire and foster negotiations are worthwhile pursuits and may work. But they may not. Perhaps there is nothing outsiders can do other than hope for the best but expect the worst. Not all problems have “solutions.” ANTHONY NAPOLITANO, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Excellent piece, full of real-life moral ambiguity. My own thinking on Syria was affected by a young Syrian-American woman I know whose family is Christian. She recounts a story of her cousins inside their home in Syria wearing Western blouses and pants. There was a knock at the door. It was a bearded Sunni fundamentalist who said he had glimpsed them through the window and promised that if they wore those clothes after his side took over, they would be killed. Her Christian family believes it is better treated by the Assad government than it would be by any government of majority Sunnis. In a country with large minorities, it seems that having a leader from a minority community is the best way of ensuring minorities are protected. GREG WHINCUP, Sooke, British Columbia, Canada, posted on nytimes.com

Maybe we should stop worrying so much about our kids using iPads and just enjoy the quiet time. God knows we need it. J. CECILIA KJELLSTRAND, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

If you can’t “experience the ‘real world’ by sitting in front of a screen,” how can you experience it by reading? Books divert our attention from “the world around us” too, and it’s a good thing. Books and screens let us exercise our uniquely human capacity to transcend our immediate surroundings and enter the world of the imagination. FELICIA NIMUE ACKERMAN, Providence, R.I.
155 2013-07-08 McCARTHY--Janis E.,age 91, died peacefully at home on July 5. She was pre-deceased by her husband of 45 years, Allen D. McCarthy. Janis is survived by her children: Patricia, Allen Jr., James, Mary Detwiler, Elizabeth Frumberg, and Carey; and pre-...
156 2013-07-08 The New York attorney general is looking into early release of data after Thomson Reuters announced that it was suspending the release of a survey to clients who paid extra....
157 2013-07-08 Auto racing is sometimes derided as a nonsport, but new physiological research shows that driving stock cars is tough on the human body....
158 2013-07-08 An owner decides it’s time to go after the “middle-hanging fruit.”...
159 2013-07-08 Where the economy is headed in seven charts. Hiring beats the forecasts. A start-up has 30 days to live. Can you explain what a Bitcoin is?...
160 2013-07-08 Even though polls have shown little desire among voters for Eliot Spitzer to return to public office, he is ready to ask for forgiveness and to make the case why he is again qualified to serve....
161 2013-07-08 A sound housing finance system that insulates taxpayers against bailouts would require some private capital and let new firms enter the securitization business....
162 2013-07-08 David Price pitched a complete game to win his second straight start since returning from an injury, and the host Tampa Bay Rays capped a three-game sweep by beating the Chicago White Sox, 3-1, on Sunday.

Price allowed eight hits, striking out five batters and walking none. Price, the 2012 American League Cy Young Award winner, spent 47 days on the disabled list with a strained left triceps. In his first start after coming back, he struck out 10 in seven innings against Houston.

The Rays have won eight of nine to move a season-high nine games over .500.

INDIANS 9, TIGERS 6 Michael Brantley’s two-run homer in the eighth inning off Al Alburquerque helped host Cleveland snap a seven-game skid against Detroit.

Brantley also hit a solo homer in the sixth and had a career-high five runs batted in.

RANGERS 5, ASTROS 4 A. J. Pierzynski hit a three-run homer, Nelson Cruz had a tiebreaking single in the fifth inning and Texas beat visiting Houston.

Pierzynski gave the Rangers a 3-0 lead in the first inning with his eighth homer, a shot into the Texas bullpen in right field after consecutive walks to Elvis Andrus and Cruz by Erik Bedard.
163 2013-07-08 Janice Seamon-Molson of Hollywood, Fla., won the women’s pairs with Catherine d’Ovidio from France at the 6th European Open Championships in Ostend, Belgium, last month. They had enjoyed a comfortable lead, but one bad session brought the chasers back into contention.

The diagramed deal, just before the tournament’s end, righted their listing ship.

Seamon-Molson (South) considered responding two clubs, natural and game-forcing, but decided to start with one spade. Her two-no-trump rebid was an artificial inquiry, the three-spade reply by d’Ovidio (North) showing four-card spade support and a maximum.

West led the club four, lowest from an odd number or third highest from an even number. Now South was happy that she had not responded two clubs.

Declarer had at least two trump losers and a possible diamond loser. She needed to establish her club suit and hope to retain trump control.

South took East’s club ten with her queen, ruffed a club in the dummy (East played the eight, the higher of two remaining cards) and led a heart to her jack. Declarer was hoping that the finesse would win, so that she could discard her diamond loser on dummy’s heart ace.

However, West won with her queen and shifted to the diamond queen.

South won with dummy’s ace, played a heart to her king, ruffed another club in the dummy, cashed the spade ace and discarded her diamond loser on the heart ace.
164 2013-07-08 Working with Damon Albarn and Jamie Hewlett, the creators of Gorillaz, he has wrought a Chinese rock opera in Mandarin with mythic themes and a razzle-dazzle staging that incorporates animated sequences, kung-fu fighters, acrobats and contortionists. It has a little something for everybody, in other words, and the festival is selling it that way.

Ticket prices, for one thing, have a big spread, starting at a modest $25 and topping out at $250. At the moment, a spokeswoman for Lincoln Center said, ticket sales are “on track to make our goal.” She declined to explain what the goal was, but expectations are high, since the show was a big hit in Paris and in England (London and Manchester) and at the 2008 Spoleto Festival USA in Charleston, S.C.

To reach the Chinese media, here and abroad, Lincoln Center hired Wei Zhou, a publicist in Basking Ridge, N.J., to work local Chinese newspapers, television and radio, and the main television networks and news agencies in China. In similar fashion, Cornerstone was hired to reach a younger, culturally adventurous audience, starting with the Gorillaz fan base, for whom this show is not necessarily an easy sell. “Musically it’s totally different,” said Jon Cohen, a partner with Rob Stone, the company’s founder. “It takes place in a venue and a neighborhood that core fans do not know. They will have to have a reason to go to Lincoln Center.”

At the mall, Ms. Zhang’s team passed out “Monkey” fliers and cardboard fans, talked up the show and directed traffic to an information and ticketing table at the bottom of the down escalator. The canvassing was relentless. Before long, even babies in strollers were clutching promotional materials. Some shoppers, after quizzing the workers at the ticketing table, reached for their credit cards.

Lily Chow, buying tickets for her husband and two sons, said that she had seen many productions of “Journey to the West,” starting with a famous television series that Chinese Central Television broadcast in the 1970s. “I expect this one to be more like a Broadway musical,” she said.

Lapwah Yan, a Flushing resident, picked up a pair of tickets that she had reserved though the China Express Web site. “This combination of Western music and the Chinese story,” she said. “I think that’s interesting.”

Ms. Zhang, a native of Shanghai who now lives in Elmhurst, has also brought the “Monkey” message far beyond the mall. She has given presentations at community centers, Chinese-owned businesses and dance schools. Since the martial-art style known as monkey kung fu, or monkey fist, takes its inspiration from the hero of “Journey to the West,” Ms. Zhang has made appearances at kung-fu studios and plans to attend summer enrichment classes for Chinese students.

Ms. Zhou, the publicist, said: “Chinese parents would like their children to go. They want to encourage them to practice the language. Like my daughter. She doesn’t speak to me in Chinese. Also for the grandparents, who do not speak English — finally they can relax and enjoy the whole thing.”

While Ms. Zhang and her team were working the mall, Cornerstone’s field workers were spreading out across neighborhoods identified as “retail and lifestyle sites.” Earlier, they had hit Great GoogaMooga, the food and music festival in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, and AnimeNext, an annual festival in Somerset, N.J.

YouTube, Twitter and Tumbler loom large in Cornerstone’s strategy, as well as clued-in lifestyle blogs like Flavorpill, Bullett and Brooklyn Vegan. To rope in the indie-music crowd, they have worked with Web sites like Oh My Rockness and Consequence of Sound, as well as The Fader, the indie-music and culture magazine started by Mr. Stone and Mr. Cohen.

On a sticky night in late June, a team from Cornerstone emerged from the subway at 68th Street and Lexington Avenue. The assignment: work the line waiting to get into a Comedy Central show, part of SummerStage in Central Park.

Unexpectedly, a swarm of high school students in caps and gowns began gathering for a graduation ceremony at Hunter College. Taking advantage of this bonanza, the team worked the crowd for a while, then headed to the park. The comedy audience, wilting in the heat, eagerly accepted “Monkey” fans and, with plenty of time on their hands, studied the fliers.

A man reading over her shoulder said, “I would totally see that.”

The woman looked more closely at the flyer. “It’s, like, where the philharmonic is,” she said. “It’s legit.”
165 2013-07-08 Katrina Greenwood joined the Chicago office of Havas Worldwide in a new post, strategy director for the retail and direct marketing aspects of the Citibank account. She had been senior creative strategist for brand strategy at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe. Havas Worldwide is part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas.

Amanda Hines joined Forge Worldwide, Boston, as an account supervisor. She had been a senior account executive at Roundarch Isobar, Boston, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu.

IgnitionOne, New York, has completed a buyout, led by management, from its parent, Dentsu. Financial terms were not disclosed. In addition to senior managers, the buyout was financed by employees and ABS Capital Partners. IgnitionOne had been owned by Dentsu since 2010.

Peter Krasniqi joined Tapad, New York, in a new post, vice president and head of performance advertising. He had been iAd sales manager at Apple, based in New York.

Latitude, Minneapolis, hired three executives. They are Van Horgen, creative director and copywriter; Michael Murray, account director; and Jason Strong, executive creative director and designer.

Gayle Malone joined the Magnetic Collective, New York, in a new post, partner. She had been associate director for account planning at Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

MediaCom Sport, part of the MediaCom division of GroupM, a unit of WPP, opened its first office in Asia, in Singapore, to be led by Jin Wei Toh, who had been Singapore managing director at the Parallel Media Group Asia.

Palace Resorts, Doral, Fla., chose ISM, Boston, as its advertising agency of record in North America. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by the Newlink Group, Miami, which will continue to work with Palace Resorts, handling public relations.

Pascal Racheneur joined LSN Mobile, Atlanta, in a new post, senior vice president for products. He had been vice president for interactive media at AccuWeather.

Michael Racic joined the New York office of Rocket Fuel in a new post, vice president for category development. He had most recently been executive vice president and managing partner at Universal McCann, New York, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Relevant24 — which describes itself as an amalgam of publisher, advertising agency and multimedia content production company — was opened in Boston by Marc Gallucci, who is chief executive, and Lane Murphy, who is president.

Seth Rogin joined Mashable, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had been a vice president for advertising at The New York Times.

SK&G Advertising, Las Vegas, expanded further into Asia by forming a unit focused on the region. The unit, SK&G Asia Pacific, is based in Hong Kong and is teaming with the Tank, a Hong Kong agency that has worked for marketers like the Hong Kong Jockey Club.

Elaine Wong joined McGarryBowen, New York, as director for corporate communications. She had been director for corporate communications at ID Media, New York, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. McGarryBowen is part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu.

Po Yi joined the New York office of Venable as a partner in an expansion of the law firm’s advertising and marketing group. She had been vice president and chief advertising counsel at American Express, New York, serving as chief counsel to the chief marketing officer and global advertising and brand management group.
166 2013-07-08 ■ Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations, Nashville, part of the Bridgestone Corporation, named Publicis Dallas — part of the Publicis in the USA unit of Publicis Worldwide, owned by the Publicis Groupe — as its lead creative and strategic agency. Spending was estimated at more than $40 million. The account had been handled by the Richards Group, Dallas, which will continue to handle sports marketing assignments through its sports marketing unit. The move came 15 months after Bridgestone Americas shifted the creative duties for its Firestone brands from Richards to Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Proximo Spirits, Jersey City, selected agencies to handle the creative and media duties for Jose Cuervo tequila as Proximo assumes the duties of distributing the brand in the United States from Diageo. Spending last year by Diageo was estimated at more than $11 million. The creative account was awarded to McCann Erickson New York, part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide division of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. The media account was awarded to Gotham Direct, New York.

■ Motorola Mobility, now a part of Google, named Droga5, New York, as creative agency of record, working with Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, which will assist with creative and strategic duties, the agency said. Spending was not disclosed. The initial campaign from Droga5, which was introduced last week, promoted the next Motorola smartphone, Moto X, as the first to be “designed, engineered and assembled in the USA.”

■ Carlos Bayala, founding partner and executive creative director of Madre — the Buenos Aires office of Mother — was named to assume new duties at Mother, taking on a lead worldwide creative role as a global creative partner, working with the founders of Mother, Robert Saville and Mark Waites, as well as with Paul Malmstrom, partner at Mother New York. Mr. Bayala will also work on expanding Madre into other markets in Latin America.

■ Two agencies that have been affiliated for several years, Muse Communications and Quantasy, Culver City, Calif., are combining operations. Shelley Yamane, president of Muse, and Will Campbell, chief executive of Quantasy, will run day-to-day operations as co-presidents. Jo Muse continues as chairman and chief executive of Muse.

■ Publicis Groupe, Paris, acquired Bosz Digital, San José, Costa Rica, and, subject to approval by the local authorities, Bosz Digital Colombia, Bogota. Financial terms were not disclosed.
167 2013-07-09 For Fabrice Tourre, an unfavorable verdict could yield a fine, or a ban from the securities industry. For the S.E.C., the trial is a defining moment that follows one courtroom disappointment after another....
168 2013-07-09 We’re hosting the Open Source Science Fair on July 25, 2013....
169 2013-07-09 A chart last Sunday in the Mutual Funds Report, showing returns for categories of mutual funds, as well as leading and lagging funds, contained outdated data. Although the chart should have listed returns and funds for the second quarter and the 12 months ended June 30, those shown were for the first quarter and the 12 months ended March 31. A corrected chart is below.
170 2013-07-09 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
171 2013-07-09 They’re spending more than $1 million to (yet again) discredit President Obama’s health care law....
172 2013-07-09 In Japan, prospective adoptive parents need their family’s permission to adopt — and my father-in-law did not want to give his....
173 2013-07-09 Mr. Glover, who plays the former high school football star Troy Barnes, will appear in only 5 episodes of a planned 13-episode “Community” season....
174 2013-07-09 More than 4,000 people are still reported missing after flash floods hit Uttarakhand three weeks ago....
175 2013-07-09 NYSE Euronext said it won a contract to administer and improve the embattled London interbank offered rate, or Libor....
176 2013-07-09 It was your passion that led you to start a business. But now that you run the business, do you still do the things you were passionate about?...
177 2013-07-09 In an effort to avoid the huge storage tanks that natural gas-powered cars usually use, a company turned to an unusual approach: burning gasoline and natural gas together....
178 2013-07-09 Kevyn D. Orr, the state-appointed emergency financial manager for Detroit, has said that the chances of filing for bankruptcy, a possibility that could be decided as early as this month, stand at 50-50. On Wednesday, Mr. Orr is expected to lead 40 representatives of Detroit’s creditors on a bus tour of the city and its blight to let the bleak images of empty lots and shuttered firehouses make the argument that creditors should accept pennies on the dollars owed.

The prospect of a bankruptcy filing — a move that is extremely rare for cities and one that has never happened to an American city as populous as Detroit, with about 700,000 people — worries some residents. They say they fear that bankruptcy would add more stigma to a city that has contracted alarmingly in the decades since it was the nation’s fourth largest, starting in the 1920s, and that it might worsen already bare-bones services.

The notion that assets like Coleman A. Young International Airport, Belle Isle Park and the collections of the Detroit Institute of Arts might be sold — either in a formal bankruptcy proceeding or in a huge city reorganization outside of the court system — has fueled outrage.

“Bankruptcy scares me,” said LaTanya Boyce, a nurse practitioner. She urges her patients to treat health concerns before they become acute because, she said, “if they find themselves calling 911, it’s probably too late.”

But as with many here who have wrestled with the practical realities of living in this city, Ms. Boyce said she would not mind if some entity other than the city took over the management of Belle Isle, a park whose plan was conceived in the early 1880s by Frederick Law Olmsted. Ms. Boyce goes to the park for exercise, wearing a fanny pack that at times contains a gun — “Do you see any city police here?” — and bemoaning several locked restrooms that have portable toilets planted in front of them.

“I would love to see it leased to the state,” she said of the park. “They’d take better care.”

Recent developments among Detroit’s elected leaders have only added to the sense that significant changes in the city are perhaps even preferable. Two of the nine City Council members have resigned. (One said he was leaving to work for the emergency manager’s office.) Then, Charles Pugh, the Council president, had his salary stopped and power stripped by Mr. Orr after the councilman abruptly stopped showing up for meetings and disappeared from public view.

“Where Is Charles Pugh?” a headline at the top of the front page of The Detroit Free Press asked.

“For a lot of people, I think city government has become a nonentity here,” said Kurt Metzger, the director of Data Driven Detroit, which tracks demographic, economic and housing trends in the region. “People almost feel like the city goes on in spite of city government — that city government in this case certainly doesn’t define the city — and that affects how they’re feeling about what comes next.”

Recently, Mr. Orr indicated that Detroit was getting out of the business of electricity distribution. An independent authority is already planning to take control of the city’s streetlights, 40 percent of which, Mr. Orr’s office said, were not working in recent months. Similar handoffs are being weighed for the water and sewer services, and possibly more.

While many who have been through municipal bankruptcies say such moves often mean more budget cuts to city services, Mr. Orr has called for spending about $1.25 billion over the next 10 years on improving city infrastructure and services, including the police. Last week, James Craig, Mr. Orr’s choice for police chief, arrived to face a city that had seen five chiefs in as many years and had the highest rate of violent crime in 2012 of any city with more than 200,000 residents, according to a report by Mr. Orr.

“Whatever the solution is — a negotiated plan or a bankruptcy proceeding — the end result is going to be better services,” Bill Nowling, Mr. Orr’s spokesman, said. “This is all about getting Detroit strong, viable and solvent.”

Frank Ponder, 45, who works at a hospital here, said major changes in the city, even bankruptcy, now seem all but certain. “Everybody had all these ideas about saving Detroit, and nobody’s ideas actually worked,” he said. “At a certain point, you have to stop fooling yourself.”

The East Side house in which Mr. Ponder lives, once owned by his grandmother, is the only one on his block that appears to be occupied. He has been saving money for years in hopes of moving this fall to a suburb, Warren — and he expects to just walk away.

“What can you do?” he said. “Sell it? On that block?”

While corporations announced this year that they would donate money to the city in part to lease new emergency vehicles, there have been times in 2013, the authorities acknowledge, when only 10 to 14 of Detroit’s 36 ambulances have actually been in service. Some of the city’s emergency medical service vehicles have as many as 300,000 miles on them, so they tend to break down.

All this helps explain why Mr. Ponder said he, as so many here, would try to get himself to a hospital before seeking help from Detroit.

“If you have a heart attack, you’re dead,” he said. “There is no such thing around here as ‘in case of emergency.’ ”
179 2013-07-09 Mainstream news organizations in Turkey, fearful of government pressure, largely declined to cover the clashes, but images on a few television networks showed antiriot police officers chasing civilians down streets and firing water cannons as tear gas smoke rose in and around Taksim Square. Messages on Twitter, a hub of information during the media slowdown, showed pictures of the injured and of water cannons targeting small clusters of people.

At least six tear-gas canisters landed on the premises of the British Consulate, with Leigh Turner, the consul, sharing a photo on Twitter of guards reaching out to a smoking canister in the courtyard. Mr. Turner added a note that said, “All in Consulate-General safe.”

The head of the Istanbul Chamber of Physicians, as well as leaders of Taksim Solidarity, an umbrella group that represents a large group of protesters, were detained, as security operations continued along Istiklal Street, a pedestrian road frequented by tourists, and on side streets late into the day.

“Police encircled us when we were walking to the park after the governor publicly opened it and invited all citizens to enjoy it,” Ali Ozyurt, an executive member of the Istanbul Chamber of Physicians, said as he rode in a police vehicle. “If it is a crime to go to a public park, the governor incited this crime, so is equally guilty.”

The exact number of injured was unclear, but a 17-year-old was in critical condition after being hit in the head by a tear-gas canister, said Sami Yilmazturk, a member of Taksim Solidarity.

“Gezi Park was full of children and the elderly after it was officially opened, and we were on our way to gather for a forum,” Mr. Yilmazturk said, in reference to public assemblies in city parks that have replaced street protests as a form of grass-roots organizing. “Police pushed people out of the park by force and, as we were approaching the park, asked us whether we had permission to enter the park. I have never heard of such a permission.”

Members of the Chamber of Architects — which recently won a court case against the city, canceling the large project to redesign Taksim Square and rebuild a commercial replica of an Ottoman-era military barracks in place of Gezi Park — were dragged and beaten by the police before being detained, Mr. Yilmazturk said.

On Monday, a video widely shared on the Internet showed a middle-aged man firing a gun into the air on a side street with civilians around, raising fears that the confrontation between the protesters and the police could pave the way for civilian clashes between the government’s supporters and its critics.

After midnight, the police continued to chase groups on side streets but left Gezi Park to protesters, who chanted, “This is just the beginning” and “Our struggle will continue,” news outlets reported.
180 2013-07-09 They are “waiting for the good old lottery to come in,” Mr. Mancini said. “This ruling means that the lottery is past due. Their ticket has expired. They probably owe us money.”

Gov. Chris Christie, who has urged towns to publicly shame residents who refuse to sign easements, hailed the decision, as did the League of Municipalities.

The unanimous decision by the New Jersey Supreme Court did not specifically mention the storm last October, but lawyers who argued the case on either side said it was clear from the questioning by justices during the oral arguments in May that the storm was on their minds.

The case began with a $25 million project by federal, state and local governments to build a 22-foot-high sand dune along Long Beach Island, where there had been 16-foot dunes, and where several homes had been lost in a devastating storm in 1992.

To complete the project, towns along the entire length of the island had to secure easements from oceanfront residents. In Harvey Cedars, 18 of 82 residents, including Harvey and Phyllis Karan, refused to sign. In 2008, after the couple rejected the town’s offer to compensate them $300, Harvey Cedars moved to take the land by eminent domain, and the Karans pushed for a jury trial.

The couple’s home, built in 1973, had three stories with decks and views from the top two, and their real estate appraiser told the jury that it was worth $1.9 million before the town moved to take the land needed for the dune construction. The dune, the appraiser testified, would reduce the home’s value by $500,000. Mr. Karan testified that sitting on his deck he could see not “one iota of beach.”

The trial court refused to allow the jury to consider testimony from an expert witness for the town, a coastal engineer who testified that without the dune, the chance of a storm causing “catastrophic damage” to the house over a 30-year period was 56 percent. With the dune, the house would likely be spared from damage for 200 years or more.

The Supreme Court said the trial court should have allowed that testimony, and ordered the case back for a new trial.

It did not disagree that homeowners should be compensated when a municipality takes land for a public project. But it said they were entitled to fair market value, “not to a windfall.”

Fair market value might consider the view, the court said. “But it is also likely,” the court said, “that a rational purchaser would place a value on a protective barrier that shielded his property from partial or total destruction.”

Peter Wegener, a lawyer for the Karans, said that the wreckage along the shore after the storm “clearly spurred the court into action.”

“To try it after Sandy, it’s going to be hard to find a jury that’s not impacted by what that storm meant,” he said.

Lawrence Shapiro, who argued for the borough, said he expected that towns would have an easier time securing easements.

“People have the right not to sign,” he said, “but if the reason they are not signing is for big money, hopefully this will persuade them that that’s not likely in the offing.”

In Long Beach Township, Mr. Mancini, who owns a real estate agency in addition to being mayor, said that since Hurricane Sandy, “people are more interested in safety than they are in view.”
181 2013-07-09 Arthur J. Rosenthal, a publisher of intellectual masterworks in an era of fast-buck publishing who led Basic Books in the 1950s and ’60s and created a model for universities nationwide by leading Harvard University Press to solvency in the ’70s and ’80s, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93.

His death was confirmed by his son Jim.

Mr. Rosenthal, who founded Basic Books in 1952, let his taste in nonfiction and his quasi indifference to profit margins guide him as a publisher. But it was an early connection to the society of psychoanalysts (his mother ran a salon for psychoanalytic debate in their Manhattan home when he was growing up) that led Mr. Rosenthal to his first publishing deal, the three-volume official biography of Dr. Sigmund Freud by a disciple, Dr. Ernest Jones.

Dr. Jones’s biography, “The Life and Work of Sigmund Freud,” became one of the basic texts of Freud scholarship. Dr. Jones “only expected sales of about 600 copies to other psychoanalysts,” Mr. Rosenthal told The New York Times in 1985. “We had world rights and no contract, just a handshake.” The book became a mainstay of Basic Books.

Mr. Rosenthal’s interests in psychology, sociology, current affairs, history and philosophy led him to publish a library full of important social science volumes over the next decades, including early works by the behavioral scientists Jean Piaget and Erik Erikson.

In 1972, after selling Basic Books to Harper & Row for a reported $4 million, Mr. Rosenthal took his talents to the nonprofit Harvard Press, which had been faltering. There, his ability to bring what he called “borderline academic books” to a wider audience helped put the press in the black and served as a model for university presses elsewhere. He introduced new lists in science and technology, professionalized marketing and began picking winners.
182 2013-07-09 I suggest that the senators ask Mr. Comey these questions:

1. Will you maintain the F.B.I. ban on torture and coercing of statements and confessions? Would you instruct F.B.I. agents to investigate all credible reports, including those involving other federal personnel, of violations of Sections 2340 and 2441 of Title 18 of the United States Code, which define torture and war crimes? (In 2002, according to a Justice Department report, F.B.I. agents at created a “war crimes file” to document accusations of prisoner mistreatment by American military personnel, but an F.B.I. official ordered that the file be closed in 2003.)

2. In March 2004, you argued that the N.S.A. surveillance program was illegal. Do you still believe that the domestic communications of American citizens can be legally monitored by the government only with a judicially approved warrant? If so, what assurances about the warrantless surveillance scheme did Mr. Bush offer that persuaded you to stop opposing the program?

3. Do you stand by your statement, made at a Justice Department news conference in June 2004, that it was right to hold Jose Padilla, an American citizen who was arrested on American soil, in a military brig (for two years at that point) without charges?

4. Why, in April 2005, did you approve 13 harsh interrogation tactics, including waterboarding and up to 180 hours of sleep deprivation, for use on suspects by officers of the C.I.A.?

5. Do you stand by a speech in March 2009 in which you spoke of the need to “incapacitate” terrorists who could not be prosecuted, either because of a lack of sufficient evidence or because the information had been secretly provided by a foreign country? Do you believe that since procedures exist for “preventative detention” of people with dangerous mental illness, there should be a similar way to detain terrorism suspects without trial?

6. Do you believe there is a trade-off between civil liberties and national security, or do you think, as Mr. Obama stated when he ran for president, that this is a false choice? Where do you believe the balance between privacy and safety can be found, when the government has ready access to vast amounts of data collected by communications companies?

7. The N.S.A.’s data-mining operations seem to be sweeping up information involving foreigners and American citizens alike. How can we preserve the distinction between “non-U.S. persons” abroad, on whom officials have virtually unlimited authority to conduct surveillance, and “U.S. persons” inside our borders, on whom they lack authority to conduct warrantless surveillance?

8. Can you explain why the F.B.I. has submitted requests to the for phone call data, even though the data is to be directly furnished to the N.S.A.? How does the F.B.I. follow up on such requests to ensure that the N.S.A. is protecting the rights of American citizens?

9. Are the N.S.A.’s data-gathering efforts, disclosed in recent weeks, an outgrowth of Mr. Bush’s earlier warrantless surveillance program, to which you objected? Do they relate to the “Total Information Awareness” scheme proposed by , a retired admiral and former aide to , that was terminated after it was made public in 2002?

10. Do you believe that the F.B.I., in investigating a leak of classified information, was right in 2010 to call James Rosen, a reporter, a potential “co-conspirator”?

11. Officials say that great national harm will result from the disclosure of secret activities that are legally questionable. What do you think of this proposed remedy: The government should abide by international law and refrain from infringing on the rights of American citizens in the first place?
183 2013-07-09 As the controversy bubbled up, CBS emphatically said that it did not condone the prejudicial comments. It said the same thing in 2011, the last time there was outrage about hateful words on the show’s Internet stream. But to some viewers, this time felt different.

“I’ve watched all but two seasons of ‘Big Brother’ and have never seen players so vocal and unapologetic about their bigotry,” said Ragan Fox, an associate professor of communication studies at California State University, Long Beach, who is gay and was a contestant in 2010.

On June 30 he wrote an open letter to the producers urging them not to sanitize the television version of the show. “What’s the point,” he asked, “in casting gay, Asian-American and African-American characters if producers are going to edit out the racism and homophobia these contestants deal with while playing the game?”

Last Wednesday’s “Big Brother” came and went without any mention of the controversy. On Sunday, though, the show addressed some of it head-on, in a way that is unusual on broadcast television.

“It was ultimately part of the story in the house,” said Allison Grodner, an executive producer of “Big Brother” since its inception, who has defended the show’s choice to cut out isolated offensive comments in past seasons.

In this case Ms. Gries became the household’s temporary leader, causing several contestants to talk about how they disapproved of her abusive language. “That gave us a launching pad to be able to tell this story,” Ms. Grodner said. Several of the offensive clips were broadcast.

“I do feel it would be irresponsible to put hate on the airwaves just for hate’s sake,” she added. “You need to have some sort of context.”

In a statement on Monday afternoon, CBS said: “We are very mindful of the important issues that have been raised by these recent comments. With regard to the broadcast version, we are weighing carefully issues of broadcast standards, an obligation to inform the audience of important elements that influence the competition, and sensitivity to how any inappropriate comments are presented.”

Sunday’s show omitted some of the misogynistic and homophobic language used by others in the house, like Mr. Clawson, but it could come up in future episodes if it becomes part of the season narrative. (The show will end its season on Sept. 18.)

“I hope this establishes a precedent for future seasons,” Mr. Fox said in an e-mail after the episode. “When production turns a blind eye to racism, sexism and homophobia, they become complicit in the very forms of hate speech they actively deny.”

Rebutting some of the online fury of the past few days, Ms. Grodner said the show’s producers do not actively “look for people who might say things like this.” She suggested that “Big Brother” was simply mirroring real life, as ugly as it sometimes is.

“Your neighbor is probably using racial slurs behind closed doors, no offense to your neighbor,” she said, pausing before adding, “There’s a very important discussion here that people will hopefully have as a result of all this.”

In the meantime, the controversy has proved costly to Ms. Gries and Ms. Zimmerman. The modeling agency that represented Ms. Gries has dropped her contract — unbeknown to her, of course, since the people in the house don’t hear from the outside world — and she has been nicknamed “Klan Barbie” by some followers of the show.

Ms. Zimmerman has lost her job as a pageant coordinator. “We are actually thankful that this show let us see GinaMarie for who she truly is,” her employer said in a statement, “as we would never want her to be a role model to our future contestants.”
184 2013-07-09 The annual series of free Summergarden concerts, presented in the sculpture garden of the Museum of Modern Art, opened on Sunday night with players from the New Juilliard Ensemble performing four contemporary works. The garden, as a concert site, is both inviting and exasperating.

There is something special about an ensemble of dedicated young musicians performing a challenging contemporary work in this dramatic and secluded outdoor space. And the presenters have come up with a fairly subtle and effective amplification system. On the negative side, the music must compete with the rumble of cars and, now and then, a grinding truck on West 54th Street. Then there are the “other living beings,” as Joel Sachs, the founding director of the New Juilliard Ensemble, called the chirping birds who flocked to the courtyard trees, though once night falls, the birds mostly stop singing.

On Sunday night, the steamy weather was also a factor. Still, nearly 700 people turned up for the performance, overflowing the number of chairs until maximum capacity was reached and the garden gate was shut.

As usual, Mr. Sachs chose a fresh and involving program, with four New York premieres. This is the 21st year that the New Juilliard Ensemble has been part of Summergarden, and he drew vibrant and assured playing from the musicians, all current or recent Juilliard students.

The opening work, “Refractions at Summer Cloud Bay” (1989) by the Australian composer Nigel Westlake, is a quirky and engaging piece skillfully scored for five players on violin, viola and cello, clarinet and flute. It starts with a sudden chord that ignites a rising soft glissando, which bursts into every-which-way fidgety lines. When the first movement really gets going, it sounds like music trying to settle into something resembling a Neo-Classical Stravinsky serenade. But it remains impishly diffuse. An insistent third movement is dominated by a rustic piccolo tune.

The young American composer Ted Goldman writes that hearing his “digidigidha” (2011) is like “listening to lots of hypothetical pieces at once.” In effect, the players perform versions of musical ideas that Mr. Goldman came up with for this piece, sometimes playing them in succession but often at the same time. The result is not as crazed as the composer’s description suggests. The harmonically tart music, scored for six players, including a pianist, basically swings along in sputtering riffs that sometimes take time to ruminate.
185 2013-07-09 PARIS — Czech prosecutors asked the Parliament on Monday to strip former Prime Minister Petr Necas of immunity from prosecution. Law enforcement officials said the request was a prelude to charging Mr. Necas with corruption.

Mr. Necas would be the highest-level official to face corruption charges in the country since the fall of communism. A bookish, churchgoing father of four, Mr. Necas came to power in 2010 promising to clean up a culture of cronyism and corruption, but he was forced to resign last month after his chief of staff was charged with bribery and abuse of office.

The chief of staff — Jana Nagyova, a close confidante of Mr. Necas — is accused of ordering the secret services to spy on Mr. Necas’s estranged wife, whom he is divorcing. Ms. Nagyova has also been charged with offering bribes in the form of posts at state-owned companies to three members of Parliament who opposed a government austerity plan.

Prosecutors said they were examining whether Mr. Necas had links to the bribery scheme, which some analysts and supporters of Mr. Necas have dismissed as the routine trading of political favors rather than a criminal act.

Mr. Necas said on Monday that no agreement had been made with the three lawmakers, and that, in any case, political agreements could not be considered crimes. “It is not clear to me what I should be charged with,” he said in a statement. “So far, all the information we have shows that this whole case is about criminalizing political decisions. I refuse this approach. I find it unacceptable and I shall not accept it. I am ready to defend myself.”
186 2013-07-09 After the market closed, Alcoa reported a $119 million second-quarter loss, although its results excluding onetime charges exceeded analysts’ forecasts.

Alcoa fell 5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $7.87 in after-hours trading.

The Dow industrials rose 88.85 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 15,224.69. The S.& P. 500 gained 8.57 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 1,640.46.

Dell was among the big gainers in the S.& P. 500 index. An advisory firm recommended that shareholders support a plan by its founder, Michael S. Dell, to take the computer company private for $24.4 billion, or $13.65 a share. Dell rose 41 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $13.44.

The Russell 2000 index, an index of small-company stocks, closed at a record high of 1,009.25, having gained 18.8 percent this year.

The Nasdaq composite index rose just 5.45, or 0.2 percent, to 3,484.83, the smallest gain of the major indexes.

The Nasdaq was weighed down by a slump for Intel. The chip maker fell after a Citigroup analyst wrote that weak PC sales and diminishing demand for smartphones would stunt the company’s growth. Intel, which makes up 2.2 percent of the Nasdaq, fell 88 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $23.18.

Other chip makers also declined. Qualcomm dropped 96 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $59.99.

In government bond trading, the yield on the Treasury’s 10-year note pulled back from a two-year high of 2.74 percent late Friday. The yield fell to to 2.64 percent on Monday as the price of the 10-year note rose 26/32, to 

92 11/32.

The 10-year note’s yield jumped after the government reported stronger-than-expected hiring for June on Friday. Investors say they believe that the improving job market will prompt the Federal Reserve to ease back on its bond-buying program, which it undertook to keep interest rates low and spur borrowing and investing.

Stocks moved higher for the first five months of the year, supported by low interest rates, a recovering housing market and increased hiring. But the stock market began to pull back after the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, signaled on May 22 that the central bank might consider easing its stimulus.

Since then, stocks have gradually recouped losses as investors appear to be becoming more comfortable with higher interest rates.

“Interest rates, even though they’ve risen, are still incredibly low,” said Brent Schutte, a market strategist at BMO Private Bank. “Right now, increases in rates are a good thing, because it means the economy is doing a little bit better.”

The rising rates are still making bond investors nervous, though. Investors pulled a net $900 million from stock-focused mutual funds for the week that ended June 26, but they withdrew $28.1 billion from bond-focused mutual funds over the same period, according to data from the Investment Company Institute.
187 2013-07-10 BRISSON--Robert Pierre. Attorney-At-Law and Village Justice in Pleasantville NY, died July 7, 2013 at age 85 in Peabody MA. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth Phillips, six children, fourteen grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was a belo...
188 2013-07-10 The Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng has become a celebrity and a headache for the Chinese authorities.
189 2013-07-10 The new rule will fundamentally change the way that hedge funds, buyout firms and start-up companies raise money in the private marketplace....
190 2013-07-10 The top financial regulator in Massachusetts has asked 15 brokerage firms, including Merrill Lynch and LPL Financial, about the way they have marketed “high-risk, esoteric products” to older investors....
191 2013-07-10 Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, researchers have found brain changes in preschool-age children with depression that are not apparent in their nondepressed peers....
192 2013-07-10 The judge in Apple’s antitrust case, Denise L. Cote of United States District Court in Manhattan, concluded that Apple had wanted to announce its new iBookstore when it released the iPad on Jan. 27, 2010. It was important for Apple to announce the iBookstore with titles from a core group of major publishers. The judge said that the publishers wanted to take greater control of e-book pricing, which Amazon had set at a price point of $9.99, but feared retaliation from Amazon if they did not act in unison. The agreements that Apple and the publishers put in place established tiers of price points up to $14.99.

Apple seized the moment and brilliantly played its hand. Taking advantage of the Publisher Defendants’ fear of and frustration over Amazon’s pricing, as well as the tight window of opportunity created by the impending launch of the iPad on January 27 (the “Launch”), Apple garnered the signatures it needed to introduce the iBookstore at the Launch. View Page 11
193 2013-07-10 Carl Icahn’s call for shareholders to exercise appraisal rights is in some ways a surprising shift, since he has pushed them to reject the takeover bid. But it may be a last-ditch effort to seek a higher payout even if the deal goes through....
194 2013-07-10 Evercore Partners, an investment banking advisory firm, said on Wednesday that it was starting a private capital advisory business and had hired two UBS bankers to lead it....
195 2013-07-10 New features include greater speed, better place and traffic information and offline maps....
196 2013-07-10 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
197 2013-07-10 Dr. Gary H. Gibbons, the director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, estimates that even if the drugs were expensive and injected as many as two million Americans might be candidates. But if they could eventually be made affordable and in pill form — two very big ifs — they might be used by one in four adults, he said.

Despite major gains over the past half-century, heart disease remains the leading killer of Americans, causing nearly 600,000 deaths a year. Statins, the cholesterol-lowering drugs that went on the market in 1987, were a huge breakthrough, but far from a panacea.

The companies and many heart researchers hope they are closing in on a blockbuster, buoyed by success with preliminary studies. But Dr. Gibbons cautioned that critical large-scale studies that would tell whether the drugs actually prevent heart attacks and deaths are only starting.

“That will show if they are a game changer,” he said.

So far, people with stubbornly high cholesterol levels who are taking the drugs in preliminary studies have seen their LDL levels plunging from levels well over 100 to 50, 40, or even lower. Like insulin for diabetes, the drugs are injected, but they are taken once or twice a month.

Dr. Barry Gumbiner, who is directing Pfizer’s studies, said the company had to decide whether to set a floor for patients’ LDL levels. Pfizer is interrupting treatment when LDL levels reach 25 or lower. The people seemed fine, but the company got nervous.

“There is not a lot of experience treating people to LDL levels this low,” Dr. Gumbiner said.

And there is another concern: cost. Each company’s drug is a biologic, a so-called monoclonal antibody made in living cells at an enormous expense, like some new cancer drugs that are already straining the medical system. Amgen plans to make metric tons of its drug, much more, the company says, than any other biologic.

Insurers generally pay for drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and the number who might benefit from these cholesterol drugs dwarfs those who are helped by the biologic cancer drugs.

If the drugs come into use, researchers are asking, can cholesterol go too low?

The data point to increasing benefits with lower and lower LDL levels, said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a cholesterol researcher at the University of Pennsylvania and a consultant for Sanofi on its drug.

“If I had coronary disease, I would definitely try to drive my LDL to well below 50,” Dr. Rader said.

But with LDL levels falling so low in studies, Dr. Gibbons said, “We are in uncharted territory.”

The story of how these drugs came about began a decade ago. French researchers published a short note in the journal Nature Genetics reporting on three generations of a family with astonishingly high LDL levels — up to 466 — and a strong history of heart disease. Cholesterol, a yellow waxy substance that accumulates in clogged arteries, had piled up in their bodies. Some had cholesterol-laden nodules in their tendons that looked like bumps under the skin. The result was heart attacks, strokes and deaths from heart disease at an early age.

The cause of the family’s misfortune turned out to be a mutation in a gene called PCSK9, whose function was unknown.

Soon, researchers discovered that the gene slowed the body’s ability to rid itself of LDL. In the family studied by the French researchers, the mutated gene no longer worked properly and led to soaring cholesterol levels.

That gave Jonathan C. Cohen and Dr. Helen H. Hobbs of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas an idea. If a mutation in PCSK9 leads to high LDL levels, perhaps there were defects that did the opposite — led to very low levels of LDL and protected against heart disease.

They found what they were looking for in data from a federal study. About 2.5 percent of blacks — but not whites — in the study had a single mutated PCSK9 gene that no longer functioned. About 3.2 percent of whites had a less powerful mutation that hampered the gene but did not destroy it.

Since people have two copies of every gene, one inherited from each parent, those with the newly discovered mutations did not have two mutated genes like the aerobics instructor, but instead had one fully functioning PCSK9 gene and one that was disabled. Still, the impact was clear. Blacks ended up with LDL levels that were 28 percent lower than normal, averaging 100 instead of 138. Whites with the less powerful mutation had LDL levels that were about 15 percent lower.

And significantly, people with one copy of a disabled gene had lower than normal LDL levels for their entire lives. That is very different from what happens when people start taking drugs to reduce their LDL levels in middle age, after heart disease has had decades to develop.

Large studies of people who start taking cholesterol-lowering drugs in middle age found that for every percentage point drop in LDL, heart disease risk drops by the same percentage point.

What happens to heart disease risk in people with lifelong lower levels of LDL?

Dr. Hobbs and Dr. Cohen delved into data from a study that followed blacks ages 45 to 64 for 15 years to see if they developed symptoms of heart disease.

Those who had even a single mutated gene seemed almost immune to heart disease, even though many had risk factors, including high blood pressure, diabetes and smoking.

Whites who had the less powerful mutation had a 46 percent reduction in heart disease.

This led scientists to search for people who had a mutated gene from both parents. Dr. Cohen and Dr. Hobbs searched their data for a mother and father who both carried a mutation. They found one such couple and tested their daughter in 2006. She was the aerobics instructor with the rare double inheritance. The investigators are still in contact with her and say she remains healthy, but she declined to be interviewed.

Around the same time, South African researchers began their own search for those who have two copies of the gene and found a healthy young woman at a maternity clinic in Zimbabwe. The investigators no longer know her whereabouts.

But those two young women showed that people could be healthy and thrive with very low LDL cholesterol levels.

Then came the hard part: making a drug to create the effects of the mutations. The drug companies were transfixed by the idea, and each wanted to be the first to market it.

The prospect “was so hot it sizzled,” said Dr. Steven Nissen, the chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic and leader of an Amgen trial.

Amgen has readied three factories, in Colorado, Puerto Rico and Rhode Island, to make its drug. It is anticipating production on a scale never attempted before with a monoclonal antibody, a costly wager for a drug still being tested and likely years from approval.

A $70 million, four-story factory in West Warwick, R.I., is like something out of Brobdingnag in “Gulliver’s Travels,” a land populated by giants. At every stage of production, familiar science equipment has been blown up to a huge scale. Antibody-producing cells that would be housed in a glass flask in a research laboratory are grown in a stainless steel tank nearly the size of a fuel tank on a semi truck.

The companies want to be ready with large quantities of their versions of the drug if they are approved.

“The race is on to see who can do it,” said Dr. Joseph P. Miletich, the head of research and development translational sciences at Amgen.

As their factories were starting to produce the drugs, the companies began recruiting patients who were worried enough about their LDL levels to inject themselves with an experimental substance.

David Mayse, 60, who lives in South Point, Ohio, was 49 when he had his first heart attack while at work in a paper recycling plant. His doctor plied him with four different drugs to lower his cholesterol, to little avail. Then Mr. Mayse had another heart attack and bypass surgery. His doctor sent him to a cardiologist who called his cholesterol levels “outrageous” and asked Mr. Mayse if he would enter a clinical trial.

“I was willing to try anything at that point,” Mr. Mayse said.

In February 2012, he saw Dr. Evan A. Stein, who heads the Metabolic and Atherosclerosis Research Center in Cincinnati. Mr. Mayse’s LDL was 160 even though he was taking Vytorin, a combination of a statin and another drug to lower LDL levels.

Mr. Mayse enrolled in a study for Amgen’s experimental drug. His LDL fell to 42.

Ryan Schmidt, a patient of Dr. Rader’s, knew since childhood that he had a problem with cholesterol. So did his father, who had his first heart attack at 37 and died of a second at 59.

Mr. Schmidt, a brother and two sisters all inherited a genetic condition that caused extremely high cholesterol levels and a high risk of early death from heart disease. So Mr. Schmidt, 35, began taking a cholesterol-lowering medication when he was 8 years old. Even after statins came on the market, they did not reduce his LDL enough.

His cardiologist referred him to Dr. Rader, who specializes in difficult cases. After failing to significantly reduce Mr. Schmidt’s LDL levels with three drugs taken simultaneously, Dr. Rader suggested the Sanofi trial.

Mr. Schmidt and his wife hesitated for months.

“It’s not an F.D.A.-approved drug,” he said. “What if something happened to me?”

He was 17 when his father died and he had to abandon his dream of joining the military and go to work as a carpenter and cabinetmaker to help support his mother.

His father’s death “floats in my head,” Mr. Schmidt said. “I could just have a heart attack at any time.”

In March, he joined the study. He does not know if he is getting the drug or a placebo. But once his part in the trial ends, he will be able to take the drug, if he wants it, until the F.D.A. decides whether to approve it.

In the meantime, his genetic inheritance continues to shape his life. He and his wife would like to have children, but they plan to take in foster children or to adopt.

“I just don’t want to pass on that bad gene,” Mr. Schmidt said.
198 2013-07-10 “What they’ve told is he may be able to begin throwing in a couple of months, but that would put him in early September, and I don’t think that would be enough time for him to get back to the big leagues,” Ricco said.

Marcum joined the Mets this past winter on a one-year, $4 million contract with performance-based incentives. He is likely to end his Mets tenure with a 1-10 record and a 5.29 earned run average after 12 starts and 14 total appearances. His contract will be viewed as a failed investment in a player who always had injury concerns.

Earlier on Tuesday, the Mets placed the right-hander Brandon Lyon on unconditional release waivers. That news, along with the Marcum development, means that both players the Mets signed to major league contracts over the winter will contribute no further to the team. Lyon will be a free agent if he is not claimed by another team, but he will not enter the Mets’ minor league system. Lyon, 33, had a 4.98 earned run average over 341/3 innings for the Mets this season. He was signed over the winter to a one-year, $750,000 contract that included performance-based incentives.

The Mets recalled the right-hander Gonzalez Germen to take Marcum’s place on the roster, while Carlos Torres will slot into Marcum’s rotation spot for the time being. But Manager Terry Collins portrayed that as a stopgap, while expressing concern about the staff’s dwindling numbers.

The left-hander Johan Santana was ruled out for the season after he was found during spring training to have torn the anterior capsule in his left shoulder, the same injury he sustained in 2010. And the left-hander Jon Niese has been on the disabled list with shoulder pain and inflammation. Niese was cleared this week to begin a throwing program, and Collins said a quick return for him would be vital for the team.

“We’re starting to run out of options,” Collins said. “That’s where Jon Niese becomes a huge factor. We’ve got to get him back because we still have an entire half to go.”

He added: “I mean, we’re missing three-fifths of our rotation already this half. If that happens in the second half, I’m not sure where the replacements are going to come from.”

The Mets on Tuesday were still pondering how their rotation would shape up for the remainder of the week. The club will continue to monitor a blister on the right-hander Matt Harvey’s index finger, a problem that plagued him over his last few starts, and could affect how the Mets use him entering the All-Star break.

“We’re very, very happy with what the results were after he had it worked on last night and today,” Collins said.

Collins said the Mets were considering having Torres pitch Saturday, Harvey’s scheduled day to start. Collins has acknowledged that the Mets consider it important for Harvey to appear during the All-Star Game on July 16 at Citi Field, and Collins was asked whether Harvey’s workload Saturday depended more on his blister or his availability for the All-Star Game.

“It’s mostly about the finger, which has a little play with the All-Star Game, for sure,” Collins said.

Collins said he and pitching coach Dan Warthen were considering ways to reduce Harvey’s overall workload this season, which may involve cutting down his bullpen work between starts. But they ruled out a six-man rotation, partly because of a lack of arms.

After all, the Mets lost another starter Tuesday with Marcum’s gloomy diagnosis.
199 2013-07-10 Just two weeks after Rupert Murdoch’s newspaper division got a fresh start under a newly formed publishing company, an old problem resurfaced: hacking.

On Tuesday, the British Parliament called on Mr. Murdoch “to give evidence to discuss his comments” about the culture of paying off police that he made on March 6 to nearly two dozen journalists and newspaper executives from The Sun. A tape of the 45-minute conversation first emerged on the British investigative journalism Web site Exaro News on July 4.

On the audiotape, Mr. Murdoch listens to the journalists, nearly all of whom had been questioned for hacking and other illegal news-gathering practices, talk about the impact of the scandal on their lives. He told them, “I’m just as annoyed as you are at the police, and you’re directing it at me instead.” Through the conversation, Mr. Murdoch spoke in a gravelly and often indignant voice about how News of the World, now defunct, was targeted for practices that were largely commonplace in British journalism.

“One of our high-priced lawyers would say it’s our fault, but that situation existed at every newspaper in Fleet Street,” Mr. Murdoch said.

He also promised to continue to provide support to journalists even if they are found guilty.

“I will do everything in my power to give you total support, even if you’re convicted or get six months or whatever. I think it’s just outrageous,” he said, adding, “I don’t know of anybody or anything that did anything that wasn’t being done across Fleet Street and wasn’t the culture.”

Mr. Murdoch was invited back to appear before Parliament, according to a government official who would not be named under standard parliamentary rules. At this point, members of Parliament have not officially sent Mr. Murdoch an invitation and an interview is not expected to take place until after the House of Commons returns from its summer break. Because Mr. Murdoch has been invited and not summoned, the meeting will take place when Mr. Murdoch is in Britain.

Ashley Huston, a spokeswoman for News Corporation, said in a statement that “Mr. Murdoch welcomes the opportunity to return to the Select Committee and answer their questions. He looks forward to clearing up any misconceptions as soon as possible.”

Mr. Murdoch’s voice on the tapes sounds notably different from the more subdued tone he took when he spoke before Parliament about the hacking scandal that closed News of the World, forced the company to withdraw its takeover bid of British Sky Broadcasting, also known as BSkyB, and helped lead to the split of News Corporation into two separate companies. In July 2011, he appeared with his son James before the Culture, Media and Sport Committee, then in April 2012, he appeared before a judicial panel.
200 2013-07-10 For , there are not yet easy explanations for his uneasy, prolonged absence from the men’s tennis tour with physical and problems.

Fish spoke in largely veiled terms Tuesday about his problems, which included a heart irregularity.

“As far as the heart condition is concerned, I haven’t had any issues with this,” he said. “It has been a scary thing. So that’s behind me. And, you know, you’re just trying to get in the best possible mental state. You can’t play this game without being fit, and without being mentally fit and ready.”

Of his troubles over all, he said: “A lot of them are mental, a lot of them are physical. Some of them are other sorts of things that are out of our control. I know that it doesn’t help that I’m sort of dancing around the question, but it’s been very hard.”

The first signs of trouble for Fish began in last year when, after losing at the Open, he began to experience heart irregularities. He had corrective heart surgery in May and returned for most of the summer season. But he pulled out of the shortly before his fourth-round match against and did not return to the tour for the next six months, staying mostly at his home in .

“We will come out eventually with exactly what’s been going on,” Fish said. “And there’s some calculated things that I want to do to help other people that have been in my position, and that have gone through what I’ve gone through, and people that will go through what I’ve gone through, to help.

“Some days are better than others, some weeks are better than others. But I’ve sort of turned a corner.”
201 2013-07-10 Montebourg’s defenders say he represents the French tradition of dirigisme, wanting a king, desiring direction from the top, even though the government now, as part of the , has fewer tools. His matador boldness, contrasted with Hollande’s blandness, plus his anti-corruption crusades and suspicion of the market economy  — he even suggested temporary nationalization — have made him a champion to those who want a de gauche.

Some of his irritated colleagues at the Finance Ministry at Bercy refer to the Minister for Industrial Renewal as “the madman on the third floor.” It’s hard to fathom how he can be for deglobalization and foreign investment at the same time. But as he looks for unrealistic solutions to problems that may be insoluble, many here admire him for keeping his dukes up, which keeps their hopes up. A bit of an outsider himself — he did not get into the top political school, his grandfather was a wealthy Algerian and he calls the Algerian war and colonization unresolved — he relishes sticking it to the bourgeoisie.

As a young lawyer, he helped defend Christian Didier, the killer of René Bousquet, the Vichy chief of police who went above and beyond Nazi instructions to send Jews, including thousands of children, to death camps. In 1995, he nearly forced then-Prime Minister out of office over the legality of his apartment. In 2001, he petitioned to impeach President , under investigation for financial malfeasance. In 2011, he demanded that the louche apologize to Socialists.

He got into a sizzling row with the American tire titan Morry “The Grizz” Taylor after Taylor said he would not rescue a French factory because French workers are “lazy, overpaid and talk too much.” Montebourg dismisses that as “nonsense,” and told me that “in , one works less than in France, this needs to be known,” providing booklets to back it up. But, given conflicting French statistics, he may be living up to the sobriquet he awards himself: “professor of optimism.”

The French have to learn that if employers can’t fire someone for not working, they’ll never hire anyone. It’s hard to believe that the country that gave us a musical based on Victor Hugo’s revolutionaries really needs the government to guard against the latest remake of a bikini beach movie. But Montebourg defends the French threat to blow up the European-U.S. economic talks because they want to keep barriers to U.S. movies and television. Then he concludes, charmingly, “We love American movies.”

I ask him about another contentious move: blocking ’s from buying a controlling stake in DailyMotion, the French version of , which was denounced in a Times editorial as protectionism “grounded in meaningless nationalism.”

“I didn’t say no to Yahoo,” he insists. “I said let’s make it 50/50. Let’s go together and not let the big eat the small.” He told Yahoo it was not in such great shape and had “made several companies disappear.”

And to think Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Louis XIV’s finance minister, asked businessmen how the government could help. “Laissez-nous faire,” one replied, giving birth to the term.

“I agree with Romain Gary, who said that nationalism is to hate others, patriotism is to be proud of ourselves,” Montebourg says. Asked about the French , he says: “The problem comes from us. We doubt ourselves too much.”

He says he trusts to “clean up the mess” on N.S.A. snooping. “I blame , and all the Internet giants who agreed to spy on us,” he said, “so is going to be tougher on these companies.”

French business leaders are howling about Hollande’s wishy-washy economic policies. And , once excoriated by Montebourg as “a spoiled brat who uses France as a toy that does not belong to him,” is dropping a handkerchief.
202 2013-07-10 PRAGUE — A MIDDLE-AGED man sits in a cafe, sipping absinthe, the newspaper before him untouched. He stares at a shapely young woman perched mysteriously on the corner of his table. Naked as Eve, she is a translucent green. A waiter hovers nearby. Painted in 1901, Viktor Oliva’s “Absinthe Drinker” hangs in the venerable Cafe Slavia, which opened in 1884 and was a redoubt of dissident artists, from Vaclav Havel to Jiri Kolar, during the Communist era. Its temptress seems a fitting muse for a city where the absurdities of the public realm have often encouraged a retreat into the alcoholic and the erotic.

Last month, Czechs were thrust back into the world of the surreal. On June 12 and 13, some 400 police officers raided the offices of Prime Minister Petr Necas, the Defense Ministry, Prague’s city hall, other government offices, and several banks and homes. Stores of gold, and some $8 million in cash, were carted off. Nine senior officials — including the prime minister’s chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, and the present and former directors of military intelligence — were arrested and charged with corruption and misuse of power.

Four days later, Mr. Necas, leader of the center-right Civic Democrats, resigned. This week, prosecutors asked Parliament to strip him of legal immunity, a signal that he would face corruption charges. His closest aide, Ms. Nagyova, has been accused of ordering military intelligence agents to spy on her boss’s estranged wife and of offering jobs at state-owned companies to three lawmakers who had opposed a government austerity plan. President Milos Zeman has named Jiri Rusnok, a former finance minister from the opposition Social Democrats, to run a caretaker government until the next election.

Some observers are calling it the most serious crisis since the toppling of Communism in 1989. But taking the longer view leads to a different impression.

Just 30 years ago, waiters at Cafe Slavia might well have been working for the secret police, whose headquarters were just five minutes away. In 1968, after Soviet tanks crushed Alexander Dubcek’s short-lived Prague Spring, the writer Ivan Klima was interrogated there. He recalled how an earlier writer, Jan Neruda, had described it as “a run-down, destitute, gloomy place.” Mr. Klima was strangely comforted by the fact that the premises had not changed since the days of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy.

Prague abounded at the time with unusually well-educated furnace stokers, window cleaners and garbage collectors. The Communist dictator Gustav Husak had purged the professions and universities, shunting the intelligentsia into manual jobs that left them plenty of time for dreaming. With a Czech eye for deadpan irony, the policy was officially known as “normalization.” A contemporary joke ran: “Why do Czech policemen go in threes? One to read, one to write, and one to keep an eye on the two intellectuals.” Most Czechs took Voltaire’s advice from “Candide”: they tended their gardens, assuring anyone who asked that it was the best of all possible worlds. Others, like the characters in Milan Kundera’s novels, turned to the private consolations of the erotic.
203 2013-07-10 FORT HOOD, Tex. — Six Army officers were dismissed on Tuesday as potential jurors on the first day of jury selection in the murder trial of Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, the Fort Hood shooting suspect.

The first group of 20 potential jurors, who must be of Major Hasan’s rank or higher, arrived Tuesday afternoon from Army posts nationwide for the court-martial. Major Hasan, an Army psychiatrist, faces execution or life without parole if convicted in the 2009 rampage that killed 13 people and wounded nearly three dozen here.

The judge, Col. Tara A. Osborn, and prosecutors questioned the group for more than an hour. Major Hasan did not ask any questions.

Prosecutors said six in the group should be dismissed based on their answers in questionnaires and for other reasons; for example, one officer knew one of the 13 victims. The judge granted the request.

At a morning hearing hours before jury selection, last-minute issues were addressed. Major Hasan, an American-born Muslim, told the judge that he wanted to tell potential jurors that he was being forced to wear a military uniform that he believes represents “an enemy of Islam.”

It was unclear if Colonel Osborn would allow him to make that statement to potential jurors. Military defendants usually wear a dress uniform during a court-martial. However, both sides and the judge have agreed that Major Hasan, 42, can wear a camouflage uniform worn by troops in combat because it better meets his health-related needs as a paraplegic.
204 2013-07-10 Another allegation, reported by The Guardian newspaper, is that the Government Communications Headquarters, the British surveillance center, tapped fiber-optic cables carrying international telephone and Internet traffic, then shared the information with the N.S.A. This program, known as Tempora, involved attaching intercept probes to trans-Atlantic cables when they land on British shores from North America, the report said.

President François Hollande of France was among the first European leaders to express outrage at the revelations of American spying, and especially at accusations that the Americans had spied on French diplomatic posts in Washington and New York.

There is no evidence to date that French intelligence services were granted access to information from the N.S.A., Le Monde reported last week, however, that France’s external intelligence agency maintains a broad telecommunications data collection system of its own, amassing metadata on most, if not all, telephone calls, e-mails and Internet activity coming in and out of France.

Mr. Hollande and other officials have been notably less vocal regarding the claims advanced by Le Monde, which authorities in France have neither confirmed nor denied.

Given their bad experiences with domestic spying, first under the Nazis and then the former the East German secret police, Germans are touchy when it comes to issues of personal privacy and protection of their personal data. Guarantees ensuring the privacy of mail and all forms of long-distance communications are enshrined in Article 10 of their Constitution.

When the extent of the American spying in Germany came to light the chancellor’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, decried such behavior as “unacceptable,” insisting that, “We are no longer in the cold war.”

But experts say ties between the intelligence services remain rooted in agreements stemming from that era, when West Germany depended on the United States to protect it from the former Soviet Union and its allies in the East.

“Of course the German government is very deeply entwined with the American intelligence services,” said Josef Foschepoth, a German historian from Freiburg University. Mr. Foschepoth spent several years combing through Germany’s federal archives, including formerly classified documents from the 1950s and 1960s, in an effort to uncover the roots of the trans-Atlantic cooperation.

In 1965, Germany’s foreign intelligence service, known by the initials BND, was created. Three years later, the West Germans signed a cooperation agreement effectively binding the Germans to an intensive exchange of information that continues up to the present day, despite changes to the agreements.

The attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, in the United States saw a fresh commitment by the Germans to cooperate with the Americans in the global war against terror. Using technology developed by the Americans and used by the N.S.A., the BND monitors networks from the Middle East, filtering the information before sending it to Washington, said Erich Schmidt-Eenboom, an expert on secret services who runs the Research Institute for Peace Politics in Bavaria.

In exchange, Washington shares intelligence with Germany that authorities here say has been essential to preventing terror attacks similar to those in Madrid or London. It is a matter of pride among German authorities that they have been able to swoop in and detain suspects, preventing several plots from being carried out.

By focusing the current public debate in Germany on the issue of personal data, experts say Chancellor Angela Merkel is able to steer clear of the stickier questions about Germany’s own surveillance programs and a long history of intelligence sharing with the United States, which still makes many Germans deeply uncomfortable, more than two decades after the end of the cold war.

“Every postwar German government, at some point, has been confronted with this problem,” Mr. Foschepoth said of the surveillance scandal. “The way that the chancellor is handling it shows that she knows very well, she is very well informed and she wants the issue to fade away.”
205 2013-07-10 The original Company of Heroes, released in 2006, was a real-time strategy war game built around the concepts of cover and directional fire, suppression and morale. Players had to use actual battlefield strategies to move squads of soldiers to success in dramatic, tense battles that were viewed, in the manner of the genre, from above.

The new Company of Heroes has ditched Western Europe for the Eastern Front. This brutal World War II arena and the weather in the game afford more than a cosmetic effect. Snowstorms will slow your forces and even kill them if they’re out in the open too long; frozen rivers can be blown open to block passage or sink enemy forces.

The new game’s weakness is its slow-paced and awkwardly moralizing single-player campaign. Outside of its 14 solo missions, the game shines in a competitive multiplayer setting. It’s even better in a new hybrid mode called Theater of War that can be played alone or cooperatively with a friend. The skirmishes in this mode include battles with specific conditions and focused objectives, like holding a small base against waves of attacks. Even without the narrative of the campaign or the blank canvas of a multiplayer match, the Theater of War mode brings out the very best in the game.

Behold Game & Wario, one of the weirdest pieces of software ever from Nintendo — a game that is not a great but that is a comedic must-play.

There are 12 so-called mini-games here, each a brief diversion that uses the Wii U console’s pairing of a TV screen with the special new controller that has its own built-in screen. The combination is used for a photography mini-game that turns the controller’s screen into a viewfinder through which players can snap pictures of characters on the television. Another has the real-life gamer role-playing as a boy who is trying to play games under his bedcovers without being caught by his mom.

Most of the mini-games have limited appeal. The surprise winning elements of Game & Wario are the dozens of essentially interactive comedy pieces that can be unlocked. They are bizarre: Nintendo by way of Dadaism.

One is a primitively illustrated fever dream synopsis of Super Mario Bros., presented as a phone call by a sad man. Another depicts a classroom of miscreant students on the television. They sit behind a teacher whose head is shaped like the Wii U controller. In real life, the controller’s screen depicts the teacher’s face. Hold the controller so it faces away from the students, and the kids goof off. Turn it toward the TV, and the teacher yells; the kids behave.

Another odd, unlockable piece features blinking eyes that look at the player while the player looks at them. In between the opposing gazes is a small gnome’s house, full of furniture that can be shaken up.

Game & Wario is not the stellar creation that the Wii U needs. But it is a stunning library of interactive weirdness.

One of the most popular puzzle games on Android and iOS platforms right now does not contain birds, angry or otherwise. There are no rotating blocks. You don’t have to match three of anything, and power-ups are unnecessary. Shapes, colors and sounds — those are all that Color Zen needs.

Color Zen is a puzzle game, but it’s also abstract art in which your mind is a key component. Each game board consists of multiple colored shapes. The player must fill the screen with the color indicated by the border of the board by dragging any two shapes of the same color together. That’s easy when the border is blue, and the only two shapes in the playing field are blue. It’s not so easy when the more difficult levels contain six colors and dozens of shapes.

By the second set of puzzles, the game has introduced white, which works as a wild card, adding a little spice. Intuition mixes with logic, and the game comes alive, though in a completely nonthreatening sort of way.

Players will murder their own characters a hundred times over in the Swapper, and it never gets any easier.

The heart of this award-winning indie puzzler from Facepalm Games is the ability to create artificial, soulless clones of the lead character, who must be taken through a series of complicated rooms and caverns. These clones are mindless golems handmade from clay. They move only as the player moves the main character, mirror images with weight and substance.

It seems that only one person, an unnamed astronaut, has survived the strange plague that has swept the Theseus space station. At first the Swapper gun he wields is merely a convenient tool to create help. When more than one button needs to be pushed, being able to conjure up four clones out of thin air is wonderful. But soon the player gains the ability to swap the protagonist’s consciousness into these created vessels, sending his free will spiraling out of one body, leaving the original body behind as a collapsing flesh puppet. Each transfer from one body to the next brings some sadness.

There is progress here in a game filled with smart puzzles. That excellence is entwined with melancholy at the repeated abandonment of the old self.
206 2013-07-10 MOSCOW — Russian prosecutors said Tuesday that 215 nongovernmental organizations had violated a contentious new Russian law that requires them to register as “foreign agents,” potentially setting the stage for a new wave of legal confrontations.

Russia’s general prosecutor, Yuri Y. Chaika, reported on the results of a law passed last November, which requires nonprofit groups to label themselves foreign agents if they receive financing from overseas and are deemed to engage in political activities. Most nonprofits here resolved to defy the new law, saying the term foreign agent is redolent of cold war espionage and would discredit their work in the eyes of the public.

Mr. Chaika said that most organizations had “either suspended their operations or abandoned foreign financing” after the law went into effect, and that 22 groups continued to use funds from abroad in defiance of the law. He said the 215 organizations had received a cumulative 6 billion rubles, or about $180 million, in the course of three years. Seventeen organizations, he said, received financing through foreign embassies.

President Vladimir V. Putin has accused foreign governments of using nonprofit organizations to undermine Russia’s political system, but on Tuesday he suggested that Mr. Chaika show lenience.

“Analyze this practice to avoid errors and to see if any organization has been rated as a foreign agent, although it does not engage in politics,” he said, according to Interfax.
207 2013-07-10 “This was the law. How can they change the law?” he asked.

For its part, the White House continued to look flat-footed on the issue. After an almost surreptitious evening announcement of the delay last week, posted on the Treasury Department’s Web site, the White House is declining to send a representative to a House hearing on the decision that is scheduled for Wednesday. An administration official might testify next week.

In the postponement of the employer mandate, Republicans see an opportunity to sound a populist alarm against a health care law that many Americans remain uncertain about.

“I never thought I’d see the day when the White House, this president, came down on the side of big business, but left the American people out in the cold as far as this health care mandate is concerned,” said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader.

Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said such criticism was absurd. The Republican position on many issues is to “hug big business while leaving the American people out in the cold,” he said.

But on this issue, Republicans have new policy arguments to add to the political attacks that have preceded nearly 40 votes to repeal all or part of the health care law. The White House announced on July 2 that it would delay, until 2015, a requirement that larger employers offer coverage to employees.

On Friday, the administration said that it would delay a requirement for federal and state insurance exchanges to verify whether people seeking subsidies qualify for them.

The subsidies, expected to average more than $5,000 a year for each person who qualifies, are meant to help low- and middle-income people pay for insurance. However, the subsidies are not supposed to be available to people who have access to affordable coverage from employers.

In 2014, employers will not be required to report what coverage, if any, they provide to employees. In the absence of such information from employers and other sources, the government said, exchanges can generally rely on what applicants say.

That, too ,became a rallying cry for Republicans.

“The president’s decision to use the honor system to hand out subsidies, I think, exposes taxpayers to massive fraud and abuse,” Mr. Boehner said.

White House officials said that even without the employer mandate, subsidies would not be handed out blindly to individuals. But Mr. Levin conceded that “there will be some reliance on the honesty of people,” with audits, random checks or other safeguards to verify what people report.

Republicans insisted that Democratic unity on the health care law would begin to crack. Mr. Boehner told House Republicans that the law was a “rickety old stool,” standing on the individual mandate, the employer mandate and a few other provisions.

“The president himself kicked one of those legs out from under the stool last week,” he told lawmakers, according to aides. Delaying the individual mandate would kick out another leg, he added.

But at least for now, Democrats did not show signs of abandoning the individual mandate.

“If you take away the individual mandate, that would dismantle a core concept of universal coverage,” said Representative Jim McDermott of Washington, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means subcommittee on health. “We have been waiting for national health care coverage since Teddy Roosevelt, for more than 100 years. One more year is not the end of the earth.”
208 2013-07-10 The door is closing on Saul Bolton’s restaurant on Smith Street in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Sunday will be its last day. But this is a happier story than the usual tale of a lost lease. The restaurant will be reborn in the fall in the Brooklyn Museum, perhaps as the borough’s answer to the Modern. The museum and its food service operator, Restaurant Associates, courted Mr. Bolton. And keeping the original Saul open was not an option. “They wanted it to be moved,” Mr. Bolton said. Yet to be decided are the new name and the fate of the Smith Street location. “We own the building,” Mr. Bolton said. “It’s our retirement.” Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn.

THE ELM If Corton is grand cru, Paul Liebrandt’s latest is easygoing Provençal rosé — a drink that would go nicely with his menu of crudités, foie gras and turbot for two. The chef de cuisine is Mazen Mustafa. (Opens Friday): King & Grove Williamsburg hotel, 160 North 12th Street (Bedford Avenue), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 218-1088; theelmnyc.com.

KING NOODLE  If not king, noodles are plenty creative at Nick Subic’s restaurant, with choices like kimchi carbonara, and green curry flat noodles. Snacks to start include glazed ribs and long bean salad. Keith Kenji Cochran, a partner, is concocting tropical drinks. (Wednesday): 1045 Flushing Avenue (Morgan Avenue), Bushwick, Brooklyn; (718) 456-6543; kingnoodlebk.com.

LUKSUS Daniel Burns is opening a back-room tasting-menu restaurant at his beer bar Torst. The $75 five-course menu changes daily and has a Scandinavian accent. Jeppe Jarnit-Bjergso offers optional beer pairings, $45. (Tuesday): 615 Manhattan Avenue (Nassau Avenue), Greenpoint, Brooklyn; (718) 389-6034; luksusnyc.com.

MINUS5 ICE BAR Get your chill on (and perhaps a furry throw) at this New York edition of a Las Vegas curiosity, where everything, including the glassware, is carved from blocks of ice: New York Hilton, 1335 Avenue of the Americas (53rd Street); (212) 757-4610; minus5experience.com.

A BATTERSBY SEQUEL Joe Ogrodnek and Walker Stern will open a restaurant in the fall along the lines of their Battersby but twice the size. They plan to accept reservations, an amenity that has just been added at Battersby, at battersbybrooklyn.com: 412 Court Street (First Place), Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.
209 2013-07-10 Ms. Marenoff-Zausner said a structure for the Enterprise, which was the prototype for the shuttles that carried astronauts into orbit, would raise it one story above street level to protect it from flooding. With the shuttle’s 122-foot length, displaying the Enterprise upright would require that structure to be as tall as a 13-story building.

“When Sandy hit, everything just got put on hold,” Ms. Marenoff-Zausner said in an interview. She said the long-term plan for the Enterprise had not changed: “We’re looking to build a museum around the shuttle.”

The path to that goal has been rocky. The Enterprise has been damaged twice since it arrived in New York City in April 2012 on the back of a 747 jet.

One of its wings was chipped while it was being moved by barge from Kennedy International Airport to the Intrepid. Then, just three months after the Enterprise was put on display in an inflatable pavilion on the Intrepid’s flight deck, Hurricane Sandy swamped the power source that kept that bubble inflated. The storm’s winds shredded the material protecting the shuttle and left its vertical stabilizer damaged.

That will not happen again, Ms. Marenoff-Zausner said, because the inflatable pavilion’s replacement, which is made of metal, is “solid.” It can withstand “a higher level of hurricane than what we had,” she said.

In addition to the museum’s regular admission price of as much as $24, adults will be charged $7 to enter the pavilion. When the first pavilion opened last summer, the premium was $6.

The foundation that operates the museum has not started to raise money to build a permanent home for the Enterprise. The Enterprise is likely to remain in its new pavilion for at least a few years, but Ms. Marenoff-Zausner said that leaving it there permanently was “not really on the table.”

Nor, it seems, is buying the lot across the highway. Two appraisals set its value at about $40 million, which the Transportation Department considers fair, a spokesman, Beau Duffy, said. At that value, the rent should be about $2.4 million a year, according to documents the department provided.

Lawyers for the Intrepid argue that the state transportation commissioner has the discretion to lower the price for a less-commercial use of the land, like for a museum. But the department had not agreed to do that before discussions were suspended after the hurricane struck.

Mr. Duffy said that the department had not decided whether it would lease the lot to the Intrepid and that it was “still in the fact-finding stage of the process.”
210 2013-07-10 The shooting was the sixth reported insider attack — also called green-on-blue violence — in Afghanistan this year, leading to nine coalition deaths. That is a huge drop from a year ago, when the specter of insider attacks dominated headlines and threatened to undermine Washington’s 2014 exit strategy of training the Afghans to fight on their own. By this point last year, Afghan soldiers had killed 27 of their coalition mentors in 20 separate attacks, according to the International Security Assistance Force, or ISAF, as the coalition forces are called.

The issue of insider attacks loomed large last year as both Afghan and coalition forces struggled to implement strategies to halt the violence. At one point, the United States temporarily suspended its training mission, fearful that it could not protect its soldiers from their supposed allies.

Since then, the coalition has added new measures to prevent Taliban infiltrators and reduce the potential for attacks spawned by cultural tensions between American and Afghan forces, which are believed to play a large role in the attacks.

One factor in the drop is simply that the coalition is fighting less, American and Afghan officials said. As Afghan forces take the lead across the country, fewer Americans are on patrol or at checkpoints, where a number of attacks occurred last year.

Coalition forces are also scaling back at joint bases, reducing the chance of such assaults. In Kunar and Nangarhar Provinces, for instance, the coalition footprint is expected to drop from 13 bases at the beginning of the year to three by year’s end.

As an added security measure for Americans who interact regularly with their counterparts, the United States military began requiring armed soldiers, known as guardian angels, to accompany any mentors visiting the Afghan side of joint bases.

The Afghans, too, have stepped up efforts to curtail what has been an embarrassing problem for their government. Army and police forces have adopted a stricter screening process for new recruits and for those returning from extended leave to identify potential attackers.

The National Directorate of Security, the country’s main intelligence agency, has embedded covert agents in the armed forces to ferret out potential attackers.

Even as green-on-blue violence has fallen, civilian casualties have continued to rise as Taliban bombs have wreaked havoc on local populations.

In the latest bombing, 17 people, most of them women and children, were killed Tuesday evening when their vehicle struck a roadside bomb in the Obei district of Herat Province, according to Abdul Raouf Ahmadi, a spokesman for the provincial police chief.

Less than a week ago, four girls, aged 5 to 8, were killed after they accidentally tripped a hidden bomb while fetching water in southern Helmand Province. On the same day, two young boys were killed in Paktika Province when they accidentally struck a roadside bomb.

The rise in civilian casualties was recently noted in a United Nations report, which attributed about three-quarters of the deaths to insurgent bombs. Of the nearly 3,100 civilian casualties through early June this year, roughly 20 percent of them were children, the report said.
211 2013-07-10 WASHINGTON — Many major emerging economies have weakened since the spring, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday in the latest update to its economic forecasts, while advanced economies, including the United States and Europe, continue to trudge along with subpar growth and the euro area remains mired in recession.

The fund now expects the global economy to grow about 3.1 percent in 2013, the same rate as in 2012 and down from growth of 3.9 percent in 2011. That is 0.2 percentage points lower than the Washington-based fund forecast in April.

Olivier Blanchard, the fund’s chief economist, said in the periodic update that emerging economies were experiencing a “slowdown in underlying growth,” and the fund lowered its forecasts for China, India, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Russia, among other countries. “It’s clear that these countries are not going to grow at the same rate as they did before the crisis,” he said.

Given that emerging economies have in no small part powered the global recovery, their slowdown has a significant effect on the rest of the world, the fund said. For instance, Mr. Blanchard said, if growth in the so-called BRICS — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — were 2 percentage points slower than expected, a half-percentage point would be knocked off the United States’ growth rate. “It matters,” he said.

The fund said that the recession in the euro area had proved deeper than expected in recent months because of the persistent combination of tight credit conditions, low demand and government budget cutting. Next year, the fund’s forecasters expect growth to pick up in the 17 countries of the euro zone, but to a slower rate than previously thought — just 0.9 percent, down from about 1 percent as forecast in April.
212 2013-07-10 CAIRO — The selection of Hazem el-Beblawi as Egypt’s interim prime minister on Tuesday appeared to send a signal that the military-led transitional government intends to move forward with economic reforms and restructuring including reductions in the country’s vast public subsidies.

Mr. Beblawi earned a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Paris, worked as an economic consultant and a United Nations official, and became a prominent critic of President Hosni Mubarak’s economic policies for failing to either open up free markets or serve the poor.

He embraced the revolt against Mr. Mubarak, served as finance minister of an earlier transitional government and became a prominent member of the liberal Social Democratic Party. And he has been a forthright critic of Egypt’s bloated energy subsidy programs, which make up more than a quarter of the national budget.

“We must create a clear understanding for the public that the level of subsidies in Egypt is unsustainable, and the situation is critical,” Mr. Beblawi said in an interview with Daily News Egypt, an English-language newspaper here, shortly before the ouster last week of Mohamed Morsi, who replaced Mr. Mubarak as Egypt’s first freely elected president.

Mr. Beblawi argued that Mr. Morsi had failed to communicate to the public the gravity of the economic crisis hobbling Egypt.

“The canceling of subsidies requires sacrifices from the public and therefore necessitates their acceptance,” he said. “It is crucial that they understand the scope of the danger that the current size of subsidies impose on Egypt’s economy, and they must also feel that its rationing is done in a way that guarantees social justice.”
213 2013-07-10 “Only when the Dalai Lama publicly announces that Tibet is an inalienable part of China since ancient time, gives up the stance of ‘Tibet independence’ and stops his secessionist activities can his relations with the C.P.C. Central Committee possibly be improved,” Xinhua quoted the official, Yu Zhengsheng, as saying.

The Dalai Lama does not advocate an independent Tibet, but has been seeking what he describes as meaningful autonomy for China’s 5.4 million Tibetans.

The violence in Tawu began after dozens of police officers arrived at the scene of the birthday celebration and ordered participants to leave. After religious leaders tried to reason with the officers, witnesses said, there was a brief standoff that quickly escalated. “They smashed doors and windows of our vehicles and started beating Tibetans gathered in the area and dispersed the Tibetans and started shooting at the crowd,” one local resident told Radio Free Asia.

Exile groups say the two most critically injured are monks from the Nyitso Monastery in Tawu. The men were taken to a hospital in Chengdu, the provincial capital, with gunshot wounds to the head. One of them, Ugyen Tashi, may have been shot as many as eight times, according to the Tibetan Center for Human Rights and Democracy.

At least 20 people remain in police custody in Tawu, according to the International Campaign for Tibet.

Reached by phone on Tuesday, a government official in Ganzi Prefecture, which includes Tawu, declined to comment. Calls to the local public security bureau went unanswered.

The prefecture, known in Tibetan as Kardze, is at the heart of a continuing protest campaign against Chinese rule that since 2008 has included at least 120 self-immolations. Seven have taken place in Kardze, whose residents are known for their strong Tibetan identity and a fierce devotion to the Dalai Lama. Several times in recent years, the police have used lethal force to break up what they deemed to be illegal gatherings. In January 2012, as many as three people were killed and at least 31 injured when the police opened fire on a protest in the town of Draggo, which is called Luhuo in Chinese.

Tensions have been particularly high in Tawu, the scene of five self-immolations, including that of a Buddhist nun who killed herself last month during a religious debate festival that drew 3,000 monks from across the region. Since then, exile groups say, security has been especially tight in and around the Nyatso Monastery, where the 10-day event took place.

Mandie McKeown, a coordinator for the International Campaign for Tibet, said the violence on Saturday was bound to fuel more opposition to Chinese rule. “Given how incredibly volatile things are, using lethal force doesn’t accomplish anything,” she said in an interview. “It just aggravates the complaints of Tibetans and exacerbates the situation.”
214 2013-07-10 The women, who were held for a decade, released a video that included their first public comments since escaping from captivity in May....
215 2013-07-10 “He took my — actually literally took my notes with him to a meeting at the White House and told me he made my argument in full and that the principals were fully on board with the policy, and so my argument was rejected,” he said.

Mr. Comey did not say at the hearing why his position had changed. But one of his aides said Tuesday afternoon that Mr. Comey believed waterboarding was illegal for several reasons: President Obama had banned its use, the legal opinions supporting it had been withdrawn, and Congress passed an act in late 2005 clearly banning such treatment.

Mr. Comey’s current position on the legality of waterboarding brings him into line with President Obama, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and several senior Democratic senators who had raised concerns about his position in the days leading up to the hearing.

Mr. Comey’s nomination has received strong bipartisan support, but some Democrats and civil liberty groups have raised questions about his role in the Bush administration. Last week, two of the Democratic senators, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, sent a letter to Mr. Comey, expressing their concern about how he approved the use of “enhanced interrogation techniques” that included waterboarding.

On Tuesday, many of the senators appeared satisfied with Mr. Comey’s answers about waterboarding, and it does not appear that the Republicans will try to block his confirmation.

Mr. Comey distinguished himself from many members of the Bush administration — and significantly raised his national profile — when he testified before the same Senate committee five years ago. His testimony was perceived as repudiating government surveillance programs.

At the hearing, about the Justice Department’s firings of several United States attorneys, Mr. Comey riveted the senators by testifying about a 2004 episode in which he thwarted Bush administration officials from persuading his ailing boss, Attorney General John Ashcroft, to sign off on an illegal data-collection program. Although Mr. Comey’s objections halted the program, it was later resumed under a similar legal framework, and senior Bush administration officials have said he raised few objections to other programs.

Mr. Comey did not provide new details about the incident on Tuesday, but he addressed the issue of government surveillance, which has become a thorny issue given a series of disclosures of classified programs by Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor. Mr. Comey also defended the use of surveillance programs to identify terrorists.

“I do know as a general matter that the collection of metadata and analysis of metadata is a valuable tool in counterterrorism,” he said.

Mr. Comey has served as the United States attorney in Manhattan and most recently as the general counsel at a huge hedge fund in Connecticut and at Lockheed Martin. On Tuesday, he sidestepped several questions about the transparency of legal rulings that govern the surveillance programs and the force-feeding of detainees at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

Unlike more contentious nomination hearings, the banter between Mr. Comey and the senators was blithe.

As Mr. Comey introduced his family, he mentioned how his five children, who are in their teens and 20s and were seated behind him, had been in nearly the same seats 10 years ago when he was confirmed as deputy attorney general.

“I was going to say,” said Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the committee chairman. “They — they — I was here at that time and they have been changed.”

“They have, right,” Mr. Comey said. “The only one who hasn’t aged a bit is my wife.”
216 2013-07-10 He said he wanted to spend more time with his family, which had remained in his native Switzerland while he worked at Shell headquarters in London.

Previously chief financial officer, Mr. Voser had helped stabilize Shell after a scandal over misstatement of oil and gas reserves. While uncomfortable in the limelight, he is thought to have improved the carrying out of big projects like the $20 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar that have come to distinguish Shell.

The standard spot for prospective chief executives at major oil companies is the exploration and production division, which is usually the big profit earner.

Shell differs from other major oil companies like BP by stressing big long-term projects that lack the tremendous potential financial rewards of oil exploration but produce steady returns with lower risk.

Liquefied natural gas tends to earn returns in the relatively modest 10 to 15 percent range, analysts say, but it produces steady cash flows for decades with little additional capital expenditure.

Shell has invested around $40 billion in the business in recent years. It hopes to cash in on growing use of gas in China and other developing countries.

It is also one of the few companies that is investing large sums in gas-to-liquids plants, the monster installations required to transform natural gas into fuels like diesel. And it is the leader in the still-unproved technology of building gigantic floating vessels to process liquefied natural gas in remote locations.

In an industry where access to oil and gas is increasingly competitive, Shell hopes a demonstrated ability to design and manage megaprojects will give it a competitive advantage.

Mr. van Beurden’s experience appears tailored to Shell’s strategy. For instance, he has 10 years in Shell’s liquefied natural gas business. That business, along with gas-to-liquids, earned Shell $9.4 billion of its $25.1 billion in profit last year.

“Ben will continue to drive and further develop the strategic agenda that we have set out, to generate competitive returns for our shareholders,” Shell’s chairman, Jorma Ollila, said in a statement Tuesday.
217 2013-07-10 Over a lifetime of cooking in spartan rental-house kitchens on summer trips, I’ve baked pie in a skillet, shaken salad greens dry in a pillowcase and whipped cream in a (clean) coffee can. Once, when we arrived to find the stove broken, I used a charcoal grill to boil a pot of pasta because that’s all we brought for dinner and the nearest supermarket was 20 miles away.

Despite the lack of kitchen luxuries (or maybe because of it), some of the best and most memorable meals I’ve ever made have been with nothing more than a battered skillet, a spoon and a dull knife.

This isn’t to say I would willingly give up my stocked pantry, or even one of the semi-useful gadgets that crowd my kitchen drawers at home. But cooking on vacation has its own rhythm, one that forces me to pare down and use the most basic techniques possible. I’ve found that training myself to think about meals in the simplest terms can actually be a good thing, helping me distill a dish to its essence.

I also use fewer ingredients. The dance of cooking at a vacation rental is that you don’t want to buy too much once you’re there (you’re not likely to use that entire jar of mustard in three days), but you don’t want to drag along too many supplies from home, especially if your trip involves an airplane. You never know what you can count on being stocked at the house, and even if there are ancient spices in the cabinet, I promise they won’t improve any dish you add them to.

My strategy is to keep the shopping list short and try to use up everything before I leave. All of my vacation meals are ruled by a few lemons, a bottle of olive oil and some flaky sea salt. With these on hand, I know I can cook and flavor pretty much whatever I’ve got. That even applies to dessert. A pint of vanilla ice cream or lemon sorbet is transformed with a drizzle of good olive oil and a sprinkle of salt. Try it: it’s ridiculously good.

A head of garlic, a hunk of Parmesan, some hot sauce or chile flakes and perhaps a jar of honey (which can also come in handy at breakfast) round out the offerings. Often that’s nearly all I’ll take in terms of seasonings.
218 2013-07-10 I have come to view a meal of wild salmon as a splurge, a treat to be savored, and I’m willing to pay the price. Wild salmon is a seasonal thing, available from May to October. It’s not cheap, but the flavor is incredible — sweet, silky, meaty — and the vermilion color is magnificent.

With the abundance of relatively low-priced farmed salmon, however, many of us succumb. But the flavor of farmed salmon doesn’t even compare. It’s like the difference between a free-range chicken and one that’s been factory raised.

Wild salmon swims long distances, its color a result of a natural diet of krill, plankton and algae. Farmed salmon languishes in pens, and its pink color comes artificially.

And even if some fish farms are exploring more-sustainable methods, it is well known that aquacultured salmon is an environmental danger and potential health hazard. A quick Internet search will give curious cooks more information on the topic. It’s enough to put you off your dinner, and may well make you a wild-salmon convert. Certainly, once you taste wild salmon you’ll be convinced.

There are many ways to prepare this good salmon. For a summer lunch or supper, I like to keep it simple, so I often opt for a room-temperature salad, pairing the fish with seasonal vegetables and herbs.

At the market now, there are lots of wonderful green beans, many still on the juvenile side; known as haricots verts, they are also called filet beans, and may be green, yellow or purple. Look for the smallest, which are more tender than the big blue lakes. Cook them in salted water briefly, just past al dente, so they’re firm but not crunchy. Freshly dug creamy new potatoes are here now, too, and they make a fine accompaniment.
219 2013-07-11 BRISSON--Robert Pierre. Attorney-At-Law and Village Justice in Pleasantville NY, died July 7, 2013 at age 85 in Peabody MA. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth Phillips, six children, fourteen grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was a belo...
220 2013-07-11 The company’s eight product divisions, satirized by some as being in a state of perpetual war, will be turned into four new ones arranged around broader themes....
221 2013-07-11 For Pakistani Girls, Just Going to Class Is a Risk
222 2013-07-11 The California congressman is the monster that Washington has created for our times....
223 2013-07-11 Does striving for workplace flexibility mean you don’t strive at work as well?...
224 2013-07-11 Once in The Times, a sentence about Edward J. Snowden’s laptops “spread everywhere as truth.”...
225 2013-07-11 The chairman of the Hirshhorn Museum board has resigned, citing issues that she felt detracted from the museum’s effectiveness as a cultural institution....
226 2013-07-11 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
227 2013-07-11 A federal judge’s antitrust finding against Apple on e-book prices underscores how much the book industry has changed and bolsters the advantage held by the online retail giant, David Streitfeld reports in The New York Times....
228 2013-07-11 Employee Stock Ownership Plans, or ESOPs, may have great tax benefits as succession plans, but business owners need to evaluate several factors to see if their company is suited for a plan....
229 2013-07-11 High ozone levels were associated with an increased number of hospitalizations for appendicitis and were even more strongly associated with cases of burst appendix in a recent study....
230 2013-07-11 Gov. Pat Quinn suspended lawmakers’ paychecks Wednesday, saying they did not deserve compensation until the state’s escalating pension crisis was solved. The move came a day after the General Assembly ignored a deadline Mr. Quinn set to pass a bill addressing the state’s $100 billion in unfunded pension liability. The governor’s line-item veto of a state budget measure withholds legislators’ $67,836 salaries, as well as additional stipends for those in leadership positions. “They must have that alarm bell ringing in their ears,” Mr. Quinn said at a news conference. “And the best way to do that is to hit them in their wallet.” Judy Baar Topinka, the Illinois comptroller, said a legal review of the decision would be completed before lawmakers were scheduled to receive their next paychecks on Aug. 1.
231 2013-07-11 Mr. Mess, a popular martial arts instructor, was believed to have been running a drug-dealing operation from the apartment. Mr. Weissman, a chess player and Chinese food lover who was a founder of a glass pipe company and had been temporarily staying at the apartment, was working on a plea deal stemming from an earlier drug arrest. Mr. Teken, known as Rafi, was a 1998 graduate of Brandeis University.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was, by many accounts, one of Mr. Mess’s closest friends and a frequent visitor to the Harding Avenue apartment. But three law enforcement officials familiar with the case said that Massachusetts state troopers and the Waltham police, working under the auspices of the Middlesex County District Attorney’s Office, never questioned him — either as a potential suspect or as someone who could provide valuable information about the victims.

Several friends said in recent interviews that they told the police about Mr. Tsarnaev when they were questioned. “The police wanted to know who all the friends were in the group, and I told them about Tamerlan,” said one close friend of Mr. Mess, adding that at least three other friends gave the authorities Mr. Tsarnaev’s name, as well.

When Mr. Tsarnaev did not show up at either Mr. Mess’s funeral or memorial service, the friend became uneasy.

“We did mention Tamerlan again to the police after he was not there for Brendan’s services,” said the friend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the notoriety of the case. “I felt that the police were not really looking in the right places.”

In the immediate aftermath of the murders, investigators theorized that the killings had been the work of professionals, based on the savageness of the attacks on the three victims, at least two of whom were adept at martial arts, and the lack of evidence at the scene. One early theory was that the assailants might have been part of a “cartel” that felt betrayed by one of the men, according to two law enforcement officials. They said that at least two people had been at the apartment near the time of the deaths, that the killers most likely knew their victims, and that the homicides were not random.

Since the bombings, some Jewish publications have speculated that because the bodies were discovered the day after the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, that they could have been a hate crime, particularly since both Mr. Weissman and Mr. Teken were Jewish. “I told the police that there were only two Muslims I knew of who hung around the group of friends, and because of the 9/11 date, the fact that Tamerlan and Brendan’s last girlfriend were Muslim stood out,” the friend said.

Mr. Weissman’s mother, Bellie Hacker, recalled meeting with investigators about 10 days after the murders, describing them as “honest in their assessments, but passive and waiting.”

“The police told us, ‘This is what we think may happen.’ That in the future, someone with information might come forward and admit it and seek a plea deal,” Ms. Hacker said.

Gerry Leone, who oversaw the Waltham investigation as the district attorney until leaving his post in mid-April to join a law firm, declined to comment on the inquiry, as did a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office and a spokesman for the state police. One law enforcement official close to the case denied that anyone suggested that they look at Mr. Tsarnaev in the aftermath of the killings: “Don’t you think if someone had told us to take a look at him and that he had information, we would have talked to him?”

At the Brookline Lunch diner in Cambridge, where Mr. Mess was a regular (often eating there with Mr. Weissman and sometimes with Mr. Tsarnaev), investigators failed to show up. They “never called us over here at his hangout place or came to ask questions,” Jamal Abu Rubieh, who owns the diner with his wife, Manal. (One of their dishes, Brendan Benedict, was posthumously named for Mr. Mess, and a photo of Mr. Mess with relatives and friends hangs on a wall in the restaurant.)

No one came to the Wai Kru mixed martial arts gym either, where Mr. Mess worked out occasionally with Mr. Tsarnaev. In the days after the bombing, federal authorities came to ask questions, however — first about Mr. Tsarnaev, and later about Mr. Mess and the Waltham case.

John Allan, the gym’s owner, said that he was struck by Mr. Tsarnaev’s unemotional reaction to Mr. Mess’s murder. In an interview, he recounted a conversation a few days after the killings.

“As I said something, there was kind of a smile on Tamerlan’s face, and he laughed it off,” Mr. Allan recalled. “He laughed off the fact that he was murdered, like: ‘Aw, man. It’s crazy right? Huh huh. It’s crazy right? I guess if you do that, that’s what’s going to happen.' ”

Mr. Allan said there was no hint of grief. “That really shocked me.”

Mr. Tsarnaev’s wife, Katherine Russell, too, was perplexed by how untroubled her husband seemed about the death of his close friend, according a person with direct knowledge of the situation. She found out about the murders through local news reports, and when she spoke to her husband about the tragedy, he speculated matter-of-factly that they were the result of a drug deal gone awry, the person said.

The gym was also an occasional hangout for Mr. Todashev, whom Mr. Tsarnaev introduced to the facility. Mr. Allan said that he believes he was the first one to tell the authorities about Mr. Todashev and his relationship with Mr. Tsarnaev. Summing up his reasons, Mr. Allan said, “He’s got a bad temper, he clearly has anti-American sentiment, a radical-style Muslim who was training with Tamerlan at this gym, and at the end praying towards Mecca with him.”

One person whom investigators did interview on several occasions was Mr. Mess’s most recent girlfriend, a Muslim like Mr. Tsarnaev. Some friends and relatives of the victims are suspicious of her, and in an interview for this article, she acknowledged that she had a fiery relationship with Mr. Mess at times and had once thrown a bottle of balsamic vinegar at him.

The girlfriend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she did not want her name associated with the case, insisted that she had no part in the murders and had hoped to marry Mr. Mess, whom she started dating about nine months before his death. She said that she believes she told investigators that Mr. Tsarnaev, whom she knew as “Tam,” was a regular guest at the Waltham apartment, but that the authorities never followed up with her about him.

She added that parts of her boyfriend’s relationship with Mr. Tsarnaev were cloaked in mystery, citing as one example a conversation the two men had shortly before she left on a trip to Miami the week before the killings.

“Tam asked Brendan, ‘Are we going to do that thing?' ” she recalled. “And I asked Brendan what that was, and he told me not to worry about it.”

A Massachusetts legislator who talked to neighbors the day the bodies were found and has closely followed the case, Representative John J. Lawn, asserted that the investigation was “thoroughly done.”

Since there were no signs of forced entry, “it had to be someone they trusted to let them into that apartment,” he said. But the lack of clues fueled what he called “the consensus” that developed about the murders. “It was very professionally done,” he said.

One law enforcement official said the murders were part of a “drug rip-off.” The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing, said the authorities were able to put together “a lot of circumstantial pieces” that they used to pressure Mr. Todashev into implicating himself and Mr. Tsarnaev.

Investigators have been helped by DNA evidence taken from Mr. Tsarnaev after his death that they are using as part of the Waltham investigation, according to the official, who believes that local investigators did not have such forensic evidence before the bombings. Another friend of Mr. Mess said that after the bombings, investigators told him “they have info that may have placed Tam with Brendan the day before or night of the killings.”

An F.B.I. agent investigating the bombings interviewed Mr. Todashev about Mr. Tsarnaev in his Orlando, Fla., apartment in May and he began to provide information about the Waltham case. To get him to talk, the investigators “made him believe he’s done, and the only way he could help himself is confess and lay out the details of what had happened,” a law enforcement official said. Mr. Todashev “flipped out” and attacked the agent and was then shot at least a half-dozen times in circumstances that still remain unclear.

The senior law enforcement official said that at the time Mr. Todashev was shot, two Massachusetts state police investigators had left the room to inform a prosecutor that Mr. Todashev was admitting he and Mr. Tsarnaev had carried out the Waltham murders. This official said that Mr. Tsarnaev “was more of a wannabe drug dealer than a big one. He was dealing dope, marijuana, low-level stuff.”

The nature of Mr. Todashev’s sudden admission and shooting have left some close to the victims skeptical about the official account of what happened. But it has also stirred frustration about what they saw as a lackluster investigation after the 2011 murders.

Susan Zalkind, a friend of Mr. Weissman’s and a freelance journalist who has been looking into the case since 2011, said she remains surprised how few friends of victims the police talked to. “Despite being one of the most gruesome and unusual crimes of the year, I saw the least amount of public outreach,” she said.
232 2013-07-11 The idea that Ms. Davis served as a madam for Mr. Spitzer has been reported since late March 2008 by The New York Post, and was initially rebutted by The Daily News, though that paper eventually changed its tune. For a time, the Web site Gawker even tried to mediate conflicting accounts of Ms. Davis’s alleged connection to Mr. Spitzer.

Ms. Davis’s lawyer, the notoriously showboating Mark Jay Heller, initially fanned the flames of the Spitzer link by saying there were “rumors that my client is ex-Governor Spitzer’s Madame Butterfly.” But Ms. Davis soon became disgusted with Mr. Heller’s theatrics, fired him and replaced him with the more subdued Daniel Hochheiser, who said then that his client “was not Mr. Spitzer’s Madame Butterfly.”

In an interview, Mr. Hochheiser said, “I haven’t seen any evidence linking Spitzer to Kristin’s prostitution activities, besides what Kristin has said, which I have no reason to doubt.”

Ms. Davis, 38, once worked as a back office hedge fund administrator before she decided to try a more lucrative venture — running escorts. In 2010, she ran as a protest candidate for governor on a pro-marijuana platform, among other things. She is being advised by Roger Stone, a friend who is a longtime antagonist of Mr. Spitzer’s.

In interviews, she said she provided prostitutes to Mr. Spitzer starting around 2005, when he was the state attorney general.

“I didn’t know who he was,” she said. “I moved to New York to start this agency, so I wasn’t familiar with who our attorney general was then.”

Mr. Spitzer declined to comment for this article. Ms. Davis said she had evidence backing up her claims, including audio recordings made by her former employees offering their firsthand accounts of encounters with him. But she said she turned the evidence over to Mr. Heller, who refused to give it back after he was fired.

“The entire file was hand-delivered to the substituting attorney,” he said, adding that he did not want to discuss details of the case because of lawyer-client privilege.

Ms. Davis said she received at least one e-mail from Mr. Spitzer, using an address of someone she believed was his business associate, but the e-mail address she provided revealed that was probably not the case.

“I might’ve jumped the gun,” Ms. Davis said. “I’m probably wrong on that.”

Ms. Davis said she had passed a lie-detector test on the subject, though the test could not be immediately confirmed by the polygraph business that administered it. One of her former employees, Irma Nici, said in an interview that she had provided services to Mr. Spitzer, as she has previously told Page Six.

Mr. Stone, for his part, said: “Kristin Davis has taken a lie-detector test. Will Spitzer take one?”

Both candidates are collecting signatures in an effort to qualify for the ballot.

Mr. Spitzer’s history with prostitutes appears to be doing only minimal damage to his prospective candidacy. A poll released on Wednesday evening found that 67 percent of registered Democrats believe that Mr. Spitzer deserves a second chance in politics.

The Wall Street Journal/NBC New York/Marist poll, begun the day Mr. Spitzer made his first public appearance as a candidate, found him leading the other major Democrat in the race for comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, 42 percent to 33 percent, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. But early polls like this one, taken before news sinks in, tend largely to reflect name recognition.
233 2013-07-11 BRUSSELS — The longest-serving government leader in the European Union, Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, bowed Wednesday to outrage over revelations of a litany of abuses by his tiny country’s wayward intelligence service and declared that he would step down as prime minister.

Although he is from a country with only 539,000 residents, Mr. Juncker, 58, has become one of Europe’s most high-profile political figures in recent years because of his previous role as president of the so-called Eurogroup of finance ministers as they struggled to contain a rolling debt crisis and hold the common currency together. His tenure in that position ended in January.

Mr. Juncker, who became prime minister in 1995, has not been accused of any criminal wrongdoing but has come under attack for not keeping the security service in check. Mr. Juncker’s demise was an unlikely one — a tumultuous political drama set off by intelligence service skulduggery in a deeply conservative country known for its secretive banks and deep-rooted traditions of settling disputes behind closed doors.

Mr. Juncker, whose Christian Social Party has governed Luxembourg almost continuously since the end of World War II, pledged to step down during a hearing in Parliament on a report commissioned by the assembly on the activities of Luxembourg’s intelligence service, known as SREL, after its French acronym.

The report, released this month, detailed a host of abuse accusations, including that the service retained large archives of “political espionage” information collected during the cold war on individual citizens. Mr. Juncker was himself said to have been secretly recorded by the former head of SREL, who wore a special watch fitted with a recording device.

“The list of dysfunctionalities, even of illegalities is long,” the report said.

Mounting a robust defense of his actions on Wednesday, Mr. Juncker told Parliament that “the intelligence service was not my top priority.” He added, “I hope Luxembourg will never have a prime minister who sees SREL” as his or her priority.

Still, after initially refusing to resign, Mr. Juncker announced that he would step down Thursday morning after Alex Bodry, the president of the Socialist coalition partner in Mr. Juncker’s government, demanded that he take full responsibility for the scandal and call an election.
234 2013-07-11 The Israeli police on Wednesday agreed to re-investigate the 2009 injury of an American activist during a clash between Israeli security forces and protesters against the extension of Israel’s separation barrier in the West Bank. The activist, Tristan Anderson of Oakland, Calif., then 38, was hit in the head by a tear-gas canister in the village of Nilin, and remains partly paralyzed and blind in one eye. Yesh Din, an Israeli human rights organization, appealed to Israel’s High Court of Justice after the police closed the investigation without indicting any of the soldiers involved, and the court’s justices urged the police to reopen the case.
235 2013-07-11 The Libyan government has taken back control of its Interior Ministry from an armed group that besieged the building for a week, an official said Wednesday. The group had ordered staff members to leave the ministry on July 2. One of its members had said they would stay until the authorities broke up the Supreme Security Committee, which is composed of militiamen — former rebel fighters from the 2011 war that ousted Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi — who are often better armed and more powerful than the police.
236 2013-07-11 WASHINGTON — Wholesalers cut back on restocking in May even as sales rose, indicating that economic growth could pick up later this year as they rebuild their stockpiles.

The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that wholesale stockpiles shrank 0.5 percent in May, the most in 20 months. That followed a 0.1 percent decline in April, which was revised lower.

Sales at the wholesale level increased 1.6 percent in May and 0.7 percent in April.

A reduction in stockpiles may prompt economists to cut their growth forecasts for the April-June quarter. But the steady gain in sales suggests companies may have to order more goods in the coming months to keep up with demand. That could bolster factory production and drive more economic growth in the second half of the year.

Auto sales jumped 3 percent in May, yet stockpiles were unchanged. And sales of durable goods, items meant to last at least three years, rose 0.3 percent, while inventories of those goods fell by the same amount.

Sales of nondurable goods rose 2.8 percent, the most in more than two years. The gain was caused by large increases in sales of clothing, groceries and pharmaceuticals. Stockpiles of those goods declined 0.8 percent.

Stockpiles of farm goods fell sharply for the second straight month, dropping 6 percent. That most likely reflected the impact of a severe drought last year, which has resulted in lower stockpiles this spring.
237 2013-07-11 Although Heineken generally is awarding round-trip flights from J.F.K., for Mr. Vosits it arranged a flight from Cyprus to Vienna on Friday, and from Vienna back to New York on Aug. 25, when he had planned to return.

“I’m going to rent a scooter and go up and down the coast,” said Mr. Vosits as he waited for his flight. “Hopefully I’ll meet some pretty girls.”

No stranger to the brand, Mr. Vosits said he once toured the Heineken brewery in Amsterdam. “But I prefer Beck’s, actually,” he said.

Heineken, which will return to J.F.K on Thursday, expects to send five to eight travelers to destinations like Reykjavik, Iceland, and Ulan Bator, Mongolia.

The stunt is part of a broader international advertising and marketing effort by Heineken that highlights travel and adventure, including a commercial, “The Voyage,” about a traveler’s misadventures at an outdoor celebration in India, and “Dropped,” a Web series in which young men agree to depart for an unknown city and fish-out-of-water high jinks ensue.

The Wieden & Kennedy Amsterdam office produced the commercial and Web series, while its New York office conceived and produced Departure Roulette, with Edelman handling public relations for Heineken.

Belen Pamukoff, a Heineken brand director, said that the overall approach was to appeal to men 25 to 34, what is often called the millennial generation, the primary target for the brand. Fifty-five percent of men who drink most often drink beer, compared with 23 percent of women. For wine, it is roughly the inverse, which is preferred by 52 percent of women and 20 percent of men, according to a 2012 Gallup poll.

“Millennial consumers want challenges, they want to be explorers,” said Ms. Pamukoff. “We need to connect and be relevant and talk about their passion points, which are travel and music.”

Heineken represents 14.8 percent of the imported beer market by sales volume and 2 percent of the overall beer market, according to the Beverage Information Group, which tracks the alcohol market. Heineken spent $76.8 million on advertising in the United States in 2012, according to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP.

Also on Thursday, Hilton HHonors, the loyalty program for Hilton Worldwide hotel brands, will also be coordinating its own travel-related stunt, “Travel is Calling You,” in Chicago. A golden rotary phone on a table in a pedestrian plaza will ring intermittently, and some who answer will be offered a weekend trip to Miami — provided they can both depart the next day and find a travel partner.

Chris Pagnozzi, a Chicago comedian, will be on the other end of the line, and when participants accept the offer, salsa dancers will perform and a pedicab will pedal the winners to a nearby AT&T store. There, they will receive an iPad Mini as well as smaller beach-related gifts like flip-flops and a towel. Four winners and their guests will fly on a chartered plane to Miami, where they will stay at Hilton Bentley Miami/South Beach with $1,000 in spending money.

Hilton is declining to reveal the exact location of the promotion because its intention is to elicit spontaneous reactions rather than attract prize seekers. The stunt was conceived of and will be produced by Edelman, which also handles public relations for Hilton. Video of the event will be posted online on July 18.

As with Heineken, the Hilton HHonors stunt is tied to an annual summer promotion, called “Great Getaway,” for all 10 Hilton Worldwide brands, which along with Hilton Hotels include Embassy Suites, Doubletree by Hilton, Waldorf-Astoria Hotels and Resorts and Hampton Inn. Hilton Worldwide spent a combined $69 million to advertise domestically in 2012, according to Kantar Media.

In conjunction with the Chicago stunt, Hilton is releasing results of a survey about travel-related spontaneity: 80 percent of respondents said that if offered a free weekend vacation that required leaving instantly, they would go.

Nancy Deck, vice president for full-service brand marketing for Hilton Worldwide, said the effort was meant to encourage travelers who may already take elaborate international trips to consider more seat-of-the-pants excursions.

“We’re advocates for travel and travelers and we believe life is too short to plan just one annual vacation,” Ms. Deck said. “We want to encourage people to enrich their lives and take several weekend getaways throughout the year.”
238 2013-07-11 ALBANY — Hoping to find support and money among country music fans, a group of gun rights supporters and other grass-roots organizations in New York have announced a new addition to the summer festival circuit: Freedompalooza.

The concert, planned for Aug. 24 in Altamont, outside Albany, was announced on Wednesday by Assemblyman Bill Nojay, a Pittsford Republican, and Tom King, the president of the New York State Rifle and Pistol Association.

Mr. King said organizers were planning to hire a yet-to-be-announced roster of big-name country music stars to help raise money for a new nonprofit advocacy group, Freedom Coalition. Its goal is to register voters for the 2014 elections who believe in “economic and individual freedoms,” Mr. Nojay said.

The organizers are unhappy about a measure the Legislature passed in January, with support from Democrats and Republicans, that imposed new restrictions on the ownership of assault weapons and the size of gun magazines. They said they hoped to energize potential voters who would support candidates more sympathetic to gun rights and eager to lower taxes.

“People in upstate New York need to have their freedoms reinforced,” Mr. King said at a news conference here, adding that there were a “whole spectrum of constitutional rights being infringed on.”
239 2013-07-11 None of these threats ever seem particularly menacing. “Orange” may be a roughly hourlong show, but it has the soul of a sitcom or a teen drama — it’s more “Gossip Girl” than “Oz” — and situations tend to resolve themselves through slightly over-the-top humor and an increasingly prevalent sentimentality.

As with the excellent first season of “Weeds,” the humor in “Orange” is often sharp, particularly when it focuses on Chapman’s self-absorption and neuroses. Bidding her amazingly patient fiancé farewell before entering the prison, she tells him: “Please send that check immediately. I love you. Please keep my Web site updated. I love you so much.” A scene of the fiancé masturbating is an homage to Mr. Biggs’s breakout role in “American Pie.”

When it’s not being funny, though, “Orange” (a reference to the color of the jump suits new inmates wear) can seem inconsequential. Chapman’s cringing process through the penal system is always amusing, but the other inmates’ stories — and there are a lot of them — tend toward big-house clichés, right down to lines like “You need to man up” and “Hope is a dangerous thing.”

The show’s structure, in which constant short flashbacks explain, very gradually, how the women came to be in prison, contributes to a sense that not a whole lot is going on, despite the multiplicity of featured characters. And the size of the ensemble means that characters we become attached to, like Mr. Biggs’s Larry Bloom, will disappear for long stretches.

It’s quite possible that the 13-episode season picks up speed and urgency as it goes along. (Six episodes were available for review.) Even if it doesn’t, it’s a showcase for a large group of black and Latino actresses who for the most part have not had regular roles in series before this, including Dascha Polanco, as a quiet inmate who is drawn to a guard, and Uzo Aduba, who is scary and hilarious as Crazy Eyes.

The better-known members of the cast include Kate Mulgrew as a Russian babushka with a power base in the prison kitchen, Natasha Lyonne as an especially libidinous inmate and Laura Prepon as Chapman’s former lover; the comedian Lea DeLaria stands out as a butch roughneck with a soft heart. Ms. Schilling is fine as Chapman, though she doesn’t make as strong an impression here as she did in her first starring role, in NBC’s medical drama “Mercy,” in which she played a character with a similar combination of narcissism and compassion.

That ensemble may be enough reason to spend 12 hours or so at the fictional Litchfield prison, even if the drama occasionally lags. It’s a surprisingly congenial place.
240 2013-07-11 Zia Mahmood was the third United States medal winner at the 6th European Open Championships in Ostend, Belgium, last month. He finished second in the open pairs with Jan Jansma from the Netherlands. (The two United States winners were Janice Seamon-Molson in the women’s pairs with Catherine d’Ovidio from France, and Roy Welland in the open pairs with Sabine Auken from Germany.)

Jansma and Zia led into the final deal, but bid a failing slam that was slightly worse than a finesse. However, they defended beautifully in the diagramed deal, first described by Brent Manley, the chief editor of the monthly Bridge Bulletin of the American Contract Bridge League.

Against three no-trump, Zia (West) led the diamond seven. Jansma (East) knew that this could not be fourth highest. He also saw that it was important to remove the dummy entry to the spade suit. So he won with his diamond ace and shifted to a low heart.

South took West’s king with dummy’s ace, played a spade to his ace, then tried a heart to dummy’s nine. East won with his ten and decided not to cash the heart queen, because that would have established South’s seven. Instead, East switched to the club six.

West won with his ace and continued with the club jack, which declarer ducked.

Continuing the perfect defense, West now led his diamond jack.

South won with his king and cashed the diamond queen, bringing everyone down to five cards, West having two spades and 10-8-2 of clubs.
241 2013-07-11 Sometimes losing is temporary. In 1955, Judy Garland may have had the Best Actress Oscar stolen from her by Grace Kelly for “The Country Girl,” but Garland’s performance, in “A Star is Born,” is the one that has endured.

The Judy Garland of 1703 was John Eccles, one of four composers in a competition that year to see who could write the best setting for “The Judgment of Paris,” a one-act libretto by William Congreve. As the Washington Square Music Festival’s performance on Tuesday amply demonstrated, Eccles’s entry was delightful, even gorgeous.

He came in second.

But Eccles has had the last chuckle. The winning “Judgment,” by John Weldon, has been almost entirely forgotten, while the silver medalist deservedly retains a more secure place on the outskirts of the repertory.

Congreve’s plot, drawn from myth, concerns whether the recipient of a coveted golden apple will be Juno, the queen of the gods; Pallas Athena, the goddess of war and heroes; or Venus, the goddess of love. The young Trojan prince Paris, to whom the apple has been entrusted, eventually chooses Love, setting history — at least in some tellings — down the path to the Trojan War.

While the story is merely the excuse for a diverting courtly masque, the libretto has wit and charm, and Eccles treats it with generous care. The instrumental passages associated with each goddess are clearly and sensitively delineated: regal low strings for Juno, sprightlier violins and brasses for Pallas Athena and sensual winds for Venus. The recitatives have refined vitality, and the ensembles are exquisite, including graceful choruses and a closely harmonized trio that anticipates the Three Ladies of Mozart’s “Magic Flute.”

The work was performed as part of the wide-ranging Washington Square festival’s opening program, “Baroque in the Park,” but the threat of rain relocated the concert from Washington Square Park to the Church of St. Joseph nearby. The indoor setting was probably a boon for the excellent youthful cast. The airy countertenor of Anthony Bucci, as Paris, might have been lost in the park but rang out sweetly in the church.

The role of Mercury, the god who guides Paris, showed off Dorian Balis’s warmly resonant tenor. The mezzo-soprano Emily Stauffer was commandingly agile as Juno, the soprano Katherine Copland bright as Pallas Athena and the soprano Nadia Patrella a creamy-voiced Venus. All responded appealingly to Josephine Mongiardo’s light direction.
242 2013-07-11 In her ruling, Denise L. Cote of United States District Court in Manhattan said Apple had taken advantage of the publishers’ “fear of and frustration” over Amazon.com’s control of e-book pricing, and the tight window of opportunity in the weeks leading up to the iPad’s introduction in 2010, to get the publishers to agree to its terms. “Apple seized the moment and brilliantly played its hand,” she wrote.

Five major publishers had also been named in the suit, but they all settled before the trial. Apple continued to fight the charges despite what increasingly looked like uphill odds. Publicly, the company said it refused to settle as a matter of principle because it had done nothing wrong.

The Justice Department said the judge’s decision was a victory for people who buy e-books.

“Companies cannot ignore the antitrust laws when they believe it is in their economic self-interest to do so,” the Justice Department said in a statement. “This decision by the court is a critical step in undoing the harm caused by Apple’s illegal actions.”

The main reason e-book prices will probably not move sharply in the near term is that the publishers who settled are operating under the settlement’s terms, which prohibit publishers from restricting a retailer’s ability to discount books.

“The changes to the industry have already happened,” said Mike Shatzkin, the founder and chief executive of the Idea Logical Company, a publishing consultant.

Since those settlements have gone into effect, prices on many newly released and best-selling e-books have gone down. One New York Times best-seller, “And the Mountains Echoed,” by Khaled Hosseini, is sold on Amazon.com for $10.99. But other e-books seem to have held closer to presettlement prices: “The Ocean at the End of the Lane,” by Neil Gaiman, is listed for $12.80 on Amazon.com.

The antitrust suit underscored the turmoil in the book industry as readers shift from ink and paper to electronic devices like tablets and smartphones, where they can buy books with the push of a button. The publishers want to embrace new media, but they are also trying to protect their profits and retain control of their businesses.

A recent survey of the publishing industry revealed that in the United States, e-books account for 20 percent of publishers’ revenue, more than $3 billion, up from 15 percent the year before. Amazon.com dominates the e-book market.

The outcome will probably inflict some damage to Apple’s reputation. The judge’s decision casts Apple as a cold and manipulative bully whose actions have harmed consumers, contrary to the way the company markets itself, as a maker of products that improve people’s lives.

Apple’s brand has already been under attack. Even though the company remains wildly successful, with iPhones and iPads flying off the shelves all over the world, its stock price is sagging and its tax practices and manufacturing processes have been under public scrutiny. Its stock fell 0.4 percent on Wednesday.

Judge Cote said e-mails and spoken statements by Mr. Jobs, the company’s charismatic leader, who died in 2011, made clear he knew publishers were unhappy with Amazon’s pricing of $9.99 for e-books, and that Apple’s entry would drive up prices across the industry.

In one instance, Mr. Jobs made comments to a reporter after he introduced the iPad and the iBookstore in January 2010. When asked why consumers would buy an e-book from Apple’s store instead of Amazon.com, Mr. Jobs replied, “The prices will be the same.”

The Justice Department said Apple’s deal with the publishers left Amazon.com with no choice but to raise prices. When Apple entered the e-book market, it changed the way publishers sold books by introducing a model called agency pricing, where the publisher — not the retailer — sets the price, and Apple took a cut of each sale. As a result, the publishers were able to set e-book prices higher than $9.99, the price many new books sold for on Amazon.com. Apple proposed caps of $12.99 and $14.99.

An e-mail written by Mr. Jobs that referred to the agency model was frequently brought up at the trial. In the e-mail, sent to Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president for Internet software and services, Mr. Jobs wrote of the contracts negotiated with publishers: “I can live with this, as long as they move Amazon to the agent model too for new releases for the first year. If they don’t, I’m not sure we can be competitive.”

The Justice Department said this showed Apple’s intent to help the publishers push Amazon.com to the agency model so they could raise e-book prices. Apple’s lead counsel, Orin Snyder of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, contended that the note written by Mr. Jobs was a draft. But the version presented by the Justice Department indicated that it was written at a later time and was signed “Steve,” suggesting that it was the final draft.

“Apple has struggled mightily to reinterpret Jobs’s statements in a way that will eliminate their bite,” Judge Cote wrote. “Its efforts have proven fruitless.”

Apple’s battle with the Justice Department is far from over, because antitrust trials are typically two- or three-round fights. The next step of the trial will involve a hearing on damages and relief.

Then if Apple goes forward with an appeal of the judge’s 160-page decision, the arguments will take place in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
243 2013-07-11 Suh Ho, the chief South Korean negotiator, said on Wednesday that North Korea must accept “common sense and international standards” in Kaesong before the complex can be “normalized and further developed.”

South Korea is urging North Korea to take steps to ensure that it will not let political and military disputes interfere again with the Kaesong operation. The South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, has suggested that one such step would be an agreement to invite non-Korean factories to Kaesong.

“If the Kaesong complex becomes internationalized with foreign factories," she said in March, "North Korea will not be able to do things intolerable under international standards, such as an abrupt travel ban or a sudden tax increase,” actions that she said South Korean firms had been subject to there.

Before shutting down Kaesong in April, North Korea had demanded higher wages for its workers and higher taxes for South Korean firms there. It also complained that South Korea’s investments there fell far short of what it had promised when the two Koreas started the joint project a decade ago. But it has opposed inviting foreign investors there, calling such a plan “a criminal plot” to help spread capitalist influence to undermine its socialist political system.

The chief North Korean negotiator, Pak Chol-su, is pressing South Korea to agree to an early resumption of work at the factory complex, citing fears among factory owners that if their plants are not restarted soon, their equipment will soon start deteriorating in the monsoon season.

“It’s raining a lot, and I am worried about the factory facilities,” he was quoted as saying in South Korean pool reports from Kaesong.

During talks on Wednesday, the two Koreas bickered over the estimated 700 billion won, or about $600 million, in damages that the three-month suspension of operations has caused to 123 South Korean factories in Kaesong.

The South Korean factory managers’ return to Kaesong and the continuing governmental talks are a sign that the two Koreas are easing tensions and edging toward a possible thaw after months of hostile exchanges, which reached a peak when the North threatened to attack the South with nuclear weapons and the South responded with warnings of counterattacks.

The Kaesong complex, where textile and electronic parts companies from the South employed low-cost North Korean workers, started producing goods in late 2004. It is the last remaining toehold for South Korea’s efforts from a previous era to use economic cooperation to help the North open up and move eventually toward the reunification of the peninsula.

But some hard-line conservatives in South Korea have demanded that the government close the factory park for good. They argue that most of the $80 million to $90 million paid annually as wages for North Korean workers ended up in the coffers of the North Korean government, which was building nuclear weapons and running prison gulags.

When it pulled its workers from Kaesong in April, North Korea also blamed United Nations sanctions against its nuclear tests, as well as the joint American-South Korean military drills. It also demanded that South Korea apologize for domestic news media reports that it said insulted its young leader, Kim Jong-un. Those reports quoted commentators as saying that Mr. Kim would not shut Kaesong down because it was an important source of cash for his government.

The move to try to reopen Kaesong is welcome news for some South Korean liberals. They believe that engagement will better persuade North Korea to change and give up its nuclear weapons than sanctions and diplomatic pressure.

But Ms. Park’s conservative South Korean government insists that it has no intention of cooperating with the North unless it first changes its provocative behavior. And surveys show that her attitude remains popular among South Koreans after months of bellicose rhetoric from the North.

“We cannot go back to the old ways,” said Kim Hyung-suk, a South Korean government spokesman, referring to Kaesong.
244 2013-07-12 WALES--Janet McCobb, age 77, of Fairfield, beloved wife of Gwynne H. Wales and mother of Thomas G. Wales of Minneapolis, MN, Catherine W. Lovkay of Granby, CT and Louise C. Wales of Savannah, GA., passed away Tuesday July 9, 2013. A memorial servi...
245 2013-07-12 JPMorgan officials demurred on a conference call about the financial impact of a proposed regulation. Analysts have estimated that it would have to raise capital by $40 billion to $50 billion at the subsidiaries in order to meet proposed regulator...
246 2013-07-12 Unlike the usual practice of staying mum at the annual Allen & Company media and technology conference in Idaho, Google executives used a news conference to promote their business....
247 2013-07-12 I want my son to realize that actions have repercussions, and also how to forgive and forget. It’s hard to do both at the same time....
248 2013-07-12 The Lede is following updates on Edward J. Snowden in Moscow, where the first image of him emerged from a meeting with rights groups....
249 2013-07-12 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
250 2013-07-12 A zine, put out by a small international group of photographers and writers, unearths and remixes the philosophy of the cynics of ancient Greece....
251 2013-07-12 Kenny Perry shot a three-under-par 67 and is in a seven-way tie for the lead at the United States Senior Open in Omaha. Perry, who won the Senior Players Championship two weeks ago, is joined at the top by Michael Allen, Jay Don Blake, Gary Hallberg, Mark O’Meara, Tom Lehman and Fred Funk.

■ Phil Mickelson eased back into links golf with a six-under-par 66 at the Scottish Open, leaving him behind two Englishmen, John Parry (64) and Simon Khan (65), after a low-scoring first round.

■ Angela Stanford and Catriona Matthew each shot eight-under-par 63 to share the first-round lead at the Manulife Financial L.P.G.A. Classic in Waterloo, Ontario. They are two strokes ahead of the top-ranked Inbee Park, who is trying to become the first golfer to win four straight L.P.G.A. Tour events since Lorena Ochoa in 2008.

■ Zach Johnson shot a seven-under-par 64 and is tied with Camilo Villegas for the lead after the opening round of the John Deere Classic in Silvis, Ill.
252 2013-07-12 Missouri’s final bill has come in from a disastrous 2011 that included the Joplin tornado and widespread flooding: about $36 million. The costs are a lot less than the $150 million that Gov. Jay Nixon set aside for disaster aid in 2011. His budget director, Linda Luebbering, said the rest of the money was simply rolled into the general revenue pool for government operations and services. Legislative budget leaders said that the money set aside by Mr. Nixon was an unnecessary budget manipulation.
253 2013-07-12 “We only ever comply with orders about specific accounts or identifiers, and we would not respond to the kind of blanket orders discussed in the press over the past few weeks,” the company said in its statement. “To be clear, Microsoft does not provide any government with blanket or direct access to SkyDrive, Outlook.com, Skype or any Microsoft product. Finally, when we upgrade or update products legal obligations may in some circumstances require that we maintain the ability to provide information in response to a law enforcement or national security request.”

The latest disclosure from documents leaked by Mr. Snowden underscores the increasingly close ties between the N.S.A. and the high-tech community. Microsoft, Facebook and other companies have already been forced to address questions about their cooperation with the agency following Mr. Snowden’s disclosure of the Prism surveillance program.

Many of the companies have repeatedly denied that they agree to blanket collection requests from the government, despite evidence that the government has for years collected huge amounts of phone and Internet data from American citizens. An N.S.A. Internet metadata collection program revealed by Mr. Snowden, for example, was halted in 2011 only after two members of the Senate Intelligence Committee began to question its value.

Fearing a negative public response to their cooperation, some Silicon Valley companies are beginning to openly push back against the security agency. Yahoo, for example, is now asking the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the secret court that rules on data collection requests by the government, to allow it to make public the record of its 2008 challenge to the constitutionality of the law requiring it to provide its customer data to the agency.

A Yahoo spokeswoman said Thursday that the company was “seeking permission from the FISA court to unseal the arguments and orders from the 2008 case.”

Yahoo said in a public filing with the FISA court this week that releasing documents about the 2008 case would allow it “ to demonstrate that it objected strenuously to the directives that are now the subject of debate, and objected at every stage of the proceeding, but that these objections were overruled and its request for a stay was denied.”

Signs of a popular backlash against the security agency’s large-scale collection of the personal data of Americans have convinced a leading privacy advocate in Congress that the Obama administration may soon begin to back away from the most aggressive components of the agency’s domestic surveillance programs.

The advocate, Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat and a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview Thursday that he believed that the security agency might soon abandon the bulk collection of the telephone calling data of millions of Americans.

The current controversy over the agency’s surveillance policies was first set off after Mr. Snowden leaked a secret FISA court order telling Verizon to turn over calling data from all of its customers. Mr. Wyden now believes that the White House is beginning to recognize that the program raises so many privacy concerns that it is willing to drop it.

“I have a feeling that the administration is getting concerned about the bulk phone records collection, and that they are thinking about whether to move administratively to stop it,” he said. He added he believed that the continuing controversy prompted by Mr. Snowden had changed the political calculus in Congress over the balance between security and civil liberties, which has been heavily weighted toward security since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

“I think we are making a comeback,” Mr. Wyden said, referring to privacy and civil liberties advocates.
254 2013-07-12 BALTIMORE — THE American military’s commitment to “leave no man behind” is unmatched in the world. Few countries make an organized effort to find the remains of their long-lost troops, and on battlefields like Peleliu, an island in the Pacific, the skeletons of Japanese soldiers still crouch at the mouths of caves with their helmets and boots half-buried in seven decades of mud. Yet since World War I, our military has worked to locate every fallen service member and to bring their remains — along with some closure — back home to mourning families.

That effort is led by JPAC: the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command. In any given year, the members of a JPAC field team can expect to spend 5 or 10 months overseas, often in the dank, dark jungles of Southeast Asia, huddling through the rainy season below a canvas fly sheet while sifting through a mountain of mud for tiny shards of bone. With some 83,000 troops still listed as Missing in Action, largely from World War II, Korea and Vietnam, the challenge is vast.

This week we learned of an internal report, authorized but then suppressed by JPAC’s leaders, that says JPAC is not up to the task. According to an account in The Associated Press, the review has found that it spends too much time on each investigation with too few results, and is encumbered by a glacial bureaucracy that inflates its own results. The missions are described as “boondoggles,” the work as “military tourism,” and the unit as being in danger of moving from “dysfunction to total failure.”

While some of the report’s specific complaints are valid, the conclusions are wildly off base.

I have spent the past five years writing a book about JPAC’s work and have gone to the far side of the world with JPAC recovery teams. Along the way, I, too, have been frustrated at times by the unit’s lumbering bureaucracy. JPAC commanders are often hidebound by a convoluted set of rules that can be unnecessarily cautious and lead to slow work.

I’ve also seen firsthand the effect that bureaucracy can have on the families of the missing. It can take years for commanders to reveal what their field teams have found on a wreck site. Even the most obvious discovery, like a dog tag, is often kept under wraps until every other piece of evidence has been collected, processed and analyzed, including by DNA sampling. Sometimes, by the time a man’s remains have been thoroughly vetted and identified, the parents and siblings who have waited patiently for news are no longer alive to receive it.
255 2013-07-12 It’s a bad night for the upper crust of Steeltown, the symbolic burg in which the show takes place. They’ve been tossed in the clink by accident. On the orders of the city’s chief industrialist and puppet master, Mr. Mister (a chillingly sinister Danny Burstein), the cops have indiscriminately rounded up a rabble that happens to include many of the town’s leading citizens. In a series of flashbacks, we see how each has been corrupted by Mr. Mister’s moneybags.

A lively extended duet for Reverend Salvation (a wolfish Matthew Saldívar) and Mrs. Mister (Anika Noni Rose, in splendid voice) charts the changing attitudes of this holy man to hymning war and peace, which evolve in tune to the needs of Mr. Mister’s steel works. Another long passage, including a song lampooning “The Freedom of the Press,” finds the big bad industrialist pulling the strings at the local paper, as Editor Daily (Judy Kuhn, chomping a cigar convincingly) kowtows with a smile, arranging for Mr. Mister’s son (a simpering Henry Stram) to be shipped off to Honolulu as a reporter, to keep him from causing trouble for Dad at home.

“The Cradle Will Rock” is nothing if not schematic in its mechanical dissection of how thoroughly the desire to get ahead of the other guy poisons society. In the perky duet “Art for Art’s Sake,” even a painter and a violinist (Mr. Stram and Martin Moran) are shown to be craven pawns of their patron Mrs. Mister, sniping and snapping at each other to beg for scraps. Fortunately, while the point of view remains fiercely narrow, the music rambles widely across genres, to continually revivifying effect.

And when Blitzstein allows the have-nots to step forward, the impulse to skewer recedes and he reveals a gift for gently soaring melody that can be enchanting. The love duet for Gus and Sadie Polock, a mill worker and his wife, gorgeously sung by Robert Petkoff and Ms. Kuhn, has the quiet rapture of an art song. Another highlight is “The Nickel Under Your Foot,” a heart cry from the oppressed prostitute called Moll, also played by Ms. Rose, which has a tangy Weillian flavor.

The sudden descent of a red curtain, from which Ms. Rose emerges to sing the song, is more confusing than effective in a show that is basically performed as a concert, with minimal musical staging (by Chase Brock). I’m dubious, too, about another of Mr. Gold’s innovations, having the role of the cop in charge of the jailhouse portrayed by the 10-year-old Aidan Gemme.

He’s a young charmer who handles his considerable acting and singing chores with the aplomb of a seasoned veteran. (He also plays one of the dunderheaded professors under the control of David Margulies’s college president.) But this jokey bit of casting sends the conflicting message that we’re not to take things too seriously — an assertion hardly in tune with the otherwise furrowed brow of the production, and for that matter the show itself. Blitzstein framed his critique of American capitalism as satire, so embroidering the show with jokes is hardly necessary.

Those quibbles aside, the production mostly treats Blitzstein’s work honorably, both dramatically and musically, with Chris Fenwick attentively conducting a 13-piece orchestra in artfully jazzy orchestrations by Josh Clayton. The across-the-board excellent cast also includes Peter Friedman as a corrupted but conflicted drugstore owner; Da’Vine Joy Randolph, giving a powerful turn with a thunderous song asking when the exploitation of the average Joe will end; and an aptly fiery Raúl Esparza, portraying the union organizer who responds to that question in the rousing title song.

His answer: Right this minute! The steel workers are rising up, and their brothers in other trades are ready to join the battle against the oppressors. “That’s thunder, that’s lightning, and it’s going to surround you!” he sings, as Mr. Mister turns ashen. “No wonder those stormbirds seem to circle around you.”

Yanking you back from Blitzstein’s heady dream is an insert in the program, modeled on the monthly index in Harper’s Magazine, that rattles off a grim list of statistics about the widening gap between rich and poor and the decline of unionized labor. Did you know that the ratio of the salary of the average American chief executive to the average American worker is now 325 to 1? Mr. Mister seem to be doing pretty well. See any stormbirds circling?
256 2013-07-12 The sculptor Ken Price (1935-2012) is having an extended New York moment thanks to splendid surveys of his radiantly colored ceramic sculpture at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and his diverse works on paper at the Drawing Center. There’s a third show, small and quirky, that shouldn’t be missed, at the Franklin Parrasch Gallery, whose 1994 Price exhibition began a run of seven shows of new work up to 2003, when the Matthew Marks Gallery started to represent Price.

Combining objects and works on paper mostly from the 1960s, “Zoo,” as this 23-work loan show is appropriately subtitled, examines Price’s careful attention to reptiles, amphibians and other nonmammals, especially snails and tree frogs but also turtles and lizards, as both subjects and inspiration for his art. The show also highlights the current of suggestive forms, sex and regeneration that, however abstracted, runs through nearly all of Price’s work. This makes “Zoo” a great starting point for viewing the larger shows. It includes the first of his snail cups, a 1965 vessel in deep orange placed on a palette shape to which he affixed a small store-bought ceramic snail. For another cup a frog — this one made by the artist — appears to be mating with the hillock on which the cup rests while also serving as a handle.

In the titles of detailed color studies of his cups, Price stipulated species: poison arrow and Chinese tree frogs and sea turtles. But a drawing of the unusually phallic “Von Bayros Snail Cups” is inspired less by nature than by the work of Franz von Bayros (1866-1924), an Austrian artist specializing in erotic imagery who was similarly inspired by these shelled creatures.
257 2013-07-12 For people who frequent galleries and museums, it has a fairly high art quotient — and I.Q. — in the ways it builds on Conceptual art, appropriation art, relational aesthetics and institutional critique in its presentation, design and subject matter; its ancestors include all kinds of environmental art, from the ’60s Happenings to the installations of Cady Noland and Martin Kippenberger in the ’80s and ’90s.

But I suspect that lots of people who know next to nothing about contemporary art will be fascinated by the information that the piece imparts about contemporary culture and enjoy the spatial manner in which it does so. It’s a public service, in a way, as well as a walk-in version of a news article about the conference or, more accurately, a journalist’s notes for one.

“All you need is data” functions as a kind of compressed time line in real space. Each painting is devoted to a single event on the DLD conference’s crowded schedule — from registration to lunch to keynote addresses, speeches and panel discussions. The paintings hang on waist-high railings made of sturdy metal pipe that wind through the gallery in labyrinthine cattle-chute formation. It’s as if the current trend of hanging paintings anywhere but on walls has been melded with a livestock-soothing slaughterhouse design by Temple Grandin. The stanchions at airport security checkpoints may also come to mind.

The installation retrieves the details of the conference from DLD’s archives, taking the viewer deep into a highly specialized world. Invention, idealism and opportunism mix, and the potential of the digital is celebrated and debated but mostly celebrated.

The atmosphere is heady. Young, suddenly-rich digital entrepreneurs like David Karp, a co-founder of Tumblr, and Andrew Mason, a co-founder of Groupon, rub shoulders with the publisher Arianna Huffington, the theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson and the artist Yoko Ono. Ms. Ono is not the only art type on hand: also present are Paul D. Miller (a k a DJ Spooky), Olafur Eliasson, Corey McCorkle and the most ubiquitous of all curators, Hans Ulrich Obrist.

Among the banalities of conference life are welcoming remarks. Those at DLD were delivered by Martin Zeil, Bavaria’s minister of economic affairs, and reflect Munich’s status as one of Europe’s Silicon Valleys: “We always say Apps and Alps.”

Yet most of the paintings are slightly more substantial, presenting bulletin-board-like arrangements of speakers’ photographs and sound bites beneath the events’ titles: “Extrasensory Reception,” “From Bauhaus to Data,” “Digital Diplomacy,” “Understanding India.” Mr. Denny, who may have learned a thing or two from Barbara Kruger, has rejiggered some titles, often cribbing from their subheadings to make them catchier. A conference discussion that was titled “A Dynamic Dance” becomes “Need, Speed and Greed.” One phrase that he seems to have pulled from thin air is labeled “Inattentional Blindness,” in a painting that features the writer Linda Stone lamenting that “We’ve evolved from multitasking to continuous partial attention.”

Some of the quotations — which are not always attributed — resonate more today than they did at the conference a year ago. For example, the recent revelations about broad surveillance by the National Security Agency give added meaning to this assertion from a keynote speaker: “People need to be informed about the processing of their data in simple, clear language they can understand.”

Adjacent paintings on the subject of privacy include less-than-reassuring remarks like “People don’t understand that data is the oil of the 21st century,” and “We as little brothers are the collective big brother. It’s a democratic kind of totalitarianism.”

Then there’s “Future of Stuff,” with the optimistic forecast that “the age where people can make what they want to have is coming.” That age seems frighteningly close now, now that 3-D printers have been used to produce semiautomatic weapons.

Between the quotations and a spatial layout that makes the paintings almost aggressively accessible, Mr. Denny’s installation has plenty to offer. That is not to say that it won’t make you a little queasy. From the discussion “Ways Beyond the Internet,” one sentence stuck with me: “Your animated gifs run on burnt coal and your computers — they’re made by slaves.”

It’s interesting to note that the original DLD conference was titled “All you need is Data?” Mr. Denny’s removal of the question mark for his work may be troubling, but the resulting statement can be taken as his current modus operandi.
258 2013-07-12 “Hee Haw” meets “Pulp Fiction” at the meth lab: That describes the style of “Pawn Shop Chronicles,” a hillbilly grindhouse yawp of a movie that belches in your face and leaves a sour stink. The heart of this carny show posing as a film is General Lee’s Pawn Shop, whose proprietor (Vincent D’Onofrio) and his pal (Chi McBride) while away the afternoons arguing about the possibility of an African-American Santa Claus.

“Pawn Shop Chronicles,” directed by Wayne Kramer (“The Cooler”) from a screenplay by Adam Minarovich (Ed Peletier in “The Walking Dead”), tells three tall tales. In the first, paranoid, gun-wielding, white-supremacist tweakers (Lukas Haas; Paul Walker; and Norman Reedus, also of “The Walking Dead”) who are so strung out that they can’t see straight risk blowing themselves up while trying to rob a meth lab.

In the second, the newly remarried Richard (Matt Dillon) discovers his former wife’s custom-made ring in the shop and ditches his bride to go on a wild-goose chase to find his ex. His search leads to a farm whose pornography-addicted owner, Johnny (Elijah Wood), maintains a menagerie of naked, kidnapped women shackled like wild animals in cages and writhing in their own filth. Richard subjects Johnny to extreme torture, reminiscent of “A Clockwork Orange,” that involves a pried-open mouth and a hammer.

In the finale Brendan Fraser plays a struggling Elvis impersonator at a carnival where the captive women, now freed and wrapped in American flags, parade like ambulatory slabs of rotten meat to the strains of “Amazing Grace.” These glowering, brain-dead beauty queens might be described as zombies-in-waiting. Gonzo is the word.

“Pawn Shop Chronicles” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has violence, torture, graphic nudity, sexual material, offensive language and drug use.
259 2013-07-12 Q. And the next big step?

A. I left I.B.M. in 1989, when I was 22, to start a company called Paper Software.

Q. What did you learn from that?

A. The first lesson was that I’d bought all these business books because I hadn’t gone to school. And I really got into the theoretical aspects of starting a company. Then what I finally realized after about six months is that I just needed to do it. I just needed to actually build something. And that was a good lesson — do something, build something and everything will happen from there.

I was able to recruit three really awesome I.B.M. engineers. I had to pay them a lot of money to join. One day, two of them said, “Hey, can you come outside and go for a walk with us?” They told me they were going to quit and start a company that was basically going to do what we were doing. I had two other guys working for me who were up-and-coming engineers, and I was paying them a fraction of what I was paying these guys. I came back to the office and I pulled my small team together and said: “O.K., I have good news and bad news. The bad news is, we just lost half of our engineers, but the good news is we kept the best half.”

And that was a great moment, when I learned how you rally people around hardship, and give them the opportunity to step up. You can actually get better output from people when you give them more than what they normally would be expected to handle.

Q. You eventually sold Paper Software to Netscape and moved to the West Coast to join Netscape. Lessons from that experience?

A. One of the biggest mistakes I made at Netscape was to focus too much on competition. Microsoft was trying to kill us. And that caused us to think about what we were going to do about Microsoft. What we really should have been thinking was: How do we focus on what our users want? Why did they love our product? How do we make it more of something that they love? So my advice is, every time you have a thought about the competition, replace that with a thought about your customer and you’ll do far better as a business.

Q. Other lessons for would-be entrepreneurs that you’ve learned over the years?

A. I think a lot of entrepreneurs go into building a start-up thinking they should focus on a niche, and do the simplest thing that can be done. But there is a problem with that approach. In fact, it may be even harder to build that kind of niche company than it is to build a giant company that might someday be able to change the world. It’s going to take the same amount of life force. You’re going to get up in the morning, work 12 to 15 hours every day. You’ll make huge, hard decisions, hire and fire people and build teams. It literally takes the same amount of energy.

So what I think is counterintuitive is that if you focus on the big idea, the biggest thing you can possibly do, that’s actually somewhat easier, because you can attract more investment that way. You can attract more talent that way. It’s more fun, and you have way more room to maneuver.

Q. How do you hire? What qualities are you looking for? What questions do you ask?

A. I ask people what’s driving them, and what’s motivating them. I’m looking for answers along the lines of: “I want to be a part of a great team. I want to learn from really great people. I love the people I’ve met here, and I’d love to just be part of this.” I also look for people who are into doing something really meaningful and great. So I’m looking to see if their answers are centered around those two pillars. I’m trying to build a culture that’s focused primarily on the camaraderie of the team, because we’re going on a really big, important and giant journey together.

I don’t hire anyone who doesn’t genuinely share that motivation, no matter how good they are on paper. Because you have to have a durable team so that when you do hit hard patches, people are just as motivated to continue to drive forward. The team sticks together. That’s what is really required in building a company. You’re going to hit those hard spots, and you’re actually defined by how you come out of those at the end.

Q. What other questions do you ask?

A. I’ll ask them about the hardest situation they’ve ever been in, and how they navigated through it. I’ll ask: What’s your greatest triumph? What’s the thing that you’re most proud of that you’ve done in your career? And then: What are some of the core lessons you’ve learned? You can have a 90-minute conversation just with those questions.
260 2013-07-12 Regarding “Resilience of the humanities” (July 5): Scott Saul states that, “Many of our students struggle to think and write with precision, and we struggle to teach them the mechanics of good writing.” I respectfully suggest that any educational institution at the post-high school/university level in any country should emphasize the importance of the humanities in terms of expanding a student’s intellect, by reference to the study of philosophy in particular, and the application of philosophical methods to any academic discipline, be it the study of medicine or law or business, indeed any faculty that requires critical and analytical thinking and the forensic critique of information. Perhaps such an approach would be helpful to students, and also assist educators in their attempts to successfully teach students how to think and write with precision?
261 2013-07-12 “The current model is obviously Apple, given how phenomenally successful they have been,” said Kevin Werbach, an associate professor of business at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “What Apple has been great at is creating these experiences.”

The changes at Microsoft, a giant in the tech industry for decades that has stalled in the last few years, echo similar moves at its biggest rivals, including some tweaking at Apple. Craig Federighi, who led the development of Apple’s operating system for computers, was also given oversight of much of the operating system for iPhones and iPads. Jonathan Ive, the industrial designer behind the slick look of Apple hardware, took charge of the interface of Apple software. At Google, the development of operating systems for mobile devices and computers was put into the hands of a single executive, Sundar Pichai, rather than two.

Microsoft said on Thursday that it, too, would consolidate its major operating systems, including Windows, Windows Phone and the software that powers the Xbox, under Terry Myerson, who handled engineering only for Windows Phone before. The underlying goal is to create software with tighter linkages to power an array of devices, making it easier for people to use their smartphones, tablets and game consoles as adjuncts to one another.

But Microsoft’s charges are far more sweeping and involve many more people. “This is, in my mind, the biggest thing we’ve ever done,” said Lisa Brummel, a 24-year Microsoft veteran who leads its human resources department, noting that the company has nearly 100,000 employees.

It remains to be seen whether more cohesive teamwork, if that is what results from all the movement, will offer the spark that has been missing recently from so many of Microsoft’s products. The company remains one of the most lucrative enterprises on the planet, with nearly $17 billion in profit during its last fiscal year on $73.7 billion in revenue. But it has been widely faulted for being late with compelling products in two lucrative categories, smartphones and tablets. Its Bing search engine is a distant second to Google and loses billions of dollars a year for Microsoft.

Rivalries among the Microsoft divisions have built up over time, sometimes resulting in needless duplication of efforts. Microsoft managers often grumble privately that one of the most dreaded circumstances at the company is having to “take a dependency” on another group for a piece of software, placing them at the mercy of someone else’s development schedule.

Product development groups will sometimes go to great lengths to avoid this, creating software like e-mail programs that duplicate the functions of other products at Microsoft. While its old divisions all had their own finance and marketing organizations, Microsoft is now centralizing those functions.

Bill Whyman, an analyst at the ISI Group, said Microsoft’s promise to make all of its technologies work better together would be challenging given the sheer breadth of its product portfolio, which covers corporate and consumer products.

“That sounds right but it’s really, really hard to do,” Mr. Whyman said. “Maybe Apple does it with the iPhone ecosystem. Microsoft is proposing to do it over a much broader set of customer applications and uses.”

Amazon has already been trying. It has become a major player in devices, with its Kindle family of e-readers and tablets. Google tiptoed into hardware production with products like the Chromebook Pixel laptop and Google Glass, as well as the failed Nexus Q for streaming media. And Google’s boldest and riskiest move in hardware was spending $12.5 billion to buy Motorola Mobility.

The focus on the full suite of offerings has led several companies to rethink how they are organized. When Larry Page, Google co-founder, took over as chief executive in 2011, he shook things up at the search company, whose structure had become bloated and labyrinthine. To help the company move faster, Mr. Page centralized decision-making power with him, eliminating Google’s former triumvirate of equal decision makers at the top.

Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said revamping an organization’s structure tended to provide only temporary remedies.

“I never take these reorganizations too seriously,” said Mr. Cusumano. “Almost any reorganization is designed to solve current problems people see. Over time, other problems come up.”

Perhaps the most pressing issue facing Microsoft now is the decline of personal computers. Most of the company’s revenue rests on the personal computer business, in one form or another, and that market is mired in a brutal slump — one that Windows 8, the new tablet-friendly operating system Microsoft released last year, failed to reverse. This week, Gartner, the research firm, said second-quarter PC shipments fell 10.9 percent from a year before.

“This organization does not answer the following question: What happens to Microsoft if PC shipments continue to go down?” asked Jean-Louis Gassée, a venture capitalist and former Apple executive, referring to Microsoft’s new structure.

Other maturing technology companies have successfully responded to challenges in their businesses. In 2004, I.B.M. made a pivotal decision to exit the personal computer business to focus on corporate technology services. With its revamping, Microsoft did not announce plans to leave any businesses.

One of Microsoft’s biggest changes is the creation of the devices and studio group, headed by Julie Larson-Green, which will oversee the development of Xbox hardware, the Surface family of tablet computers, hardware accessories and games.

Mr. Ballmer did not say what other devices Microsoft might make in the future, but he hinted in an interview conducted over Skype that Microsoft could play a role in the development of technologies that make videoconferencing feel more natural, allowing participants to make eye contact.

“It takes evolution in the physical form factors. It takes evolution in the software, in the services,” Mr. Ballmer said.

Qi Lu, the head of Bing and Microsoft’s other Internet initiatives, will take over a new applications group and oversee the company’s lucrative Office franchise and Skype. Satya Nadella, as the head of the new cloud and enterprise group, will manage the network of data centers that power all of Microsoft’s online services, in addition to Windows Azure, the cloud service he has been running for some time.

“It’s not like our old structure didn’t allow us to do some of this,” Mr. Nadella said. “The question is whether you can amplify.”
262 2013-07-13 The owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars, Shad Khan, bought the Premier League club Fulham, becoming the sixth American owner in England’s top league. The Premier League approved the deal between the previous owner, Mohamed al-Fayed, and Khan. Financial details were not disclosed. Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool, Aston Villa and Sunderland are also owned by Americans.
263 2013-07-13 The Los Angeles Lakers signed the free-agent center Chris Kaman after Dwight Howard’s departure for Houston. Kaman, a 10-year veteran, averaged 10.5 points and 5.6 rebounds while starting 52 of 66 games for Dallas last season. His deal with the Lakers is reportedly for one year at $3.2 million.
264 2013-07-13 During the 40 years Mr. Buck ran his school, he was an eminently recognizable figure: an elegantly turned out, borzoi-thin man of 145 pounds, he commanded the leashes of a half-dozen or more dogs at a time — a good 500 pounds of dog in all — which fanned out before him like the spokes of a wheel.

He walked in sun; he walked in rain. In wintertime, his charges might be clad in small sweaters bearing the logos of the European resorts where their masters skied.

Jim Buck’s School for Dogs was equal parts exclusive preparatory academy, exercise class and reform school. In a 1964 profile of Mr. Buck in The New York Times, Gay Talese described him, plying his trade, as looking “like Charlton Heston in the chariot-racing scene in ‘Ben-Hur.’ ”

But with hindsight, it is more apt to liken Mr. Buck to Lee Marvin in the 1967 film “The Dirty Dozen.”

Mr. Buck’s clients were refined. Their dogs were less so.

The clients, mostly Upper East Siders, included some of the city’s most prominent names in the arts, government, finance and industry. (Continuing the tradition of walker-client confidentiality to which Mr. Buck long hewed, his family declined to name them. It did confirm Mr. Buck’s death, at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, apparently of complications of emphysema and cancer.)

The dogs included the intractable, the obstinate and the profoundly pampered.

One, an otterhound known to Mr. Buck’s staff as Oliver the Awful, was used for some years to audition prospective employees.

“Oliver knows when he’s testing someone new, and he can be counted on to leap into the first phone booth along the way and slam the door and wedge himself against it,” Mr. Buck told The New Yorker in 1965. “Brute force is of no avail; the only way to get him out is to remain poised and quietly talk him out.”

James Augustine Farrell Buck was born in Manhattan on Nov. 28, 1931. His family, socially prominent, had prospered in steel and shipping. As a youth, Jim showed dogs; he also trained horses at the Connecticut country homes of his uncles.

But by the early ’60s he was leading the sort of gray-flannel life of which he despaired, chafing in New York as a salesman for an electronics concern.

Mr. Buck knew dogs — as a young man, he bred Great Danes. He also knew New Yorkers. Before long, a void was filled.

By 1964, The Times reported, he was making $500 a week, more than his electronics job paid.

His cobbler enjoyed a regular cut: Mr. Buck wore through the soles of his shoes every two weeks.

Mr. Buck’s marriage to Ann Sage ended in divorce. A resident of Manhattan, he is survived by three sons, Jonathan, Christopher and Graham; two sisters, Mother Debra Joseph, a Benedictine nun, and Connie Buck; and a brother, Richard.

Jim Buck’s School for Dogs is gone now, closed a decade ago when Mr. Buck retired. But its legacy endures: some of the city’s professional dog walkers are his former employees.

As the city changes, so too does their work. There are no more telephone booths for latter-day Olivers to barricade themselves in. Few cobblers remain.

And in years to come, in perhaps the keenest loss of all, there may well be no more newsprint. A 20th-century artifact increasingly deemed redundant in the electronic age, it remains, for New York’s dog walkers, a vital, and indispensable, means of upholding the law.
265 2013-07-13 Prime Minister Hun Sen engineered a pardon for his most prominent rival on Friday, clearing the way for the self-exiled politician, Sam Rainsy, to return home and campaign in this month’s general election. The pardon came after the United States and other countries had said the exclusion of Mr. Sam Rainsy from the July 28 vote would call into question its legitimacy. His return is not likely to greatly affect the outcome, because Mr. Hun Sen is expected to win in a landslide and extend his 28-year rule. Mr. Sam Rainsy has lived abroad since 2009 to avoid an 11-year prison term on charges widely seen as politically motivated. King Norodom Sihamoni pardoned him Friday at Mr. Hun Sen’s request. In a statement, a spokesman for the State Department later praised the royal pardon.
266 2013-07-13 “I had no idea on these greens — I’m glad I’m leaving,” said Els, who still felt his game was in good shape heading to Muirfield.

The past British Open winners Darren Clarke and Padraig Harrington joined Els in missing the weekend.

That leaves Mickelson as the biggest draw for the galleries for the final two rounds, and he said he was poised to make a charge in his bid to capture his first title on links.

“I was just a little bit off,” said Mickelson, who started off with a bogey for the second straight round but wowed the crowd with a lob shot onto the third green to set up one of his four birdies. “But I’m in a position where if I get a hot round, I can make up the ground.”

SCOT LEADS L.P.G.A. EVENT Catriona Matthew of Scotland shot a 64 to take a three-stroke lead after the second round of the Manulife Financial L.P.G.A. Classic in Waterloo, Ontario.

Matthew’s 15-under 127 at the tournament’s midway point improved on her previous career-best 36-hole mark on tour by five strokes.

Angela Stanford of the United States shot a 67 and was second, while Inbee Park, who is looking to win her fourth straight L.P.G.A. Tour event, had a 67 and was tied with three other players at 10 under. Ryann O’Toole (65), Anna Nordqvist (64) Belen Mozo (66), Chella Choi (65) and Meena Lee (66) were all 11 under.

Park is trying to become the first golfer to win four straight L.P.G.A. tournaments since Lorena Ochoa in 2008.

“I mean this golf course is very scorable, and a lot of people are going on birdie streaks,” Park said. “It’s tough to follow that many birdies all four days. I’m trying my best to get it out there.”

Nancy Lopez holds the tour record with five consecutive victories in 1978, a mark tied by Annika Sorenstam over the 2004-05 seasons.

Park recently won the United States Women’s Open to become the first player to win the year’s first three majors since Babe Zaharias swept the three majors played in the L.P.G.A.’s inaugural season in 1950. Park will go for her fourth major in a row at the Women’s British Open next month.

JOHNSON STILL IN FRONT Zach Johnson has evolved into one of the most consistent players John Deere Classic fans have ever seen.

Johnson put together another steady round in Silvis, Ill., maintaining a share of the lead despite standout efforts from the rookie Patrick Reed and Lucas Glover. Johnson, the defending champion, shot a five-under 66 to join Reed and Glover atop the leader board at 12-under 130 after second-round play.

Johnson has shot 18 consecutive rounds in the 60s at Deere Run — largely by avoiding big mistakes and scrambling out of small ones. He said: “I’m just comfortable. I’m comfortable with every tee shot. I’m comfortable with every wind, and clearly I’m comfortable on the greens.”

BIG LEAD IN SENIOR OPEN At Omaha, Michael Allen shot a seven-under 63 and broke away from the pack for a five-stroke lead after the second round of the United States Senior Open.

Allen was among seven players who shared the first-round lead at three under. Allen’s 36-hole lead is the largest in the event’s 34-year history.

Rocco Mediate, at five under, is his closest pursuer. Mediate finished with 14 straight pars while shooting a bogey-free 67. Jeff Sluman, who also shot 67, is at four under after missing an 8-foot par putt on the 18th.
267 2013-07-13 Doctors who perform drug-induced abortions in Missouri will have to be in the room to administer the initial dose and will not be allowed to do it remotely via teleconferencing, according to a new law set to take effect next month. Gov. Jay Nixon said Friday that he decided not to veto the new measure but also would not sign it. Governor Nixon, a Democrat, said that the Republican-controlled Legislature passed the abortion bill overwhelmingly and that his administration must focus on other bills.
268 2013-07-13 Turkish riot squads fired enormous amounts of tear gas, often at close range in confined spaces, and used other types of disproportionate force in their tactics to crush the antigovernment protests that erupted last month in Istanbul, Ankara and other cities, an alliance of international medical rights groups said in a report released Friday.

The report, which cast a new light on the behavior of the Turkish police, expressed concern about what it called deliberate attacks on medical workers who had been aiding stricken protesters. The report also criticized what it described as unlawful detentions of individuals, including a prominent physician who is secretary general of the Istanbul Chamber of Medicine.

“Our investigation in Turkey confirmed that the government has been engaged in the excessive and unnecessary use of force — including using tear gas as a weapon of mass scale — which has claimed several lives and led to thousands of injuries,” Dr. Vincent Iacopino, the senior medical adviser to the Physicians for Human Rights, a Boston-based group that participated in the research and publication of the report, said in a statement on its Web site.

Dr. Iacopino and other investigators returned from Turkey last week after interviewing more than 30 health professionals, victims and witnesses to the police attacks on demonstrators.

Physicians for Human Rights and its partners, the World Medical Association, the German Medical Association and the Standing Committee of European Doctors, also released a letter they had sent Friday to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, asking his government to end such police behavior and to ban all use of tear gas, which they said had been fired “with devastating health consequences.”

The rights groups cited evidence compiled by the Turkish Medical Association that documented more than 8,000 injuries attributed to tear gas, rubber bullets, water cannons, beatings and live ammunition. Four people died in the mayhem, and 11 victims who were struck by tear-gas canisters lost eyes.

Mr. Erdogan’s office had no comment on the report and did not acknowledge receipt of the letter. But his government has defended what it has called the right of the police to use tear gas and water cannons against protests by groups that undermine public order.
269 2013-07-13 It came as no surprise that a federal judge on Wednesday ruled against Apple in an e-book price-fixing case. The easy money was always on the Justice Department, which had evidence that Apple conspired with five major book publishers to manipulate the market. Yet it remains an open question whether these legal proceedings served consumers’ best interest.

Before Apple launched its iBookstore in 2010, Amazon controlled 90 percent of the e-book market. Amazon set retail prices as it saw fit, often steeply discounting best-sellers and hawking them for $9.99, at a loss. Not unreasonably, publishers worried that Amazon was too dominant and were delighted when Apple came on the scene, introducing an “agency model” in which the publishers set retail prices and Apple took a cut. Apple proposed price caps of $12.99 and $14.99 for new releases, with contracts that also included a “most-favored-nation” clause: if a competitor’s list price for an e-book ever dipped below Apple’s, the publishers would match it, allowing the iBookstore to offer the best deal.

The Justice Department argued, and Judge Denise Cote of Federal District Court in Manhattan agreed, that Apple “facilitated a horizontal conspiracy” to eliminate retail price competition. Once the publishers were cozy with Apple, the Justice Department said, they used that relationship as a cudgel against Amazon, threatening to withhold new content unless Amazon moved to the agency model and let prices rise. The strategy worked. Amazon switched, and its prices went up.

To make its case, the government unearthed a telling e-mail from Steve Jobs, Apple’s chief executive at the time, in which he said he could tolerate Apple’s contracts with the publishers “as long as they move Amazon to the agent model too for new releases for the first year.”

The big picture is that while Apple’s pact with the publishers raised prices in the short term, it also brought much-needed competition to the e-book marketplace. It is estimated that Apple now controls 10 percent of that market and Amazon 65 percent, with Barnes & Noble and others splitting the rest. That is healthier for the publishers and for consumers, too.
270 2013-07-13 “We’ll get to that later.” That was the dismissive answer of Speaker John Boehner on Thursday, when asked if the House would restore the food stamp program it had just coldly ripped out of the . “Later,” he said, Republicans will deal with the nation’s most important anti-hunger program. “Later,” maybe, they will think about the needs of 47 million people who can’t afford adequate food, probably by cutting the average daily subsidy of $4.39.

But right then their priorities were clear, as a bare majority rushed to provide $195.6 billion over 10 years to Big Agriculture. Most of the money went to subsidies for crop and commodities, demanded by the corn, rice and sugar barons who fill campaign coffers.

The choice made by the House in cutting apart the farm bill was one of the most brutal, even in the short history of the House’s domination by the . Last month, the chamber failed to pass a farm bill that cut $20.5 billion from food stamps because that was still too generous for the most extreme Republican lawmakers. So, in the name of getting something — anything — done, Mr. Boehner decided to push through just the agriculture part of the bill.

For decades, farm subsidies and food stamps have been combined for simple reasons of political expediency. Farm-state lawmakers went along with food stamps to keep the crop subsidies flowing; urban lawmakers did the reverse. The coalition may have been an uneasy one, and it cost the taxpayers untold billions in wasteful payments to growers, but that was the price for helping the hungry.

As the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has repeatedly showed, the food stamp program (now known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP) has long been one of the most effective and efficient anti-poverty programs ever devised. When counted as income, SNAP benefits cut extreme poverty nearly in half, a new study shows. Most families who get the aid have an adult who is working.

Now that coalition has been sundered, and the future of food stamps is threatened. If the program is not returned to the five-year farm bill, it will have to be financed through annual appropriations, which puts it at the mercy of the Republicans’ usual debt-ceiling stunts and government shutdown threats. House leaders said they would submit a food stamp bill “later,” but that will probably include the right wing’s savage cuts and unprecedented incentives for states to shut out poor families. Neither will get past the Senate or the White House.
271 2013-07-13 An order to vacate the building was issued on Friday after inspectors from the Department of Buildings determined that illegal interior partitions had been erected. It was unclear if the partitions delayed rescue efforts, but fire inspectors said it was the foggers that set off the blaze.

“These bug bombs are very flammable,” Mr. Byrnes said.

In fact, every year there are about 500 fires or explosions linked to the devices across the country, according to government statistics.

The pest control industry notes that with 50 million foggers sold each year, the number of accidents is relatively low.

But for many on the front line of the bug wars, from health officials to exterminators, foggers remain a source of frustration.

“They are very common, unfortunately,” said Timothy Wong, the technical director at M&M Pest Control, an extermination company in the city.

Foggers are often misused, Mr. Wong said. A single six-ounce can is enough to treat 6,000 cubic feet of space, which translates roughly to an 800-square-foot apartment with a seven-foot ceiling.

But because foggers are so cheap, costing about $3 a can, many people think more is better, Mr. Wong said.

Multiple foggers just increase the chances of an accident and shower a home in unnecessarily high levels of dangerous chemicals. People are advised to stay clear of homes sprayed with foggers for two to four hours.

“More is not better in this case,” Mr. Wong said.

Foggers are often also used to eliminate the wrong insects, he said.

Even though foggers are not marketed to kill bedbugs, that is the pest many consumers use them for, according to surveys conducted by health officials.

“Bedbugs hide in cracks and crevices and their bodies are very thin, as thin as a credit cards,” Mr. Wong said. “Foggers cannot penetrate into these crevices and often it will just drive them to burrow deeper or into other units.”

Cockroaches pose a different problem, he said.

“About 20 years ago, researchers realized that they eat each other’s droppings,” he said. So while the fog has a limited kill zone, bait traps are more effective because they poison not only the cockroaches that eat them but also those who eat their droppings.

Foggers came into widespread use in the 1970s, and there are now 150 such products registered with the federal government, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.

Mr. Byrnes, who has been with the Fire Department for 32 years, said that in the early 1980s the department started to see problems with the foggers.

The department found that the foggers were often poorly labeled, and the labels that were on the packaging did not convey just how flammable the foggers were.

The labeling has improved, he said, but there is still a challenge in educating the public.

Most important, he said, people need to “eliminate all possible sources of ignition” when using a fogger. Some sources are obvious, like cigarettes or a pilot light, but others less so. Any device that cycles on and off — even a light switch — should not be used while the fogger is deployed.

Daniel Kass, a deputy commissioner at the city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, said the dangers went beyond explosions.

In 2009, the city petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency to restrict the use of total release foggers. The agency did not take action, but Mr. Kass said he remained convinced that the devices were harmful.

Besides the risk of explosions and fires, he said, there is also the risk of poisoning. People often fail to wait enough time before re-entering a space that has been fogged or to ventilate the space properly.

And in the battle against bugs, it is often low-income neighborhoods that suffer the most. After all, when the choice comes down to a $175 visit from an exterminator or a $3 fogger, the fogger will most often win out.

“The cynical aspect is they are being marketed as this kind of cure,” Mr. Kass said.
272 2013-07-13 WASHINGTON — A big increase in gasoline prices pushed wholesale inflation up in June by the largest amount in nine months. But underlying inflation showed only a modest gain.

Wholesale prices rose 0.8 percent in June compared with May, when prices rose 0.5 percent, the Labor Department reported on Friday. It was the biggest gain since a 1 percent increase in September and was driven by a 7.2 percent surge in gasoline prices.

Outside of the volatile energy and food sectors, core inflation was up just 0.2 percent in June.

Core prices have risen 1.7 percent over the last 12 months. Aside from sharp swings in gas prices, inflation has increased very slowly over the last year, giving the Federal Reserve the room to keep interest rates low to lift the economy.

The government’s Producer Price Index measures inflation before it reaches the consumer. Consumer prices have been rising at a modest rate as well. Over the 12 months ending in May, consumer prices outside of food and energy were up just 1.7 percent, below the Fed’s 2 percent target for inflation.

For June, energy prices at the wholesale level were up 2.9 percent, reflecting the big increase in gas prices. It was the biggest increase since February.
273 2013-07-13 Pictures From the Week in Business
274 2013-07-13 West Texas Intermediate, the main American benchmark, has been rising for more than a week, partly because higher demand among summer vacationers has caused a sudden large drop in American inventories. Many experts say they believe that the American benchmark price, which has been depressed relative to global benchmarks in recent years, could remain somewhat higher for a while because new pipelines and railroad lines are gradually relieving bottlenecks for oil produced and stored in the Midwest.

In storage and delivery centers like Cushing, Okla., for example, excess inventories of landlocked oil that could not be easily transported made the oil cheap. But now that supplies are moving around the country more regularly, wholesale and retail prices are rising.

Stockpiles in Cushing fell by 2.7 million barrels last week alone, reaching the lowest levels of the year.

In recent years, a weaker economy and more fuel-efficient vehicles combined to lower American gas consumption, before this summer’s blip of vacation driving bucked the trend. And few oil experts expect a long-term increase in oil and gasoline prices. The rapid growth in United States oil production, coupled with sluggish demand in Europe and slowing growth in China and much of the developing world, is expected to restrain prices. Some experts predict a decline in oil prices over the next year.

“You will see oil prices hover somewhere in the $70 to $100 range,” Harbir S. Chhina, an executive vice president for Cenovus Energy, a major Canadian oil company, predicted for the United States oil benchmark in an interview last month.

The United States benchmark has broken out of that band for the first this time year in recent days to just over $105, representing about a $20 rise from last July. Crude prices, in the United States and abroad, rose approximately 1 percent on Friday.

Global oil production remains robust and some recent supply problems are easing. Two Libyan oil export terminals that were shut down in recent weeks by militias and disgruntled employees have resumed operations. The Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline, a major outlet of oil from Iraq’s northern oil fields, is returning to operations this week after being suspended since June 21 because of a leak and an interruption of repair work after an ambush on a crew of technicians.

Oil experts warn, however, that there is no telling when the next political crisis will come in the Middle East or North Africa.

“Oil price predictions used to be about oil consumption and markets, but now it’s about where the next riot will break out,” said Stale Tungesvik, a senior executive at Statoil, the Norwegian oil giant. “It’s so much more politically based, and that makes it a mystery to everyone.”
275 2013-07-13 A team of British safety investigators began examining the plane shortly after the fire was put out. But no one involved — the investigators, Boeing, the airline or the airport — commented on the possible cause of the fire.

Other experts said that some of the plane’s wiring, and the oxygen systems for passengers, would have passed through the damaged area, which was above the rear galley. It was also possible the fire migrated from another part of the plane, they said.

Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation consultant at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va., said the possibilities ranged from “something pretty benign,” like a lit cigarette or a coffee machine left on, to a serious flaw in the plane’s new electrical system, which includes other innovative components besides the batteries. Or, he said, it could be something “not as easy or as terrible,” like a component that was installed incorrectly.

The Heathrow incident was not the only problem aboard a 787 on Friday. Thomson Airways, a charter airline, said that one of its Dreamliner planes traveling from Manchester Airport in England to Orlando-Sanford International Airport in Florida had to turn back “as a precautionary measure.”

The fire on the Ethiopian 787 forced Heathrow Airport to temporarily suspend arrivals and departures while fire crews responded to the incident at 4:36 p.m. local time. Once the fire was extinguished around 6 p.m., the runways reopened.

Friday’s incidents took place about two months after the 787 Dreamliners returned to the skies after being grounded over the battery problems. One of the new lithium-ion batteries caught fire on a 787 parked at a Boston airport on Jan. 7, and another began smoking in midflight nine days later, forcing a 787 to make an emergency landing in Japan.

Regulators lifted the grounding orders after Boeing came up with a plan to refit the first 50 to 60 of the new jets with more insulation between the battery cells and a new system for venting smoke or hazardous gases out of the planes. Ethiopian Airlines has four 787s, and the one that had the fire at Heathrow was the first 787 to return to service at any airline after the grounding ended.

Boeing said that while the planes were grounded, it also made changes in electrical components that had failed on occasion since the planes began to fly in late 2011.

At Heathrow, television video and photographs showed fire damage near the base of the vertical stabilizer, with fire-retardant foam having been sprayed on the area. That would be the first time a fire had burned through the 787’s carbon-composite skin, raising questions about its fire-retardant properties.

But most of the electrical panels and generators are in the center of the plane, below the passenger floor. That is also where one of the two lithium-ion batteries is situated. The second is under the cockpit.

In Washington, the National Transportation Safety Board said it would send an investigator to Britain to inspect the Ethiopian plane.

Boeing has delivered 66 787s so far, with orders totaling 930 planes.

Uncertainty over the cause of the fire could make passengers more reluctant to fly on a new plane, or lead some airlines to delay or defer their 787 orders. Aviation analysts said that Boeing’s battery problems had cost it hundreds of millions of dollars.

For Boeing, the 787’s systems represent a significant advancement in technology. To reduce weight and improve the plane’s efficiency, for example, Boeing replaced many of the traditional pneumatic systems with electrical ones that do not rely on bleed air from the engines.

The 787 has six electrical power generators — including two that are near the rear of the plane, linked to the auxiliary power generator, and two on each of the plane’s two engines. These generators provide power to the plane’s electrical systems in flight, including the flight deck displays, flight controls and in-flight entertainment. The system is more efficient because it reduces the drag on the engines, and it generates less noise. During flight, the four engine generators are the primary sources of electrical power. The auxiliary power unit is a small jet engine that is used to produce power while on the ground if the plane is not connected to an external power source.

The 787 has also had a history of other mishaps since entering service in November 2011. Several airlines, including United Airlines, the sole American operator so far, Qatar Airways and All Nippon Airlines, have been forced to divert flights because of electrical problems or out of an abundance of caution given the limited experience pilots and crew have with the new plane.

Despite these problems, though, airlines have eagerly anticipated the plane, which has cut fuel costs by 20 percent.

Airbus, Boeing’s big European rival, is also planning its own carbon-fiber airplane, the A350, which is scheduled to enter service sometime next year.
276 2013-07-13 The latest figures indicate that the number of men with jobs in the field is up 15.8 percent since January 2008, when overall employment peaked just as the Great Recession began, while female employment has risen by just 9.8 percent. But given the preponderance of women in health care jobs — about four out of every five workers in the field are women — those numbers translate into new jobs for more than twice as many women as men.

The charts accompanying this article compare job growth or shrinkage since January 2008. Women hold 0.1 percent more private sector jobs now than they did then, but male employment is still 2.8 percent below its level then.

The number of government jobs has been steadily shrinking, even as the economy recovers, and both male and female public sector employment is 2.4 percent below the levels of early 2008. There was a brief recovery in government employment in 2010 as temporary workers were hired to help conduct the census, but the underlying trend was negative.

The figures come from the government’s monthly survey of employers, which asks not only how many employees a company has but also how many of them are women. The figures are subject to revision, and there is no assurance that the slim female gain shown in the latest report will stand once the figures become final. For some industries, the figures are released with a month’s delay, and the charts for those industries reflect May employment levels.

In industries as disparate as manufacturing, information services and financial services, women and men lost jobs at about the same rate in the first year or two after the economy began to decline. But as the industries stabilized or began to recover, men were far more likely than women to find jobs. Since June 2009, significant numbers of jobs in all three industries have gone to men, while the ranks of women among jobholders continued to shrink in two of the fields, manufacturing and information services, and stabilize in the third, financial services.

In the category that includes restaurants and bars — in which women hold a small majority of the jobs — men and women lost jobs at roughly the same rate until the end of 2009. But since then, as employment increased, men have been more likely to find positions. For the entire period, male employment in such establishments is up more than 8 percent, while female employment has risen nearly 5 percent.

In the early months of the downturn, women came tantalizingly close to realizing a new milestone. In October 2009, women held 49.99 percent of all jobs, with private and public sectors combined. The difference in job totals was only 24,000 — 64,819,000 for men and 64,795,000 for women. But since then, as employment has risen, the female share has dipped to 49.37 percent, and men now have 1.7 million more jobs than women.
277 2013-07-14 McCOURT--David J. May 5, 1942 July 11, 2013. Born in New London, Connecticut, David McCourt, the second son of William J. McCourt and Elizabeth R. McCourt, passed away peacefully on July 11th at CT Hospice, with his devoted and loving wife, Mary B...
278 2013-07-14 Credit: Nathan Weber for The New York Times
279 2013-07-14 In its recent, unanimous decision that human genes cannot be patented, the Supreme Court gave a rare victory to the cause of economic fairness....
280 2013-07-14 Henrik Stenson held off Phil Mickelson at the Scottish Open by shooting a six-under-par 66 to take a two-shot lead into the final round. Mickelson (66) was in a group of four in a tie for second after making six birdies in his last 11 holes.

■ Daniel Summerhays shot a nine-under-par 62 for a two-stroke lead after third-round play at the John Deere Classic in Silvis, Ill.

■ Kenny Perry (64) and Fred Funk (67) made charges in the United States Senior Open, each moving to two shots behind the leader, Michael Allen, with one round to go.
281 2013-07-14 Hee Young Park of South Korea shot a career-best 61 to move into the lead after the third round at the Manulife Financial L.P.G.A. Classic in Waterloo, Ontario. Park was 10 under for the round and 20-under 193 over all, a stroke better than Angela Stanford and two shots ahead of Catriona Matthew. Inbee Park, in a ninth-place tie at 13 under, is trying to become the first golfer to win four straight L.P.G.A. tournaments since Lorena Ochoa in 2008.
282 2013-07-14 The attack against the missiles came to light after Syrian rebels said that they were not responsible for large explosions at Latakia on July 5, and that a missile warehouse had been hit. American officials did not provide details on the extent of the damage or the number of missiles struck.

Israeli officials have said they would not take sides in the civil war in Syria, but they have made it clear that Israel is prepared to carry out airstrikes to prevent sophisticated weapons from being diverted to Hezbollah.

The strike near Latakia, first reported by CNN, was the fourth known Israeli air attack against targets in Syria this year.

Israel has a longstanding policy of silence on pre-emptive military strikes. In October, Israeli officials declined to discuss reports that Israeli airstrikes had destroyed a weapons factory in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. Israel has also never acknowledged bombing a nuclear reactor in 2007 that was under construction in Syria.

While the Obama administration has been cautious about getting involved militarily in the Syria crisis, the Israeli attack this month underscored how the conflict has continued to draw in outside powers. Iran has been ferrying weapons to Damascus on flights that pass through Iraq’s airspace and has sent members of its paramilitary Quds Force to help the Assad government.

Thousands of Hezbollah fighters have gone to Syria to fight alongside Syrian government forces, as have Iraqi Shiite fighters, with the strong encouragement of Iran. Russia has continued to supply arms to the Syrian government.

On the other side of the conflict, Qatar and Saudi Arabia have provided weapons to the rebels. The United States has provided “nonlethal” military aid, including food and medical kits, and pledged to expand support to the armed wing of the opposition.

In late January, Israel carried out an airstrike against a weapons convoy that carried Russian-made SA-17 surface-to-air missiles, which Israeli officials believed were to be provided to Hezbollah.

In May, Israeli warplanes conducted two days of airstrikes. Among the targets was a shipment from Iran of Fateh-110 missiles, surface-to-surface missiles able to strike Tel Aviv from southern Lebanon. American officials say the Israelis carried out their airstrikes by launching air-to-ground weapons from planes outside of Syrian airspace.

The Russian decision to deliver the Yakhont missile prompted objections from the Pentagon. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, warned in May that it would “embolden the regime.”

For Israel, it represented a serious danger as well. In July 2006, an antiship missile fired by Hezbollah seriously damaged an Israeli ship off the coast of Lebanon.

The Yakhont system is far more sophisticated than the one used in the July 2006 attack, and in recent months there has been speculation that the Yakhont cache in Syria would be Israel’s next target.

During a visit to an army base last week, Israel’s defense minister, Moshe Yaalon, restated Israel’s approach to the Syrian conflict: that it would not get involved except to stop weapons transfers. “We have established red lines when it comes to our own interests, and we are sticking to them,” he said.
283 2013-07-14 That is bad enough, but, given the I.M.F.’s record of underestimating the pain to be suffered by earlier bailout recipients like Greece, the bleak forecast could prove too optimistic. In a June report, the fund acknowledged that Greece’s economic contraction between 2009 and 2012 — around 17 percent instead of the forecast 5.5 percent — “was much greater than anticipated.”

Sapienta Economics, a consulting group based in Nicosia, believes that Cyprus faces a cumulative economic decline of more than 24 percent this year and next. That would be the most precipitous slump in the European Union since the economies of the now 28-nation bloc began to shudder under the impact of a rolling debt crisis more than three years ago.

With an annual economic output of only around $23 billion, Cyprus is of little consequence to Europe’s overall economic condition. But it has outsize importance as a testing ground for Europe’s response to its seemingly unending crisis.

“This is a big experiment, and we are the guinea pigs,” said Alexandros Diogenous, the head of a company in Nicosia that imports German cars. “The guinea pig is in critical condition.”

Cyprus’s president, Nicos Anastasiades, said much the same thing in a letter sent last month to the so-called troika of creditors behind the bailout deal: the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the I.M.F. The Cypriot economy, he wrote, has been “driven into a deep recession” and will only get worse unless the group of lenders revises some of its terms. “I urge you to review the possibilities in order to determine a viable prospect for Cyprus and its people,” Mr. Anastasiades said.

In an interview, the president said that Cyprus intended to stick to its side of the bailout deal, which includes deep spending cuts, the overhaul of decrepit state companies and, most controversially, the effective confiscation of billions of euros deposited in Cypriot banks. But, he added, “I am not a magician.”

When Mr. Anastasiades took office in early March and decided to tackle the problems that his predecessor, a Communist, had largely ignored, he turned to the European Union for help, restarting stalled negotiations for emergency aid to shore up his country’s teetering banking sector.

After an all-night meeting in Brussels in mid-March, the troika agreed to provide around $13 billion on the condition that Cyprus “bail-in” the banks that had caused so many of the country’s troubles and force their creditors and depositors to take heavy losses. An initial proposal to confiscate money from insured deposits under $130,000 was quickly dropped, but the final plan, which shifted the burden to wealthy depositors and imposed tight restrictions on moving money, left much of the banking sector in a catatonic state. It also shattered public trust.

“We don’t trust banks, we don’t trust politicians, we don’t trust the legal system. We don’t trust anybody now,” said Christos Nicolaou, the director of a hotel and property company. “There is a big question over everything: What might happen next?”

Mr. Nicolaou said tourism, a pillar of the economy, was down by more than 10 percent compared with the same peak period last year but was still a relative bright spot. A wave of bankruptcies across Cyprus has so far been limited mostly to small companies and shops; bigger enterprises have stayed afloat by slashing wages and staff. But, Mr. Nicolaou said, “we are all on the list.”

Facing a particularly uncertain future is the financial services industry, a once-booming sector turbocharged by money from the former Soviet Union.

“I still cannot digest how criminal and crazy what has happened is,” said Irakli Bukhashvili, the head of a company in Limassol, the seafront business capital, that sets up companies and manages money for Russians and others. “An atom bomb wouldn’t be much worse,” he said, explaining that he plans to leave Cyprus and move his office to London.

Among those still faring reasonably well are lawyers, in part because those who lost money in banks have filed thousands of court cases to try to recover some of their cash. These efforts have not achieved much, but they have helped keep lawyers busy.

The nation’s finance minister, Harris Georgiades, acknowledged that Cyprus faces a “very difficult year or two ahead,” but he said the economic slump “could be less severe than many expect if we can plant the seeds for revived economic activity soon.” Cyprus, he said, is branching into new industries like solar power, and it benefits from having a highly educated and resilient population. It also has potentially large reserves of natural gas and, aiming to become a regional energy hub, last month began talks with one American and two Israeli energy companies on the development of a $6 billion liquefied natural gas terminal.

Mr. Georgiades noted that government revenue from the value-added tax, an important indicator of business activity, had picked up sharply after a catastrophic fall. It was down more than 60 percent in March compared with the same month last year but then rose by 23 percent in April.

Yet total government revenue is still falling, in large part because of a sharp decline in income tax payments, as bailout-mandated austerity measures slash wages and push people out of work. The government has drastically trimmed spending on wages and many other things but, because of rising unemployment and a rush of people into early retirement, its finances are in worse shape than before, as costs for pensions and social benefits soar.

Many businesspeople meanwhile worry that the worst is yet to come, complaining that fearful banks have stopped lending, cutting off circulation of the economy’s lifeblood.

Scores of Cyprus’s leading businesspeople gathered recently in a Nicosia conference hall to share doom-laden assessments of their prospects.

“The country is like a horse and cart. But the horse — the private sector — is now dead,” said Riakas Seraphim, a restaurant and shop owner from the coastal city of Larnaca. The meeting, organized by the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of Employers and Industrialists, ended with a joint appeal for the lifting of capital controls introduced in March and for banks to start lending again.

Before that can happen, however, the government and its international creditors must figure out what to do about the Bank of Cyprus, the country’s biggest and now gravely ill bank. Weighed down by an $11.75 billion debt to the European Central Bank that was transferred to its books from Laiki Bank, which is now defunct, the Bank of Cyprus is struggling to survive.

“It is now proven that the banking system is the A to Z. It is everything. If you don’t have a healthy system in place, you don’t have an economy,” said Mr. Nicolaou, the hotel and property developer.

A general sense of foreboding is aggravated by fears that once the summer tourism season winds down, the situation will get much worse, as visitors with cash drift away and Cypriot banks starved of money try to recover loans from borrowers who simply cannot pay.

“People haven’t yet realized what is going on,” said Panayiotis Athienitis, the head of a large building company that has suspended two big office projects since March because clients ran out of money.

“When people start losing their homes, they will revolt,” he said. “We are all on the hook right now. Everything is uncertain. It is a complete disaster.”

Mr. Pilakoutas, the fired plumber, has all but given up hope of returning to work any time soon after repeated, fruitless visits to a government-run job center. Former customers, he said, “now let their toilets leak longer before they call for help.”
284 2013-07-14 Credit: Michael Stravato for The New York Times
285 2013-07-14 Re “Dimming Outlook for Bonds May Require Some Rethinking” (Mutual Funds Report, July 7), which described challenges ahead for fixed-income investments:

Investing in a bond fund is, in effect, investing in a commodity or a commodity-type product. The commodity is not the fund itself nor the bonds in the fund. The commodity is interest rates, for the fund’s value will rise and fall, respectively, with the fall and rise in interest rates. And investing in commodities, as we all know, is a high-risk game.

But there is an alternative for bond aficionados born with the conservative gene: Patiently create your own portfolio of high-quality bonds maturing regularly over a long period, say 30 or more years, and keep them to maturity. Once this laddered portfolio is established, invest in long-dated maturities, which almost always provide the highest yield. With a portfolio of high-quality bonds maturing regularly, concern over fluctuation in value is virtually eliminated. The investor need only consider the issuer’s creditworthiness, the bond’s yield and the bond’s maturity date.
286 2013-07-14 “Smart people should be building things,” said Andrew Yang, 38, who started Venture for America in 2011. (Although it has ground operations in all eight cities, the program’s headquarters are in a different one: New York.) “Instead, they become bankers and consultants. We need to do something about talent allocation that pulls our top minds toward these fields.”

Mr. Yang said that this generation of graduates was starting to look at alternative career paths, having witnessed many traditional industries, like finance and law, contracting over the last few years.

“These are young people who have come of age in an era of institutional failure,” he said. “The sense I get from talking to them is that there is some disillusionment.”

He is trying to turn that disillusionment into an entrepreneurial advantage. His vision was on display last month as the program’s second class, of 68 fellows, sat around small tables at Venture for America boot camp at Brown University — Mr. Yang’s alma mater. At this particular session, employees from IDEO, a design consulting firm, were presenting a course on product design. The five-week boot camp also includes classes on topics like entrepreneurship, Web design and public speaking.

After the boot camp, the fellows take jobs at start-up companies in industries like e-commerce, biotechnology, finance, media and clean technology. Generally, the companies must be less than 10 years old and employ less than 100 people. Starting salaries are $33,000 to $38,000; pay increases and stock options are at the companies’ discretion.

The fellows are receiving invaluable experience, but “they are definitely making a sacrifice,” said Jeanne Markel, director of brand experience at Zappos, based in Las Vegas. She works with the Zappos founder, Tony Hsieh, on his for-profit Downtown Project to revitalize the city. Mr. Hsieh pledged $1 million to Venture for America last year, and as of August the Downtown Project will employ 14 fellows.

“The salaries are commensurate with what we would pay an entry-level employee,” Ms. Markel said, but the fellows “are the best and the brightest and could easily be making six-figures right out of college.” They are given more responsibilities and opportunities than in a typical entry-level position, she said.

In recent years, “students have become more interested in exploring the intersection of entrepreneurship and social enterprise,” said William Wright-Swadel, executive director of the career center at Duke University. “The consulting firms, the investment banks, medicine and law — those are the four dominant career paths at Ivy or Ivy-like institutions, but it’s my job to diversify the fields we are offering to students,” he said. In the last two years, six Duke students have joined the Venture for America program.

This year, applications to the program nearly doubled, to 550, with only 16 percent accepted. (Not all went on to join the program.) The average grade-point average of the fellows is 3.6. Next year the program plans to expand to St. Louis, Pittsburgh and New Haven.

LARGE corporations have ample resources to spend chasing top talent, and small start-ups in cities like Detroit or Cleveland often can’t compete with them on campuses. That’s where Venture for America comes in. It connects graduates to the local start-up scene through relationships with foundations and local government, much as Teach for America connects graduates to jobs in schools in underserved areas.

“Finance and consulting were so strong on campus” when it came to recruiting, said Kathy Cheng, who graduated from M.I.T. last year with a degree in urban planning and economics. Ms. Cheng turned down a consulting offer in New York to join Venture for America. She now works in Detroit for Doodle Home, an online platform for designers, for half the salary she would have received in New York.

“I had interned at the consulting firm and knew that I could learn a lot of statistics, but there probably wouldn’t be a lot of impact,” she said. At Doodle, she said, the work is more aligned with her interests. (She wrote her senior thesis on the topic of entrepreneurial ecosystems.)

“My job has given me the opportunity not just to analyze, but to really learn how to build a business,” she said. “I was brought on to do Web analytics, but I dip my toes into sales and marketing.”

Fernando Prieto, the president of Doodle Home and Ms. Cheng’s boss, said: “Kathy went to M.I.T. and she is from New Jersey originally. She would have never thought of Detroit if she hadn’t come through Venture for America.”

Dan Gilbert, founder of Quicken Loans, which has operations in Detroit and Cleveland, pledged $1.5 million to Venture for America. (Mr. Gilbert has also invested more than $1 billion in buildings, renovations and other improvements to help revitalize Detroit.) “Getting people who were at the top of their class is not an opportunity we might have gotten if we just woke up one day and said we have job openings,” he said.

In August, 14 fellows will join eight others at companies that operate under the Quicken umbrella, including Doodle Home and Detroit Venture Partners.

GIVEN the lower salaries, the program is an easier choice for those who have little or no student debt. “It would be really hard for me to have to put myself in that position if I had loans,” said Shilpi Kumar, a 2013 Duke graduate who will begin working this summer for the Downtown Project in Las Vegas. Ms. Kumar turned down a consulting position at Deloitte.

“The topic of debt and money comes up,” said Benjamin Goldstein, who graduated from Princeton this year without student loan debt. “If you come out of school with $50,000 in debt, you need to take a high-paying job. What I would like to see in the future is for Venture for America to allow more people to join it.” Mr. Goldstein will begin work this summer at a business incubator in Providence.

Still, about 40 percent of the 2012 fellows had loans, though none had more than $60,000 in debt, according to a survey administered by one of the program’s fellows. “It’s possible they have to make a lifestyle sacrifice to join the program,” Mr. Yang said.

Some participants are drawn to Venture for America because it provides a built-in social system and structure. Many live close to one another, sometimes in the same apartment complex.

In Las Vegas, the seven current fellows all live in housing owned by Mr. Hsieh. In Providence, five fellows live together in a house. In Detroit, Mr. Baltimore lives with a roommate and pays $700 a month, which is on the high end of what fellows pay, according to the program. (The average housing costs are much lower in the participating cities than in places like New York and San Francisco.)

Some say the experience of earning less is a good life skill. “I didn’t think it would be so bad to learn how to live simply” and pick up some good financial habits, Ms. Cheng said.

And some fellows see their salary as providing a decent living for a single person in a place where the cost of living is reasonable.

“I’ve never had this much money,” said Stella Safari, a 2013 graduate of Dartmouth, who is moving to Cincinnati in August to work at myActions, a social networking site. She will live with two other program fellows and pay $550 a month in rent. “My family never made a lot,” said Ms. Safari, who emigrated from Congo in 2000.

Mr. Yang said he hoped that the fellows would put down roots in the cities where they initially worked, perhaps starting their own businesses or working for other local companies. That, he said, would create a ripple effect of entrepreneurship, economic revitalization and job creation.

But whether fellows will become local and successful entrepreneurs themselves — or even stay beyond their 25th birthdays — is hard to say. They are all in the postcollege peripatetic stage of life, where a few years can seem like a long time.

“I’m still 23, so I’m not ready to commit to a place,” said Ms. Cheng, although she could see herself starting a business in Detroit.

“I could stay a third or fourth year in Providence, but when you start on the scale of 5 to 10 years, I am interested in doing a variety of things,” said Ethan Carlson, who graduated from Yale last year with a degree in mechanical engineering. Mr. Carlson turned down an offer at the PA Consulting Group to join Venture for America and work at VCharge, an energy software company in Providence, for half the salary.

THE program does offer some incentives. For example, there is a $100,000 prize, determined by Venture for America, for one to five fellows who have the strongest performance throughout their fellowship and want to start their own companies. (While the business doesn’t have to be in a Venture for America city, “it will be a factor in the committee’s decision,” Mr. Yang said.)

Venture for America certainly isn’t the only career path where young people can make a difference while working for a company. Deloitte, for example, has offices in many of the Venture for America cities and runs a $20-million-a-year pro bono project aimed at nonprofits.

“We go out and source 150 of the most compelling local and national projects and staff it just like we would a paid project, so the pro bono project becomes their full-time job,” said Evan Hochberg, national director of community engagement at Deloitte. “Giving back is not just a nights-and-weekend activity.”

But Venture for America is tapping into a generational ethos that views the 20s as an age to experiment and to pick a passion over a big paycheck. Ms. Kumar said her calculus in taking the position at the Downtown Project in Las Vegas was “What can I be most fulfilled by?”

“There’s a different framework,” she said, “for what a good job is these days.”
287 2013-07-14 As the dust settles, Japanese equity funds are up more than 27 percent for the year. And, year to date, the yen has weakened more than 14 percent against the dollar.

This roller-coaster ride, though, has complicated matters for investors.

Should they go back to favoring shares of exporters, since the yen has been losing value again? Or should they ignore those companies and instead tilt toward businesses that can thrive under a strong yen, should the trend reverse once more? Or should they avoid Japanese stocks altogether?

Many market watchers say investors can sidestep these questions, at least for the moment. Instead, they can do what Japanese stock fund managers have done for years: find ways to invest in Japanese companies without necessarily betting on Japan’s economic growth.

For example, one of the top Japanese holdings in the Causeway International Value fund is the JGC Corporation, an engineering company.

“It’s one of our largest Japanese holdings but it has little do with Japan,” said Sarah H. Ketterer, co-manager of the fund, which beat more than 85 percent of its peers in the past year. Among other things, she said, the company builds liquefied natural-gas plants to help meet the growing demand for the fuel in Southeast Asia.

Over all, less than one-fifth of the company’s revenue comes from Japan.

Another alternative is to invest in companies that don’t necessarily require a strong economy, but that stand to benefit from demographic trends playing out in Japan.

Among the biggest holdings in the Matthews Japan fund, for instance, is JP-Holdings, which operates child-care centers.

In addition to advocating a weak yen to reinvigorate economic growth, Mr. Abe been calling for more women to enter the work force, including leadership posts in Japanese corporations. The country has long been plagued by an aging labor pool, in part because of a declining birthrate. Getting more women into the work force could help address the aging issue and bolster gross domestic product. To do that, though, the government acknowledges a need for more day care options nationwide.

“Companies have to boost investments in child care to facilitate moving young mothers into the work force,” said Taizo Ishida, lead manager of Matthews Japan. And JP-Holdings, one of the largest operators of child care centers in Japan, would surely stand to benefit, he said. Since the start of the year, the shares have more than tripled in value.

Strategists say investors should also look for those few Japanese companies that have shown a willingness to go against the grain.

For instance, during the years when the yen was strengthening, few exporters could gain global market share in the face of a strong currency.

One exception, though, was Unicharm, a maker of diapers. Yoko Sakai, an analyst at Harding Loevner who specializes in Japanese equities, said Unicharm could achieve this partly because it recognized early on that to sell in a cost-effective way to the developing world, it couldn’t rely on the same high-quality, high-priced diapers that Japanese customers demanded. It produced cheaper diapers, which proved quite popular in countries like Indonesia and Thailand, Ms. Sakai said.

Harding Loevner looked for the other kinds of nontraditional thinking from Japanese companies that are domestically oriented. “Whether the yen works for them or against them in a year or two,” she said, “we want companies that can find ways to improve.”

One such company, she said, is ABC-Mart, a shoe retailer in which Harding Loevner invests. ABC-Mart began as a wholesaler but decided to integrate vertically by owning its own retail stores. Then it began buying some shoe brands. “This company isn’t just taking share, it is disrupting the market and getting rid of the middleman,” she said.

WHEN will it be safe to start betting more directly on a Japanese rebound?

It’s hard to say, according to money managers. Skepticism about the future of the stock market is deeply rooted. “In Japan, people are conditioned to sell after a 20 percent rise in asset prices,” said M. Campbell Gunn, manager of the T. Rowe Price Japan fund.

And Ms. Sakai said, “If anybody tells you that they know what’s going to happen in Japan, they’re lying.”

At the very least, money managers say the recent correction is a reminder of just how far the Japanese stock market has to go before it really recovers.

Charles de Lardemelle, co-manager for the IVA International fund, points out that Japan, which has had a shrinking population and work force, hasn’t even begun to tackle the issue of immigration reform, which may also be required to turn around the population trend toward fewer workers. And at the corporate level, he said, there needs to be greater consolidation of companies with a greater focus on delivering more to shareholders.

“To have a real, sustainable long-term rally in Japan,” he said, “you have to see a lot of political changes that so far have not happened.”
288 2013-07-14 Meanwhile, the hundreds of left-out colleges and their conferences would have to go back to basics and rethink their sports programs on their own without benefit of N.C.A.A. subsidies from big-time programs. The ambition and affluence of the 1 percent just might stimulate a New Deal for academics and athletics at all levels.

The writer is a professor of education at the University of Kentucky, a member of the N.C.A.A. Research Advisory Board from 2008 to 2010, and the author of “Games Colleges Play.”

Many of the problems that occur in “big time” athletics could be solved by using the Ivy League model: No athletic scholarships. Athletes would be held to the same academic standards as other incoming students, and aid would be need-based only.

This would weed out athletes whose goal is a professional career and not a degree and force the National Football League and the National Basketball Association to create their own farm system instead of the one they have now courtesy of college and university athletic programs.

The “one and done” athletes (who stay in school one year before entering the N.B.A. as per N.B.A. rules) could go directly to the N.B.A., and football players (who usually need more time to develop physically than basketball players) could play in a developmental league until they were ready for the N.F.L. Colleges and universities could go back to their original function of being institutions of higher learning.

Would college football and basketball be less exciting? Perhaps, but as Mr. Thelin points out, just ask the presidents and trustees at Penn State, Rutgers and Ohio State if they would rather have less excitement than the headaches that come with running multimillion-dollar athletic departments.

Better yet, ask Princeton and Harvard how they feel about not having those headaches.

Why don’t the 1 percent walk away? Because the N.C.A.A. gives them “credibility,” a seal of approval, with only occasional investigations, usually triggered by others. Why don’t the 99 percent walk away? Because they hold themselves up to the 1 percent model, which venerates and separates the athlete from the scholar in all aspects of college life.

Remember the college president who was asked whether the football coach was afraid that the president would fire him? He answered, “I hope he doesn’t fire me.” The academic world has become that skewed.

The N.C.A.A. and college sports programs should remain together both for their own good and that of our communities. One of the reasons for the N.C.A.A.’s success both at managing sports and expanding its programs and popularity is its comprehensive approach to oversight, including large schools, which Professor Thelin calls the 1 percent, as well as small colleges.

This great diversity has led to some of the most memorable N.C.A.A. moments. What sports fan does not remember Appalachian State’s football victory over Michigan or does not look for the “Cinderella” every March? Creating different associations or organizations would help neither the 1 percent nor the 99 percent, as it is their interaction that creates excitement.

Keeping all of these schools tied together in the N.C.A.A. also advances larger societal goals of teaching values through sports. This includes not only those we traditionally associate with sports (teamwork, hard work, practice and planning) but also the idea that despite our great diversity and the great difference in wealth and resources, we can work together in a self-organized and self-regulated way.

The writer is a historian and an associate professor at the Indiana University Lilly Family School of Philanthropy.

While I generally agree with Professor Thelin’s argument, I must take issue with the notion that other schools are subsidized by the 1 percent. Rutgers, for instance, has sunk an enormous amount of money into football in recent years, including stadium expansion, even as academic budgets were slashed.

As Yahoo!Sports has reported, bowl games regularly fleece attending schools. They force them to pay for tickets they cannot sell and pay sponsors exorbitant rates for travel and hotel rooms. Postseason basketball is a racket on a smaller scale. Advertisers profit. TV networks profit. Bowl officials profit. Coaches and athletic directors at the biggest schools certainly profit. But I doubt that any school is truly better off for hosting big-time sports.

I thoroughly agree with the writer’s perspective. The concept of “student athlete” is a myth, so far as I have observed. Furthermore, it seems to me that all the stakeholders at the 1 percent schools benefit handsomely from the economics of major sports, except the players. It’s time to compensate college athletes, who are responsible for filling all those stadiums with well-heeled fans.

The current system seems to be a microcosm of our society, where those at the top of the food chain benefit at the expense of the working middle class.

Mr. Thelin is correct in noting that by abandoning the N.C.A.A., schools from power conferences would no longer have to share revenue and essentially subsidize athletic programs at hundreds of other colleges and universities.

But one reason leaders of big-time sports powers may be reluctant to support such a shift is that it could move athletic programs one step closer to losing their nonprofit status — a possibility that Congress has considered in the past.

For some it is increasingly more difficult to make the case that college sports is clearly aligned with educational missions, and such a transparent money grab might lead to greater demand that major athletic powers pay taxes on athletics-related revenue.

The writer is an associate professor and chairman of the sport studies department at Guilford College.

Professor Witkowski echoes the way the N.C.A.A. hopes the public will see college sports. It’s inspired but countered by the other letters. If the N.C.A.A. holds college sports together, it will be because of its commercial rather than educational role. Mr. Reynolds explains this well in his characterization of the alliance of the 1 percent and the 99 percent.

Mr. Dyte is correct to criticize my failure to note that sports subsidies come from within universities, not just from conferences. One reason Rutgers and Maryland joined the Big Ten is to acquire conference revenues to reduce the internal transfers used to bail out football programs that lose money.

Ms. Mason’s praise for the Ivy League is appealing because it is a model that can integrate excellence in academics and athletics. It’s also expensive and difficult to maintain. Mr. Nichols’s observation about exploitation of student athletes signals a contentious issue that is not going to fade away.

These letters were thoughtful and enhanced my original letter. I was surprised that there were no letters from college or university presidents.
289 2013-07-14 Chris Froome of Sky ProCycling retained the leader’s yellow jersey at the end of the 118-mile stage through the rolling hills of central France, from St.-Pourçain-sur-Sioule to Lyon. Bauk Mollema of the Belkin team remained in second, 2 minutes 28 seconds back, and Alberto Contador of Saxo-Tinkoff held third, 2:45 behind.

Saturday was a perfect chance for the lesser-known riders to try for glory, as the general-classification leaders seemed content to rest their legs in preparation for Sunday’s race, to the summit of Mont Ventoux, which will begin a week of climbing.

When Trentin crossed the finish line, he cupped his hands around his helmet with a look of glee and shock. During a news conference later, he was asked how it felt to appear on a podium reserved for winners. “I never do it before,” he said in halting English. “Yeah, for sure a good feeling.”

More often than not, though, lead-out men like him toil in anonymity. On Saturday, as Gert Steegmans, the main lead-out rider for Omega Pharma-Quick Step, chatted with a reporter outside the team bus, a passing fan asked, “Is that Cavendish?”

Yet their work is not for the fainthearted.

The lead-outs — sometimes there is only one — must be nearly as fast as the bursts by the best sprinters themselves, so they can increase the pace in the final miles to thin out the pack.

Then, like pulling guards on a football team, they must wedge through small spaces between other riders, clearing paths through which their sprinters can dart.

“The thing that you need to do most is get the sprinter as close as possible without being boxed in,” said Mark Renshaw, an Australian rider with Belkin who skipped the Tour this year because of an injury. “You want to make sure he has clean air in front of him.”

In this Tour, great lead-out efforts have led to victories by the Lotto-Belisol team for Greipel and the Argos-Shimano team for Marcel Kittel, who has won three stages this Tour, the most of any rider.

And failed lead-outs have led to disaster. The most notable was when Cavendish’s lead rider left him too far from the finish of Stage 10. When Cavendish made a frantic final surge alone, he bumped Kittel’s lead man, Tom Veelers. Veelers crashed, and Cavendish lost.

In this game of nerves, trust is crucial, as the sprinter must have absolute faith that his lead-out rider is taking him down not only the fastest path, but the safest.

The trust must work the other way as well. The lead-out rider must make sure the sprinter is staying inches off his back wheel. Even as he watches the road for bumps and turns, the lead-out rider will glance under his arms to check his sprinter’s location. All the while, the sprinter must fight for position so that no one separates him from his lead.

Renshaw was for years Cavendish’s lead-out rider on the HTC-Highroad team, and together they formed one of the most successful sprint teams of recent years.

“If you drop him off 200 meters away and he’s got nobody in front, then 9 out of 10 times, he should win,” Renshaw said of Cavendish.

The payoff is crucial to sustaining team morale. When lead-out teams do their work well, their sprinters are expected to deliver victories — and lavish their teammates with praise (and perhaps presents and money). And if they fail, apologies are likely to follow.

So it went for Cavendish after Stage 12 of this year’s Tour. As the race was bearing down on the finish, Steegmans powered Cavendish into first position with the line in sight. Yet to the surprise of the cycling world, Kittel inched past him for the victory.

“I let them down,” Cavendish said of his teammates the next day.

The best sprinting teams drill methodically to get their positioning just right. Those teams, including Lotto-Belisol, Argos-Shimano and Omega Pharma-Quick Step, are largely built around their fastest men.

Cannondale is somewhat unusual. Though Sagan won the green jersey for sprinting last year and leads the competition again this year, he is not a pure sprinter, and his team does not always try to give him traditional lead-out trains.

“If we put him in the right place eight kilometers out, he’ll latch on to others and find a way to win,” said Ted King, an American rider for Cannondale who had to quit the Tour after injuring his shoulder and then missing a time cut. “He’s savvy.”

On Saturday, Trentin, who is in his second year as a professional, said he had learned a few things about sprinting from training with Cavendish.

“The main thing we always say: We can wait the right moment,” he said. “And today I just wait the right moment.”
290 2013-07-14 Nationwide, polls consistently show that people are no more “pro choice” than “pro life,” when asked to choose a label. More detailed questions yield similar results. And women are no more in favor of abortion rights than men. “Abortion is not heading in either party’s direction,” says Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center.

About 60 percent of Americans favor access to abortion in the first trimester (or first 12 weeks) of pregnancy, but close to 70 percent think it should be illegal in the second trimester, according to Gallup. Likewise, a recent National Journal poll found 48 percent of respondents favoring, and only 44 percent opposing, a House of Representatives bill that would ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy except in cases of rape and incest.

“About 8 in 10 Americans believe abortion is taking a life,” said Ed Goeas, president of the Tarrance Group, a Republican polling firm. “What you then have is a discussion about when it is acceptable.”

Perhaps the best weapon of abortion rights advocates is their opponents’ extremism. The Texas bill, for instance, would close most of the state’s abortion providers and ban the procedure after 20 weeks, without exceptions for rape or incest. A clear majority of Americans support such exceptions, as well as those for the health of the mother, polls show.

Ilyse Hogue, president of Naral Pro-Choice America, says that while she is distressed by the recent spate of state laws, she thinks her side will ultimately benefit from the new focus on the issue. Not only do many abortion opponents favor tough restrictions on the practice; they also oppose in vitro fertilization, some forms of contraception and stem-cell research. Ms. Hogue argues that many Americans will find these arguments “wing-nutty.”

But supporters of abortion access have their own challenges. The issues on which it’s easiest to predict the future of public opinion generally involve individual rights. Over time, rights — suffrage for women and blacks, job opportunities for Irish, Jews, Latinos and other ethnic minorities, marriage for interracial and same-sex couples — tend to expand in the United States.

In the debate over abortion, unlike the debates over immigration and marriage, both sides can easily claim the mantle of individual rights. Supporters can maintain that women deserve the right to make decisions about their bodies at any point in a pregnancy — and that many abortion opponents change their position when facing a real-life decision.

Opponents can counter with increasingly clear images from sonograms, often showing decidedly human forms on the cusp of viability. Opponents can also point to the specter of eugenics: one study has found that prenatal screening caused births of children with Down syndrome to be 49 percent lower than they otherwise would have been, even as medical advances have sharply extended the lives of people with the disorder. When fetuses with Down syndrome are aborted, it is typically after the first trimester.

Those dueling claims probably mean that the debate over abortion is here to stay. As Mr. Kohut notes, polls show that young people — despite their general liberalism — are divided, much as their parents and grandparents have been.

If the issue presents either Republicans or Democrats with a political opportunity, it is one they will both struggle to exploit, given the passionate feelings of their bases. But the opportunity does exist.

Most Americans are uncomfortable with abortion yet believe there are circumstances — and not just a narrow few — when it should be legal. They believe that women should have control over their bodies and also that an abortion is akin to a death. Where they struggle is in deciding when each principle deserves to take priority.
291 2013-07-14 But given all the fire-retardant materials in the plane, Hans J. Weber, an aviation consultant at Tecop International in San Diego, said it was puzzling how the fire could have gotten hot enough to cause so much damage to the plane, which had been parked on the runway for eight hours.

The innovative planes were grounded in mid-January after the incidents involving fire or smoke coming from the new and more volatile type of batteries. Boeing and its suppliers have invested more than $20 billion in the Dreamliner, which use lightweight carbon materials and more efficient engines to cut operating costs by some 20 percent. Boeing expects to sell thousands of planes over the next two decades. The first 50 planes delivered began flying again between late April to early June after regulators approved a series of fixes, including adding insulation between the battery cells and encasing the batteries in a steel box.

Ethiopian Airlines said on Saturday that it was continuing to fly its other 787s because the fire at Heathrow occurred after the jet had been on the ground for eight hours and “was not related to flight safety.” The airline did not speculate on the cause of the fire.

United Airlines and 11 foreign carriers also have the planes, and several said on Saturday that they continued to fly them as the fire at Heathrow is investigated.

The fire caused no injuries, but it disrupted travel. Boeing’s shares had rallied in recent weeks, but investors reacted nervously on Friday, sending Boeing’s shares down 4.7 percent.

Smoke came from the plane, named the Queen of Sheba, about four and a half hours before it was scheduled to depart for Ethiopia. The plane was connected to an external ground power source, according to people briefed on the episode.

It was also not clear if any maintenance was under way or how long the fire had been burning, though it was intense enough to burn the top of the fuselage near the tail. That area is in a complex section where large parts of the plane are joined together.

The two lithium-ion batteries, which are lighter and generate more energy than conventional batteries, are under the cockpit and just behind the wings toward the bottom of the plane.

Safety experts said that some of the wiring in the plane’s new electrical system, which is more extensive than in other jets, would have passed through the damaged area, which was above the rear galley. It was also possible the fire migrated from another system or part of the plane.

The Financial Times quoted an Ethiopian manager in Britain as saying that maintenance workers had discovered a problem with the plane’s air-conditioning system during a routine inspection and had seen sparks but no flames. The report did not say when the inspection occurred, and aviation-safety officials in the United States were not sure what to make of it.

Thomson Airways, a charter airline in England, said on Saturday that it had replaced and tested several parts on a 787 that had cut short a flight on Friday. It said the plane would fly again on Sunday.

A team from Boeing was at the Heathrow site along with representatives from the airline and from two American government agencies, the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board.

Boeing and the two agencies had no comment Saturday on the possible cause of the fire, deferring to British investigators.

The 787 has had a history of mishaps since entering service in late 2011. Several airlines, including United, Qatar Airways and All Nippon Airlines, have been forced to divert flights because of electrical problems or other reasons. The airlines worry that all the problems could require more fixes or make passengers reluctant to fly on the plane.

Boeing has delivered 68 787s so far, with orders totaling 930 planes.
292 2013-07-14 For 2014, the long list of tiny changes includes a new front suspension link location that helps to lower the front roll center. I’ll admit I didn’t perceive a problem with the old roll center, whatever it was.

I also had no qualm with the previous fuel injectors, which apparently didn’t deliver satisfactory torque response from 4,500 to 6,000 r.p.m. The new premium interior, which pads the cabin with soft red leather, is very nice. But if you didn’t order it, you probably wouldn’t miss it.

With the GT-R, Nissan is like a party planner who obsesses over every spot on the silverware, fretting that the whole thing is a bust when all the guests are actually having a great time. But it’s Nissan’s party, and for 2014 they’ll add an oil pan baffle if they want to.

In 2009, the base price was $70,850. The car I drove costs about $30,000 more than that. President Obama, Speaker Boehner: I plead for a bipartisan agreement to curb this disastrous GT-R inflation, which each year puts the Nissan farther and farther from the reach of hard-working, GT-R-wanting Americans.

Perhaps in part because of its six-figure price, a GT-R sighting remains an occasion. Through June, Nissan had sold only 624 of the cars in the United States. But those 624 people are in for a good time.

The often-repeated critiques of the GT-R — that it’s too heavy, too tech-laden, or that it sounds like a Flowbee for woolly mammoths — seem to boil down to wishes that the GT-R were something other than what it is. This is not a thundering, minimalist Corvette Z06, nor a highly evolved anachronism like a Porsche 911. You could say that, like those cars, this Nissan has a technological tradition to uphold, but the GT-R’s mission has always been to go as fast as possible using whatever technology furthers that goal. Turbos, high horsepower and all-wheel drive were a part of the GT-R mythology long before Americans ever got a taste of the car.

So, yes, the GT-R’s front tires are going to dig in and help rocket you out of a hairpin without fear of spinning into the ditch. The V-6’s intake noises will sound like someone’s using the Large Hadron Collider to make margaritas. The middling fuel economy reflects the substantial mass hidden beneath that sinister bodywork.

But ultimately, the GT-R will do whatever you want it to do, at a performance level typically reserved for cars costing well above $100,000. Toggle the settings for the suspension and traction control and the GT-R will run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in 3 seconds, spin a doughnut like a rear-drive Mustang or notch 1.2 gs on a corner. The fact that these abilities are enabled by computer-controlled clutches, yaw sensors and active differentials makes no difference to me. That’s the GT-R identity, and that’s what makes upper-echelon sports cars so interesting — all the wildly different means to the same ends.

Besides, if the GT-R represents tech overload, what do we make of a moon module like the plug-in-hybrid Porsche 918 Spyder, which will also have a V-8? If you want to get nostalgic, let’s start pining for the simple days when Tsunemi Ooyama could build a V-6 for a fast Nissan, and that was the only motor it had. EZRA DYER
293 2013-07-14 JIMMY WALES IS NOT AN INTERNET BILLIONAIRE

Instead of lamenting the fact that Wales is not superrich, a point could have been made that most great things in this world are not a product of monetary incentives. The fact that Wikipedia is what it is makes it stand far above all the Silicon Valley gloss. JOHN, California, posted on nytimes.com

Wikipedia always catches flak because a teenager can edit an article just as easily as a college professor. This is true, but if the subject is smartphone apps, the teenager probably knows more than the professor. And unless the article is about something obscure, like Yemeni history from 1350-1450, thousands of people will view it, and someone will correct any error. Effectively, Wikipedia articles are the most peer-reviewed in the world. I trust them and donate regularly. NIGEL GUEST, Berkeley, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

It is pleasant to think that selfless volunteer editors are working to arrive at unbiased answers on Wikipedia that everyone agrees on, but that’s not the case. Those willing to spend more time and be more aggressive about their changes often win. And we don’t know who they are. A person could be “guarding” a page that he has a personal stake in. HEATHER BOOTH, Knoxville, Tenn.

It’s all well and good to study suicide. But in discussing why doctors, including psychologists, are not able to predict who will attempt suicide, the article states, “Their patients often lie about their feelings to avoid hospitalization.” Sadly, I’ve seen more than one suicide that may not have happened if the alternative was something other than hospitalization. We need mental-health urgent-care centers. They won’t prevent all suicides. Nothing will. But they will at least offer a ready, humane and, for many, welcome alternative. LESLIE J. MILLER, Pittsburgh

Suicide can be but is not necessarily irrational, and it’s a mistake to think that it always indicates some psychological disorder. The most obvious case in which suicide can be a rational (though not morally compulsory) choice is when a person suffers a painful, debilitating and incurable illness. Other cases are debatable, like elderly people who are alone and infirm, with no support network and few resources, who decide that they’ve had enough. It is tragic when people come to think that suicide is their least-bad option, but it’s a mistake to medicalize all such decisions. Some are more rational than others. N. S. PALMER, Indianapolis, posted on nytimes.com
294 2013-07-14 Credit: Raymond McCrea Jones for The New York Times
295 2013-07-14 Wheeler Avenue in Pleasantville seems to have turned into Restaurant Row, and no wonder. The short street couldn’t be more convenient for those looking for a bite to eat. It adjoins the railway station, and the popular Jacob Burns Film Center is just around the corner. Wheeler has food for every taste and occasion; and not quite three months ago, Bhog jumped into the old Bollywood Bistro space and added a menu of exciting Indian dishes to the mix.

Bhog rhymes with “vogue” and means, loosely, we were informed, “fit for the gods’ pleasure.” If their pleasure is to sample inventive dishes that echo the fare of regions from Kashmir to Kerala, those gods have come to the right place. Dining here is an education in the boundless variety of the subcontinent’s cuisines.

There are dishes here that you won’t find at many other Indian restaurants, like bruschettas topped with minced shrimp; a serving of remarkably crispy fried spinach chips mounded with fresh sprouted mung beans; and spicy Manchurian cauliflower with a texture that could pass for fish or meat. Bland tilapia always needs a lot of work to make it into something tempting, and here the fish was fried and seasoned with herby carom seeds. Only the pakora had little personality.

The menu includes no beef or pork, but chicken, lamb, goat and vegetables provide plenty of options. In fact, the tandoori chicken, so often overly baked and dry, was the juiciest we’ve had in recent memory. That success was repeated in Bhog’s chicken, slaveringly luscious with a nutty sauce we were still spooning up long after the meat was gone. However, the minced lamb seekh kebab was dry and lackluster.

A superb sauce thickened with minced sweet coconut balanced the spices in the hot and juicy Goan salmon curry, served with big chunks of fish. Grilled sea bass under a fragrant blend of masala spices proved decent without being special.

The menu also lists more than a dozen vegetarian dishes in serious entree portions. The malai kofta is a must: weightless vegetable dumplings in a pool of divine, sunny yellow sauce. Almost as engaging was eggplant in a mash with tomatoes and onions. We prefer crisp okra, but the stewed bendi masala here was fine, its sauciness an excuse to scoop it up with breads like naan, the excellent paneer kulcha and wispy poori. And daals here are very much worth ordering: a tadka of yellow lentils; the palak, with spinach; and a buttery makhni of black beans and lentils.
296 2013-07-14 Once the maps are revised, some coastal property owners who don’t pay for flood insurance may have to. Lenders haven’t necessarily recognized that yet, as Mr. Rossbach recently discovered when he applied to refinance his house in Rumson, N.J. His house flooded during Sandy, and although he hadn’t been in a flood zone before, preliminary map revisions show that he will be. The lender “never asked me about flood insurance,” he said, “because the effective maps don’t show me in a flood zone. But lenders are beginning to pick up on this, and it’s going to make it tougher for the consumer.”

Chad Berginnis, the executive director of the Association of State Floodplain Managers, noted that homeowners in high-risk areas can significantly cut their premium — which could go as high as $30,000 a year — by elevating their house above the flood level. Homes with structural changes that make them less flood-prone are also likely to rise in value, he said. But, he added, the construction costs can be daunting.

In the Jersey Shore town of Toms River, inland houses are selling, but when it comes to the Sandy-affected properties on the waterfront, “unless you’re giving homes away, no one is buying or selling,” said James A. Flanagan, the broker of record at Coldwell Banker Flanagan Realty. The “big box” lenders are not making loans, leaving it to a few local banks. But even then, Mr. Flanagan said, “buyers want to know, what’s my flood insurance going to be, and I can’t blame them.”

Most of the owners he knows have repaired the damage to their homes, generally using insurance money and their own funds. Now, he said, they are waiting to find out whether they need to raise their houses, what it will cost, and how much they will ultimately pay in flood premiums.

“It’s got us in a pretty good pickle down here,” he said.

A recent report commissioned by FEMA suggests that more homeowners will be confronted with this dilemma in years to come.

The report predicts that, because of climate change, rising sea levels and population growth, the portion of the country at risk for flooding will rise by 40 to 45 percent by 2100.
297 2013-07-14 In his essay about the connections between reporting and writing spy novels (“Tinker, Tailor, Reporter, Thriller,” June 30), Adam LeBor fails to mention the most popular spy novelist of the past 60 years. Ian Fleming was a Moscow correspondent for Reuters before becoming an intelligence officer and creating James Bond. In the preface to his classic cold war thriller, “From Russia With Love,” Fleming notes that “a great deal of the background to this story is accurate.”
298 2013-07-14 When Fotini Kessissoglou opened Kesso Foods, a pint-size Greek yogurt factory and shop in East Elmhurst, Queens, in 1986, she had no way of knowing that her country’s ultrathick, strained staple would someday become an American obsession.

Today, Greek yogurt rules the supermarket dairy case. It’s also big business in New York State, where Chobani and Fage, two of the country’s leading brands, have their main production plants. But 27 years ago, Ms. Kessissoglou, a new immigrant from Athens, just craved one of her favorite foods from back home. “She simply could not find any good yogurt here,” her daughter, Vea Kessissoglou, said recently.

With three teenage children and few friends in Queens, she poured her energies into the business: adding live cultures to milk and baking it in the oven for several hours, then straining the mixture through cheesecloth overnight, leaving tart, dense yogurt behind. “In Greece, people let it sit on a sunny windowsill instead of in the oven, but you cannot do that here,” Vea Kessissoglou said, referring to this country’s health code regulations.

Other relatives joined the operation: first her husband, Stavros, who left behind a smoked fish venture of his own, and then two of her children, Vea, who also works part time as a travel agent, and her brother Alex. Their modest family business — a tidy kitchen in back outfitted with plastic tubs and cheesecloth, and a minimalist storefront, separated by a counter and glass display case — fits in with the neighborhood’s quiet, suburb-in-the-city feel. The Greek community in Queens is centered nearby in Astoria. But Ms. Kessissoglou said her family felt at home amid the delis, martial arts academy and pizza joints that line 21st Avenue.

The Kessissoglous sell their yogurt retail and wholesale, by the 1-pound tub and by the 18-pound bucket. For snack-craving customers, they keep smaller containers in the fridge, which they top to order with honey, granola and crushed walnuts, or one of two homemade compotes: sour cherry, and a mash of stewed figs, apricots, apples and peaches. Other offerings include handmade spinach and feta phyllo pies, garlic and cucumber-laced tzatziki and, for those who order ahead, yogurt speckled with chocolate chips and hazelnuts, or dried tomato and olives.

Throughout the day, customers trickle in: police officers, parents and children on their way to the playground, teachers from the nearby public school, along with the occasional outer-borough adventurer willing to travel the mile and change from the Astoria-Ditmars Boulevard subway stop.
299 2013-07-15 McCOURT--David. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation and Play for P.I.N.K. mourn the passing of David McCourt, husband of BCRF Advisory Board Member and friend, Mary Bryant McCourt. Our hearts go out to Mary and the entire McCourt family. Leonard...
300 2013-07-15 About 2,000 opponents of a Senate immigration bill that would create a path to citizenship held a “March for Jobs” in Washington in a bid to draw blacks to the cause....
301 2013-07-15 Deflation doesn’t help in a liquidity trap....
302 2013-07-15 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career unraveled in a series of sex scandals, was named a board member of a banking subsidiary of Rosneft....
303 2013-07-15 According to a pedestrian who regularly walks the Brooklyn Bridge, a life preserver that went missing from a Brooklyn bar last month has made its way into Manhattan....
304 2013-07-15 Global banks will now have the choice of trading and clearing transatlantic swaps in either Europe or the United States....
305 2013-07-15 Several books illuminate the causes of the financial crisis and its aftermath, according to an economist who was involved in the Treasury’s response to the events....
306 2013-07-15 Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings, Terry J. Farr and James A. Gilmour, were charged with conspiracy to defraud related to an investigation into the manipulation of benchmark interest rates....
307 2013-07-15 A month after massive flash floods struck the northern state of Uttarakhand, the state’s chief minister said Monday that officials will begin distributing relief funds to the families of the 5,748 declared missing....
308 2013-07-15 Citigroup beat earnings expectations on Monday as profit swelled in the second quarter as the sprawling bank works to cut its costs and expand its international lending operations....
309 2013-07-15 Gas prices are spiking. An owner talks about growing without debt. How to compete with Google. Have you ever hired an English major?...
310 2013-07-15 AS the world awaited the next pope in March, Peter Bale, the vice president and general manager for digital at CNN International in London, wanted to know how Africans would react if the pope were from their continent.

Instead of commissioning telephone pollsters or gleaning insights from social media, Mr. Bale used a mobile platform called Jana, which rewards users with free airtime if they take a survey. Within days, Mr. Bale said, he surveyed 20,000 Africans in 11 countries on questions like whether an African pope would increase support for Catholicism on the continent (86 percent said yes) and whether the world was ready for an African pope (61 percent said yes).

“The spread of the mobile economy in Africa is so far and so huge you can reach not only the high end of African people, but you can reach many, many people there,” Mr. Bale said. Because CNN International receives a “very significant amount” of its digital traffic from its African consumers through their mobile devices, using a mobile survey platform made sense, he said.

CNN, however, is not the only organization that wants to connect with a growing mobile-savvy market. On Monday, the Publicis Groupe, one of the world’s largest advertising holding companies, will announce a $15 million investment in Jana.

The investment is the first by the company in a mobile technology start-up. As part of the investment, Maurice Lévy, the chief executive of Publicis, which is based in Paris, will join the board of directors at Jana. (In 2012, Publicis united with France Télécom-Orange and Iris Capital Management to create venture capital funds to invest in European companies.)

“Everyone is fighting very hard and trying to find solutions to get these next billion consumers, and we all know the next billion consumers will come from emerging markets,” Mr. Lévy said in an interview by phone. With brands including Microsoft, Johnson & Johnson, Unilever, Procter & Gamble and Google having used Jana, gaining access to consumers in Africa and other emerging markets like India and Brazil is “not something which is just wishful thinking,” he said.
311 2013-07-15 Phil Mickelson birdied the first playoff hole to beat Branden Grace and win the Scottish Open on Sunday in Inverness, ending his 20-year wait for a victory in Europe. After three-putting the 72nd hole to miss out on a win in regulation, Mickelson produced a superb pitch from 45 yards that landed within a foot of the 18th pin, leaving Grace a 25-footer to match him. Grace’s putt rolled by the hole, and Mickelson was able to celebrate a 48th professional victory worldwide.

“I almost let it slip away, but to come out on top feels terrific,” said Mickelson, who was using the tournament to hone his game ahead of this week’s British Open.

■ Kenny Perry completed his comeback from 10 shots down after the second round to win the United States Senior Open in Omaha. Perry shot a final-round 63 at Omaha Country Club and won his second straight senior major. Fred Funk was five strokes behind.
312 2013-07-15 Five years ago, Mr. Koch even discussed his burial plans at a gathering of the New York State Association of Cemeteries. Notwithstanding the topic, Mr. Moylan said, it was not a grave occasion.

Green-Wood, still recovering from serious damage inflicted by Hurricane Sandy, may not have snagged Mr. Koch, but it does not lack for New York mayors. It is home to at least 10 of them, including DeWitt Clinton, Seth Low and William J. Gaynor. Not to mention that across its 175 years, the cemetery has played permanent host to a long roster of the celebrated and the notorious, and many thousands in between, including about 60 people killed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

One Green-Wood notable is about to have his annual visit from afar. That would be Townsend Harris, who in 1847 founded an academy that later became City College of New York. He was the first American consul-general in Japan after that country ended more than two centuries of self-imposed isolation. Harris plunked himself down in Shimoda, southwest of Tokyo on the Izu Peninsula.

Every summer, pilgrims from Shimoda journey to Green-Wood to pay homage to him on the grassy knoll where he has lain since 1878. They have done this for all but one of the last 28 years — there was a scheduling conflict in 2005 — and the 2013 delegation is expected this week. It is a remarkable display of fidelity. If any other historical figure at Green-Wood has so loyal a following, Mr. Moylan said, “we’re not aware” of it.

Lunch with him was not the easiest proposition. Dining outdoors on the cemetery grounds would have been pleasant, but picnicking is not encouraged, he said. And the surrounding neighborhood is not exactly awash in tempting restaurants.

We settled for a small, comfortable dining room above the offices near Green-Wood’s arched main entrance. Lunch consisted of takeout pizza — half regular, half extra cheese — delivered from Luigi’s, nearby on Fifth Avenue. The fanciest part of the meal was the water: San Pellegrino.

Mr. Moylan, 58, was born into the cemetery business. His father, Joseph Moylan, installed monuments at Green-Wood. As a teenager, the son worked part time on the grounds as a landscaper (never actually digging a grave, he said). He rose through the ranks to become president.

Joseph Moylan is buried there. Eleanor Moylan, divorced from him in life, is next to him in death. Her brother and her mother lie not far away.

The interviewer went for the obvious: “I guess the inevitable question —” He did not get to finish. Mr. Moylan broke in with a slight sigh. “Yeah,” he said. “I’ll be here, too, I guess.” He predicted that so will his wife, Gloria, a public-school teacher. They live in Park Slope, Brooklyn.

“It was pretty much all I knew,” he said of growing up at Green-Wood. “Coming here as a kid. Going to other cemeteries as a kid. It was natural. I didn’t think about it as a place where people were buried. It was: ‘Gee, what a nice lake!’ ”

Years spent in a graveyard might inspire one to reflect deeply on death: Where indeed is its sting? Should it really be not proud? Is truly no man an island? Might it in fact be O.K. to go gentle into that good night? But for Mr. Moylan, the afterlife is not even an afterthought.

“When you’re gone, you’re gone,” he said, adding this about death:

“I don’t think about it. I really don’t. I’m healthy. When I go, I hope it’s quick. I feel” — he struggled briefly to find the right words — “like I just want to do something good while I’m here. I think I have, and I think that’ll be the measure.”

His mission has been to make nondenominational Green-Wood a welcoming place for the living as well as for the dead, by scheduling regular tours and arranging programs like Memorial Day concerts featuring the works of composers interred there. Leonard Bernstein, anyone?

This commitment is not without certain perils. “We’re still pretty active,” Mr. Moylan said. “We have 1,200 burials a year and 2,800 cremations. So it’s a delicate balance between mourners and tourists, in a sense.”

Once in a while, the balance has gone a tad awry, as it did 10 years ago with a film series in the cemetery’s chapel. Scheduling a movie like “Night of the Living Dead” was probably not the wisest move, Mr. Moylan now acknowledged. When some eyebrows shot skyward, that film was dropped, along with other horror flicks.

His emphasis on making Green-Wood more inviting to the living is based on an assumption that room will inevitably run out for new burials. In five years, he estimated. His finance officer, he said, puts it at 10 years.

The projections seem to have some elasticity. The five-year estimate, for example, has already been around for several years. That is because death has, in a fashion, been held at bay.

“Everybody’s living so much longer,” Mr. Moylan said. “And people are cremating more.”

No surprise there. Do the math. The starting price for a Green-Wood burial is about $12,000, and that is for a somewhat crowded grave, accommodating three bodies. By comparison, cremation is a bargain. It costs a mere $429, with the charge for depositing the remains there starting at $1,850.

But relatively few people entrust a loved one’s ashes to the cemetery.

“They keep him at home,” Mr. Moylan said. “They keep him on the shelf. Which is fine while you’re alive. But when you die, and they clean out your apartment, it winds up in the Dumpster, or it winds up in the ocean.”

Not good. “You should be memorialized somewhere,” he said, getting back to the part of Mr. Koch’s farewell that pleased him.

“The only thing that, at least by law, needs to last forever,” he said, “is the cemetery.”
313 2013-07-15 Metta World Peace hit the open market on Sunday, freeing him to consider possible job offers in New York, Los Angeles and perhaps Shanghai. His destination should become clear within a few days.

World Peace, who was waived Friday by the Los Angeles Lakers, became a free agent at 5 p.m. Sunday after no team put in a claim for him. The Knicks and the Los Angeles Clippers had interest, but no formal offers had been made as of Sunday evening.

Publicly, World Peace has continued to flirt with the idea of playing in China — for the Shanghai team owned by his former Houston Rockets teammate Yao Ming — a possibility that is not as far-fetched as it sounds, but one that he is more likely to pursue after his N.B.A. career.

So the decision will probably come down to the Knicks and the Clippers, assuming that each makes an offer. That is not a certainty. Knicks officials are considering a number of options to fill out their roster, and they were still deliberating how aggressively to pursue World Peace. Other teams could enter the picture.

An eccentric personality but still a hard-nosed defender, the 33-year-old World Peace, formerly known as Ron Artest, would fit well on a Knicks team that is desperate for frontcourt help. With his local roots — he was born in Queens and played at St. John’s — he would probably be an extremely popular addition.
314 2013-07-15 Several of the 13 airlines flying the plane, including Ethiopian, and several that have ordered the planes, including Virgin Atlantic, said they were confident in Boeing and were sticking with the Dreamliner. Some frequent fliers and passenger-rights groups, however, were more skeptical.

“What do we tell consumers? ‘Flier beware,’ ” said Kate Hanni, the founder of FlyersRights.org, an airline passenger advocacy group.

Ms. Hanni, a real estate broker in Napa, Calif., said she was personally concerned because she and her husband were scheduled to fly to Tokyo on the Dreamliner in mid-August. Depending on the outcome of the investigation into the fire at Heathrow, she said, she might ask to fly on a different aircraft.

“I am very nervous about it,” she said. But, she added, “so far the Dreamliner appears to be safe while in flight.”

United Airlines, the only United States carrier that is flying the 787 so far, said on Sunday that it had not made any changes to its 787 flight schedule as a result of the fire. “We won’t speculate on the cause but will closely monitor the findings of the investigation,” it said in a statement. British Airways reiterated that it planned to start its Dreamliner service on Sept. 1.

Several airlines also said they had been in close touch with Boeing, which has sent a team to London to support the British investigators. Boeing said in a statement that the safety of passengers and crew members was “our highest priority.” It added: “We are confident the 787 is safe and we stand behind its overall integrity.”

Still, unless the cause of the Heathrow fire is pinpointed quickly, Boeing, the airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration could once again find themselves in a delicate spot in balancing passenger safety with high financial stakes, including millions in lost revenue that would come from any delays or suspensions in service.

Boeing and its suppliers have invested more than $20 billion in the Dreamliner, which uses lightweight carbon materials and more efficient engines to cut operating costs by some 20 percent. The company has delivered 68 of the planes to the 13 airlines, and it expects to sell thousands of the planes over the next two decades.

The F.A.A. and the National Transportation Safety Board, which investigates aircraft safety issues, are assisting the Air Accidents Investigation Branch in Britain with the Heathrow inquiry. Federal officials said the F.A.A. typically needs to have more information about what went wrong — and indications that the problems apply to more than one aircraft — before it takes any action.

Former federal safety officials said that so far they were not picking up the kind of urgent alarms about the Heathrow fire from current safety officials as they did after the Boston battery fire. Aviation consultants said the airlines were also not quite sure what to make of the problem, in part because Ethiopian Airlines workers could have made a mistake in doing maintenance on the plane.

But other experts said that given all the fire-retardant materials in the plane, it was surprising that the fire could have become hot enough to burn through the plane’s carbon-plastic skin unless a problem had developed with components in the plane’s electrical system.

In January, five days after a fire broke out on a parked Boeing 787 in Boston, federal officials including Ray LaHood, then the secretary of transportation, stood side by side with Boeing’s top executives and defended the plane’s safety record.

But federal regulators were forced to revise their stance the following week when another 787 also had a battery-related problem while flying over Japan. That incident, in which the plane made an emergency landing after the battery emitted smoke in the plane, finally prompted the F.A.A. to ground the 787 fleet.

Officials with the National Transportation Safety Board, who are investigating the Boston fire, are looking at the close relationship between Boeing and the F.A.A. and how the 787 was initially certified. During public hearings this year before the safety board, F.A.A. officials defended their process, which gives Boeing some authority to certify some of its systems and components.

After the latest fire, the F.A.A. has been more discreet and is awaiting the outcome of the British investigation.

Since Friday, the Polish airline LOT; Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways in Japan; and Thomson Airways, a British charter airline, also have said they were not changing their use of the 787.

Virgin Atlantic, of Britain, said on Sunday that it trusted Boeing and the safety regulators “to ensure that the appropriate action is being taken.” It said it remained committed to taking delivery in the fall of 2014 of 16 planes in a new stretched version of the 787.

So far, the Dreamliner’s woes seem to have had limited impact on travelers, though some expressed their wariness even if they were not planning to fly on a 787 soon.

“They said it was nothing dangerous but if it happened once, it can happen again,” said Alexia Choffat, a French teacher living in Marseille, who was about to board a flight on Sunday from Paris to Mexico City. “If everything is fine with this plane, why did it catch fire?”

Another traveler at Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris was more pragmatic. “It is worrying, but in the end, if you want to go home, you just take whatever plane gets you home,” said Diane Ledose, a French student living in Johannesburg.

Some consumer advocates remained cautious, saying that all new planes — including one of Boeing’s best-selling planes, the 777 — experience technical difficulties in the early years of development before they are ironed out over time. “The 777 had numerous issues when it was launched,” said Charlie Leocha, director of the Consumer Travel Alliance. “Today it is one of aviation’s favorite planes.”
315 2013-07-15 The 81 interns at Northwestern are graduates of some of the nation’s most prestigious medical schools. But they find themselves in an unfamiliar setting. During the first hour of the boot camp, one intern was reported lost in the building.

Northwestern officials say the program is the most rigorous of its kind in the nation, with a requirement that interns pass graded tests in procedures and communication skills before being allowed to move ahead.

In one life-or-death situation, a robotic patient lay motionless on a bed, tubes sticking into the throat, in an intensive care unit filled with flashing lights and ominous beeping.

Dr. Michael Donnan, 26, who hours earlier donned a badge that read, “M.D.,” was in charge of the crisis.

“This is tricky,” he muttered, sounding apprehensive, as he stared at the respiratory screen, weighing his options.

Seeming a bit tentative, he punched in a series of numbers. His colleagues studied his moves, some of them taking notes.

In a few moments, the beeping ceased. The interns waited for a verdict.

Into the room charged Dr. Matthew Nitzberg, the chief medical resident, who had been watching and assessing from behind the glass.

“You killed it!” he said, eliciting a peal of giggles from the interns. What he meant, he explained, was that it was a virtuoso performance. The patient had been saved.

As complicated as the medical procedures can be, Dr. Wayne said, students typically have a harder time with communication skills at the bedside. In a boot camp session titled “Difficult Conversations,” residents talk to a dying patient, played by a Chicago actor, Ed Dzialo.

Dr. Suneel Kamath, a graduate of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, stepped to the bedside of Mr. Dzialo, who said he was “looking forward to the summer” and “going back to work.”

The intern needed to explain that a bowel obstruction had made it impossible to do any further chemotherapy or surgery for the man’s colon cancer. The patient likely had only weeks to live.

“I hate to be the bearer of bad news,” the intern said. Mr. Dzialo, his eyes fixed with fear, listened to the grim prognosis, then turned his head to the side.

“I’m dying,” said the actor, lamenting that he was in his 40s and had “wasted my life.”

Dr. Kamath tried to reassure the patient otherwise, telling him that he had “worked hard every day” and done his best.

As the patient looked away in dejection, the intern said he wanted to raise end-of-life issues, like who would be designated to make a decision to remove him from life support. The intern conceded that these were “not fun topics.”

After the session, the actor asked Dr. Kamath to assess his bedside manner. The intern gave himself good marks, saying he believed he had appropriately “stayed on task.”

Mr. Dzialo, who has been trained by palliative experts about such discussions, was a bit more critical. He noted the “not fun” phrase, rather an understatement in the context. He also suggested that the young doctor focus on “exploring my feelings,” instead of “telling me” how he had lived his life.

Dr. Kamath acknowledged that having a discussion with a dying patient, albeit an actor playing a role, was quite different from learning from a textbook.

As the boot camp officials see it, this was a lesson that will prove useful in the future, when a scared, dying patient is not pretending.
316 2013-07-15 Bill Cosby plans to return to television this fall with a stand-up comedy concert titled “Far From Finished,” his first special in 30 years. Comedy Central has announced that the show will run on Nov. 24 and will be compiled from footage of Mr. Cosby onstage in June. In a statement Mr. Cosby, who turned 76 on Friday, discussed his decision to do the program. “Because,” he said, “funny is funny.” His last stand-up special, “Bill Cosby: Himself,” was released in 1983.
317 2013-07-15 ■ Steven Millerman joined Prime Access, New York, part of the 9.8 Group of Companies, as chief executive, assuming duties from Givi Topchishvili, who had served as interim chief executive and will now return to his duties that include president at the 9.8 Group. Mr. Millerman had been director and head of cross-cultural marketing at the Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, part of Novartis International.

■ Paul Gunning, chief digital officer at DDB Worldwide, New York, who has also served as chief executive of the agency’s Tribal Worldwide division, was named chief executive of DDB Chicago, succeeding Peter McGuinness, who is becoming chief marketing and brand officer at Chobani.

■ David Norton joined the New York office of MDC Partners in a new post, executive vice president for analytics and consumer insight. He has been a consultant and also worked for companies that included Urban Outfitters and Harrah’s Entertainment.

■ Nick Barham joined TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, as chief strategy officer for TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles, a new post. He had most recently been global director of the W&K Tomorrow unit of Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore.

■ Jeremy Villano joined Space150, Minneapolis, as managing director to lead its New York office, a new post. He had most recently been digital strategy director at the Interbrand New York unit of Interbrand, part of the Omnicom Group.

■ Walt Connelly joined Havas Worldwide New York as global executive creative director on the Merck Consumer Care account, a new post. He had been chief marketing officer for a new brand of jeans called I Am Not a Virgin, and before that he worked for agencies that included McCann Erickson San Francisco, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and a previous iteration of Havas Worldwide New York, Euro RSCG New York. Havas Worldwide New York is part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas.

■ Debra L. Lee, chairwoman and chief executive at BET Networks, part of Viacom, was elected chairwoman of the Advertising Council, New York. She assumes duties from Marc Pritchard, chairman, who is global brand building officer at Procter & Gamble.

■ WNET, Channel 13, New York, is expanding a humorous campaign introduced in May that promotes its programming by taking pokes at reality television. The campaign, by the New York office of CHI & Partners, part of WPP, began with posters in subway stations that advertised make-believe reality series like “Bad Boy Bagboys” and “Knitting Wars”; the payoff came with these words: “The fact you thought this was a real show says a lot about the state of TV.” The next phase, called “TV Gone Wrong,” involves commercials styled like teasers for reality shows, all again fake: “Clam Kings,” “Long Island Landscapers” and “Meet the Tanners.” The same sentiment about the state of TV turns up at the end of each spot when the jest is revealed. The commercials will run on stations that include WNET, WLIW and New York 1.

■ Widmeyer Communications, Washington and New York, was acquired by Finn Partners, New York, which also has an office in Washington. Financial terms were not disclosed. Scott Widmeyer will continue to lead Widmeyer Communications, which will be known as Widmeyer Communications, a Finn Partners company, and he also takes the post of managing partner at Finn Partners.

■ Magazine advertising pages in the second quarter fell 4.5 percent from the period a year earlier, according to a report from the Publishers Information Bureau, New York. For the first half, ad pages were down 4.9 percent from the first half of 2012.

■ Vertic, Copenhagen and New York, opened offices in Seattle and Singapore. The Seattle office will serve as the agency’s West Coast headquarters in the United States.

■ Two sibling agencies, the Racepoint Group, which specializes in public relations, and the Digital Influence Group, Boston, which specializes in digital marketing, are combining under the Racepoint Group name with the Digital Influence Group as a subsidiary brand.
318 2013-07-15 Earthbound Farm, part of Earthbound Organic, San Juan Bautista, Calif., named Haberman, Minneapolis, as its agency for public relations and social engagement as well as digital agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignments had previously been handled by Fresh Ideas, Boulder, Colo.

Lauryn Flynn joined Azione PR, New York, as vice president for public relations. She had been a consultant and designer, working on her own jewelry line, Knight$ of New York, and before that worked for companies that included Burberry and Calvin Klein.

Hearst Magazines Digital Media, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation, hired an executive and promoted another. Mike Smith joins in a new post, vice president for revenue platforms and operations; he had been chief digital officer at Forbes Media. And Mike Dushane, vice president of product development for caranddriver.com, was promoted to a new post, vice president of product development for Hearst Magazines Digital Media.

Robert HoSang joined the New York office of Latinum Network in a new post, director for business development. He had been a vice president and account director at Havas Media, part of Havas.

Nick Hunt and Jen Sokol joined Frank Unlimited, Seattle. Mr. Hunt becomes director for client services, succeeding Dave Abrass, who takes a new post, director for business development. Mr. Hunt had been client partner at the Seattle office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Group. Ms. Sokol joins in a new post, senior project manager, as well as an account executive; she had been senior integrated project manager at the Seattle office of DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Evan Krauss joined GetGlue, New York, in a new post, president. He had most recently been executive vice president for global advertising sales at Shazam.

Iveliesse Malavé joined Univision Communications, Miami, in a new post, vice president for consumer and entertainment public relations. She had been senior vice president in the Miami office of FleishmanHillard, part of the Omnicom Group.

Bradley Matthews joined the MSLGroup, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as a vice president for consumer marketing, working on Procter & Gamble brands like Mr. Clean and Swiffer. He had been an account director at Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, New York, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide division of WPP.

MobAff, Fort Myers, Fla., a mobile affiliate network, was acquired by the Matomy Media Group, New York and Tel Aviv. Financial terms were not disclosed. MobAff will become part of MediaWhiz, which Matomy acquired this year, and the MobAff staff members will relocate to the MediaWhiz headquarters in New York.

Nikki Muntz and Eileen O’Brien joined Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., part of the Publicis Groupe, in new posts that are part of the senior management of what the agency calls its health care vertical. Ms. Muntz becomes partner for health care business development; she had worked for companies that included Shaw Science and Cell Division. Ms. O’Brien becomes associate partner for paid, owned and earned media; she had been director for search and innovation at Siren Interactive, Philadelphia and Oak Park, Ill.

Prashanth Pappu and Chuck Parker joined Unicorn Media, Tempe, Ariz., in new posts. Mr. Pappu becomes senior vice president for product management; he had been head of product marketing at Conviva. Mr. Parker becomes chief revenue officer; he had been chairman of the 2nd Screen Society and before that spent 15 years in senior posts at Technicolor.

Shantanu Rana and Tim Scholler joined the New York office of Erwin Penland, part of the Hill Holliday division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in new posts. Mr. Rana becomes senior vice president and group account director; he had most recently been a partner at Rosetta, part of the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Scholler becomes senior vice president and director for shopper experience; he had worked at agencies like R/GA, also part of Interpublic, as well as at Mercer Consulting and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Kim Smither joined the Wasserman Media Group, Los Angeles, in a new post, senior vice president for consulting. She had been senior vice president at the London office of Octagon, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Charles Wright joined Lippincott as a senior partner in the London office. He had most recently been managing director at Wolff Olins, part of the Omnicom Group, in the office in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Lippincott is part of the Oliver Wyman division of the Marsh & McLennan Companies.

Dave Yoo joined PPC Associates, San Mateo, Calif., in a new post, chief operating officer. He had most recently been general manager and vice president for performance marketing at Sugar Inc.
319 2013-07-15 In a continuing series of back-of-the-napkin drawings and posts, Carl Richards, a financial planner, has been explaining the basics of money through simple graphs and diagrams. Here we bring them to you all in one place for easier browsing.
320 2013-07-16 McCOURT--David. Achilles mourns the passing of David McCourt, husband of Mary, Vice President and Founder of The Freedom Team of Wounded Veterans. David was part of our family and we miss him. Dick Traum...
321 2013-07-16 CHAPPELL--Alice Merckens, pioneering businesswoman in the art world, died July 7, 2013. Founding President of Hoya Crystal, USA and Chap-pell Gallery in New York City. Wife of Dr. Richard L. Chap- pell. Mother of two daughters Carol and Dreux Chap...
322 2013-07-16 Approved Monthly Premium Rates for Individual Health Insurance Coverage in New York State

This document shows all of the rates for all the heath insurance plans for each New York region.
323 2013-07-16 The brand’s latest slick, technologically sophisticated line of running shoes includes a special model that pays tribute to the Big Apple....
324 2013-07-16 He voted against a filibuster deal, then claimed he was pleased with the outcome....
325 2013-07-16 Microsoft on Tuesday called on the United States attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., to give the company permission to talk about how it handles government surveillance requests, an escalation of the company’s campaign to speak more freely abo...
326 2013-07-16 About 1,000 Ram trucks will be recalled for a potential steering problem, a number of Grand Cherokees are being recalled for a parking light problem, and N.H.T.S.A. is investigating reports of fuel leaks on BMW motorcycles....
327 2013-07-16 Eric Ohena Lembembe was found dead in his home in Yaoundé, shortly after he wrote about attacks on organizations that support gay rights. Cameroon is one of 38 African countries that criminalize homosexuality....
328 2013-07-16 A lawyer for Terry J. Farr, a former trader who has been charged by Britain’s Serious Fraud Office with conspiracy to defraud, said he had no responsibility for setting Libor....
329 2013-07-16 Cutting wages: not a good thing....
330 2013-07-16 As Gurgaon swells, a farming village morphs into a small town....
331 2013-07-16 “There are many different things he was giving them, and we still don’t know which one caused the positive test,” Doyle added. “Most of the supplements he gave were for recovery or energy during workouts.”

Oxilofrine, the banned stimulant for which Powell tested positive, was not listed in Xuereb’s e-mail. Xuereb wrote that he had provided a smaller combination of substances to Simpson.

Doyle’s accusations came on the heels of a raid that the Italian police conducted on the hotel where Xuereb and the Jamaican sprinters were staying in the northeastern city of Lignano Sabbiadoro.

A police official said they seized drugs and supplements that were being analyzed. It is unclear whether the substances were legal or not, police officials said.

Local authorities have opened an investigation into the case, but no arrests have been made.

The revelations about the Jamaican sprinters came as Tyson Gay, the best American sprinter over the past decade, acknowledged that he too had tested positive for a banned substance. Gay, 30, had long presented himself as a model of clean competition who spoke out against doping. The fresh round of positive tests is a major embarrassment for a sport that has long been plagued with doping.

Several Olympic 100-meter champions, including Ben Johnson and Linford Christie, have served drug suspensions. A host of other athletes, including many prominent American runners, have tested positive for banned substances over the past 30 years.

Powell, one of the fastest runners of his generation, and Simpson, who won silver medals at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing and the 2012 Olympics in London in addition to her 2004 gold, have not yet had their backup samples tested to confirm the positive results.

Powell issued a statement Sunday denying that he ever knowingly took a banned substance. He said his team had launched “an internal investigation” and pledged to cooperate with authorities on the matter. “My fault here however is not cheating but instead not being more vigilant,” he said.

Doyle said that the two Jamaican sprinters had read the labels of all the supplements they had taken, and that they did not believe they had taken banned substances. World Anti-Doping Agency guidelines say that every athlete is responsible for ensuring that banned substances do not enter his or her body.

The athletes were cooperating with law enforcement and antidoping authorities, Doyle said.

Doyle acknowledged that it has become a sports cliché for athletes to claim ignorance and blame their trainers when they fail drug tests. But he pointed out that Powell and Simpson “have had hundreds of clean tests throughout the years” and only now tested positive.

Don Catlin, the former head of U.C.L.A.’s Olympic Analytical Lab, said that even athletes who take benign supplements could expose themselves to banned substances that make their way into products without being clearly labeled or identified.

“There’s always a risk something could have something else in it,” Catlin said.

In an effort to clean up a sport widely seen as tainted with doping, track officials recently instituted a sophisticated testing program called the biological passport, which is similar to a program used in cycling. The program monitors athletes’ blood profiles over time to find variations that could indicate the use of performance-enhancing drugs.

In March, track and field’s governing body said it was investigating 17 possible doping cases uncovered by the biological passport program.
332 2013-07-16 On Monday, standing under a tree in the sweltering 90-degree weather, he did not offer up a lot of details about the Mets, but, not surprisingly, what he did say was positive.

“I think Sterling’s position is excellent,” Wilpon said in reference to his family-run company Sterling Equities. “The Mets’ business is excellent.”

Of Manager Terry Collins, who has had the Mets playing winning baseball of late despite a work-in-progress roster, Wilpon said, “We all love Terry, who has done a very good job with what we have.”

Of General Manager Sandy Alderson, who is now in his third season of rebuilding, Wilpon said, “We haven’t turned him down on anything.”

Then again, since Alderson took over, the Mets have been cutting payroll, as the franchise wrestles with its financial obligations and seeks to get out from under some onerous player contracts.

Asked if the team payroll, which is now about $90 million, will soon enough return to the $140 million level it stood at several years ago, Wilpon said: “I asked Sandy about that. He said he couldn’t invest that much money.”

Wilpon did say that Sterling’s real estate operation, the core of his business empire, was going well. He said it had sold only a few of its properties, even though the team, in the aftermath of the Madoff fraud, needed infusions of money from new, limited partners as well as short-term loans from Major League Baseball and Bank of America.

“We don’t need to sell,” Wilpon said, adding that the Mets had not refinanced their bank debt of $300 million to $400 million, due next year.

Finally, Wilpon declined to discuss the derivation of “zimmo,” a word that he seemed to coin earlier this year to describe the improving real estate market. But perhaps he will use it again, if and when the Mets finally get going.

He sidestepped the etymology of “zimmo” to explain that banks, which were so reluctant to lend four years ago, are making money available to buy real estate. “We have thousands of apartments; they’re full up and we have opportunities to refinance or sell,” he said.
333 2013-07-16 The judge hearing the case against Pfc. Bradley Manning at Fort Meade said she would decide Thursday on his lawyers’ request to dismiss seven of the charges, including allegations that he aided the enemy when he provided hundreds of thousands of classified documents to WikiLeaks. The defense said the prosecution had not provided sufficient evidence that Private Manning had “actual knowledge” that the information would end up with the enemy. Lawyers for the government have said that, based on his training, Private Manning knew that Al Qaeda and other groups could have access to the documents.
334 2013-07-16 “Reining In the Regulators” (editorial, July 6), which criticized the bipartisan Independent Agency Regulatory Analysis Act sponsored by Senators Susan Collins, Mark Warner and me, claims that extending to independent regulatory agencies the same rule-making principles that apply to executive agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency will hinder these agencies in their mission to craft and apply necessary regulations.

Our legislation would help ensure that new regulations undergo a complete, quantified cost-benefit analysis, while imposing no undue burdens on the regulatory process. It requires review of only those rules with a yearly effect exceeding $100 million: a dozen or so regulations a year.

Moreover, the maximum period for review is 90 days for a proposed or final rule, the same limited review period that applies to executive agency rules. In addition to being timely and limited in scope, this assessment is also public.

Applying this uniform standard to all government agencies has been advocated by organizations across the political spectrum, including President Obama’s Jobs Council. Smart regulation is critical to a well-functioning economy. Our bill will make regulatory agencies smarter, better and more likely to accomplish their mission.

In objecting to a Senate proposal to require review by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, or OIRA, for rules promulgated by independent agencies, you write that “making independent agencies less independent is a bad idea.”

The bill does not threaten agencies’ policy independence, only their “independence” to cut analytical corners. Allowing agencies like mine to avoid rigorous analysis of costs and benefits of their proposals (economic and otherwise) — including a second look at such analyses by OIRA — shortchanges the American people.
335 2013-07-16 In painting a portrait of those who fish for their meals, “Free Dinner in the City: It Comes With a Catch, of Course” (news article, July 3) gives short shrift to the real health risks associated with eating contaminated fish, and the importance of educating subsistence anglers.

Because exposure to PCBs, dioxin and cadmium may cause permanent damage to development and reproduction, and increase the risk of developing serious illnesses including cancer, New York State advises that people, especially children under 15 and women who may bear children, should not eat most fish found in and around New York City, and as far as 200 miles up the Hudson River.

Families who need to fish for their meal should be able to, but until we have cleaned toxic sites that leach pollutants to the ecosystem, they can’t do so without risk.

The writer is president of Riverkeeper, a Hudson River pollution watchdog group.
336 2013-07-16 I STARTED with the Hockey Hall of Fame back in 1988, and I’ve traveled extensively both as curator of the Hall of Fame and one of the “Keepers” of the Stanley Cup. Hockey is played in 75 countries, and I’ve been taking the Stanley Cup to a lot of events for a lot of years.

Back in 1995, the Keeper of the Cup position was formalized and we started visiting the hometowns of winning team players. Then we decided to include managers, coaches and staff. Basically, everyone involved with the winning team gets to spend some time with the trophy.

That’s a lot of travel. Now with the Chicago Blackhawks’ win this year, I’ve already been to two small towns in Ontario, made a stop in Minnesota, and then in early August, I’ll be headed to Europe to take the Cup to Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Sweden, among other places.

Traveling with the Stanley Cup is an exercise in logistics. Fortunately, we have travel experts who take care of that. I go where I’m told.

Whenever I travel with the Cup and have to go through customs, I arrive at the airport early. As soon as I’m asked where I’m going and why, agents don’t believe that I’m traveling with the Cup and I have to open the customized trunk I carry it in. Once they see it, I spend about the next 30 minutes waiting while people take pictures.

Fortunately, photos haven’t made me miss a flight. But like baggage, the Cup has to make connections. Most of the time, I don’t have any problems. Sometimes, I do.
337 2013-07-16 Although Boeing eventually settled the case with the board, Republicans accused it of discriminating against states in the South that were attracting investment from more heavily unionized states.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, denounced the agency as “the Grim Reaper of job creation,” and said he would place an indefinite hold on labor board nominations to prevent it from making any major decisions.

“The N.L.R.B. is a four-letter word in South Carolina,” Mr. Graham said in a telephone interview on Monday, explaining his refusal to allow a vote on Mr. Obama’s nominees. “I do understand that they need to exist, but they’ve sort of been a rogue organization.”

With Washington in an era of extreme partisanship, it is perhaps unsurprising that Republicans, supported by their business allies, have declared war on the agency that is linked most closely to corporate America’s longtime nemesis, organized labor.

For some in the labor movement, the Republicans’ anger toward the board is less about any specific legal action than a wholesale assault on the New Deal-era laws that underpin its work.

“There’s a breakdown of what used to be a consensus that the workers should have a right to organize, that this should be protected by the government, and that collective bargaining is a good thing for the country,” said Craig Becker, a labor lawyer and former member of the labor board who is now general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

The politics goes both ways, as Mr. Becker’s experience demonstrates. Senate Democrats refused to confirm some of President George W. Bush’s nominees to the board in his final year in office, and Republicans responded in kind when Mr. Obama nominated Mr. Becker, who was then an outside lawyer for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Service Employees International Union.

With Mr. Becker’s nomination hung up, Mr. Obama named him to be the board March 2010 when Congress was in recess.

Republicans dug in when they refused to confirm Mr. Obama’s subsequent nominees. In January 2012, the president made three more recess appointments to the board.

But in January of this year, a federal appeals court ruled that those appointments were unconstitutional. The board is likely to shrink to just two members next month, leaving it without the quorum of three needed to conduct business like enforcing its rulings, or those of its offices across the country.

“The situation we’re seeing now is really unprecedented,” said David L. Gregory, a professor of labor law at St. John’s University. “There was a period of chronic vacancies that was as much the fault of the Democrats as the Republicans. But we really haven’t seen a showdown like this in modern history.” The White House reiterated Monday that Republicans were “needlessly and systematically” obstructing the president’s nominees, arguing that he had put forward a full bipartisan set of candidates in April.

“Republicans want to make this an ideological fight in an effort to dismantle the agency,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. “If the Senate fails to act, the board will lose a quorum in August and be unable to function, which is exactly what Republicans are seeking.”

In addition to the Boeing case, Republicans complain that the board has ordered businesses to post notices informing employees of their right to unionize, and has issued new rules to streamline and speed up unionization elections — making it easier, in theory, for workers to organize.

Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president for labor issues at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said the N.L.R.B. was far too chummy with organized labor. “We think this labor board is more liberal than virtually any prior board, and they were improperly appointed to begin with,” he said.

Some labor experts say Republicans are also motivated by simple political calculations, confronted by a Democratic president who is proposing nominees with close ties to labor.

“Republicans like to go after unions because unions support Democrats,” said Benjamin Sachs, a labor law professor at Harvard.

The agency, he said, has played an important role by intervening to protect workers’ rights to unionize — punishing employers that illegally fire workers for supporting a union or that unlawfully threaten to close a factory if employees vote to form a union.

The board has jurisdiction over industries with about 100 million employees, including seven million who are union members. As union membership has dwindled, the board has asserted its power to protect nonunion workers, issuing rules that make it illegal for companies to punish workers for communicating on Facebook or by e-mail about their wages or bosses.

“Whether you already have a union, or you’re trying to form a union, or you’re having a conversation with a co-worker about problems you face on the job, the N.L.R.B. is the only place you can go to protect your rights at work,” said Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of America.
338 2013-07-16 Though the judge ultimately granted the state’s request and admitted tapes of these calls into evidence, the prosecution did not use the evidence and remained strangely silent on Mr. Zimmerman’s pattern of racial profiling during its two closing arguments.

To those who followed the trial closely, as I did, it seemed a decision was made midstream to abandon the strategy that included calling attention to Mr. Zimmerman’s pattern. Prosecutors apparently trusted jurors to dispassionately evaluate photos of a dead teenager’s remains and of the bullet hole through his heart as well as photos of blood dripping from George Zimmerman’s head. But the state was too squeamish to put the touchy issue of race squarely before the six-woman jury.

The defense was far more comfortable with the disturbing racial aspects of the case, and as one of its final witnesses called a young white mother who had been robbed in the neighborhood months before the shooting. The witness, Olivia Bertalan, testified that she had cowered in her closet, baby in her arms, as two African-American males burglarized her home.

What did that have to do with Trayvon Martin? The prosecution never asked. Was Mr. Martin inherently suspicious because he was of the same race as the burglars — the clear import of this story? To attribute the wrongs of two African-American men to all African-Americans is the definition of racism. But the prosecutor never said so in court or called the jury’s attention to this fact.

In his closing argument, Mark O’Mara, one of Mr. Zimmerman’s lawyers, drove home the idea that Mr. Zimmerman’s profane police call was reasonable, arguing that Mr. Zimmerman’s descriptions of Mr. Martin and the burglars “did match the description, unfortunately, and that’s just maybe happenstance.”

But other than race and youth, no other description of the burglars was admitted into evidence. Race and youth were the sole basis of what defense lawyers deemed “a match.”

The state did not question any of this, much less point out that racial profiling was not happenstance but a way to filter out all other, nonracial, identifying factors.

How tall were the Bertalan burglars? Did they have any noticeable tattoos, facial features, haircuts, manner of speaking, gait, clothing? Had they been seen walking slowly in the rain, talking on the phone? The burglars’ and Mr. Martin’s mutual blackness obscured all else.

By the defense logic, all young African-American males in the neighborhood would warrant a call to the police for walking while black — this in a racially diverse, middle-class community that is 20 percent African-American.

The most discordant note in the entire three-week trial came in the prosecution’s rebuttal closing argument, its last chance to drive its points home with the jury. John Guy, a prosecutor in the case, insisted forcefully that the case was not about race; relying on a strategy reminiscent of John Grisham’s book “A Time to Kill,” Mr. Guy asked the jury to consider a role reversal: would Martin be convicted if he had followed and then shot George Zimmerman? After this obvious, if implicit, reference to race, Mr. Guy finished up by reminding the jury that the case was not about race.

Mr. Martin’s family, too, wavered on the subject. Mr. Guy’s remarks mirrored those made by Benjamin Crump, the Martin family lawyer, who said in September that the case “shouldn’t be about race,” though if the roles of the two young men were reversed, an arrest would have occurred quickly. (Mr. Crump had concluded with “that’s why race is involved in this case.”)

And after Mr. Martin’s friend Rachel Jeantel testified to the only racial epithet uttered in the courtroom — Mr. Martin’s characterization of Mr. Zimmerman as a “creepy-ass cracker” — another family attorney stood alongside Mr. Martin’s parents at a news conference and said, “To this family, race is not a part of this process. Anybody who tries to inject race into it is wrong.”

Yet Mr. Martin’s parents had traveled to Washington to attend a Congressional forum on racial profiling and hate crimes, which resulted in the Congressional Black Caucus’s describing the killing as one of “racial bias.” And in March 2012 Tracy Martin had said, “For the Sanford Police Department to feel as though they were going to sweep another young black minority death under the rug, it’s an atrocity.”

Many disturbing factors were present in the Zimmerman trial: his legal right to drive to the grocery store with a loaded concealed weapon, bullet chambered; Florida’s overly permissive self-defense laws; subpar crime-scene evidence-collection techniques; the oddly arrogant medical examiner who had little interest in answering the questions posed to him by counsel; the prosecutors’ apparent failure to adequately prepare their key witness, Ms. Jeantel; prosecutors’ failure to emphasize how Mr. Zimmerman’s gun, holstered behind him and inside his waistband, could not have been seen and reached for by Mr. Martin in the scenario Mr. Zimmerman described, where he was pinned on his back with Mr. Martin assaulting him; prosecutors’ failure to drive home the fact that Mr. Zimmerman’s claim that Mr. Martin pounded his head on concrete in his final moments did not fit the crime scene, since Mr. Martin’s body was found on the grass a substantial distance from any concrete.

The prosecution’s most glaring trial failure was its absence of a theory about what happened on the night of the shooting that would counter the defense’s frightening story about Mr. Martin’s pinning Mr. Zimmerman to the ground, straddling him and banging his head against the concrete and then reaching for Mr. Zimmerman’s gun. The defense seized upon the prosecution’s unusual practice throughout the trial, and especially in closing, of simply raising questions of what might have happened, rather than proving its own case or presenting its own theory about the facts. When both sides seemed to advocate for reasonable doubt, an acquittal was the only possible outcome.

It cannot reasonably be disputed that the incident that left Mr. Martin dead began with ugly racial profiling. But the prosecution seemed afraid to say so at any point in the trial. Instead, the state appeared to want to tread lightly on the jurors’ presumed delicate sensibilities on the dicey subject of race and, leaving the race question aside, simply pointed out that Mr. Zimmerman must have made “assumptions.” The state’s refusal to take an aggressive, clear position on Mr. Zimmerman’s racial profiling was, like many of its strategic decisions, a clear fumble.

One of the final photos the defense showed to the jury was a 7-Eleven surveillance camera image of Trayvon Martin an hour before his death, the kind of blurry photo one sees on the local news when the police are searching for a holdup suspect. This was the person George Zimmerman encountered, counsel insisted.

By the following night, Mr. Zimmerman was acquitted. Afterward, smiling broadly after her team had just lost the case, Angela B. Corey, the special prosecutor, said: “This case has never been about race.”
339 2013-07-16 Mr. Rajoy has tried to distance himself from the scandal, but on Monday addressed a rising tide of fraud accusations and calls for his resignation.

“I will fulfill my mandate,” Mr. Rajoy said at a news conference. Dismissing the newspaper reports as “insinuations” and “rumors,” Mr. Rajoy said that “the state of law doesn’t bow to blackmail.” He added, “If others want to play other things, that is their responsibility.”

His Popular Party has a substantial parliamentary majority, and Mr. Rajoy’s government seems safe for now. But the scandal has weakened Mr. Rajoy in opinion polls and is becoming an increasing distraction from pressing economic issues. Mr. Rajoy has not delivered on some of his campaign pledges, and has faced widespread protests over budget cuts and Spain’s failure to climb out of recession.

“The real problem for Spain is that the corruption allegations have created a situation of worrying and rising political instability, when, ironically, the government was expected to benefit as one of the few in Europe to have a strong parliamentary majority,” said Jaime Pastor, a politics professor at the Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia in Madrid.

Mr. Pastor said Mr. Rajoy’s challenge now was to keep his party unified, “which is far from easy when this avalanche of accusations is likely to make other party heavyweights increasingly scared about the electoral cost of such a scandal.”

If the allegations Mr. Bárcenas reportedly made are sustained by the court, they would seriously threaten the Popular Party, even if Mr. Rajoy succeeds in staving the case off until 2015, when his four-year term ends and the next election is scheduled to be held.

The statute of limitations also comes into play. The central allegations so far concern ledgers of secret party accounts apparently managed by Mr. Bárcenas, which were published by the newspaper El País in January. Those ledgers show secret payments to Mr. Rajoy and other party members from 1990 to 2008, when the construction boom ended; the statute of limitations on financial crimes in Spain is five years.

Investigators have been unearthing steadily rising amounts of money deposited outside Spain by Mr. Bárcenas — $61 million at the last count — and have begun to identify companies that they say paid into the party slush fund in return for public works contracts.

Mr. Bárcenas’s court appearance on Monday appeared to signal that he had decided to retaliate against his colleagues’ disparaging comments by revealing more about the party’s inner workings, even if doing so weakens his own defense against accusations of tax fraud and other financial crimes.

“It’s now one man’s word against another’s, with no real room left for compromise,” Mr. Pastor, the politics professor, said, referring to Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Bárcenas.
340 2013-07-16 Many on the left are still locked in a battle of semantics, trying to persuade the world — and perhaps one another — that the overthrow of Mr. Morsi was not a “coup” but a “revolution.” The army merely carried out the popular will, they insist. On Sunday, one private satellite network in Egypt was running commercials of citizen testimonials proclaiming as much.

Some have begun to voice doubts. Amr Hamzawy, a political scientist who held a seat in the dissolved Parliament, was among the first to condemn the military’s shutdown of the Islamists’ satellite networks, the arrest of their staff members, and the detention of Mr. Morsi and hundreds of other Islamist leaders.

Mr. Hamzawy objected in a recent newspaper column to “the rhetoric of gloating, hatred, retribution and revenge against the Muslim Brotherhood.” After the mass shooting, he called the celebration of the military takeover “fascism under the false pretense of democracy and liberalism.” Fellow intellectuals who said nothing, he wrote, were “the birds of darkness of this phase.”

But he was almost alone. A chorus of liberals and leftists rushed to denounce Mr. Hamzawy for defending the Islamists.

Khaled Montaser, a liberal columnist, declared that the Islamists were worse than “criminals and psychopaths” because they could never reform. “Their treason, terrorism and conspiracies are an indelible tattoo,” Mr. Montaser wrote. “They do not know the meaning of ‘homeland.’ They only know the meaning of ‘the caliphate’ and their organization first.”

Ahmed Maher, a founder of the left-leaning April 6 group, initially joined a small volunteer team that tried to enlist Western support for the ouster. But after the arrests and shootings of Brotherhood supporters, he began to recall the generals’ long hold on power after mass protests drove President Hosni Mubarak from office two years ago.

Mr. Maher put his worries about the generals in a Twitter message to another activist: “If we assume it’s not a coup, and I tell people it’s not a coup, when they screw us again like they did in 2011, what would I tell people?”

His allies responded by trying to drum him out, not only from the volunteer team but also from the April 6 group. Esraa Abdel Fattah, a prominent activist, campaigned against him in the media and circulated a list of his statements questioning the “coup.” And Ms. Abdel Fattah insisted that the Muslim Brotherhood, whose political party won the post-Mubarak elections, amounted to a foreign-backed terrorist group.

“When terrorism is trying to take hold of Egypt and foreign interference is trying to dig into our domestic affairs, then it’s inevitable for the great Egyptian people to support its armed forces against the foreign danger,” Ms. Abdel Fattah wrote in a newspaper column.

In the turbulent period of military rule after Mr. Mubarak was ousted, many liberals and leftists stood shoulder to shoulder with Islamists to demand that the generals relinquish power to elected civilians. Now the liberals appear to have joined in a public amnesia about the abuses and scandals of that period — the forced virginity tests of female protesters; Coptic Christian demonstrators shot by soldiers or run over with armored vehicles; the videotaped stripping and kicking of a female demonstrator who became known as the Blue Bra Woman.

The activist Hassan Shaheen was captured in the same video, bleeding from the head as a soldier stomped on his chest. But this spring he helped lead the petition drive asking the military to remove Mr. Morsi. And he joined in the rejection of Mr. Maher, saying that by calling the ouster of Mr. Morsi a “coup” he was “following the rhetoric of the Muslim Brotherhood.”

“We will stand together, the people and the military, in the face of terrorism,” Mr. Shaheen wrote in a Twitter message, arguing that the Brotherhood’s political party “must be dissolved and all its leaders must be arrested.”

“No negotiation, no reconciliation, no going back,” he added.

Hossam Bahgat, founder of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said the liberals’ goal — an Egypt governed by an inclusive civilian democracy — appeared to be further away than when Mr. Mubarak fell. Now, he said, the old institutions and elites from the Mubarak era are emboldened to push for a full return of the old order. “There is a powerful and well-resourced player now trying to push Egypt back to 2010,” he said.

Even those on the left who are critical of the military overthrow fault Mr. Morsi and the Brotherhood for their actions in power, for excluding other groups from decision-making, accusing critics of treason and exploiting religion as a political tool. They say that in recent days some Islamist leaders have told their supporters to prepare to use violence to defend Mr. Morsi, as they did during a crisis in December.

Brotherhood leaders say their organization has not condoned violence in Egypt since the days of British rule. They say private media outlets have worked for months to stir up nationalist sentiment against them, for example by circulating false rumors that they were considering giving away Sinai or selling the Suez Canal. Over the last week, many news outlets have claimed that Brotherhood leaders invited foreign interference by appealing for help from Washington to hold off the military takeover. Television hosts even assert that the crowds at pro-Morsi rallies are actually full of Syrians and Palestinians.

The military has set the mood as well. Before the takeover, it broadcast aerial images of the protests against Mr. Morsi, set to soaring martial music. On Sunday, it released another 30-minute broadcast depicting soldiers protecting the public, set to a similar score.

State and private television channels also broadcast images of Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi in his trademark black beret, explaining to admiring soldiers the military’s obligation to intervene in the national interest. “Egypt is the mother of the world, and Egypt will be as great as the world,” he declared.

Much of the public, fatigued by revolutionary turmoil, has embraced him. “The people had been saying, ‘Down, down with military rule,’ but Sisi completely changed them,” said Mohamed Mofeed, 38, a barber in downtown Cairo. “They love him.”

Mr. Morsi “should have been tougher with the media,” he added. “They were disrespecting him all over the place.”

Osama Mohamed, 20, a student sitting with a group of friends, said they wanted General Sisi to “leave his office and elect himself president.”

Mohamed Abdel Fattah, 24, an advertising manager, agreed. “For Egypt,” he said, “democracy is chaos.”
341 2013-07-16 The study also reawakens the long debate about where and how dogs were domesticated. Current theory speculates that they are descended from wolves that somehow became attached to humans perhaps 12,000 to 33,000 years ago — an early amity that has an extensive pedigree in human folklore. (Think Romulus and Remus.)

But where that may have happened is not entirely settled. Some say the earliest dogs emerged in the Middle East. Others point to an area south of the Yangtze River in China. Dr. Savolainen’s study provides more evidence for the China hypothesis and, as a result, lends support to the idea that the earliest domesticated dogs crossed the Ice Age land bridge known as Beringia some 12,000 years ago.

Carolina dogs, then, could be camp followers that wandered off from their Paleo-Indian masters and took up residence in swampy areas where they can easily hide out from their own natural predators.

Mr. Anderson, 79, is a Virginian who moved to South Carolina in 1961. He’s a garrulous man dressed in comfortable blue stretch pants, a pair of Crocs on his feet, and a headband to hold back shoulder-length hair that stubbornly retains some glints of blond.

He remembers the day, back in the Nixon administration, when he had his first encounter with these wild dogs. Down by a nearby water hole on his land, he spied a mother and three pups, and they immediately bolted.

“Two of the puppies went east, and one puppy tried to get out west and he got stuck,” he explained. He took the pup home and named him Tadpole.

Not long afterward a stranger saw the dog and offered Mr. Anderson $300 for what his neighbors called a “Lynches River wild dog.” He refused the deal, thinking, he says now, “if he’s worth $300 to you, then he’s worth $300 to me.”

Mr. Anderson soon learned that others called them Carolina dogs, a name given to them by I. Lehr Brisbin, a biologist with the Savannah River nuclear power plant, near Aiken, and the man most responsible for the current interest in the breed. In the early 1970s, Dr. Brisbin was employed checking out the wildlife on the periphery of the plant and often came upon these wild dogs in the swampier parts of his domain. He took a few in and today maintains an 18-acre enclosure where he has his own pack.

Dr. Brisbin got the Carolina dog recognized by the United Kennel Club and was the first to describe some of the breed’s rare traits, including the fishhook tail, the pointed, somewhat lupine face and the habit of digging snout pits. The dogs cooperate as a pack when they hunt a field mouse or a rabbit, possibly using their white hindquarters as signals.

“That white fishhook can be hoisted like a white-tailed deer’s and can flash back and forth,” Dr. Brisbin explained. “I saw them do it, and I saw the rest of the pack honor it.”

Carolina dogs typically go into heat once a year, like wolves, instead of twice, like domesticated dogs. They cover up their scat by pushing dirt over it with their noses, not by using their hindquarters to scratch the ground.

Still, determining just what is and is not a Carolina dog requires a kind of gut instinct. To Mr. Anderson, it’s a matter of “I know it when I see it”; Dr. Brisbin is more blunt.

“The Carolina dog is a breed created by Brisbin,” he said, referring to himself in the third person, “by picking dogs he likes, the type that he thinks typify the ancient dog.”

This is not to say the Carolina dog is more mythic than real. But the problem is that some of the wilder dogs have mated with other breeds — local dogs and even coyotes. Determining just what is a Carolina dog means becoming more finely tuned to the sense that anyone feels stepping into Don Anderson’s enclosed acre. Experiential knowledge is crucial, being able to sense the entirety of the animal and in that way recognize which dog is almost purely Carolina and which is more of a mix.

Most Carolina dogs are ginger-colored, like Australian dingoes, but they can also be black and piebald. Most, but not all, are short-haired.

Some have tiny patches, right above their distinctive almond eyes, that look like a spare set of eyes, what Mr. Anderson calls “spirit eyes.” Some have an unusual white stripe at the shoulder. There are the noticeable ears and the tail, but also the athletic tucked-in stomach (like a Doberman). DNA studies may soon make it easier to assert the Carolina’s distinctions from other dogs.

Awareness of this unusual dog has its own history. According to Mark Eden, another enthusiast working with Mr. Anderson, the journals of the 16th-century Spanish explorer Hernando de Soto include possible references to Carolina dogs.

In the essential narrative of early American natural history, William Bartram’s 1791 book “Bartram’s Travels,” the author runs across a Seminole Indian maintaining some horses and writes: “One occurrence, remarkable here, was a troop of horse under the control and care of a single black dog, which seemed to differ in no respect from the wolf of Florida, except his being able to bark as the common dog.”

In his journal for Feb. 16, 1806, Meriwether Lewis writes of an “Indian dog” that is “party coloured; black white brown and brindle” with “ears erect and pointed like those of the wolf” and used by American Indians to hunt elk.

In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the dog’s wildness and its ginger coat — and probably its use by the poor as a hunting dog — led to the name “yaller dog,” typically spelled that way except by the kind of manor-born people who say “chitterlings.”

And that may have given rise to the term “yellow dog Democrat” to describe the anti-Republican die-hard in the South, as in the 1920s slogan “I’d vote for a yellow dog if he ran on the Democratic ticket.”

The occasional revival of interest in the Carolina dog happens this time just as enthusiasts make the case for its inclusion among the ancient dogs the world over. Dr. Brisbin also suggests that the Carolina dog fits in the niche of “pariah dogs,” dingo-like and appearing to survive in difficult habitats, like Don Anderson’s swamps, typically on the outskirts of ancient human migration routes.

There are many of these older dogs: the Canaan dog of Israel, the Santal hound of India, the Jindo of Korea, the Telomian of Malaysia, the New Guinea singing dog, the Kintamani dog of Bali, the African basenji — and the images that pop up in a Web search are oddly similar to those of the Carolina dog.

Continents and millenniums aside, they possess many of the qualities Dr. Brisbin and Mr. Anderson describe. These primitive dogs started living near people tens of thousands of years ago, finding a place just out of sight of human encampments — where, if the current studies hold up, they steadfastly remain.
342 2013-07-16 One of the vacancies on ABC’s longtime hit daytime television talk show “The View” has been filled by Jenny McCarthy, the former Playboy Playmate and actress.

The show’s creator, Barbara Walters, announced on the air Monday morning that Ms. McCarthy would become the next co-host on the program.

Her selection had been widely expected; she has been a frequent guest host on the program and her name was at the top of the list for prospective permanent hosts.

Ms. McCarthy will fill one of the empty chairs left by the departures of Joy Behar and Elisabeth Hasselbeck, both of whom had long been regulars on the program. Ms. Hasselbeck left for Fox News last week and Ms. Behar is scheduled to leave in August.

Ms. McCarthy will start on “The View” on Sept. 9.

To accept the position, Ms. McCarthy had to win a separation from the VH1 network, where she had been hosting a late-night show. That show has not been scoring big ratings.

Ms. McCarthy, 40, has had roles in a few short-lived situation comedies but is probably best known on television for the game show “Singled Out” on MTV, where she was a host in the 1990s.
343 2013-07-16 That year, a company owned principally by Mrs. Rudey took out a $59 million mortgage on a portion of the Copper Beech property with Bank of America, a loan that was personally guaranteed by Mr. and Mrs. Rudey. There was already an existing $41 million worth of mortgages with M&T Bank.

Also in 2006, a company called Inland Fiber Group, which owned forest land in Oregon, and of which Mr. Rudey was president and principal executive officer, went bankrupt.

The tale swings west in 1999, when a company Mr. Rudey controlled paid $60 million for more than 50,000 acres in Kittitas County, Wash., an area that was once abuzz with timber production. But after a sharp decrease in logging on federal land about 25 years ago because of environmental concerns, like the designation of the spotted owl as an endangered species, the supply chain started to come apart.

“When the mills start shutting down, you’ve got a real challenge, you’ve got huge transportation costs,” said Peter Goldmark, the Washington State commissioner of public lands.

Nature has played a part as well, bringing forth an assault of spruce budworm (the caterpillars) and bark beetles on the area, along with warmer temperatures — all of which have roughed up the forest and made the trees less valuable as timber.

In the face of those challenges, many timber companies packed up and left. Those that didn’t chose a well-trodden path.

“You log it really hard, then the next scenario is to develop it really hard,” said Peter Goldman, director of the Washington Forest Law Center. “And at the end of the day, you’re out.”

Kittitas County, east of Seattle, has become a major second-home destination in recent decades, and the Rudeys spent years exploring ways they might develop their land, local officials said, though no formal plans were ever filed. It appears that the challenges overwhelmed the possibilities.

There were endangered species to contend with, and local opposition. There were new and increasing water restrictions. And perhaps most important of all, there was the enormous cost of building a large number of new homes in the middle of a forest.

“In an area like that, it’s not a small undertaking,” said Paul Jewell, a Kittitas County commissioner. Just getting clean water to residents and building safe roads in and out could have cost hundreds of millions of dollars, he estimated.

By the end of 2010, companies owned by the Rudey family had a $59 million mortgage on one portion of Copper Beech Farm and a $79 million mortgage on the forestland in Washington, both with Bank of America. Those loans were cross-collateralized and personally guaranteed by Mr. and Mrs. Rudey, meaning that if they fell behind in payments, the bank could force the sale of either property and, if they still came up short, the Rudeys would be personally liable. They also had $65 million worth of mortgages, again through a corporation, on another section of Copper Beech with M&T Bank, effectively bringing the total debt associated with the property to as much as $203 million.

In 2011, Bank of America started foreclosure proceedings on its portion of Copper Beech Farm. The Rudeys, meanwhile, had filed a suit against the bank, alleging “predatory lending practices,” among other accusations. The following summer, those two lawsuits were dropped.

The Rudeys then struck a deal to sell the forest land to the Washington State Department of Natural Resources, for $97 million. In December, the Rudeys’ longtime apartment at 1030 Fifth Avenue was quietly sold for $16.5 million. And a few months after that, Copper Beech Farm, no longer cross-collateralized with the forestland, hit the market.

How much Mr. Rudey still owes the banks is not a matter of public record. But according to a person with knowledge of the arrangement, the Rudeys are trying to sell the properties in Washington and Connecticut as part of an agreement to pay back their lenders.

Mr. Rudey’s real estate broker, David Ogilvy, denied this, however, saying that all of this was just estate planning on the scale of a very wealthy family. (Mr. Rudey is 70.)

At a certain age, Mr. Ogilvy said, “a banker looks at you and says, ‘You know, you have to plan ahead.’ ”

Mr. Rudey did not return several calls seeking comment, and attempts to reach him through his lawyers in Connecticut and Washington, as well as through Mr. Ogilvy, were unsuccessful.

While the mortgage amounts are high, Mr. Ogilvy said, they are a standard loan percentage; if one assumes the property is worth $190 million, the mortgages would be about 65 percent of the value.

But that assumption is far from a certainty. The most expensive property ever sold on the open market in Greenwich is believed to be an estate that went for $45 million in 2004, according to the appraisal firm Miller Samuel.

Nonetheless, Mr. Ogilvy said he had confidence in the asking price because Copper Beech Farm occupies 50 acres right on the water, and other waterfront properties in the area have sold for between $4.5 million and about $9 million per acre. By subdividing the land, he said, which is permissible under town zoning regulations, the numbers become enormous.

Regardless of whether Mr. Rudey gets what he is asking for in Greenwich, however, his position in Washington is all but assured. He will sell about 50,000 acres to the state as part of a larger plan to protect the watershed and natural habitats, and he will keep about 900 acres. The deal is set to close in September. So, by the end of the year, that particular tie between east and west will be all but severed.
344 2013-07-17 Raymond James plans to announce an extensive effort to help its thousands of financial advisers harness social media when contacting clients....
345 2013-07-17 My obstetrician ignored my symptoms of postpartum depression, and told me to take more ‘me’ time. Just like that, I slipped through the cracks, and I’m not alone. There’s no universal screening for depression in women after giving birth....
346 2013-07-17 Is the state development bank throwing good money after bad in reportedly easing debt terms for Eike Batista?...
347 2013-07-17 Justin Timberlake, Robin Thicke, Bruno Mars, Taylor Swift and Macklemore & Ryan Lewis are among the nominees....
348 2013-07-17 Shares of Caterpillar tumbled on Wednesday after the prominent short-seller James S. Chanos said he was betting against the company....
349 2013-07-17 Minibars may be evolving into a welcome addition to hotel rooms — many properties are beginning to fill them with locally sourced or personalized items....
350 2013-07-17 When a new digital device gets a big price cut, it’s usually good news for consumers but usually a sign of poor sales — even if the maker of the device doesn’t want to admit that publicly....
351 2013-07-17 As proposals to replace taxpayer support for home mortgages with private finance move through Congress, it’s time for the Obama administration to take a position in this debate, an economist writes....
352 2013-07-17 Nike apologized for the geographic error on a line of Carolina Panthers T-shirts. The company recently offered a black, Panthers T-shirt which included a blue silhouette of the state of South Carolina and the letters “NC.”
353 2013-07-17 In an excellent prank, the magnificent Mets pitcher, Matt Harvey, was dispatched by “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” to Bryant Park earlier in the week and sent to interview fans about the game and, well, Matt Harvey. Even people who, somehow, were wearing Matt Harvey jerseys did not realize he was the one asking the questions. A number of them, however, mentioned Mr. Harvey’s pretty-close-to-naked photo spread in ESPN The Magazine. Apparently, he looked much different with his clothes on, throwing off the interviewees.

It has been five years since baseball’s All-Star Game was last played in New York City, during the final season of the old Yankee Stadium. That, too, was the occasion of a bewildering parade, moving up Avenue of the Americas, roughly in the direction of the Bronx. Tuesday’s event moved up the same avenue, then turned east along 42nd Street, roughly toward Flushing, Queens, where this year’s game was to be played, at Citi Field. A red carpet stretched three blocks.

The parade is essentially a television commercial for pickup trucks, with ballplayers serving as ornaments.

Since the one in 2008, the city has started charging groups that hold parades. For example, depending on how many officers and traffic agents are needed to control traffic, the events graded by the city as “medium” in size must pay up to $1 million. “Extra-large” goes for $2 million or more.

Although parts of Midtown Manhattan were paralyzed for stretches of the day, Major League Baseball got the “small” event rate — $100,000.

Just on one block, 41st Street, from Broadway to Avenue of the Americas, a half-dozen police vans were at the curb, their occupants out keeping order. On the same block, a Fire Department mobile command center was parked fender-to-fender with the Police Department’s mobile command center. The two of them next to each other formed a small skyscraper, lying on its side.

The city believes that it gets tremendous value in free television coverage of events like the parade, and Frank Barry, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, estimates that the economic impact of the All-Star events is $191.5 million.

One of the events was at a chain sandwich shop in the Flatiron district. Jared Fogle, who reported that he had lost a lot of weight by eating mostly the sandwiches sold by the chain, and Willie Randolph, the former Yankee All-Star second baseman, were handing out sandwiches and bags.

A few people waiting had no idea why.

“It’s a kickoff to the game tonight,” a man reported to a woman behind him in the line.

“I heard there was a baseball game,” the woman, Keysha Lloyd, said. “Traffic is crazy.”

Mr. Fogle had been in Kansas City last year to give away sandwiches when the All-Star Game was held there.

“In Kansas City, it was an event for the ages,” Mr. Fogle said.

Things were a bit different in New York. “It’s the mecca of the world,” Mr. Fogle said. “You guys are used to doing it all the time.”

He resumed handing out sandwiches to a public blissfully unaware of the day’s grandeur.
354 2013-07-17 Under pressure from federal health regulators, the manufacturer of two popular sports supplements has voluntarily destroyed the inventory of the products, the Food and Drug Administration said on Tuesday.

The products made by USPlabs of Dallas, called Jack3d and OxyElite Pro, had a retail value of more than $8 million, the agency said.

The action reflects an escalating federal crackdown on workout boosters and fat-burning products that contain an amphetaminelike stimulant called dimethylamylamine, or DMAA for short.

In April, the F.D.A. issued a public advisory saying that the stimulant was an illegal dietary ingredient and could pose serious health risks to consumers. Health regulators said the stimulant could elevate blood pressure, potentially leading to heart attacks, and warned consumers not to take it.

Soon after, USPlabs said that it would, for business reasons, stop producing DMAA products and market formulations without the stimulant. But the company continued to distribute its remaining inventory of the original Jack3d and OxyElite Pro, the F.D.A. said, which prompted the agency to issue an administrative detainment order for the products and ask the company to destroy them.

“We don’t want consumers using the products. We think they present a risk to public health,” said Daniel Fabricant, the director of the F.D.A.’s Division of Dietary Supplement Programs. “We will leave no stone unturned to get them out of the marketplace.”
355 2013-07-17 WASHINGTON — Higher gasoline costs helped raise a measure of consumer prices in June. But the overall trend in inflation stayed tame.

The Labor Department reported on Tuesday that its Consumer Price Index increased 0.5 percent in June from May. Two-thirds of the gain came from a 6.3 percent jump in gas prices, the largest since February.

Consumer prices have been stable this year, giving the Federal Reserve room to continue efforts to stimulate the economy.

Over all, prices rose just 1.8 percent in the last 12 months. And core prices rose just 1.6 percent in that period — the smallest 12-month change in two years. Each measure was below 2 percent, the Fed’s inflation target.

Slow economic growth and high unemployment have kept wages from rising quickly. That has made it harder for retailers and other businesses to increase prices.

In June, prices for all energy products rose 3.4 percent, mostly because of the surge in gas costs. Other prices changed little.
356 2013-07-17 But supporters of the bubble see the Smithsonian’s decision last month to cancel it as symptomatic of larger problems: a one-sided relationship in which the museum’s leadership can be overruled by the Smithsonian and a constricted vision of the potential role for a contemporary museum in the nation’s capital.

Constance R. Caplan, an ardent fan of the bubble, which was formally known as the Seasonal Inflatable Structure, resigned as board chairwoman last week. She characterized the project’s end as a retreat from innovative programming that would have turned the Hirshhorn into a pioneering ideas factory in what is often described as a culturally staid city.

Ms. Caplan also complained about the board’s limited powers. “When you ask people to raise money you have to give them more of a say in what happens at the institution,” Ms. Caplan said, noting that members are typically expected to donate $50,000 when they join the board, then actively raise funds.

To some degree, the very characteristics that promised to make the bubble easier to build ultimately handicapped its fund-raising ability. Because the structure was temporary — Mr. Koshalek envisioned inflating the pavilion designed by the New York firm Diller Scofidio & Renfro in May and October — the museum was able to avoid the layers of approval usually required for any structure destined for the National Mall.

But that impermanence also meant the project was not eligible for capital funding from the Smithsonian. More important, it discouraged many donors who tend to prefer permanent exhibitions or expansions.

“People want their name on a wing, not something that’s only open for two months a year,” Mr. Kurin said. “Everybody in the world knew about the bubble,” he added, but it “never attracted the money to pay for it” despite an agreement to extend the fund-raising deadline four times.

Meanwhile, the price kept rising, from to $15.5 million, from $5 million, in addition to yearly operating costs, according to an internal Smithsonian report.

Some trustees blamed the anemic contributions — a total of $7.8 million — on the unequal power sharing, noting that the Smithsonian employs dozens of full-time fund-raisers while the Hirshhorn had only one to drum up support for the bubble.

This was frustrating for Mr. Koshalek and his supporters who said they believed the future of the Hirshhorn — and other museums for that matter — depend on imaginative programming. “Museums in the future are going to have to bring a new level of complexity to what they do” Mr. Koshalek said. He had wanted to use the bubble to “create a center for creative dialogue.”

As fund-raising lagged, the board split. Some members complained that the single-minded focus on the bubble was diverting attention from the museum’s core mission — its collection and exhibitions.

Those are what “the future of the Hirshhorn should be built around,” said J. Tomilson Hill, a 13-year board veteran and a former chairman who resigned in the fall over Mr. Koshalek’s continued push for the bubble. “You can’t have the tail wagging the dog.”

Echoing other former and current trustees, Mr. Hill called the bubble a “worthwhile experiment” that just wasn’t financially sustainable.

“I feel certain that years from now, the effort to build the Seasonal Inflatable Structure will be a distant memory, but people will still be talking about the great experiences they had with exhibitions like Doug Aitken’s SONG 1 projected on the outside of the building” in 2012, and “Ai Weiwei’s first American retrospective” in 2013, Mr. Hill wrote in an e-mail.

Those shows were championed by both Mr. Koshalek and Kerry Brougher, the chief curator, who has been named acting director. In his third week on the job, Mr. Brougher stated that the core mission remains the collection and exhibitions.

Still, his plans for the future did not sound all that different from Mr. Koshalek’s. He emphasized his interest in digital technology, thematic exhibitions, public programs, performances and after-hours events, “so that exhibitions aren’t seen as hermetically sealed within these white cube spaces of the museum.”

“I don’t see a change in vision,” he said.
357 2013-07-17 Johnson & Johnson reported on Tuesday that its earnings more than doubled in the second quarter of this year, buoyed by strong sales of prescription drugs and an influx of cash from the sale of its stake in the Irish drug manufacturer Elan.

The health care giant reported earnings for the second quarter of $3.8 billion, or $1.33 a share, compared to $1.41 billion, or 50 cents a share, during the same period last year. Excluding one-time costs, the company’s earnings were $1.48 a share, which exceeded Wall Street estimates of $1.39. Johnson & Johnson’s stock closed even on Tuesday, at $90.40.

Company executives said revenue benefited from strong sales of drugs like Remicade and Simponi, which treat autoimmune disorders like rheumatoid arthritis; the prostate cancer drug Zytiga; and Xarelto, an anticoagulant.

Worldwide sales of pharmaceutical products increased by nearly 12 percent, to $7 billion, compared with the same quarter last year. Sales of over-the-counter products, like Tylenol, Motrin and Listerine, were also strong, executives said.

Total sales — including products like medical devices and baby oil — were $17.9 billion for the second quarter, an increase of 8.5 percent over the same period last year.

Much of Johnson & Johnson’s success can be attributed to the breadth of its business, said Derrick Sung, an analyst for Bernstein Research.
358 2013-07-17 Slowing revenue from advertisement is at the heart of Yahoo’s decline in revenue. And Ms. Mayer’s efforts have done little to revitalize Yahoo’s sagging core business in digital display advertising. The number of display ads sold has declined every quarter for the last two years. Display revenue in the second quarter, which ended June 30, decreased 12 percent from the period a year earlier. Revenue from search fell 9 percent.

“The reality is, they’re in the early stage of a difficult process,” said Colin Gillis, an analyst with BGC Partners. “We are still a ways away from seeing what this management team can do.”

In recent quarters, the revenue declines have been buffered by the rising value of Yahoo’s holdings in Asia, including a 24 percent stake in Alibaba, the fast-growing Chinese e-commerce company, which is expected to make an initial public offering in the next year. Most of the 75 percent growth in the stock price under Ms. Mayer has been driven by these holdings.

Ms. Mayer has asked investors for patience on turning around the advertising business. She has said the company will focus first on developing its people, then its products.

Already, Yahoo has redesigned Flickr, the popular photo service, revamped its home page and released mobile apps for popular services like mail and weather. She said the refreshed products were meant to build “delightful” and “entertaining” experiences into the daily habits of users.

Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said the flurry of activity gave him some hope.

“We are still believers in a potential turnaround story,” he said. “Although there has been little quantifiable evidence of an improvement to date, the increased velocity of product innovation and acquisitions at Yahoo make us optimistic.”

Employees also seem to be more optimistic. Yahoo, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., has had a notable decline in attrition, and 12 percent of new hires this year were returning Yahoo alumni. Of Ms. Mayer’s 17 acquisitions in the last year, most were to bring in more engineering talent for social, mobile, gaming and video products, she said.

The recent $1.1 billion acquisition of the popular microblogging site Tumblr has been the most prominent purchase, delivering a younger and more socially connected audience to Yahoo. But it has also generated skepticism as to whether Tumblr’s popularity can be turned into dollars. Other Yahoo purchases, like Qwiki, a New York based start-up that allows users to produce short videos on their phones, and Xobni, a Silicon Valley company that helps people more easily search mobile in-boxes, have brought Yahoo talent and technology in mobile and video — areas where Facebook and Google, the company’s rivals, have reported stronger advertising growth.

The deals also signal that Ms. Mayer is moving to compete in those areas. Yet in the earnings webcast she emphasized that investors would not see significant change in overall revenue from new and revitalized products until 2014.
359 2013-07-17 The historic granite Greek Revival building dating from 1840 that houses this triplex restaurant was flooded in October as the owners were preparing for its debut. “We would have opened five or six months sooner if it wasn’t for Sandy,” said Deirdre Stone, one of the partners. In its early days, it was a ship’s chandlery and was on the waterfront, but landfill gradually expanded this edge of Manhattan by several blocks. More recently it was an OTB parlor. Now, there is a bar and dining rooms on the ground floor; the Whiskey Cellar bar and lounge in the basement; and another dining room with a water view on the second floor, all graciously done in dark wood and wainscoting. The all-purpose contemporary menu, by Stephen Woods, who was with the Patina Restaurant Group for many years, offers a lobster roll, ceviche, roasted beets with goat cheese, and roast chicken: 170 John Street, (South Street), (646) 370-3337, tradingpostnyc.com.

THE BAR ROOM Steve Tzolis and Nicola Kotsoni and other partners have opened this bar and lounge, fitted with a vintage, heavily carved bar that was the centerpiece of their now-shuttered Tonic. It’s next door to their continental restaurant, Amali: 117 East 60th Street, (212) 561-5523.

BILL’S BAR & BURGER The third edition of these burger joints in Manhattan opened in a sprawling space in the Marriott Downtown in the financial district: 85 West Street (Carlisle Street), (212) 894-3800, billsbarandburger.com.

CLINTON HALL This new beer garden in the financial district serves 20 draft beers and ciders, stored and dispensed to the brewer’s precise specifications. A full bar, wines and a menu of sausages, burgers and mussels round out the choices at this 200-seat indoor-outdoor space. (Monday): 90 Washington Street (Rector Street), (212) 363-6000, clintonhallny.com.

IPPUDO WESTSIDE The theater district branch of this Japanese ramen chain has opened to a crush of would-be slurpers that’s almost as big and as willing to wait for a seat as at the original Ippudo near Union Square. There are some new appetizers, and soon a noodle counter will open upstairs: 321 West 51st Street, (212) 974-2500, ippudony.com.
360 2013-07-17 “What he is now doing in order to make it cheaper for the big polluters to pollute, in order to try and make a political point, he’s actually slashing a billion dollars out of environmental protection in Australia,” she told reporters. “You don’t protect the environment by cutting environment programs.”

Under the current system, Australia’s worst polluters pay a high fixed price on their carbon emissions. Since it went into effect last year after squeaking through the lower house of Parliament by just two votes in late 2011, the tax has proved wildly unpopular with big business and voters, due in part to a relentlessly negative campaign by the opposition.

The current system was supposed to remain in place until 2015, then be replaced by a system in which market mechanisms would determine the cost of producing a ton of carbon. The move to bring forward the market-based system a full year earlier is expected to quickly produce a sharp drop in the cost of carbon, from a predicted $23.30 per metric ton in July 2014 to around $5.50 per ton in American dollars.

Because the lower price means the government would lose about $3.5 billion in tax revenue for the next financial year, Mr. Rudd has proposed nearly $3.7 billion in cuts or deferrals to public spending, including environmental programs. Several clean-technology programs will face cuts, including investments in carbon capture and storage, which will be cut by $538 million over four years.

The path to the passage of the carbon tax was among the most perilous in recent Australian political history. It was key to the downfall of two sitting prime ministers and a popular opposition leader and culminated in a showdown on the floor of Parliament between guards and furious protesters.

Many blame Mr. Rudd’s decision, during his first term as prime minister, to abandon his own emissions-trading scheme for the plunge in popularity that presaged his ouster as leader in favor of Ms. Gillard in 2010. Mr. Rudd’s counterpart, Malcolm Turnbull, a popular opposition leader, was forced out in 2009 over his support for the government’s climate change policy.

By the same token, Ms. Gillard was haunted during her rocky three-year tenure as leader by a simple pledge given during a television interview in the run-up to the 2010 election: “There will be no carbon tax under the government I lead.”

Ms. Gillard, who subsequently used the tax to entice the Greens into supporting her minority government, was never allowed to forget those words, which the opposition used to devastating effect in painting her as dishonest. It seemed no coincidence that Mr. Rudd’s first major policy announcement since returning to the leadership was aimed at neutralizing that line of attack.

Tony Abbott, the leader of the opposition Liberal-National coalition, said Tuesday that Mr. Rudd’s decision vindicated his criticism of the policy. However, he dismissed the change in the timeline as mere window dressing, saying Mr. Rudd was simply accelerating the policies of Ms. Gillard’s government in an attempt to win votes.

“He’s not the terminator, he’s the exaggerator,” he told reporters. “He’s not the terminator, he’s the fabricator.”
361 2013-07-17 Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch who was appointed to lead and help rescue a troubled Fannie Mae and who later ran the federal government’s bank bailout program, died on Sunday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 69.

The death was confirmed by his son Andrew, who said the cause was possibly a heart attack.

Mr. Allison, a political appointee of both President Obama and President George W. Bush, was put in charge of Fannie Mae in 2008 as part of the Bush administration’s effort to rescue it and its sister company, Freddie Mac. The two companies, both government-sponsored, are the nation’s largest mortgage finance entities, created during the Depression to help make mortgages more affordable for homeowners.

The bailout of the companies, engineered by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., was one of the most extraordinary and expensive federal interventions in American history, totaling about $180 billion. By taking over the companies and replacing their managements, the administration sought to calm Wall Street concerns that these “too big to fail” institutions would go under and take the rest of the housing market — as well as the entire economy — with them.

Mr. Allison, who at the time had only recently retired as chairman and chief executive of TIAA-CREF, the giant financial services company, replaced Daniel H. Mudd at Fannie Mae after Fannie suffered a staggering $29 billion third-quarter loss in 2008. The losses almost wiped out shareholders entirely as housing prices plummeted, leaving millions of homeowners struggling to pay mortgages that were often larger than the value of their homes. Five years later the government still controls Fannie and Freddie, which are now profitable.

After President Obama took office in 2009, he appointed Mr. Allison to the Treasury Department as assistant secretary for financial stability. Mr. Allison had supported Mr. Obama’s 2008 presidential run, even though two election cycles earlier he had run the finance committee for Senator John McCain’s 2000 presidential campaign.
362 2013-07-18 Detroit’s debt dwarfs those of the five largest municipalities that filed for bankruptcy in the last 60 years. Detroit is also the most populous city to file for Chapter 9.
363 2013-07-18 When Charles McGrath visited this strange, sprawling golf course, which he wrote about in 2006, he speculated that “building the pyramids was probably easier.”...
364 2013-07-18 The Four Seasons Lion Palace in St. Petersburg, Russia, once a luxury apartment house, opened this month....
365 2013-07-18 Ms. Washington talks about her work in Washington, in fact and fiction....
366 2013-07-18 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday’s selections include a look at some major cropping of movies on Netflix, and a taxi app’s one-day promotional deliveries of ice...
367 2013-07-18 Connie Britton of “Nashville” discusses being recognized for three different series three years in a row as well as the terror of singing on TV....
368 2013-07-18 Julian Fellowes on why he doesn’t take Emmy nominations for granted, even after 39 nods, and what he thinks of “Downton Arby’s.”...
369 2013-07-18 Louis C.K. talks about the unexpected success of “Louie” and when he expects that it will all inevitably end....
370 2013-07-18 Elisabeth Moss on getting two nominations and working amid all the sheep in New Zealand....
371 2013-07-18 Emilia Clarke talks about the evolution of her character, Daenerys Targaryen, and when it’s sometimes better to be watching “Game of Thrones” than to be acting in it....
372 2013-07-18 Vera Farmiga, who plays Norma Bates, mother of the future “Psycho” murderer Norman Bates, talks about her nomination and the joys of parenthood, both authentic and fictitious....
373 2013-07-18 A creator of “Homeland” reacts to the show’s latest Emmy nominations and shares his “New Girl” envy....
374 2013-07-18 Mr. Spacey, a star and an executive producer of “House of Cards,” talks about the series and the pleasures of playing the underhanded politician Frank Underwood....
375 2013-07-18 SoftBank, the Tokyo-based Internet and mobile communications giant, has a reputation in Japan for undercutting rivals on price to gain market share....
376 2013-07-18 Lena Dunham talks about her Emmy nominations and another provocative year for her series, “Girls.”...
377 2013-07-18 This year’s tournament offers several intriguing storylines, including Phil Mickelson trying for his first British Open title....
378 2013-07-18 The online network Netflix officially joined its cable and broadcast counterparts on Thursday, picking up a best drama nomination for the political thriller “House of Cards.”...
379 2013-07-18 Apple is working with distributors and producers of TV programming in its efforts to reimagine television as it did the cellphone, Brian Stelter reports in The New York Times....
380 2013-07-18 When disaster strikes, there are steps to take that can mean the difference between survival and ruin....
381 2013-07-18 Tampa Bay Buccaneers kicker Connor Barth will miss the season with a torn Achilles’ tendon, and the team signed Lawrence Tynes, a two-time Super Bowl winner with the Giants, as his replacement. Tynes is a ninth-year pro who spent the past six seasons with the Giants and was a Pro Bowl alternate last season. He appeared in 81 games with the Giants, converting 122 of 146 field-goal attempts for an 84 percent success rate. In the Giants’ two recent championship seasons, he kicked game-winning field goals in overtime to win the N.F.C. championship game.

■ Mike Dee will become president of the San Diego Padres, returning to baseball after four years as the chief executive of the Miami Dolphins.
382 2013-07-18 Marcus Mabry of The Times spoke to South Africans over the summer about what Nelson Mandela meant to them, their country and the world.
383 2013-07-18 The case against her parents was effectively closed after the federal authorities, invoking the discretion that the Obama administration has afforded them, offered the couple a reprieve based on their strong family ties to this country and without regard for their criminal record. The outcome highlighted the tension among forces in a state whose combative stance against illegal immigration sparked a divisive debate across the country, after years of relentless pushing by Sheriff Arpaio, Gov. Jan Brewer and the Arizona Legislature.

Advocates for immigrants, already emboldened by a federal judge’s decision in May that Sheriff Arpaio had violated the constitutional rights of Latinos by making them the targets of traffic stops and raids, feel empowered.

“We’ve been able to challenge the notion that deportation is about sending the worst criminals away,” said Carlos Garcia, executive director of Puente, a grass-roots group that has worked with Katherine from the start.

The judge’s ruling resulted from a federal civil trial over a class-action lawsuit accusing Sheriff Arpaio and the Maricopa County sheriff’s office of singling out Latinos. It is the same argument used by the Justice Department in the case it filed against the sheriff, which is pending, and part of the reasoning employed by Delia Salvatierra, an immigration lawyer, in a brief she filed on behalf of Katherine’s parents.

Ms. Salvatierra pointed out the “unintentional conflict” as the department, through its immigration-enforcement arm, was moving to deport a couple whose criminal conviction stemmed from a practice its civil rights division had deemed unconstitutional.

“There are so many people in this town who were deported because they were convicted after workplace raids by the sheriff’s office, but this family, this child, they stood up to the sheriff and they prevailed,” she said.

Sheriff Arpaio, in a statement, said that his deputies “were enforcing the state criminal laws of identification theft and forgery” in the raid.

“If the Obama administration wishes to permit convicted felons who are legal residents of another country to take up residence in the United States,” he went on, “that is the U.S. government’s decision to make.”

Sitting on her bunk bed — covered in pink sheets, adorned by stuffed animals and situated at the edge of the family’s living room — Katherine said, “It’s not that simple.” When parents are detained or deported, she said, theirs are not the only lives that are upended.

Among students at her elementary school, there were others living in fear, she recalled. She was the first to speak up.

She addressed Congress in 2010. She testified before the Arizona Legislature in 2011 against a proposal to take away citizenship rights of children born in the state to parents who had entered the country illegally, telling lawmakers, “We are the future.”

Her case was depicted in a documentary, “Two Americans.” She also played herself on a video by the Mexican-American band La Santa Cecília, re-enacting the raid that ensnared her parents and others.

In all of those moments, “I felt free because I could say whatever I wanted to,” she said. “I wanted there to be justice for my parents and justice for the fathers and mothers whose only crime was to work.”

Carlos and Sandra Figueroa climbed over the border fence in Nogales in 1998, seven months after they were married in Mexico City and decided there was no future for them there, Mr. Figueroa said. They have another child, Alondra, 2, and they hope to buy a house soon, to give all of them more space.
384 2013-07-18 But Tucker said that uncomfortable questions are what the sport needs right now to clean up its image. “The scrutiny the questions bring helps, in my opinion, to drive transparency, and build credibility,” he said.

In his gadfly quest, Tucker is part of a small group of physiologists, sports doctors and cycling enthusiasts from around the globe who have formed a loose alliance on the Internet to weed out doping in cycling. Like investigative journalists armed with calculators instead of note pads, they are pressing professional teams to allow independent analysis of riders’ doping tests and physiological data.

Their outside scrutiny is essential, they argue, because many of the athletes revealed as dopers in recent years — including Armstrong — were not exposed by drug tests. Not only did the athletes manage to stay a step ahead of the testing protocols, but the sport itself seemed unwilling, or unable, to clean itself up.

“People want to believe the sport has changed,” said Tucker, a senior lecturer in sports science at Cape Town University, who runs a Web site called Sportsscientists.com. “But the sport is saying: ‘Trust me.’ Well, we trusted you before and before that and before that. And you’ve never, ever delivered on your promises. So let’s get some data.”

Though their work is contentious and often criticized, it is also read by riders and cycling journalists. The debate it has sparked may be having an impact. This week Sky said it may be willing to release physiological information about Froome and other riders for scrutiny by the World Anti-Doping Agency.

“Then they could tell the world — and you — whether this is credible or not,” David Brailsford, the team general manager, told reporters on Monday.

In his mild-mannered way, Froome seems genuinely wounded by the questions. Hard training, including at high altitudes, and not drugs, is behind his remarkable run at this Tour, he said this week.

“I think it’s sad that we’re sitting here on the day after the biggest win of my life talking about doping,” he said Monday, a day after he won Stage 15 atop Mont Ventoux. “Lance cheated. I’m not cheating.”

Tucker and his allies talk in the cautious language of science, but at heart they are like scorned lovers, burned by doping revelations about their favorite racers. For Tucker, it was Armstrong. For one of his allies, Michael Puchowicz, a sports medicine doctor at Arizona State University, it was Floyd Landis, whose 2006 Tour victory was stripped after he tested positive for testosterone.

Puchowicz, 34, is a former collegiate racer whose interest in cycling performance data was piqued after data on Armstrong was released a few years ago. He concluded the information showed that Armstrong had masked his doping during his comeback year of 2009. (Even after admitting to doping during his seven Tour victories, Armstrong has maintained he did not use banned substances in 2009.) To Puchowicz, it was evidence that the testing regimen could still be fooled.

He posted his analysis about Armstrong anonymously on a blog, and it drew so much attention that he continued to study performance data and place anonymous posts on Twitter as Doc. Only in the past few months has he begun attaching his name to his analyses, first in VeloNews and then in an essay on Outside Magazine’s Web site that questioned Froome’s Stage 8 ride.

“At first I didn’t want my boss to know,” he said of his cycling work. “But then I felt it was important enough to go public, to let people know I have credentials.”

There are others in the alliance who remain anonymous, including a Finnish writer, known as Vetooo on Twitter, who maintains a trove of historic records on cycling races. There are also scientists, doctors and cycling enthusiasts from several countries. Among them is Antoine Vayer, a former cycling coach who became an antidoping activist and helped write a recent e-book, “Not Normal?” that questions most of the top riders of the past generation, based on performance data analysis.

The watchdogs do not agree in all their conclusions, and Tucker has said he feels Vayer is too harsh in his judgments about the sport. But they eagerly share data and observations on Twitter and Facebook, and a few have formed collaborations to do research.

Boiled down to its essence, their methodology uses physics to calculate the power required to climb a mountain at a certain speed. They study climbs because that is where wind resistance, a major factor in the equation, is least important. Using elements like the length and gradient of a stage segment, the time taken to climb it, the weight of the rider and his bike, and estimates on things like rolling and wind resistance, they calculate a figure in watts per kilogram that represents the power produced by a rider for a particular segment.

Their rule of thumb, not universally accepted in the cycling world, is that power above 6 watts per kilogram deserves scrutiny. They consider anything above 6.5 watts per kilogram to be extraordinary and perhaps not humanly feasible. By some of their calculations, Froome in Stage 8 was over 6 watts per kilogram.

For comparison purposes, the watchdogs have also calculated results for top riders in Grand Tours since 2002, breaking the data into two groups: the “doping era” of 2002 to 2007, and the “post-doping” era from 2007 to the present. During the post-doping period, times and power output have dropped, providing evidence for cautious optimism, Tucker and Puchowicz said. But for that reason, they believe that individual performances that spike into the doping-era range need to be questioned.

Critics question the accuracy of their calculations, saying they do not account for all the factors that can affect a rider’s performance, including not only wind and rolling resistance, but also technological advancements in bikes and clothing, riding efficiency and team dynamics.

A more accurate picture of a rider’s physiology would require a much fuller range of biological and laboratory data, those critics said, including blood surveys and measurements of aerobic energy production. Without that fuller portrait, no one can fairly say whether an improved performance was the result of doping, genetics or hard training, the critics said.

“They don’t have enough baseline data,” said Coyle, who studied Armstrong early in his career. “They run the risk of accusing someone of doping when in fact they’re not.”

The watchdogs’ methodology also does not seem to allow for the possibility of remarkable athletes who break the mold without cheating, critics said. A rider like Froome may simply produce power more efficiently than other riders because of his natural physiology, said Andrew R. Coggan, an exercise physiologist at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.

“There is no sound physiological reason" power outputs higher than previously recorded could not occur naturally, Coggan said. As the cycling world expands beyond Europe, he said he expected record-breaking riders to be found more often. Froome, a Briton, was raised in Kenya.

“The odds of finding a Secretariat cyclist would seem to be higher than ever,” he said.

Tucker agreed that there was a margin for error in his work, but noted that when riders have released their power data, it has corroborated his estimates. He also acknowledged that he and his allies were not producing a full picture of the riders. But without biological data from doping tests and blood surveys — data the teams will not release — they are working with the next best thing, he argued.

“No formula will ever conclusively show that X equals doping and Y equals clean,” Tucker said. “Mostly we’ll be in that gray area of uncertainty.”

Their calls for cyclists to release power data and blood work have been met with skepticism from even riders widely thought to be clean. Those riders said that giving away personal information would be like a company releasing trade secrets to rivals, because it would allow other riders to understand their training techniques.

Riders also worry that no one other than their personal coaches and trainers can fully understand what the data means. “Everybody’s physiology is different,” said Andrew Talansky, an American rider with Garmin Sharp on his first Tour. “You’d have to study a person’s individual physiology and understand what they are individually capable of, and that goes far, far beyond any threshold test.”

For all their skepticism, Tucker and Puchowicz said they believe doping is less common today. The introduction in 2009 of the biological passport, which uses baseline blood measurements to detect changes that might indicate banned substances, has made a big difference, they said. Positives results on drug tests are down, and speeds in races have declined.

But riders have long found ways to fool testers. Some scientists believe cheating continues today, with new masking techniques and hard-to-detect drugs.

“The idea of using performance data is to flag times when you can say: ‘Hey, maybe the EPO tests aren’t working,' ” Puchowicz said. “It’s not an indictment of any one rider. But instead of getting blindsided by another Armstrong era, we have to think about doubling down.”
385 2013-07-18 The chain stores CVS/Pharmacy and Walgreens said on Wednesday that they would not sell the latest issue of Rolling Stone, which features a cover photo that some critics and Massachusetts politicians say glamorizes the surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.

It was explicitly the cover image, a photo of Mr. Tsarnaev that he used online, which shows him with long hair and a trim mustache and in an Armani Exchange shirt — not the lengthy article inside — that has drawn criticism. Over the day, those objections gathered momentum, aided by social media.

Both CVS and Walgreens made their announcements on Twitter; their messages were passed on hundreds of times.

The cover of Rolling Stone has long been a sign for rock stars, celebrities and even politicians that they have arrived, and the sight of the bombing suspect receiving similar treatment has provoked strong reaction, especially from the Boston area.

By the afternoon, Mayor Thomas M. Menino had sent a letter to the publisher of Rolling Stone, Jann S. Wenner, objecting that the cover “rewards a terrorist with celebrity treatment.” And Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts, responding to a question from reporters, said: “I haven’t read it, but I understand the substance of the article is not objectionable. It’s apparently pretty good reporting. But the cover is out of taste, I think.”

The bombings on April 15, which Mr. Tsarnaev is accused of carrying out with his brother, Tamerlan, killed three people and wounded more than 260 near the finish line of the race.
386 2013-07-18 “At the end of the day, the market will go where the market goes,” Brian M. Krzanich, Intel’s chief executive, said in a call to analysts after the earnings were released. “We’ve not always lived up to the standards we’ve set for ourselves.”

Mr. Krzanich, who took over in May, has previously said that Intel was slow to see the threat from tablets and smartphones. On Wednesday, he said that organizational changes, along with a renewed commitment to looking for “the next big thing,” would bring Intel back.

In the near term, this means going after the lower end of the PC and tablet market. A new chip will be out in time for the Christmas season, he said, in notebook-type computers that will be sold for as little as $300 and tablets costing $150. Intel also has plans to soon put new chips in higher-end touch-screen devices.

“He’s got to manage in a very tough environment,” said Douglas Freedman, analyst with RBC Capital Markets, referring to Mr. Krzanich. “Intel has done a good job showing they can make chips for mobile devices and tablets, but in the next three or four quarters he has to show he can bring that home.”

While chips for PCs still make up almost three-quarters of Intel’s revenue, few analysts expect the PC market to recover to its old highs. Last week, International Data Corporation said that PC sales fell 11.4 percent in the second quarter of the year. Most of the developed world is now saturated with the machines, and people are buying replacement computers at a slower rate.

Mr. Krzanich said Intel would “leave no computing opportunity untapped” to make up for the loss. In particular, he said, Intel’s “highest priority” would be small mobile devices.

Mr. Krzanich has also focused on cost-cutting and streamlining at the company, giving Mr. Freedman and others some hope that Intel’s profit will rebound.

In Wednesday’s call, the company noted that Microsoft’s Surface Pro tablet, which carries a high-margin Intel chip, was not counted in the PC sales numbers by I.D.C. and others. The analysis firm has said, however, that in the first quarter of this year Microsoft’s tablets, including tablets not carrying Intel chips, had just 4.4 percent of the tablet market, compared with 39 percent for Apple’s iPad. There is little to suggest significant improvement from there, an I.D.C. analyst said.
387 2013-07-18 Summer Friday season is all about getting in the weekend mode early, but Kate Spade Saturday, the little sister brand to Kate Spade New York with a flagship in Tokyo, invites you to “channel the spirit of Saturday” seven days a week. On Friday it will unveil a New York pop-up stocked with cheery pieces like a crop-tie top in painted check ($65) and slip-on slides in cerulean ($65), open through Oct. 31 at 30 Gansevoort Street.

More leisure-time essentials can be found at the Bantu Surf weeklong pop-up (through July 24) at Miss Lily’s, with men’s short board shorts ($110) and a women’s stir-it-up bikini ($130); and at the new shop of the Berlin eyewear specialists Mykita, the latest addition to the SoHo optical-shop proliferation. It has opal-tinted double-bridge sunglasses ($452) among other unusual styles. Miss Lily’s is at 130 West Houston Street; Mykita is at 109 Crosby Street.

On Saturday, Creatures of Comfort will be the host of in-store planting workshops with Fox Fodder Farm and UCB Pots. Classes ($50) will include instruction on growing indoor plants for the city. Go to shop.creaturesofcomfort.us and click on “special event.” At 205 Mulberry Street.

On Thursday, Saturdays Surf NYC will kick off its summer sale, with items like an Esquina short-sleeved button-down ($81) and an empty frame T-shirt ($30), 25 percent off. At 31 Crosby Street.

From Sunday to Tuesday, Cosabella, purveyor of the bright-colored bras seen peeking out from tank tops in the heat, will have a sale with styles like a Soire mesh molded bra in neon orange ($45), up to 70 percent off. At 220 Lafayette Street.

On Monday the semiannual Fivestory off-site sale returns, with Gianvito Rossi black-and-white stripe sandals ($400) and an Ovadia & Sons chambray plaid shirt ($94), up to 80 percent off. At the Blakely hotel, 136 West 55th Street, penthouse suite.
388 2013-07-18 During the Chevron trial, prosecutors contended that the employees had violated Indonesian corruption laws by prompting the state to incur a $9.9 million loss. The loss is tied to a reimbursement that the state paid for the cleanup as part of its contract with Chevron.

Defense lawyers for Chevron Pacific Indonesia rejected the prosecution’s claims because Chevron did not receive reimbursement for the project. The defense also said that its scientific analysis had confirmed that the soil was sufficiently contaminated to warrant bioremediation.

“No actual evidence of any state loss or any illegal activity by Chevron Pacific Indonesia employees has been presented in court,” the company said in a statement. “Our thoughts are with our colleague and his family during this difficult time.”

The employee plans to appeal the verdict.

“The court did not consider the opinion from experts,” said Maqdir Ismail, a trial lawyer for Chevron Pacific Indonesia. “It’s not fair.”

The Indonesian attorney general, Basrief Arief, did not respond to a written request for an interview. The three state prosecutors at the courthouse would not take questions after the verdict.

The criminal prosecution of local Chevron employees has sent a wave of fear through Indonesia’s oil and natural gas sector, which is increasingly reliant on the technical expertise and investment of multinational energy companies.

Oil and gas account for about 8 percent of the country’s gross domestic product and 28 percent of state budget revenue, according to the Indonesian Petroleum Association. But production has dropped steadily during the last decade.

“There is a need to find more reserves, otherwise production will continue to decline,” said Dipnala Tamzil, the executive director of the petroleum association. “There’s a lot of capital needed, and not many companies can afford it. So criminalization is a very worrying trend.”

The Chevron case drew an unusual amount of attention in Indonesia, partly because multiple Indonesian government agencies, as well as the country’s independent Supreme Audit Agency, had gone on record saying that no laws were broken.

The National Commission on Human Rights also accused prosecutors of professional misconduct and violating the defendants’ human rights in a scathing 400-page investigation report submitted in May to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The report detailed how Chevron employees had been arrested last year and held for 62 days without being informed of the charges against them.

One official with the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because, as a regulator, he was not allowed to speak publicly about the case, questioned why one of the defendants, who had joined Chevron Pacific Indonesia only six months before the official investigation began, was being prosecuted for a project from seven years earlier.

During the trial, defense lawyers called into question the credibility of the state’s expert witness on bioremediation. The witness worked for a company that had failed to win the deal to conduct the cleanup project for Chevron.

The prosecutors had “a clear conflict of interest with their witness,” said T. Mulya Lubis, a defense lawyer for Chevron Pacific Indonesia. “If there was any violating, it should be a civil case that would be dealt with through mediation and arbitration, not criminalization.”

Officials from the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and the Special Task Force for Upstream Oil and Gas Business Activities, which regulates exploration and production, testified that Chevron Pacific Indonesia’s staff had not violated any laws.

Reading out the majority opinion in the ruling Wednesday, the head judge, Sudharmawatiningsih, who goes by one name, said, “The crime has been proven, because the defendant’s actions caused an unlawful monetary gain through the cost recovery process.”

Judge Slamet Subagyo, the sole dissenting member of the panel, said Mr. Kertasafari was not guilty because “any intentional actions or intentions cannot be proven.”

“As team leader in the project, the defendant had no intention to work with the contractors with the intent to commit corruption,” he said in his opinion.
389 2013-07-18 THE NEW RICK OWENS store, which opened on Tuesday at 70-72 Wooster Street in SoHo, is called DRKSHDW, or Dark Shadow, minus the vowels. It is written, counterintuitively, in bright neon lights hanging vertically just above the entrance. The only shadows here are the clothes, the loose-collared, inky black denim jackets and elongated sleeveless shirts in various shades of charcoal that suggest, as Mr. Owens said, “workers’ uniforms from an Art Deco prison.”

“I like reducing things to what’s essential,” Mr. Owens said. “I like erasing the unnecessary, doing things shorthand and getting to the point.”

It is for this reason that the casual shopper who is even slightly familiar with the darkly cool aesthetic of Mr. Owens will have no trouble recognizing the store as one of his, even though his name is not present, not even on many of the clothing labels. (The ultrahigh high-tops, priced from $750 to $850, show an image of Mr. Owens; a long off-white knit tank, $248, just has a couple of parallel bars where the label should be.)

While his recent signature collections in Paris have been critical hits that combine daring fashion with technical wizardry, Mr. Owens said that DRKSHDW, a diffusion line, has developed its own character, “and dare I say, a fan base.” It was introduced several years ago when his company began to expand and more retailers wanted to carry pieces from the collection (not that Mr. Owens thinks of himself as being an empire builder).

“It’s not like we’re Armani or something,” he said.

The store, a temporary outpost that will be open through Oct. 26, is an experiment to introduce his designs to another neighborhood in New York, on a more trafficked street (near Spring Street) than the site of his store at 250 Hudson Street. Another one will open in London on Sept. 4.

“I’m more into fun now,” Mr. Owens said. “I feel a little more confident or comfortable, but definitely not complacent. I feel like I can afford to be a little more playful now.”
390 2013-07-18 North Korea broke four days of silence early Thursday over a rusty North Korean freighter impounded by Panama for concealing a load of Cuban weapons, insisting that they were transported legally and demanding that the Panamanian authorities immediately release the vessel and its 35 detained crew members.

A statement released by North Korea’s Foreign Ministry described the weapons as aging armaments that needed refurbishment under a contract with Cuba. The statement also harshly criticized Panama for what it called that country’s pretext of searching the vessel for narcotics and its violent treatment of the crew.

It was the first time the North Korean authorities had said anything about the seizure of the 450-foot Chong Chon Gang this past Sunday at the north entrance to the Panama Canal, following what the Panamanians have described as a violent standoff with the crew members, who used cudgels to attack a boarding party of Panamanian marines as the captain claimed he was having a heart attack and tried to commit suicide.

The boarding party arrested all aboard and discovered a cargo of cold war-era antiaircraft radar components and other antiquated armaments buried beneath more than 200,000 bags of Cuban brown sugar.

“The Panamanian investigation authorities rashly attacked and detained the captain and crewmen of the ship on the plea of ‘drug investigation’ and searched its cargo but did not discover any drug,” the ministry said in a statement carried by North Korea’s official Korea Central News Agency. “Yet, they are justifying their violent action, taking issue with other kind of cargo aboard the ship.”
391 2013-07-18 “I know you’re going to be received very well,” Mr. Corker said at the outset of the hearing.

Still, she faced some difficult questions from Republicans, perhaps most notably Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, over controversial remarks and positions she has taken in the past.

His first question was about a 2002 interview in which she suggested that the United States might have to spend billions of dollars to support a “mammoth protection force” and “a meaningful military presence” if Palestinian statehood were ever to be realized.

As she has before, Ms. Power distanced herself from the remarks.

“I gave a long, rambling and remarkably incoherent response to a hypothetical question that I should never have answered,” she said.

Ms. Power vowed to fight within the United Nations against what she called "unacceptable bias and attacks against the state of Israel." She went further, saying she would "absolutely" press for Israel to be given its first rotating seat on the United Nations Security Council.

Ms. Power also appeared uneasy, if unsurprised, when Mr. Rubio asked her about a 2003 article on foreign policy in which she argued for “a historical reckoning with crimes committed, sponsored, or permitted by the United States.”

In the article in New Republic magazine, she wrote: “A country has to look back before it can move forward. Instituting a doctrine of the mea culpa would enhance our credibility by showing that American decision makers do not endorse the sins of their predecessors.”

Although Mr. Rubio pressed her to say what those “crimes” or “sins” were, Ms. Power repeatedly sidestepped.

“I, as an immigrant to this country, think this country is the greatest country on earth,” said Ms. Power, whose parents immigrated from Ireland when she was 9. “I would never apologize for America — America is the light to the world.”
392 2013-07-18 After one warm-up exhibition and three group stage games, most indications for the pair are good. Donovan, in particular, has displayed that familiar combination of doggedness and touch that has made him a critical piece of the United States’ attack for so many years.

Yes, he had scored four goals in the previous three games, but his most sublime moment came Tuesday when his pristine pass set up Brek Shea’s game-winning goal, the highlight of the match. Just moments after goalkeeper Sean Johnson made a sharp save at one end, Donovan took the ball down near the sideline and whipped a remarkably precise ball across the field, where Shea could control it in stride and finish.

“The reality for me now is every game is an audition,” Donovan said afterward. “I want to keep enjoying it — I’ll leave the evaluating to other people.”

He was, of course, referring to Klinsmann, who has justifiably made Donovan work his way back into the mix after stepping away from the game last year. Klinsmann has been measured in his praise of Donovan but did not hesitate to label his pass Tuesday as “perfect.”

“There is no other word for it,” he said.

For that reason, among many others, it is hard to imagine Donovan not making an impact next summer in Brazil. Holden’s future, on the other hand, is more difficult to predict. Unlike Chris Wondolowski, whose path to the top United States team seems blocked by established stars like Dempsey and Jozy Altidore, Holden can force his way into midfield contention with consistent success, especially in the knockout rounds of this tournament.

At 27, Holden has lost nearly three years of his career to a variety of injuries. Fans of his club team, Bolton Wanderers in England, like to chant “Stu-S-A” at Holden, and Holden does not hesitate to admit that shining internationally is a priority.

On Tuesday he played a full 90 minutes in an international for the first time since coming back from a knee injury. Despite the heat, he “still had plenty of gas in the tank at the end,” he said, and although he was not as effective against Costa Rica as he was in the first two group games, there were flashes of what Holden can offer.

Herculez Gomez, a veteran striker, said Holden’s vision in the midfield was special. Klinsmann made a point of noting Holden’s ability to play diagonal passes, which cut open an opponent, spreading a team’s defense and forcing its players to be on the move continually.

“It wears them down,” Holden said. “It forces teams to keep shifting and opens up opportunities for our attack.”

That ability could be an important asset for Klinsmann, especially if used in concert with sharp finishers like Dempsey and Altidore. Klinsmann has made no secret of his investment in Holden’s success, alternately noting that Holden is “a work in progress” and that he can give the United States “a very, very valuable option in midfield.”

Holden knows the stakes. He is aware that he “can’t take even one training off” because “there is no guarantee that a shirt will be there for you the next time.”

“Every time I’m on the field,” he said, “I want to show Jurgen that I should be a 90-minute player for the team.”

Donovan surely feels the same way. To them, it does not matter that this is the Gold Cup, does not matter that the players around them are not the usual stars. World Cup qualifying may still be a few months away, but for two players who have their eyes fixed firmly on next summer, the games that truly matter have already begun.
393 2013-07-18 The stock market posted modest gains on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank had no firm timeline for scaling back its economic stimulus program.

Mr. Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee that he still expected the Fed to reduce its $85 billion a month bond-buying program later this year, but he said the timing of such cutbacks would depend on the economic outlook.

“He’s still being quite vague in describing exactly what to expect next, and I think that serves his purposes,” said Lawrence Creatura, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors. “He’s trying to minimize the impact of policy change on the markets.”

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 18.67 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 15,470.52. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 4.65 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,680.91. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 11.50 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,610.00.

Mr. Bernanke’s comments on May 22 about scaling back on monetary stimulus set off a drop of nearly 6 percent in the S.& P. 500 in the month that followed. But remarks from Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials since then have calmed the market, which has erased those declines. The S.& P. 500 is now less than two points away from its nominal closing high, reached on Monday. So far this year, the S.& P. 500 is up 17.9 percent.

Mr. Bernanke’s Congressional testimony cheered the bond market, where interest rates fell. The price of the Treasury’s 10-year note rose 11/32, to 93 19/32. Its yield dropped to 2.49 percent, from 2.53 percent late Tuesday.
394 2013-07-18 SHANGHAI — Chinese authorities have barred a British finance executive at the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline from leaving the country while they carry out an investigation into bribery and corruption at the British company, the company confirmed on Wednesday.

Steve Nechelput, the company’s vice president for finance in China, has not been detained or prevented from traveling or working in China, and there is no indication that he is the focus of the investigation. But a person involved in the case said he was being prevented from leaving the country and had sought the advice of British consular officials here.

The effort to restrict Mr. Nechelput’s travel came as the government ramped up an unusually bold anti-corruption campaign against GlaxoSmithKline, which is one of the world’s biggest drug makers.

On Monday, the government accused four senior executives from the China operations of Glaxo, or GSK, as the company is also known, of using local travel agencies to bribe doctors, hospitals, medical associations and government officials in an effort to bolster drug sales and get regulatory approvals.

The government said that it had detained the four executives, all Chinese nationals, and that they had already confessed to engaging in a wide range of crimes, including bribery, embezzlement and tax fraud.
395 2013-07-18 “He’s been a moderate, arguing for opportunities to work for change within the system,” said Mr. Guo, the head of the Transition Institute, a research group in Beijing that advocates political and economic liberalization. “But it looks like the authorities are determined to act, despite the price. We can all feel the pressure. I’ve also been under house arrest for the past two weeks.”

Mr. Xu’s supporters said his detention was reprisal for his role in the campaign demanding that officials disclose their wealth, an idea that some officials have also endorsed, albeit in more cautious terms. The Chinese authorities have now detained 16 people involved in the campaign, including Mr. Xu, said Maya Wang, a researcher on Asia for Human Rights Watch, an advocacy group with headquarters in New York. Three of them could soon stand trial in Jiangxi Province in southern China, she said, citing earlier court notices.

“Civic groups are enduring another round of repression, but still more and more obedient vassals are awakening as citizens,” Mr. Xu wrote in an assessment of his career of activism, which he published on his blog in May.

Since his appointment as Communist Party leader in November, Xi Jinping has repeatedly said that the party must eradicate brazen corruption, which has stirred deepening public anger. But Ms. Wang, the rights researcher, said the detentions have demonstrated the limits of changes under Mr. Xi.

“When the activists are saying the same thing as Xi Jinping says, they are punished,” she said. “The fact that they have been going onto the streets and across the country to spread that message, that probably makes the authorities very nervous.”

Officials at the detention center in Beijing where Mr. Xu was held would not answer questions. Questions sent to the propaganda office of the Beijing Public Security Bureau also were not answered.

Mr. Xu, 40, came to national prominence in 2003 as an advocate for Sun Zhigang, a young man whose death caused an uproar after he was fatally beaten in a detention center for vagrants and rural migrants without the right official documents. The government abolished those centers, giving a boost to Mr. Xu’s ideas of combining litigation and publicity to press for wider rights.

Mr. Xu, who has worked as a law lecturer in Beijing, in 2003 won a term as an independent delegate on a district People’s Congress in Beijing, a rare victory in a body dominated by party-appointed officials. In 2009 he was arrested on tax-evasion allegations that he rejected as an effort to stifle his advocacy. He was released on bail and never brought to trial on that charge.

More recently, he has helped organize citizens’ raids on “black jails” used to detain petitioners coming to Beijing to present grievances, and has helped parents campaigning against discriminatory barriers that prevent children from the countryside from enjoying the same schools and chances for advancement as established urban residents.

Mr. Liu, the lawyer, said that the authorities had refused to give Mr. Xu a license to practice as a lawyer, cramping his efforts to use litigation to force reforms.

“Many lawyers will come forward to defend him for the public good and for rule of law,” Mr. Liu said. “In China, we say that the best lawyers are the ones who can’t obtain a license.”
396 2013-07-18 1. In a large bowl stir together the egg white, cornstarch, 1 1/2 teaspoons of the rice wine or sherry, salt to taste and 1 1/2 teaspoons water. When you can no longer see any cornstarch add the chicken and stir together until coated. Cover the bowl and place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.

2. Combine the remaining rice wine or sherry, the hoisin sauce, soy sauce, and sugar in a small bowl and set it near your wok.

3. Fill a medium-size saucepan with water and bring to a boil. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and turn the heat down so that the water is at a bare simmer. Carefully add the chicken to the water, stirring so that the pieces don’t clump. Cook until the chicken turns opaque on the surface but is not cooked through, about 1 minute. Drain in a colander set over a bowl.

4. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or 12-inch steel skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Add the remaining oil by pouring it down the sides of the pan and swirling the pan, then add the garlic, ginger and chile and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds. Add the peppers and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the chicken, cashews and hoisin sauce mixture and salt to taste. Stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes, until the chicken is cooked through, and serve with grains or noodles.

Advance preparation: This is all last-minute though the vegetables can be prepped well in advance and refrigerated.

Nutritional information per serving: 286 calories; 14 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 6 grams monounsaturated fat; 73 milligrams cholesterol; 13 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 216 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 27 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
397 2013-07-19 The Riverfront Park project in Newark is an effort to rebuild a city that has suffered from ill-conceived urban renewal strategies....
398 2013-07-19 A new show generates excitement in San Diego....
399 2013-07-19 The Fox network and television studio said they would delay the start of production on the new season of “Glee,” as well as the premiere date, after the death of the cast member Cory Monteith....
400 2013-07-19 Apple confirmed on Friday that it had bought the mapping start-ups HopStop and Locationary, giving the company more expertise in an area where it has struggled....
401 2013-07-19 It seems almost appropriate that Microsoft delivered one of its worst financial performances in memory on the same day that Detroit became the largest American city to file for bankruptcy....
402 2013-07-19 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
403 2013-07-19 The decision to overrule its own enforcement division’s proposed settlement with the high-flying money manager Philip A. Falcone signals a broader crackdown by the agency....
404 2013-07-19 After leaving an iPhone in the backseat of a taxi, a software solution to getting it back....
405 2013-07-19 A judge dismissed a lawsuit brought by the rights-holders of Faulkner’s novels against the studio that released the Woody Allen film....
406 2013-07-19 Miguel Angel Jimenez finished at three under, saving pars with great touch and style, and watched all the players ahead of him fall away. He ended up alone in the lead....
407 2013-07-19 Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings made their first court appearance in London on Friday in connection to charges tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates....
408 2013-07-19 The Internal Revenue Service’s inspector general said Thursday that he was expanding his investigation of I.R.S. treatment of political groups that applied for tax-exempt status to see if liberal groups were treated the same way as conservative ones. Under attack from Democrats over his earlier inquiries, the inspector general, Russell George, said there was new evidence to study in the controversy about the handling of tax-exempt applications from Tea Party and other groups. The new evidence suggests that the I.R.S. used not only conservative-sounding keywords to select certain applications for extra scrutiny, but also liberal-sounding words like “progressive.”
409 2013-07-19 Americans’ insistence on broad choices in health insurance raises both the cost and complexity of establishing insurance exchanges....
410 2013-07-19 Individuals and families who buy on their own will pay significantly lower premiums next year in New York and many other states. It is the most impressive evidence yet that the Affordable Care Act, through its mandates and competition-promoting health insurance exchanges, can hold previously rising premiums in check.

The encouraging news underscores the vital importance of the health law’s “individual mandate,” which requires most people to buy health insurance next year or pay a penalty. The provision is designed to bring in a flood of young, healthy people into pools, which helps reduce the cost of coverage for older and sicker enrollees.

In a symbolic vote designed purely for the campaign trail, Republican leaders pushed a bill through the House on Wednesday to repeal the individual mandate. Fortunately, Democratic control of the Senate and the White House will block that folly before it can harm the very people whose interests the Republicans claim to champion.

Before the House vote, officials in said they had approved premium rates for 2014 that are at least 50 percent lower on average than those currently available. In , individuals who now pay $1,000 a month or more will be able to find policies on the health exchanges — online marketplaces where they can comparison shop for plans — for as little as $308 a month.

The Obama administration followed with an analysis on Thursday showing that individual premiums in 10 states — including , New York, , , and Washington — and the will be 10 percent to 18 percent less, on average, than projections the administration derived from estimates by the nonpartisan . (Because these are averages, some people in these may pay more.) The costs for most individuals buying coverage on the new exchanges will be reduced even further by federal premium subsidies available on a sliding scale, for those with incomes up to $94,200 for a family of four.

Premiums will be held down by several elements of the Affordable Care Act. Competition among insurers to sign up customers in the exchanges is expected to keep premiums as low as possible. The administration is counting on the mandate, the subsidies, vigorous marketing, the ease of comparing policies and demand for good coverage to bring in young people to make the system work.

In New York, the expected decreases in individual premiums are the result largely of two factors: lots of competition among a slew of insurance companies that decided to sell on the exchanges and current premiums that are abnormally high because of a blunder in regulating its insurance markets.
411 2013-07-19 A United States District Court judge in Connecticut on Thursday dismissed a civil lawsuit against former President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico that was filed by 10 anonymous plaintiffs who said they were survivors of a 1997 assault. Judge Michael P. Shea said he was deferring to a request for immunity for Mr. Zedillo submitted by the State Department last year. The two-year-old lawsuit had sought $50 million in damages against Mr. Zedillo, who now leads a research institute at Yale University. Members of the indigenous group that was the target of the assault, known as Las Abejas, or the Bees, said they did not know the plaintiffs and disassociated themselves from the suit. Mr. Zedillo was president in 1997 when paramilitary gunmen fired on members of the group taking refuge from fighting in the southern state of Chiapas and killed 45 people, including 18 children.
412 2013-07-19 The United States Justice Department said Thursday that a federal grand jury had indicted six Colombians on charges of kidnapping and murder in the death of an American drug enforcement agent last month in Bogotá, Colombia. The Drug Enforcement Administration special agent, James Watson, was fatally stabbed in a taxi on June 20. The indictment alleges that Mr. Watson, who was working for the United States Mission, got into a taxi cab operated by one of the defendants and was attacked by two others with a stun gun and a knife. The grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia charged each of the six men with two counts of second-degree murder, one count of kidnapping and one count of conspiracy to kidnap. They are accused of belonging to a criminal gang specializing in robbery and kidnappings. In addition, another Colombian man accused of destroying evidence associated with the killing was also indicted.
413 2013-07-19 A Romanian gang behind the theft wants to cut an unspecified deal with the authorities so the artwork can be returned....
414 2013-07-19 Tomas, the slim teenager from Bogotá, Colombia, in Juan Andrés Arango García’s film “La Playa D.C.,” has a few options for rising above his financially struggling family and rough past. He could continue unloading goods at a market, shine hubcaps on parked cars or just hop a bus out of town. But what captures his imagination is an unlikely-sounding vocation: custom barber. For a young Afro-Colombian like Tomas, who is harassed by security guards at the mall, it’s a way of finding strength in a heritage that is all too often used against him.

That’s the resonant core of Mr. Arango García’s debut feature, an urban drama limited by its nonprofessional cast and impressionistic, scattered storytelling. (“La Playa” is Spanish for “the beach,” the nickname for a Bogotá neighborhood popular with Afro-Colombians from the Pacific Coast.) The film follows Tomas (Luis Carlos Guevara) as he leaves home; pairs up with his savvier older brother, Chaco (James Solís); and tries to help his younger brother, Jairo (Andrés Murillo), an addict deep in debt.

As Tomas, the finely featured Mr. Guevara harbors a quiet tenacity and looks sharp, but can’t consistently marshal his energies for his big scenes. Mr. Arango García’s camera, however, casually observes several moments — like Tomas’s bold make-out sessions with a girl at the mall or some more anonymous bumping and grinding at a dark club — with a spontaneity that rings true.
415 2013-07-19 The gag, or one of three, in Dean Parisot’s action-comedy sequel “RED 2” is that its killer oldsters are unflappable not because they’re too cool but because they’re seen-it-all semi-retirees. And after surviving the adventures of “RED,” these comfortably recognizable agents and mercenaries are now doubly experienced and casual. Sociopathic assassins drop in like son of a guns, and fusillades of bullets come and go like passing showers, but Bruce Willis, John Malkovich and Helen Mirren will still trade relationship advice and in-jokes like old friends on a package tour.

All that nonchalance (minus the strenuous panache of an “Ocean’s Eleven”) is hard to get excited about, but having actors who can put the slightest topspin on their volleys still helps, along with some mild female rivalry to flavor the low-impact shootouts and routine double crosses. Frank (Mr. Willis) is still “retired and extremely dangerous,” per the title, and he is pulled out of quiet domesticity with his civilian sweetheart, Sarah (Mary-Louise Parker). Together with their deadly buddy Marvin (Mr. Malkovich), they dive into a secret international crisis with nuclear stakes.

But what pops more than the gunfire are the line readings, where Ms. Parker, especially, but also Mr. Malkovich and Ms. Mirren, can give personality to standard action repartee. Rest assured (and you may well rest a bit), there’s also a mad genius (Anthony Hopkins, bringing half-dotty British understatement to the party); a jet-setting whippersnapper (Byung-hun Lee, best when fighting); and Frank’s Russian old flame (Catherine Zeta-Jones).

Cars careen, lazily written infiltration plans are executed, and the violence is plentiful and toothless. You can tell the villain has been revealed when he’s the only one who really cares about murder.

“RED 2” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Former killers bloodlessly taking care of business — nothing to be alarmed about.
416 2013-07-19 Ms. Brim criticized the state for not promoting the exchange, saying its help would make it possible to reach all eligible Texans by October.

“The state has, as far as we know, done nothing to spread the word to uninsured Texans about the exchanges or the Affordable Care Act,” she said. “It leaves a mountain of work for us.”

In response to questions about publicizing the exchange, Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Gov. Rick Perry, wrote in an e-mail that the state was “not interested in implementing Obamacare, including the exchange.”

On July 10, a division of the United States Department of Health and Human Services awarded about $9.9 million to Texas community health centers to make people aware of their options.

The department will also finance at least two “navigators” — organizations intended to guide people through the exchange — per state. Texas’ navigators will receive about $8 million.

But Jacob Cortes, the lead organizer of the group Austin Interfaith, said that might not be enough. “The private sector would have to step up,” he said.

Julie Bataille, a spokeswoman for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said navigators were just one federal resource. The agency also dispatches officials from its Dallas office and Washington headquarters to speak with health workers and organizers in Texas.

And it collaborates with local initiatives, Ms. Bataille said, including Blue Cross Blue Shield, which started a Be Covered campaign; the Texas Organizing Project; and Enroll America, which promotes the health care act.

Be Covered has joined with churches, museums and other organizations in every Texas county to distribute literature on obtaining insurance, said Michelle Riddell, a Blue Cross Blue Blue Shield of Texas spokeswoman. (Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

The Texas Organizing Project and Enroll America are canvassing and organizing community meetings where Texans can get more information.

Reaching exchange-eligible people will not be easy, said Mimi Garcia, Enroll America’s Texas director. She added that groups like hers will have to work beyond January 2014, the deadline for Americans to obtain coverage.

Mr. Cortes said that ambiguity about the federal exchange — including yet-undetermined providers and premiums — make it difficult to spread a clear message.

Texas’ size poses another challenge, Ms. Brim said, because in rural areas “we just can’t reach as many people as fast.”

“There will be some folks,” she added, “who just don’t get the word.”
417 2013-07-19 Those results fell well short of the average analyst estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters of 75 cents a share in earnings and $20.73 billion in revenue.

Revenue from Microsoft’s Windows business, which includes its Surface tablet computers, rose 6 percent, to $4.41 billion. But without including the favorable impact from an upgrade offer last year, Microsoft’s Windows revenue fell 6 percent in the quarter.

Last week, the research firm Gartner reported that global PC shipments declined 10.9 percent in the second quarter of the year, the fifth consecutive quarter of declining PC shipments, the longest ever.

Mobile devices have sapped much of the gusto out of the PC market. Many people are buying tablet computers, especially Apple’s iPad, instead of PCs to watch movies, surf the Web and write e-mails.

“We know we have to do better, particularly on mobile devices,” Amy Hood, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.

Ms. Hood said the company’s Windows business is a “tale of two markets,” one in which PC sales to businesses continue to grow modestly, while consumer demand for the machines is fizzling. She estimated that total industry PC shipments to the consumer market fell more than 20 percent during the quarter.

She said that a companywide reorganization that Microsoft announced last week was part of an effort to better position the business for big changes in technology, including the shift to mobile devices.

Until its most recent quarter, Microsoft showed a remarkable aptitude for finding ways to squeeze money out of its venerable business, despite the problems in the PC market. It did that through lucrative multiyear software contracts with corporate customers that tend to move far more slowly than consumers in adopting newer technologies.

Parts of Microsoft that cater more to businesses helped lessen the sting. Microsoft said revenue in its server and tools group rose 9 percent, to $5.5 billion. Revenue in its business division, dominated by the Office suite of applications, jumped 14 percent, to $7.21 billion. But the division grew only 2 percent without deferred revenue related to an earlier upgrade offer.

Office is under siege from a suite of online applications from Google and others, which has led Microsoft to adapt the software so it can be delivered as a service through cloud computing. Microsoft said that if Office 365, the version of its productivity applications that are offered as a service, were to perform for a full year at current levels, it would generate $1.5 billion in revenue.

“The consumer has voted,” said Barbara Coffey, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ. “I don’t know that enterprise has yet. We’ve seen such a big shift to tablets. Microsoft just doesn’t play in tablets at the same level that they do in PCs.”

Investors had become more bullish on Microsoft’s ability to navigate the disruption of the PC market, sending its shares up more than 32 percent this year. But after the release of its financial results, shares of Microsoft dropped more than 6 percent in after-hours trading. They ended regular trading at $35.44, down 30 cents.
418 2013-07-19 WASHINGTON — Senator John McCain said Thursday that he intended to block President Obama’s nomination of Gen. Martin E. Dempsey to another two-year term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Mr. McCain made his announcement after he and the general had a testy exchange over whether the Obama administration was doing enough to assist the Syrian rebels.

“I’m actually going to put a hold on General Dempsey until General Dempsey responds to legitimate questions,” Mr. McCain said just two days after he helped negotiate a deal to ease the Senate confirmation process for Mr. Obama’s nominees.

Asked whether he would place the hold only after the Armed Services Committee forwarded the nomination to a vote by the full Senate, Mr. McCain responded tersely, “Before, after and during.”

“I want to see him answer the question,” he added. A vote by 60 senators can overcome a hold.

The confirmation battle grew out of a debate over whether the United States military should be ordered to more aggressively support Syrian rebels to oust the government of President Bashar al-Assad, including combat action like establishing a no-fly zone. Mr. McCain, who has called for American military intervention in the Syrian civil war, traveled to Syria in late May to meet with the rebel forces. It was the first time that a United States senator had traveled to Syria to meet with the rebels since the conflict erupted two years ago.

But the tension between Mr. McCain, one of the Senate’s most respected military veterans, and General Dempsey, whose career includes multiple wartime commands, is over the proper role of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs in offering military advice to a president on national security issues with a clear political component — liked going to war.
419 2013-07-19 “Senate Republicans preserved the right to surrender in the future,” Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, said on his Twitter feed.

At a closed-door meeting on Wednesday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, embraced a Democratic narrative that the deal to avert the filibuster rule change was cut behind his back. He told Senate Republicans he could have extracted more concessions. That elicited a remarkable response from the negotiators of the deal. One of them, Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, audibly muttered a common vulgarity that questioned his leader’s veracity at the meeting, then confirmed the comment after it leaked out in the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call.

“I can assure you that McConnell has been very, very involved every step of the way,” Mr. Corker said on Thursday.

Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who is widely seen as going behind Mr. McConnell’s back to cut the deal, also said that Mr. McConnell’s comments were simply not true.

“We were coordinating all our efforts together, Senator McConnell and I,” he said. “I was in constant contact with him. So I don’t know if there was such a thing as a better deal or not.”

To some conservatives, the Perez confirmation is already emerging as the most galling consequence of the filibuster deal, even though many Republicans said he would have gotten the 60 votes to break a filibuster regardless.

Conservative Republicans in the House have spent months accusing Mr. Perez of being overly partisan, antireligious, and litigious to a fault. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee had outstanding subpoenas issued against Mr. Perez, demanding records on a deal he struck with the city of St. Paul to drop a lawsuit involving public housing conditions in what some Republicans called a quid pro quo.

Republicans involved in that investigation say they have been left high and dry.

“We lost, he won,” said Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio and a senior member of the committee.

Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, echoed the concerns of many Republicans who have accused Mr. Perez of selecting cases based on political motivation and, in some instances, racial bias.

“Simply put, there’s no shortage of reasons why Mr. Perez should not be confirmed,” he said on the Senate floor.

Mr. Obama hailed the confirmation of Mr. Perez and others “who have waited far too long for the yes-or-no votes they deserve.”

“Tom has lived the American dream himself, and has dedicated his career to keeping it within reach for hard-working families across the country. At the Department of Labor, Tom will help us continue to grow our economy, help businesses create jobs, make sure workers have the skills those jobs require, and ensure safe workplaces and economic opportunity for all,” the president said.

Mr. Perez’s opponents were not the only ones who believe the deal pulled the rug out from under them. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, had been negotiating for three months, and until as recently as last week, to extract changes to the operation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in exchange for his support for confirming its first director, Richard Cordray.

Mr. Portman wanted a Senate-confirmed inspector general for the new agency, as well as a board of directors to monitor a strong director. Those talks, involving the White House chief of staff, Denis McDonough, and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, had made enough progress that Mr. Portman asked Mr. McCain to leave Mr. Cordray’s nomination out of a deal on executive-branch nominees, according to officials involved in the talks.

On Saturday, Mr. McCain told Mr. Portman he would get nothing.

“Everybody is still trying to figure out what this deal was,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the Senate’s third-ranking Republican.

The deal is already proving shaky, regardless of any handshake compromise. Mr. McCain said Thursday said that he would place a hold on the nomination of Gen. Martin E. Dempsey to another two-year term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Asked how he could reconcile that decision with his role as the chief negotiator of the filibuster deal, he shot back: “What’s the connection? I have a responsibility to get answers.”
420 2013-07-19 For Verizon Communications, getting a head start on rolling out a faster fourth-generation wireless network is paying off.

A surge in wireless subscribers and smartphone sales, combined with more subscribers to its digital TV and Internet services, propelled the company to a profit of $2.25 billion in the second quarter, up 23 percent from the same period a year earlier.

Verizon, which is based in New York, said investment in its fourth-generation wireless network, called LTE, helped its growth. For its wireless business, the company added 941,000 contract subscribers, the most valuable type of customer.

The company also reported improved smartphone sales, partly on the back of demand for the iPhone. In the quarter, Verizon sold 7.5 million smartphones, including 3.9 million iPhones. In the year-ago quarter it sold 5.9 million smartphones, including 2.7 million iPhones.

Like other wireless carriers, though, Verizon appears to be keeping an eye on industry data showing that fewer people are upgrading to new smartphones year after year. To combat that trend, two of its top competitors, AT&T and T-Mobile USA, recently announced plans that would make it cheaper for customers to upgrade their phones before the typical two-year wait.
421 2013-07-20 Coverage of the third round of the 2013 British Open from Muirfield....
422 2013-07-20 Top-seeded Roger Federer beat Florian Mayer, 7-6 (4), 3-6, 7-5, to reach the semifinals of the German Tennis Championships in Hamburg. He will play Federico Delbonis. Fabio Fognini will face Nicolas Almagro in the other semifinal.

■ Serena Williams dismantled Lourdes Dominguez, 6-1, 6-1, to reach the semifinals of the Swedish Open in Bastad. She will play Klara Zakopalova. Johanna Larsson will play Flavia Pennetta in the other semifinal. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
423 2013-07-20 Pictures From the Week in Business
424 2013-07-20 With the loss, the Yankees’ chances of winning the American League East division got one game harder. They fell to 51-45, seven games behind Boston.

In a game that displayed all the characteristics of the first half of the season, the Yankees had another player go down to injury; received another mediocre performance from Andy Pettitte; and lost for the fifth time in seven games to Boston.

Zoilo Almonte, the promising rookie outfielder, sprained his left ankle while running the bases and will be placed on the 15-day disabled list. With Almonte out, and Vernon Wells already the designated hitter, Girardi had few options to replace Gardner. Brent Lillibridge, an infielder who had been called up to replace Derek Jeter while Jeter rested his strained quadriceps on the 15-day disabled list, was playing third base, but he had to go into right field because Ichiro Suzuki went to center.

Alberto Gonzalez replaced Almonte in left, and Luis Cruz went to third base. Few of those names are familiar as Yankees, but that has been the plight of the team all year.

Gardner said he apologized to Girardi for forcing him to do acrobatics with the lineup, and took the blame, even after Girardi tried to absolve him.

“I wish I had done things differently and stayed in the game,” Gardner said.

Pettitte gave up a home run to the leadoff hitter Jacoby Ellsbury on his second pitch of the game, then surrendered a two-run homer to Jonny Gomes in the second inning.

“It’s not the way you want to start the second half,” Pettitte said, “the first batter of the game hitting a home run off you.”

Pettitte settled down to throw four scoreless innings. But after the Yankees drew to 3-2, the Red Sox scored another run that was charged to Pettitte, on a single that the rookie Jose Iglesias hit off relief pitcher Shawn Kelly.

Pettitte fell to 7-7, and with four earned runs in six and a third innings, his earned run average is now 4.47.

“It’s a serious mental battle right now,” he said.

The Yankees were trailing, 3-0, when Gardner scored a run after he walked in the fourth, stole second and third, and then trotted home on a throwing error by catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia. Chris Stewart’s two-out double off the wall in the fifth scored Lyle Overbay to make it 3-2, and that brought Gardner to the plate with Stewart on second.

Gardner drew the count full but was punched out emphatically by Everitt on a low third strike.

Gardner lifted his helmet with two hands and fired it into the dirt about 15 feet in front of him. Everitt, without hesitation, tossed him. Gardner began to protest but was escorted away by the third-base coach Rob Thomson while Girardi assumed command of the argument, in vain.
425 2013-07-20 Mr. Morello said that “from time to time,” potential advertisers had reached out to the authority about station naming rights, though he could not discuss whether any negotiations were currently active.

The authority experimented with station naming rights in 2009, when the confluence of stops at Atlantic Avenue, Pacific Street and Flatbush Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn was renamed “Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center” as part of a 20-year, $4 million sponsorship deal.

Officials suggested that any future changes, like the first renaming, would not replace all geographic information in a station name.

“We don’t want to be confusing people,” said Allen P. Cappelli, a member of the authority’s board from Staten Island. “There are neighborhoods where I would be very hesitant because of the geographic significance.”

According to a copy of the proposed policy, hubs could be renamed only if station names remain “accurate” and “help orient customers as they navigate the M.T.A. network.”

The policy would also require that the authority accept renaming requests only from prospective sponsors “with a unique or iconic geographic, historic or other connection to such facility that would be readily apparent to typical M.T.A. customers.”

The guidelines would apply across all of the transportation authority’s operations, including the railroad and bus systems and its Bridges and Tunnels division.

The names of some of the crossings have been altered in the past, though not to promote a corporate brand. There is the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel, previously the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, named for a former governor. The former Triborough Bridge, connecting Manhattan, Queens, and the Bronx, was renamed for Robert F. Kennedy in 2008.

In February, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney suggested naming the subway station at 77th Street and Lexington Avenue for Edward I. Koch, the three-term New York City mayor who had died days earlier. Mr. Koch had often greeted riders at the stop’s entrance.

“We do not rename stations for people,” a spokesman for the authority said at the time. “The whole premise is that we want to keep stations with street names.”
426 2013-07-20 Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican and member of the House Homeland Security Committee, said that after he spoke publicly in favor of Mr. Kelly’s candidacy, he received a thank-you call from Mr. Kelly. Mr. King said he had expected Mr. Kelly to tell him that he was not interested in the job. That did not happen.

“He asked me to keep him apprised of what’s happening,” Mr. King said. It was one of the few times that Mr. Kelly had not dismissed another post, he added.

“To me,” the representative said, “it said a lot that he didn’t say knock it off, or it’s not something I’m interested in.”

The homeland security job is not the only candidacy that Mr. Kelly has sought to keep open. For years, he has been mentioned as a likely candidate for mayor, and he never tried too hard to stamp out the rumors.

But as the speculation about a mayoral bid finally began subsiding within the last year, Mr. Kelly continued to toy with the idea privately.

At lunch with a Republican campaign strategist, he came prepared to discuss particulars. “He pulled out a little notebook and had 50 questions he wanted me to answer,” the consultant, Ed Rollins, recalled about the meeting that took place in the last year. “What type of chance I thought he had? Is it too late? Can he raise the money?”

Mr. Kelly’s willingness to entertain the notion of a bid for mayor persisted well into June, as the state chairman of the Republican Party, Edward F. Cox, sought to draw him into the race.

Earlier this month, at a party in Southampton, Mr. Kelly managed to leave some partygoers with the impression that he had not entirely ruled out a mayoral bid, according to a person who attended the party.

Mr. Kelly has served as police commissioner longer than anyone else, leading the agency as the city confronted terrorism threats and drove violent crime down.

There is little evidence to suggest Mr. Kelly is slowing down under the demands of the job. News conferences and City Council hearings appear to leave him rejuvenated and energized, rather than tired.

In New York City, it has been a tradition for mayors to pick their own commissioners. Even if he were asked to stay on by Mr. Bloomberg’s successor, it is not clear that he would want to; the next mayor is likely to seek more control over the Police Department, rather than give Mr. Kelly the autonomy that Mr. Bloomberg did.

It is not clear how likely a candidate Mr. Kelly is for the homeland security post.

President Obama wondered aloud about Mr. Kelly’s current job satisfaction. “Mr. Kelly might be very happy where he is,” the president said recently in a television interview. “But if he’s not, I’d want to know about it,” Mr. Obama said, adding that Mr. Kelly would be “very well qualified” for the job.

But praising Mr. Kelly does not mean that he is prepared to nominate him. Indeed, the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk tactics as well as its aggressive surveillance practices in Muslim communities could raise concerns within Mr. Obama’s own party.

Officials in the Obama administration played down the president’s comment this week and said no decision was imminent.

Still, Mr. Kelly would not have trouble finding new work.

“Ray Kelly has the luxury of knowing he can go out and make a million dollars for himself at any time and he would be highly sought out from the private sector,” Representative King said, “and that would be for a job with a lot less work.”
427 2013-07-20 Mr. Abe’s recent ascent — and approval ratings around 60 percent — has been based in large measure on his all-out bid to revitalize Japan’s economy with a combination of aggressive monetary stimulus, heavy government spending and promised but still somewhat vague structural reforms. Investor enthusiasm over his economic policies, called Abenomics, has helped the Tokyo stock market soar this year, and the central bank-engineered drop in the value of the yen has helped revive floundering exporters.

A convincing win, analysts say, could free Mr. Abe to reach for the more daring structural changes that many economists say are needed to ensure that the latest recovery does not fizzle as others have over the last two decades of stagnation. The prime minister’s oft-repeated pledge to restore Japan’s global stature and confidence after almost a generation of political drift and disappointing growth has also struck a public chord, analysts say, as has his willingness to talk tough in a bitter territorial dispute with neighboring China.

“We are fighting to bring back a Japan that can grow again, a Japan that will rebuild, and a Japan that is prepared to protect its territory,” Mr. Abe said Friday at a rally in Mie, in central Japan.

But while Mr. Abe’s performance has boosted his party’s chances, those prospects have also been helped by the collapse of any credible opposition. The Democratic Party, the strongest opposition party, is still blamed by the public for its perceived mishandling of the 2011 nuclear crisis in Fukushima, and has been unable to regroup since its defeat at the hands of Mr. Abe’s party in elections for Parliament’s more powerful lower house in December. Depending on how badly it does in Sunday’s vote, some analysts say, the party could split apart.

The extraordinary inability of Japan’s antinuclear movement to make any inroads into national politics has also aided the Liberal Democrats, whose pro-business platform calls on Japan to return to nuclear power. For months after the Fukushima disaster, tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets in noisy rallies that called for an end to nuclear power in Japan. Polls show more than half of Japanese voters still at least passively oppose the restart of the nation’s nuclear plants, most of which were idled after the disaster.

“A lot of Japanese got agitated, for sure,” said Ryosuke Nishida, an expert on public policy at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. “But the movement has really failed to seize the day.”

For a time, many disgruntled voters seemed to rally around the charismatic mayor of Osaka, Toru Hashimoto, who had seemed to be what many Japanese yearned for: a decisive politician willing to take on Japan’s powerful vested interests, including its nuclear lobby. But Mr. Hashimoto, who founded his own party, seemed to stumble last year after he quietly dropped his opposition to restarting a nuclear plant near Osaka. Then in May, his party seemed to largely vanish as a factor in the current elections after Mr. Hashimoto outraged many voters by appearing to defend Japan’s infamous wartime system of forcing South Korean and other women to provide sex to Japanese soldiers.

If the Liberal Democrats gain control of both houses of Parliament, Mr. Abe will have the firmest grip on power of any prime minister since his mentor, Junichiro Koizumi, who for a time enthralled Japanese voters with his similar mantra of revitalizing Japan’s sluggish economy. After Sunday, Japan is not legally required to hold elections in either house until 2016, potentially giving Mr. Abe a three-year run before facing voters again.

Analysts say that gives Japan its best prospect in a long while of ending a streak of politically short-lived prime ministers; since Mr. Koizumi stepped down in 2006, Japan has had seven leaders, including Mr. Abe.

This time, the Liberal Democratic Party has put up a remarkably united front, because its lawmakers know that they must ride Mr. Abe’s coattails to win the election. But once elected, they may find fewer reasons to rally around Mr. Abe and more reasons to pursue their own agenda, experts say, possibly hurting Mr. Abe’s ability to pass painful economic changes, or push a right-wing agenda that could include reforming Japan’s pacifist Constitution. The “L.D.P. always has the biggest problems after they’ve won a big victory,” said Tomoaki Iwai, a politics professor at Nihon University in Tokyo.
428 2013-07-20 “This past week, we were surprised to receive a packet of letters from Kenneth through the U.S. Postal Service, bearing a Pyongyang postmark,” she said. “The packet contained four letters, dated June 13th, addressed to his wife, his mom, me and his supporters.”

She said that “all the letters contained the same message — Kenneth’s health is failing, and he asked us to seek help from our government to bring him home.”

Ms. Chung said her brother suffered from diabetes, an enlarged heart and back problems.

She declined to share the letters but said the family had conveyed their contents to officials at the State Department. Patrick Ventrell, a State Department spokesman in Washington, did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

Mr. Bae was sentenced at a time of particularly high tensions between the United States and North Korea over the North’s nuclear weapons program under its young new leader, Kim Jong-un, further complicating any possible diplomatic efforts aimed at securing Mr. Bae’s release.

North Korea said that Mr. Bae had been working as a Christian missionary with the aim of overthrowing the North Korean government. In a video of an hourlong talk, given to a Korean church in the United States in 2011 and posted online, Mr. Bae detailed his activities inside North Korea.

The postmark on Mr. Bae’s mailed letters to his family suggested they were written at about the same time that the North Korean authorities had permitted a pro-North Korea group based in Tokyo, Choson Sinbo, to interview him in prison. A videotape of that interview, broadcast July 3 on CNN, showed Mr. Bae looking distressed and thin, his head shaved, dressed in a stained blue jumpsuit with his prison number, 103. His message was similar to those in the letters: an appeal for the United States government to help secure his release.

“Although my health is not good, I am being patient and coping well,” Mr. Bae said in that interview. “And I hope that with the help of the North Korean government and the United States, I will be released soon.”

In what appeared to be an effort to show the outside world that the North Korean penal authorities had been treating him well, Mr. Bae was seen seated in a comfortable cell with a radiator and a window. The video also zoomed in on what was described as his daily work schedule, posted in Korean and English, showing he was given three meals and had four rest breaks in between field labor. No other inmates were seen at the prison, and its precise location was unclear.

Diplomats who have dealt with North Korea said the unspoken message in both the video and the letters was that the North Korean authorities wanted to see more publicity about Mr. Bae as part of their broader effort to seek direct contact with the United States government.

The top North Korean diplomats at the United Nations have twice over the past month publicly called for direct talks, citing the impending 60th anniversary of the armistice that halted the Korean War as a juncture for a changed relationship. Dennis Rodman, the former basketball star who visited North Korea this past winter and met Mr. Kim, has called for Mr. Bae’s release and has said he intended to return to North Korea in August, although it is unclear whether that will happen. E-mailed queries to Mr. Rodman’s representatives in the United States were not returned on Friday.

Other Americans who have been held in North Korea were released after visits by former United States presidents.

In another possible signal from North Korea to the Obama administration, an American Navy pilot who flew combat missions in the Korean War, Capt. Thomas J. Hudner Jr., was en route to North Korea on Friday as part of his own lengthy effort to retrieve the remains of a colleague, Ensign Jesse L. Brown. Ensign Brown, the Navy’s first African-American aviator, died after his plane was shot down on Dec. 4, 1950.

Captain Hudner, who is white, crash-landed his own plane near Ensign Brown’s in a valiant but ultimately unsuccessful attempt to pull him from the wreckage, and was forced to evacuate. But Captain Hudner’s action became part of military lore and is regarded as having helped promote racial equality in the United States armed forces.
429 2013-07-20 ROME — As he forges ahead with reforming the Vatican’s troubled bureaucracy, Pope Francis has established a committee of international experts to help improve its finances and transparency, the Vatican said Friday. The committee of seven lay experts and one cleric will answer directly to the pope and a panel of cardinals he appointed to help coordinate reforms. The new committee will help carry out “the simplification and rationalization” of the Vatican’s departments, the Vatican said.

Francis was elected in March after the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI, whose eight-year papacy was rocked by scandal. The Vatican said that the new committee would also work “to avoid the misuse of economic resources, to improve transparency in the processes of purchasing goods and services, to refine the administration of goods and real estate; to work with ever greater prudence in the financial sphere; to ensure correct application of accounting principles and to guarantee health care and social security benefits to all those eligible.” It will hold its first meeting after Francis returns from a trip to Brazil this month.
430 2013-07-20 “The business community is solidly behind this — small business, large business, the chamber, the Business Roundtable, you name it, they’re all solidly in,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and an author of the bill approved by the Senate last month. “We need them to weigh in, very frankly, on this issue, because we advertise ourselves as the party of business. Perhaps they can have some effect.”

In a meeting on Tuesday with seven of the eight senators who drafted the original bill and members of various advocacy groups, a frustrated Mr. McCain took business to the woodshed. Their efforts so far to lobby House Republicans, he explained in a stern tone, have not been sufficient. Their side is losing the battle to define the message, he said, and the next few months, including the August recess, will make or break the immigration effort.

This week, Speaker John A. Boehner said he welcomed any sales pitches from business, noting that the majority of House Republicans had never been faced with immigration legislation. “The more education that we have for our members, the better we’re going to be able to facilitate dealing with a very thorny issue,” he said.

In a broad immigration overhaul, businesses desire an injection of highly skilled workers who have found it increasingly difficult to enter the country, an expanded pool of lower skilled but energetic immigrants and a way to legally employ workers in the country illegally who have been mainstays of the labor force in many areas.

Many business groups have been working on the issue for more than a year. Last month, during the annual summit meeting of the National Association of Manufacturers, the group’s members held meetings with lawmakers to discuss immigration and other issues. Several of the association’s members recently participated in an immigration briefing for House staff members hosted by Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

“It does us no good to bring in the best and brightest in the world, train and educate them, and then send them home,” said Joe Trauger, the association’s vice president of human resources policy, in summing up the group’s message.

Last month, Mr. Goodlatte also met with 20 chief executives of some of the largest corporations in the country through the Business Roundtable, an association of major-company chief executives, said Greg Brown, 52, the chairman and chief executive of Motorola, who heads the group’s immigration task force.

The Business Roundtable has strongly supported the Senate’s comprehensive approach, he said, and the chief executives “remain cautiously optimistic that as the House continues to progress and pass a series of independent bills, then after August there will be a mechanism to unify them with the Senate.”

At the same time, the House’s approach has risks. High technology businesses strongly back an expansion of visas for skilled workers. Agribusiness and service industries are most interested in guest worker programs. In a comprehensive bill, like the Senate’s, all the business groups have an incentive to back the whole measure to make sure that their particular component remains. If the House separates the components, businesses could get behind some — but not all — of the piecemeal bills.

“You’ve got to keep a holistic momentum going because if you disaggregate, you run the risk of fragmentation,” Mr. Brown said.

The most involved group has been the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which helped broker a deal with organized labor on a guest worker program that was critical to the success of the Senate bill and ran national radio and television advertisements in the week leading up to the legislation’s final passage in the Senate. Four weeks ago, the group met with the 120 largest trade associations among its members to plot strategy. Engagement with local and state chambers of commerce has been constant.

“The goal is to get a duplicate message, an echo chamber,” said Bruce Josten, the chamber’s longtime chief lobbyist.

But, he said, “The House is entirely different from the Senate.”

Business lobbyists say that hostility in the House may be overstated. Maybe 40 to 60 conservative legislators view business groups based in Washington with suspicion, but many of them were never going to side with business on immigration.

Still, the skepticism toward business is pervasive in certain sectors. Some Republicans are instead looking to conservative groups like the Club for Growth and Heritage Action for guidance.

“So many of them have come to the well so many times for their corporate welfare handouts that they have lost all credibility with the base of the Republican Party,” said Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina. “The days of the Chamber of Commerce being the gold standard may be coming to an end if they aren’t already in the past.”

Indeed, when they have had the chance, Republicans have relished the opportunity to strike a populist stance against big business. The entire House Republican leadership has been castigating President Obama’s decision to delay for a year the mandate that large employers buy their workers health insurance, but press on with an insurance-buying mandate for individuals.

“Obama gave big business a pass,” Ms. Jenkins said in an interview. “That was a major shift. The administration represents big business.”

The Club for Growth does not see itself as a business group, said its president, Chris Chocola. “We’re a pro-free-market group,” he said, which is not always in line with business interests.

The Club for Growth does do one thing that explicitly pro-business groups do not. “We participate in primary elections; they don’t,” Mr. Chocola said. “And the greatest motivating factor for a member of Congress is keeping their job.”

Many business groups are trying to reach members of Congress where it matters most — in their home districts. John Feinblatt, the chief policy adviser for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and chairman of the Partnership for a New American Economy, said his group has drawn up a list of roughly 40 House Republicans to watch, and the group plans to mobilize in 14 states, and more districts, during the August recess.

“The bottom line is, this is not a fight that’s going to be won in Washington,” Mr. Feinblatt said. “It’s going to be won in districts across the country as representatives hear from local business owners, from local chambers of commerce, from job creators at home, all saying that passing immigration legislation is crucial to the success of their local economy.”
431 2013-07-20 The president of one public employees’ union hailed the judge’s decision on Friday. “There is too much at stake to play political games with the hard-earned retirement security of Detroit’s public workers,” said Lee Saunders, head of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union.

But at a joint news conference on Friday, Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr were resolute on the need for a bankruptcy filing.

Mr. Snyder, a Republican who has pushed a pro-business agenda in the state, said Detroit had no other options to deal with its debts and improve city services ranked among the nation’s worst.

“This is the time to say enough is enough in terms of the downward decline of the city of Detroit,” he said.

Now that the city has filed, Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr said they wanted to reassure Detroit’s 700,000 residents that police, fire and other essential services will continue to function.

Mr. Orr, who was appointed by the governor, predicted that residents might start to see improvements soon, saying that the bankruptcy filing offers “breathing room” and will allow Detroit to use its limited resources to put more police cars and ambulances into service.

Depending on the outcome of the appeal of Judge Aquilina’s order, the initial bankruptcy hearings could begin as soon as next week.

On Friday, Judge Steven W. Rhodes was picked to oversee the case. Mr. Rhodes is a hometown selection, having served for 28 years as a bankruptcy judge in the Eastern District of Michigan.

The initial stages of the case will consist of Mr. Orr and possibly state officials showing that there was no available remedy for Detroit’s troubles other than bankruptcy.

“We didn’t make this decision in haste,” Mr. Orr said. “This is a decision that has been winding its way through the city for the better part of six decades.”

Employee unions and creditors may argue otherwise — either by challenging the size of Detroit’s debt, or Mr. Orr’s assertions that he bargained in good faith to reach out-of-court settlements with bondholders, retirees and others.

Some labor unions had accused Mr. Orr of using bankruptcy as a threat during negotiating sessions.

Mr. Orr said that despite marathon talks with creditors, there was little or no movement toward settlements.

“We are finally at a point where we simply can’t kick this can down the road any further,” he said.

There is no blueprint for Detroit’s recovery at this point. In the short term, Mr. Orr said that a deal with two secured creditors, Bank of America and UBS, to accept 75 cents on the dollar for $340 million in liabilities would free up casino revenues that could be used for city services.

The arrangement would provide the city with about $11 million a month in casino receipts. That cash is critical to keep the city safe and functional during a drawn-out bankruptcy process.

Mr. Orr said he expected Detroit to emerge from bankruptcy before his term as emergency manager ends in 14 months.

For Mr. Snyder, placing the state’s largest city in bankruptcy is a calculated risk that its decline could be reversed under court supervision.

He said that he did not anticipate any direct state or federal money would be needed in the effort, but that government grants to help remove abandoned buildings and improve Detroit’s infrastructure would be essential to the city’s comeback.
432 2013-07-21 McCABE--Neal G. In loving memory of my dear Uncle Neal. May G-d bless his soul and protect his family always and ever. Spyro A. Jacobson...
433 2013-07-21 McCABE--Neal G. We mourn the passing of Neal G. McCabe, a wonderful family friend and a brother to our father, Barry J. Jacobson. He will sorely be missed. Brette, Ari, Adam and Stefano...
434 2013-07-21 McCABE--Neal Graham, 60, passed away peacefully and surrounded by his family and friends at New York Presbyterian Hospital in New York, New York on July 17, 2013. Neal was born on October 26, 1952. He grew up in Needham, Massachusetts. Neal gradua...
435 2013-07-21 McCABE--Neal G.,a wonderful friend and a brother for over 35 years. May G-d rest his soul and give him eternal peace. The Barry J. Jacobson Family...
436 2013-07-21 CHAPPELL--Alice Merckens, pioneering businesswoman in the art world, died July 7, 2013. Founding President of Hoya Crystal, USA and Chap-pell Gallery in New York City. Wife of Dr. Richard L. Chap- pell. Mother of two daughters Carol and Dreux Chap...
437 2013-07-21 With the Senate’s confirmation of Richard Cordray as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau the agency’s authority to oversee lending practices, in limbo for the two years of its existence, has been affirmed.

How can the freshly empowered agency have the strongest and most immediate impact?
438 2013-07-21 Taking a trip with Ian Livengood. Unless you are already there. In which case, stay where you are....
439 2013-07-21 Emilie Veronica Russler, a daughter of Diana Pennacchio-Russler of New York and the late Thomas C. Russler, was married Saturday to David Aaron Germain, the son of Gale Inoff Germain and Dr. Ronald N. Germain of Potomac, Md. Andrew O. Brandel, a friend of the couple who became a minister of American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated at the Brix Restaurant and Gardens in Yountville, Calif.

The bride, 25, and the groom, 26, met at Stanford, from which they graduated, she with distinction.

Mrs. Russler-Germain and Mr. Russler-Germain are now pursuing doctorates and medical degrees as part of an eight-year program at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Next month, the bride, who is studying for a Ph.D. in immunology, is to begin her second year and the groom, studying for a doctorate in molecular genetics and genomics, his fifth.

The bride’s mother retired as the director and the deputy to the undersecretary general in the department of safety and security at the United Nations in New York. The bride’s father was a partner in Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis, a law firm in New York. The bride is a stepdaughter of A. William Gent.

The groom’s father is the chief of the laboratory of systems biology and a distinguished investigator of immunology at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., from which the groom’s mother retired as a research psychologist.
440 2013-07-21 Ruth Willa Levenkron and Brendon Sipe Fleming were married Saturday evening at Woodcliff Hotel and Spa in Fairport, N.Y. Kelly Kilmer Hall, a candidate for ordination in the Unitarian Universalist church, was appointed by that religious organization to officiate.

Ms. Levenkron, 30, will keep her name. She is a project associate in the Asia sector of Development Alternatives in Bethesda, Md., which implements programs for the United States Agency for International Development. She graduated from Bryn Mawr and received a master’s degree in conflict resolution from Georgetown.

She is a daughter of Minna Levenkron and Jeffrey C. Levenkron of Brighton, N.Y. The bride’s father is a psychologist in Rochester and a clinical associate professor of psychology at the University of Rochester Medical Center. Her mother is a psychotherapist practicing in Rochester.

Mr. Fleming, 31, is a litigation associate in the Washington office of the Los Angeles law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. He graduated summa cum laude from Syracuse and received a law degree from Columbia.

He is a son of Christine E. Murray and James S. Fleming, also of Brighton. The groom’s mother is an education professor at the State University of New York College at Brockport. His father is an emeritus professor of political science at the Rochester Institute of Technology and an adjunct professor of political science at the SUNY College at Brockport.
441 2013-07-21 Emily Magee Frost, the daughter of Alison Weston Magee and Don Sheridan Frost of Westwood, Mass., was married Saturday evening to Nicholas Allan Gerry-Bullard, the son of Barbara Anne Gerry of Athens, Ga., and Dr. William Fleming Bullard of New York. The Rev. Timothy Safford, an Episcopal priest, officiated at St. Aidan’s Chapel in South Dartmouth, Mass.

The bride, 28, and the groom, 29, met at Wesleyan University, from which they graduated.

Ms. Frost, who is keeping her name, is a reporter covering news and culture on the Upper West Side for DNAinfo, a Web site in New York. She received a master’s in journalism from the University of Southern California.

Her father is a senior account executive for United Healthcare in Waltham, Mass. Her mother is the vice president for clinical services for Kathy Greer Associates, a human resources consulting firm in Framingham, Mass.

Mr. Gerry-Bullard works in New York as a senior consultant on corporate strategy for the consulting branch of Deloitte. He received a master’s in public policy and an M.B.A. with distinction from Harvard.

His mother retired as an English teacher at John F. Kennedy High School in Richmond, Calif. His father is the academic dean at Collegiate School, a private boys’ school in New York. The groom is the stepson of Bodie Brizendine, the head of school at the Spence School in New York, and of Patrick McPhee, who retired as an English teacher at Mount Diablo High School in Concord, Calif.
442 2013-07-21 Melissa Hegel Butler and Oliver Wolcott Tuckerman were married Saturday evening at the Pot and Kettle Club, an event space in Bar Harbor, Me. The bride’s godfather, Richard F. Blanchard, who became a minister with American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.

Mrs. Tuckerman, 31, is an assistant interior decorator in Houston for Triangle Interiors. She graduated from the University of Colorado and received an associate degree in interior design from the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in San Francisco.

She is the daughter of Ildiko and Gilbert Butler of New York. The bride’s father is president of Butler Conservation Fund, a New York-based foundation for environmental conservation and historic preservation. Her mother is a freelance photographer in New York.

Mr. Tuckerman, 32, is a financial analyst at Cheniere Energy in Houston. He graduated from Kenyon College and received an M.B.A. with honors from Southern Methodist University.

He is the son of Edith F. Tuckerman and Roger Wolcott Tuckerman of New York. The groom’s mother is a senior vice president and a managing director at Brown Harris Stevens, a New York-based real estate brokerage firm where the groom’s father retired as president.
443 2013-07-21 Emily Gray Byam Fincke and Jonathan David Stone were married Saturday at St. Andrew’s-by-the-Sea in Rye Beach, N.H. The Rev. Richard C. Weymouth, an Episcopal priest and the godfather of the bride, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Stone, 27, is the alumni development officer at the Spence School in New York. She graduated from Trinity College in Hartford and is a daughter of Martha A. Byam and Gary N. Fincke of Hampton Falls, N.H.

Mr. Stone, 32, works in New York as an investment banker for Barclays, the British bank. From 2005 to 2006, he was a deputy associate director in the Office of Presidential Personnel at the White House. He graduated from Duke and received an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan. He is a son of Norma M. Stone and David C. Stone of Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
444 2013-07-21 The Mariners, who have won five straight, tied the score in the sixth by scoring twice on a combination of passed balls, walks and a sacrifice fly.

ROYALS 6, TIGERS 5 Salvador Perez drove in three runs, and Mike Moustakas hit a game-winning home run to lead host Kansas City over Detroit and Justin Verlander (10-7), who had not lost to the Royals since Sept. 9, 2009.

TWINS 3, INDIANS 2 Kevin Correia threw six sharp innings for his first win in a month, Joe Mauer and Justin Morneau each had two hits and a walk, and host Minnesota won its fourth straight.

ANGELS 2, ATHLETICS 0 C. J. Wilson (10-6) outpitched Dan Straily, retiring 18 consecutive batters at one point, and Alberto Callaspo homered to help host Los Angeles beat Oakland.

ORIOLES 7, RANGERS 4 Adam Jones homered and every Baltimore starter had a hit in a victory at slumping Texas.

WHITE SOX 10, BRAVES 6 One day after being benched for not hustling, Alex Rios hit a grand slam and drove in five runs, and Jake Peavy pitched six innings in his first start since June 4 to lead Chicago over visiting Atlanta.

Braves starter Paul Maholm was forced out in the fourth inning because of a sprained left wrist.

DODGERS 3, NATIONALS 1 Hanley Ramirez doubled to highlight a two-run 10th inning, and Los Angeles used seven pitchers in its victory in Washington.

The Nationals, who have lost seven of nine, fell below .500 again and were booed by their home crowd.

REDS 5, PIRATES 4 Joey Votto drove in two runs, and Shin-Soo Choo extended his hitting streak to 14 games, leading host Cincinnati over Pittsburgh.

PADRES 5, CARDINALS 3 Edinson Volquez was bailed out by his bullpen in San Diego’s win over host St. Louis.

Nick Vincent, Dale Thayer, Luke Gregorson and Huston Street worked an inning apiece after Volquez (7-8) faded at the end of a five-inning stint.

Lance Lynn (11-5) lost for the fourth time in five starts for the Cardinals, who put left fielder Matt Holliday on the disabled list with a strained hamstring.

BREWERS 6, MARLINS 0 Yovani Gallardo took a shutout into the seventh inning, and Jonathan Lucroy and Rickie Weeks homered, leading Milwaukee past visiting Miami.

ROCKIES 9, CUBS 3 Carlos Gonzalez homered and Todd Helton had three of host Colorado’s 13 hits in a victory over Chicago.
445 2013-07-21 “If Bashar Assad were to succeed, he will be a more ruthless leader who will live with a legacy of tens of thousands of his civilians killed under him,” he said. President Obama declared in mid-2011 that Mr. Assad had to leave office.

Mr. Shedd outlined an equally grim portrait of a spreading Sunni-Shiite sectarian conflict if Mr. Assad’s government fell or he was killed.

“If he loses and goes to an enclave inside there, I think there will be ongoing civil war for years to come,” he said, noting that more radical elements like the Nusra Front would fight to control parts of the country. “They will fight for that space. They’re there for the long haul.”

Mr. Shedd offered a sobering assessment of America’s ability to draw distinctions among an opposition that he said numbered about 1,200 groups.

After months of internal debate, the Obama administration in June announced a plan to provide direct military support to the Syrian rebels, but so far no arms have arrived.

The effort to support the opposition has also been hampered by the inability of the United States and various Arab countries — including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates — to agree on how quickly to act, which opposition groups to support, and which weapons to give them.

Mr. Shedd, a 31-year intelligence veteran, seemed to suggest that modest interventions were unlikely to make a significant difference at a time when Mr. Assad’s army has been reclaiming territory on the battlefield, with the support of Iran, Russia and Hezbollah, and when the opposition is bitterly divided, while among the rebels the Islamists are resurgent.

“My concern is that it could go on for a long time,” Mr. Shedd said, voicing concern that the civilian casualties, refugee flows and internal dislocation would increase. “It is in large measure a stalemate.”

Mr. Shedd said he was particularly concerned that the Syrian revolution, unlike the other Arab uprisings, was far more likely to explode than implode, and that Jordan and Iraq would be caught in the conflict and instability.

His publicly expressed concerns about Jordan contrasted with the administration’s usual, almost ritualized declarations of confidence that King Abdullah II of Jordan could emerge with his country, one of America’s strongest allies in the region, intact.

Mr. Shedd also played down reported dispute between the Nusra Front and Al Qaeda’s arm in Iraq over which one controls the more radical elements in Syria. But he expressed concerns that the Qaeda branch would strengthen its position inside Iraq, after having been largely decimated by the American troop surge there in 2007.

“Al Qaeda Iraq will emerge stronger as a result of its experience inside of Syria,” he said.
446 2013-07-21 “I had the understanding of a guy who loved beautiful women, and above all who liked the sensuality of it all,” Mr. Casablancas said in a 2010 video interview with the blog Modelinia. “All of the other agents were either women or gay guys. They had their own approach, which in certain instances was probably superior to mine, but I had something I thought was unique. I looked at my models as women.”

He was largely responsible for glamorizing the business and turning models into idols, their egos expanding in direct proportion to their earnings potential. In 1990, at the height of the supermodel moment, Ms. Evangelista, then married to Gérald Marie, the president of Elite in Paris, made a comment to Vogue that came to define the vainglorious world of modeling that Mr. Casablancas had created: “We don’t wake up for less than $10,000 a day.”

Mr. Casablancas demanded top dollar for his models, developing them as celebrities and media personalities, the stars of music videos and presenters on MTV. In 1988, to make Ms. Crawford a recognizable face beyond fashion, he encouraged her to pose for Playboy magazine. The ensuing publicity led to a job as host of the MTV show “House of Style” and then to a Pepsi commercial. In 1995 she topped the Forbes list of highest-paid models, earning $6.5 million.

The success of Elite, with more than $100 million in annual model bookings during the years it was run by Mr. Casablancas, represented a turning point in modeling, for better and worse. As Wilhelmina Cooper, one of his rivals, said of the typical top model in 1978, “She is now picking or choosing who she wants to work for, instead of just taking what her agency tells her to.”

Mr. Ford, who accused Elite of poaching models and sued the company in the late 1970s, described Mr. Casablancas’s methods at the time as “sleazy.”

Beyond his feuds with other agencies, Mr. Casablancas was frequently criticized for having sexual relationships with young models. His public affair with Stephanie Seymour in 1983, when he was 41 and she was 15, ended his second marriage, to Jeanette Christjansen, a former model and the 1965 Miss Denmark.

Mr. Casablancas scoffed at the criticism, but his reputation was severely tarnished in 1999 as a result of a BBC One undercover exposé that showed Elite’s agents in Europe, including Mr. Marie, boasting of drug use and sexual conquests with young models. Though he was not implicated in the scandal, Mr. Casablancas resigned from the agency the next year.

John Casablancas was born on Dec. 12, 1942, in Manhattan, the third of three children of Fernando and Antonia Casablancas, a Spanish couple who, after fleeing the country’s civil war, grew wealthy from operating a family textile-machinery business with factories around the world. At age 8 he was sent to the Le Rosey boarding school in Switzerland, along with many children of the international jet set, and began a somewhat wayward life for the next two decades.

After attending several European universities without graduating, and taking jobs in finance, public relations and real estate, he accepted a position offered by a family friend to become the marketing manager of a Coca-Cola factory in Brazil. Still in his early 20s, he invited his French girlfriend, Marie-Christine, to join him, and married her at her father’s insistence.

When the couple returned to Paris a few years later, he took a job with her brother in public relations for an architecture firm, but their marriage was soon on the rocks. Mr. Casablancas was living in a tiny hotel in 1967 when he met Ms. Christjansen, who was 19 and on a modeling assignment for the photographer Gunnar Larsen.

“I thought he was the best-looking man I’d ever laid eyes on,” Ms. Christjansen told New York magazine in 1988.

After the affair began, Mr. Casablancas had a daughter, Cecile, with his wife.

Ms. Christjansen’s unhappiness with her agency inspired him to start a business, Elysée 3, representing photographers and models. After a rough start, he created a new company with Alain Kittler, a classmate at Le Rosey, to focus only on those they regarded as the best models. They named it Elite.

Mr. Casablancas said he had seen an opportunity for models with personality and sex appeal to command wider attention in magazines and on runways.

“I introduced women with shape, short hair, brunettes, brown eyes,” he said in the Modelinia interview. “Fashion is not about a Disney-like type of catalogish model. Fashion is about really exciting girls that have something to say, that express something.”

Shortly after opening a New York office in 1977, Elite was sued for $10 million by Ford and Wilhelmina, but the cases were unsuccessful and resulted only in more publicity for Mr. Casablancas. He married Ms. Christjansen in 1978 and had a son, Julian, with her while the agency continued to thrive.

Elite was the dominant name in global modeling well into the 1990s, until a series of problems, including the BBC One documentary and a class-action lawsuit that accused several agencies of price fixing, led it to seek bankruptcy protection in 2004.

Its assets were most recently acquired by Pacific Global Management Group in 2011.

In 2000, Mr. Casablancas announced that he was selling his Manhattan home and moving to Rio de Janeiro, where he had married Aline Wermelinger in 1993. His marriage to Ms. Christjansen had ended in the late 1970s after their son’s birth. Ms. Wermelinger was then 17, having met Mr. Casablancas the previous year when she participated in Elite’s Look of the Year contest. She and their three children — John Jr., Fernando Augusto and Nina — survive him, as do his children with his previous wives. Cecile Casablancas is a jewelry designer, and Julian Casablancas is the lead singer of the rock band the Strokes. He is also survived by a brother, Fernando.

After leaving Elite, Mr. Casablancas created a modeling school, a model-scouting organization called Star System, and what he called a “cybermodel agency,” Illusion 2K, which briefly promoted a computer-animated model named Webbie Tookay. Her greatest attribute, Mr. Casablancas said, was that she would never complain.

“One of my biggest regrets is that I created the supermodel,” he told the London newspaper The Telegraph in 2000. “They can be impossible. Elite single-handedly brought modeling rates to a peak no one could have imagined, but the girls never thanked me for it. I’ve had enough.”
447 2013-07-21 His start Saturday was considerably more arduous. He gave up seven hits and two walks and struck out five. The postgame consensus — from the manager, the catcher and pitcher himself — was that he needed to stay around the strike zone more, to challenge hitters to try to hit his best stuff, rather than skirting around them.

“He did a good job,” catcher Anthony Recker said, “but it’s a little bit frustrating, because I know if he can pound the zone a little more — which he knows, too, and I’m sure he’s frustrated by too — he could have had a really good day, dominating them with his fastball the way he did and could have.”

Manager Terry Collins said Wheeler’s changeup was not as effective as it was against the Giants. Wheeler said he had trouble finishing his breaking pitches, which gave them a loose, inviting spin. This was Wheeler’s first start after an extended break, a prime situation for mechanics to come apart. Despite all that, Wheeler allowed just one more run, a bases-loaded sacrifice fly to Chase Utley in the fifth inning.

“There’s been a few times now where I’ve had to come out of the game early because I’m throwing 20 pitches an inning, falling behind guys, stuff like that,” Wheeler said. “That’s not going to work. That’s a part of my game I’m going to have to fix pretty fast.”

One out after Utley’s sacrifice fly, Wheeler walked Darin Ruf to again load the bases. Collins deemed that the end of Wheeler’s outing and brought in Gonzalez Germen, who struck out Delmon Young to end the threat. It was Germen’s fourth appearance in the majors and his most impressive: he pitched one and two-thirds innings without giving up a hit, struck out three and walked one.

“That could be a scary lineup to face when you’re a young kid, but he did a tremendous job,” right fielder Marlon Byrd said of the 25-year-old Germen.

Byrd helped the Mets come back in the first inning, cracking the first pitch he saw from Cole Hamels into shallow left field to drive in Daniel Murphy from third and tie the game, 1-1. The Mets added two more runs in the inning, as Juan Lagares slipped a floater over the Phillies’ infielders for a run-scoring single, and Recker beat out a potential double-play ball to score another run.

Hamels, who walked one batter over his previous three starts combined, threw 25 pitches and walked two batters during the first inning. He lasted five innings, giving up one more run in the fifth when David Wright scalded a run-scoring single up the middle.

The Mets added a run in the seventh when Murphy looped a one-out, run-scoring single into right field off Jake Diekman.

After Bobby Parnell recorded two outs in the ninth inning, Josh Satin bobbled a sharp grounder from Michael Young to give the Phillies life. And Utley took advantage, slamming a knuckle-curveball from Parnell to deep right field for a two-run homer. Things got tense after Domonic Brown doubled to left, putting the tying run on base. But Parnell coaxed a lineout from Ruf to end the game.

The Mets exhaled, happy to escape when they may have been at less than their best.
448 2013-07-21 The opening day of the swimming world championships could have doubled for a Trojan Swim Club meet.

The American Haley Anderson, a recent graduate of Southern California, won the first gold medal of the championships in Barcelona, Spain, in the five-kilometer open-water event. Oussama Mellouli of Tunisia, who is based at U.S.C., won the men’s event.
449 2013-07-21 Dr. Amy E. Newburger, a dermatologist in Scarsdale, N.Y., who was a member of that F.D.A. panel, told me that she was concerned that a doctor could inadvertently use MelaFind on a non-melanoma skin cancer, receive a score indicating that the spot was not irregular, and erroneously decide not to biopsy it. She voted against recommending the device for F.D.A. approval.

Some biostatisticians are also critical of MelaFind, saying the device can recognize a high percentage of melanomas correctly because it also falsely scores as positive so many non-melanomas — potentially prompting doctors to perform unnecessary biopsies.

To help me visualize that issue, Jason Connor, a biostatistician at Berry Consultants, a biostatistics consulting firm, compared the accuracy of MelaFind in distinguishing non-melanomas to a hypothetical pregnancy test which, used on 100 nonpregnant women, would mistakenly conclude that 90 of them were pregnant.

“My concern with MelaFind is that it just says everything is positive,” Mr. Connor said. A member of the F.D.A. panel, he abstained on a vote about whether the device’s intended uses outweighed the risks.

“I don’t think this helps an aggressive doctor,” Mr. Connor told me, “and unaggressive doctors could do just as well if they were more diligent without the device.”

To develop MelaFind’s current algorithm, researchers trained the system on digital images of more than 10,000 pigmented lesions, programming it to recognize irregularities like asymmetry, color variability and cellular disorganization characteristic of melanomas. Company executives said Mela Sciences deliberately calibrated the machine to catch as many melanomas as possible, understanding that such a high setting could lead doctors to biopsy normal tissue.

“It will err on the side of caution,” said Claudia Beqaj, director of commercialization at Mela Sciences. “We wanted to set the system to have such a high sensitivity that we didn’t miss any melanomas.”

Ms. Beqaj emphasized that MelaFind was intended as a supplementary test that provided extra information about a mole, not as a substitute for a dermatologist’s own expertise.

“If they blindly followed MelaFind, they would be biopsying more," Ms. Beqaj said. “The doctor has to make their own clinical judgment.”

Dr. Day finds the system quite informative. Last week, she gave me a demonstration in her office on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

Dr. Day picked out what she called an “ugly duckling” mole on the left arm of Ms. Oppel, who had kindly agreed to play the role of patient. Another medical assistant removed a hand-held scanner from the MelaFind console and pressed it against the mole.

The device uses 10 different wavelengths of light to see up to 2.5 millimeters deep into the skin and capture images of its different layers. Within a minute, the machine displayed a numerical score, indicating that Ms. Oppel’s mole was irregular, but not highly likely to be a melanoma. Since the images on the screen indicated that the darkest part of the mole was concentrated around a hair follicle, an expected pigmentation pattern, Dr. Day concluded there was no immediate need for a biopsy.

“It helps me see what I cannot see with my eye,” Dr. Day said. “I have great comfort that I am not missing a melanoma.”

(Dr. Day has been a paid device investigator and speaker for Mela Sciences; she appears in promotional videos on the MelaFind Web site).

In late 2011, the F.D.A. approved MelaFind for sale in the United States. But, given the concerns that general physicians not trained as skin experts might miss a skin cancer, the agency restricted the use of the device to dermatologists — and then only after the doctors had successfully completed a MelaFind training program. So far, Ms. Beqaj says, the company had sold about 150 of the devices, which cost about $10,000, in the United States and Germany.

Since health insurance does not currently cover the service, patients are paying $25 to $175 for the first mole evaluation and around $25 for subsequent moles, doctors say.

WHETHER or not MelaFind eventually gains traction among dermatologists, the device is nevertheless significant, said Dr. Hensin Tsao, the director of the melanoma and pigmented lesion center at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, because it introduces the idea of artificial intelligence in dermatology.

Unlike an X-ray or mammography device that requires a medical professional to read the images and identify abnormalities, Dr. Tsao said, MelaFind both captures images and analyzes the likelihood of melanoma. That extra intelligence, its accuracy notwithstanding, is bound to change doctors’ interactions with patients.

Dr. Tsao’s clinic is participating in a post-marketing study of MelaFind, financed by Mela Sciences. And he said he and his colleagues were thinking hard about how to develop a role for such new devices in informing physicians and patients.

“Until now, you trusted the doctor to make the decision,” Dr.  Tsao said. “Now you’ve got a three-way interaction. It’s a brand new paradigm.”
450 2013-07-21 After years of work at Apple, designing iPods and iPhones, the founder of Nest Labs now makes a self-programming thermostat that enables homeowners to save energy....
451 2013-07-21 Supporters of the measure say that Walmart, whose revenues in 2012 were $469 billion, can well afford to pay workers more.

“Their net income was $17 billion,” said Vincent Orange, a city councilman who voted for the ordinance. “You don’t want to share a little bit with the citizens? Come on.”

A decade ago, the city gave tax breaks to lure retailers, Mr. Orange said, but now it is booming and can negotiate from strength.

The day before the City Council passed the measure, a Walmart official warned in an op-ed article in The Washington Post that if required to pay $12.50 an hour, the company would cancel three planned stores and consider withdrawing from three projects already under construction.

The next move is up to Mayor Gray, who is weighing a veto.

Officially the mayor has taken no position, but he is widely seen as opposed to the measure. The Council has delayed formally sending it to his desk for action. The measure, called the Large Retailer Accountability Act, would require stores of at least 75,000 square feet that are owned by companies with $1 billion or more in annual revenue to pay the higher minimum wage. Because existing stores and those with unions are exempt, it is seen as squarely aimed at Walmart.

As Walmart, the world’s largest retailer, has sought inroads in major cities, it has faced resistance from local merchants, who fear being undercut, and from officials who say minimum-wage jobs mire workers in poverty.

Democrats on the House of Representatives work force committee produced a report this spring contending that the government subsidizes Walmart because employees earn so little that they qualify for Medicaid, food stamps and housing assistance.

Pedro Ribeiro, a spokesman for Mayor Gray, argued the opposite: minimum-wage jobs help the chronically unemployed take a first step into the work force.

“Yes, Walmart jobs are not great,” Mr. Ribeiro said. “But for some people, it will be their first employment and they’re not qualified to do anything else. We need that entry-level benchmark in the District.”

Washington is experiencing an economic revival, with population growth on a par with Sun Belt cities. But the benefits are not spread evenly. East of the Anacostia River in Ward 7, where two of the Walmart stores, including the Skyland site, are planned, unemployment is 13.9 percent. In nearby Ward 8, it is 20 percent.

Victor L. Hoskins, the deputy mayor for development, said Walmart’s threat to cancel projects if the measure took effect was no bluff. He calculated that 4,000 retail and construction jobs were at stake from three of the projects.

“The question is not $8.25 versus $12.50,” Mr. Hoskins said. “The question is $8.25 versus zero. It’s called no jobs.”

Opposite the Skyland site, on Good Hope Road, Carl Williams, 49, a barber at the Like That salon, whose dozen barbers were bustling on Thursday afternoon, had mixed feelings. He thought $12.50 was a fair starting wage. But he said he would not hesitate to encourage his two daughters to take a job at Walmart for $8.25.

“One who is 21 needs a job real bad,” he said. “She had a baby real young and didn’t finish high school.”

At a nearby Shoe City, the assistant manager acknowledged that Walmart might undercut her prices. But the giant retailer would also increase foot traffic in the neighborhood, which could benefit Shoe City, the manager, Shasherri Hindman, said.

Ms. Hindman, 25, said she started at minimum wage five years ago and worked her way up. “What’s wrong with $8.25?” she said. “I’m totally on Walmart’s side.”

Willie Ford, 39, a carpenter, scoffed at the notion that Walmart could not afford to pay $12.50. “Come on, they’re going to make beaucoup money from this area,” he said. At the same time, he acknowledged that many people in the neighborhood would gladly take a job at $8.25. “Like a newborn baby, you’ve got to crawl before you walk,” he said.
452 2013-07-21 The writer is a retired lawyer, former professor of philosophy and the author of books, essays and a blog on democracy, ethics and human rights.

Race may be a social construct, but that construct is very real, with very real consequences, consequences that will not end by making the kind of rational argument Ashley Montagu put forth 70 years ago.

Despite the claims of some, we are not living (yet) in a postracial society: just look at poverty rates, rates of incarceration, failing educational institutions and so on, all of which correlate clearly with the reality of race and racism.

What will end racism is not arguments from biology but rather the full mixture of genetic pools, so that it will be impossible to look at someone and use labels like “black” and “white.” The increasing popularity of the new socially constructed category of “mixed race” shows that we are heading in that direction.

Mr. Hodge raises an important question about how to simultaneously destroy the myth and remedy the harm of the myth of “race.” But Mr. Hodge, like almost everyone else, is operating routinely out of a particular way of seeing that filters and distorts everything about “race.” It is what we refer to as the white racial frame, and extensive social science research demonstrates the myriad ways that laws, politics, culture and social relationships are embedded in it. It makes whoever gets considered “white,” by definition, all right.

Who is and is not considered “white” shifts and changes. In 1916 hearings on an immigration bill before Congress, social science experts of the day testified that southern Italians were a different “race,” decidedly not “white,” were incapable of assimilation, and therefore should be barred from entering. So, indeed, “race” is in one sense an “arbitrary ... classification imposed on a continuum of physical differences,” but it also systematically and consistently works to the advantage of some (mostly whites) and to the disadvantage of those classified as “others.”

The harm of white racism is real, and takes the lives of black and brown on a daily basis, decade after decade: Trayvon Martin, Oscar Grant, James Byrd Jr., Yusef Hawkins, Emmett Till and so many others. The danger in trying to dismantle the myth of “race” before we are ready to remedy the harm of racism is that we will do neither.

The writers, professors at CUNY Graduate Center and Texas A&M University, respectively, are the co-founders of the scholarly blog Racism Review.

The concept of race that Ashley Montagu properly denounced is well over a century old, based mostly on 19th-century social beliefs at a time when almost no scientific evidence yet existed. Twenty-first-century scientists who speak of race have a very different conceptual frame of reference.

A human race is a large population of closely related people who share certain genetic markers, but who are also related, only slightly less closely, to all other human beings on earth. Races do exist because people tend to marry people from their own region, but a race is not a subspecies. It is not a rigidly defined group. It does not have clear boundaries.

Racism is motivated by color-based and culture-based hostility. Instead of attacking outdated concepts of race, it would be more useful to encourage greater scientific literacy. And we will not eliminate racism by attempting to require everyone to refrain from using this word.

As a physician, I have a particular need for presumptions about race to be clearly understood. These presumptions contaminate medical research.

Many studies are done by grouping participants by race: black, white. Given the racial mix found in the United States, where many “blacks” have European and Native American genes and many “whites” have African-American and Native American genes, how accurate can these studies possibly be?

Phenotype denotes a person’s observable characteristics. Not all individuals with the same phenotype have the same genotype, and the genes run the show.

I have blond, blue-eyed patients who carry the trait for sickle cell disease, indicating African-American inheritance. In a scientific study, which group would they be assigned to? If the trait is not known, which happens, these patients would be classified as “white.”

So, yes, let us get past this form and every form of ignorance about race.

I’ve been telling my students since the 1970s that “race is a pigment of our imagination.” The play on words is meant to draw attention to the social, legal and political construction of categories meant to put people “in their place” in hierarchies of power and privilege.

“Race” is a social status, not a zoological one; a product of history, not of nature; a contextual variable, not a given.

Racism persists, intractably. The “color line” has been the cruelest and most tragic (if absurd) boundary in American history. It remains a pervasive national bad habit to insist on putting people into a pentagon of one-size-fits-all official categories (“blacks,” “whites,” “Asians,” “Hispanics/Latinos,” “American Indians/Alaska Natives”). The national motto might more accurately claim “E pluribus quinque.”

In private protest, when I get my decennial census form, I check the box marked “other” and enter “human” (the only “race” that I acknowledge).

The writer is professor of sociology at the University of California, Irvine.

Most responders would seem to agree with Mr. Rumbaut: “ ‘Race’ is a social status, not a zoological one.” But, as Mr. Bennett suggests, rational arguments are not enough to change our societal reality.

That reality is not changed by a “full mixture of genetic pools,” as Mr. Bennett proposes, because that mixture already exists. The idea of “race” prevents us from seeing it. As Dr. Monac points out, people we identify by a “race” are mixed with other “races.” Anyone who observes people riding the Manhattan subways sees a broad range of mixtures.

When we cannot tell what “racial” category a person fits into, we say the person is “mixed race.” But when you mix two myths, you get a third myth. The mixing of people we now identify as of different “races” is as old as the migrations of Homo sapiens out of Africa tens of thousands of years ago.

“Race” is a mental construct, not a physical reality. It is false construct that should be abandoned, not redefined. But while discussing the construct like academics, we have avoided discussing how to remedy the harm it has caused.
453 2013-07-21 Gina was emaciated several years ago, when Ms. Massaro had her spayed and vaccinated. The dog is healthier now, but Ms. Massaro said, “This is modern-day slavery — she’s a slave.”

For more than 20 years, Ms. Massaro has roamed industrial areas in some of New York City’s roughest neighborhoods, caring for junkyard dogs — animals on guard duty that are chained or penned up and often underfed.

“I prefer to call them working dogs,” she said while feeding a noisy Rottweiler on a salvage lot in the Willets Point section of Queens. The dog seemed hostile, and Ms. Massaro carefully pushed food into the squalid pen surrounded by stacks of car doors, mufflers and other parts on the oily, muddy ground.

She sometimes manages to find new homes for these animals, as well as for “working cats” kept by deli owners for rodent control, “enslaved by owners and betrayed by humane organizations,” which, she claims, tend to ignore poorer areas.

“When people ask me why I do it, I tell them, ‘Because you don’t do it,’ ” said Ms. Massaro, whose group, the Spay Neuter Intervention Project, or SNIP, arranges for spaying, neutering and vaccinations.

Ms. Massaro, a retired word processor for a Manhattan law firm, said she supported the group largely with her own pension checks. Finding the animals better homes sometimes requires some creativity, as with the scrawny black cat she pulled from the streets of Brownsville and installed as the mascot of a Liberty Avenue social club that was well known as a mob hangout.

Driven by a reporter on a recent weekday, Ms. Massaro started by picking up a shopping cart full of food at Pet Supplies Plus in Maspeth, the Queens neighborhood where she lives. After feeding Gina, she spied a scraggly cat across from a bodega and then heard more meowing.

“Somebody’s crying,” she exclaimed, sounding like a protective mother, and she followed the sound to the basement entrance of a residence. She opened the sidewalk doors and pulled out a second skinny cat by the scruff of its neck. A tenant came out and under interrogation by Ms. Massaro, insisted that he had no idea how the cat wound up trapped in the basement. “He’s lying,” she said flatly, after telling him she would be back to have the cats neutered.

At a homeless shelter on Eastern Parkway, she bristled when a worker told her that he “got rid of” feral cats on the property.

“The only thing I get rid of is my garbage,” she snapped.

Ms. Massaro grew up on the Lower East Side. Her twin sister died at birth, and she became the oldest of four girls.

“When I was a teenager, my mother threw my father out on the street, and I would see him on my way to school,” she recalled. She worked to get him social services and housing in a nearby men’s shelter.

“I learned at an early age how to deal with the system and fight for services,” she said — a vital skill for rescuing animals.

She was married at 18, had a daughter at 20 and divorced soon afterward, she said. Her relationships since then have not lasted, not like her love affairs with countless underserved animals on the city streets.

On into the evening, she plodded through Willets Point, feeding cats, asking after certain stray dogs, and grilling groups of grease-smeared workers about animals’ whereabouts.

“How about the rooster that was here, where is he?” she asked a mechanic, who said he did not know.

“Yeah, I bet,” she said and headed to the next animal waiting for her help.
454 2013-07-21 Your own troupe, Ms. Eyal interjected, “is your home.”

Their new home, L-E-V (“heart” in Hebrew), will make its American debut at the Jacob’s Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., Wednesday through next Sunday. Ms. Eyal’s choreography was shown at Jacob’s Pillow by the Norwegian company Carte Blanche in 2011. But this is the first time Ms. Eyal and Mr. Behar’s work will be seen there with their own dancers and creative team.

Fittingly, they’re presenting a piece called “House.” But far from a cozy haven, this house throbs with a rave’s raw, bright energy. What’s onstage doesn’t resemble a rave in a literal sense, and the playfully mischievous music by Ori Lichtik, a member of the L-E-V family, has none of techno’s aggressive, metallic repetition. But the work does induce a trancelike, hypnotic state, the “tripping experience,” as Mr. Behar refers to it.

If the duo’s previous pieces, like “Bill” for Batsheva or “Too Beaucoup” for Hubbard Street Dance Chicago, feel epic and universal in their size and scope, then “House” is an extreme close-up. The dancers — totaling nine, including Ms. Eyal — nicknamed the first of three sections “The Family,” a nod to its intimacy and perhaps also a recognition of what is being built here after Ms. Eyal’s departure from the family that raised her.

Batsheva entered a golden age when the choreographer Ohad Naharin took over in 1990. But to credit him solely with the troupe’s thrilling transformation would be to overlook Ms. Eyal’s significant contributions as muse, singular interpreter of his work and feral company choreographer in her own right.

That artistic lineage attracted Ella Baff, the executive and artistic director of Jacob’s Pillow. “I’m interested in what happens generationally,” she said, explaining that her respect for Mr. Naharin’s work and his endorsement of Ms. Eyal put L-E-V on her radar. “They’ve been embraced and nurtured by an organization, but they want to do something different.”

Ms. Eyal said she was grateful for her time with Batsheva and described the breakup in romantic terms: “You separate from your lover, and you start to understand who you are without him. You learn so much about yourself.”

The split was amiable. “It wasn’t suddenly this exodus,” said Doug Letheren, who left Batsheva to join L-E-V. “It was organic.” But Ms. Eyal became something of a reluctant Pied Piper anyway, and Mr. Letheren and others have followed.

“As a dancer, to really build something with someone who you believe in so much, it’s kind of the best thing you can do,” Mr. Letheren said. His sentiment is similar to the way dancers often describe their devotion to Mr. Naharin. Whether this magnetism is passed from mentor to protégé or is merely the mark of similar souls, Ms. Eyal’s dancers speak of her with a sense of reverence bordering on obsession, a feeling she returns.

Still, the moment of separation created a seismic shift. Almost half of Batsheva departed, and the company had to refresh its ranks with dancers from its junior company and a few from abroad. Mr. Naharin declined to comment on the transition but maintains that Ms. Eyal has his blessing.

Meanwhile, L-E-V generated ample excitement at a showcase of Israeli dance here in December, leading to performance dates around Europe in 2014, as well as its American debut at Jacob’s Pillow.

It’s an impressive beginning, consistent with a company from the Start-Up Nation, as Israel has been branded, a reference both to its own scrappy origins in 1948 and to the tech boom of the past decade. The cultural scene has soaked up a bit of that risk taking.

Nevertheless, Ms. Eyal remains a devotee of Gaga, the movement language Mr. Naharin developed, and she uses it as the foundation for L-E-V’s training, maintaining an energetic and qualitative link between the two groups.

Much of the actual movement material is generated from watching Ms. Eyal improvise in the studio and distilling her movements to their most elemental parts, Mr. Letheren said. “It’s like watching an open heart and mind undo itself,” he said.

In addition to their choreography’s precise movements, Ms. Eyal and Mr. Behar have put an aesthetic stamp on their work. Their creations for L-E-V, Batsheva and other companies all feature a variation of monochromatic white or nude-colored unitards, often paired with whitened hair: simultaneously sensual and a bit cold.

This aesthetic, the creators explain, acts as a blank slate, an erasing mechanism through which the personality of each dancer emerges. Physical traits disappear, and what’s left is just a family of open hearts undoing themselves.

“This is my fetish,” Ms. Eyal said. “I like when people are going extreme.”
455 2013-07-21 When the cupboard is bare, as television’s often is in July, there’s apparently always a haunted house somewhere that needs exploring.

Last weekend Nickelodeon unveiled a comedy, “The Haunted Hathaways,” about a family that moves into a house in New Orleans that is already occupied by the ghosts of a jazz musician and his two sons. And on Saturday, starting at 8 p.m. Eastern time, A&E serves up three hours of earnest paranormal investigation in “American Haunting.”

This show looks at three seemingly haunted hotbeds — two houses and one Mustang — and the families struggling with the apparitions, noises and general creepiness that a haunting brings.

The opening segment focuses on the McGlone family in Grayson, Ky., whose house is freaking them out. Belle, the family 16-year-old, can’t get a decent night’s sleep because of the goings-on, but she is perhaps not the one who should be most worried. “I’ve woken up with the knife drawer open in front of me and end up right beside my mother’s bed,” she says. “I don’t want to hurt anybody. I have no idea what may happen.”

Paranormal investigators set up 24-hour camera surveillance for 11 days to see if they can get to the spooky bottom of things.
456 2013-07-21 Susan Choi’s new novel starts out on familiar territory: the attraction between a precocious young woman and an intellectually charismatic older man. Regina is a 21-year-old graduate student taking literature classes at an unnamed East Coast university; Nicholas Brodeur is her celebrated professor, graced with “exceptional, even sinister, attractiveness.” Yet “My Education,” Choi’s fourth book, only feints toward the conventional novel, with the standard affair between student and professor. Just when Regina and Nicholas seem about to sleep together, he is superseded in Regina’s affections by his 33-year-old wife, Martha, on maternity leave from a teaching position at the same university. One night at a dinner party, Regina trails the older woman out the back door and kisses her, and we find ourselves on a less familiar campus than we’d thought.

The unfolding relationship between the two women, one of exuberant passion on Regina’s part and guilty ambivalence on Martha’s, takes up most of this elegantly written book. Regina’s affair with her professor’s wife is not, however, the only romance here; it inaugurates a fugal series of couplings, with characters swapping partners according to the harmonic logic of desire and rejection. Martha will eventually sleep with a close male friend and former lover of Regina’s; Regina will soon after begin a short affair with Nicholas. In the book’s final section, which takes place 15 years after the principal action, Regina will find herself in a position not too different from Martha’s once upon a time, as a woman no longer exactly young, bound by obligations to a husband, a career and a child. Regina, facing the complexities of adult love — at once deeper and more banal than those of youthful infatuation — must strike her own grown-up bargain between what she has and what she wants. As a younger person, she believed “desire was duty,” refusing to “grasp that desire and duty could rival each other, least of all that they most often do.” She knows better now.

Choi has taken seriously the sexual love between two women who see themselves as straight. This choice of subject matter is an exciting one, for if a number of the great novels of the past century have been stories of gay love, no really adequate literature of bisexuality exists. Regina does not concern herself with the terms “lesbian” or “bisexual,” and she is nonchalant about the sex of her new lover. It was “the least relevant factor of all,” she maintains, “that we were both women.” Her determination to bracket gender is momentarily persuasive. Her “adoration” of Martha is, she feels, “its own totality, bottomless and consuming, a font of impossible pleasure that from the start also bore down on me like a drill until at last it accomplished a permanent perforation.” In love of great intensity and depth the specificity of the beloved can overwhelm any category he or she belongs to — and Regina swears that her feeling for Martha is “so unto itself it could not refer outward, to other affairs between women or even between human beings.” The question is whether it refers outward to, or connects significantly with, the rest of her own life.

Regina’s rhapsodies make her sound very young, and this is the point; Martha, the seasoned adult, must knock — or caress — some sense into her naïve lover. She invokes the prosaic demands the 21-year-old has never suffered in order to explain why things between them will never work out, and teaches Regina — by hurting her — that the single-minded force of a girl’s love “never lasts.” For Choi, the novelistically productive problem is in the differing life stages of the two women. Regina’s grand self-obliteration is something an older person simply isn’t capable of: “Whatever I feel,” Martha says, “I don’t feel it the way that you do.” Martha cares for Regina but also uses her to get out of her marriage. She is calculating because calculation is what adulthood requires. Regina, on the other hand, is no more practical than to briefly and foggily imagine a future household in which Martha substitutes for the husband she once pictured. After she and Martha split up she does not look at other women in a new sexual light, and in the final section of the book there is no evidence that in 15 years she has ever done so.

“My Education” wants to present the love between two women as first and foremost the love between two human beings. Lovers’ gender, Choi suggests, says little about emotional experience. This isn’t quite untrue, and you wouldn’t wish for a novel bogged down in identity politics. But there is something suspect about Regina’s claim that she didn’t love Martha “for being a woman, and would have loved her no less had Shakespearean whim turned her into a man.” Several earnestly heated sex scenes, for one, suggest otherwise. For even if psychologically we may ignore the facts of the body, sexually we depend upon them. Nor has a society yet come into being, even on university campuses, in which we can ignore the sex of our lovers. “My Education” wants us to see this woman’s love affair with another woman as shattering. But the singularity of Regina’s feelings undermines, rather than establishes, their consequentiality. If it doesn’t matter that Regina’s choice of partner is a woman, why is she one?

Falling in love, of course, doesn’t feel like a choice. And there is a true-seeming helplessness to the women’s attraction. Yet the reader wants to feel a similar inevitability about the novel as a whole. Two of Choi’s previous books, “American Woman” (2003) and “A Person of Interest” (2008), take their inspiration in part from real people — Patty Hearst and Wendy Yoshimura in the first case, Ted Kaczynski and Wen Ho Lee in the second — and these stories too seem oddly unmotivated, as if Choi’s subject matter, like the sex of Regina’s lover, is curiously optional. The high stakes of the real-world conflicts that inform these novels are sometimes replaced, in the fictional versions, by lower stakes. In “American Woman,” for example, a robbery that ends up costing a life isn’t undertaken to make an ideological point but simply for economic survival, and in “A Person of Interest,” Kaczynski’s idealistic rage is transposed by Choi into careerism: the fictional bomber kills his targets because he begrudges their success. “My Education” shows a similar timidity with the relevant political stakes, perhaps to similarly apolitical effect. Bisexuality has little social consequence, after all, when it’s wrapped in heterosexual identity. And the affair’s psychological effects on Regina, though made much of at the time, don’t reverberate deeply into her adulthood. She stays with her husband and child, whom she loves. The lesson she’s learned about duty is a conservative one: it teaches you what shouldn’t change.
457 2013-07-21 HOW TO WIN IN WASHINGTON

This article captures something important about Washington culture. What struck me was Kurt Bardella’s comment that he isn’t a “D” or an “R” but an “O” — “Opportunist.” It has nothing to do with right and wrong or what’s best for the country. It’s all about power and ambition. In other words, for folks on the inside, it’s a game, one in which the winners write the rules — but where even a loser who plays his cards right can find himself back in the thick of it. MARK J. KASWAN, Brownsville, Tex., posted on nytimes.com

This article, like so much of the reporting by journalists who cover Washington, didn’t tell me anything important about an issue being debated in Congress or about government abuses or information that would be relevant to me. Instead, it was about the childish machinations of a dysfunctional government. Yes, a large part of the problem in Washington is that reporters have become too chummy with those in power to do objective reporting. But I think an even greater problem is the press obsession with writing about these machinations. Do we need the soap opera? Does it inform us as voters? Or does it distract from the content of the legislation? ELIZABETH NOWAK, Winfield, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

Thanks for this insightful picture of back-room politics and inflated egos in Congress. Like another article in the magazine about bacteria in the gut, this process is invisible yet significant. HUGH MCISAAC, Santa Cruz, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

The last mermaid show Florida still has these hidden places like Weeki Wachee, the sort of quirky, unique attractions that might be considered to be past their prime, but can be far more enjoyable than the “magic” of Disney. And I never considered, before reading this, the empowerment women might get from dressing up as mermaids. ERIN ALTMAN, Tarpon Springs, Fla., posted on nytimes.com

What’s resonating for me is the vulnerability of these mermaid performers. This very human desire to be loved that’s at the root of this performance shines through so brightly in Virginia Sole-Smith’s masterful history and descriptions of the unglamorous and idiosyncratic environment. She also conveys this tragic and also life-affirming resilience to continue to put on this show no matter how indifferent the world outside may appear orhow strange you may look to it. MATT SHEDD, Athens, Ga.
458 2013-07-21 John Gray’s attack on humanism, “The Silence of Animals” (July 7), brings to mind the “battle across Broadway” waged in the 1930s between the humanist and Columbia philosopher John Dewey and the Protestant theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, who taught for decades at Union Theological Seminary.

Dewey believed that intelligence gleaned from the social sciences, when harnessed to human interests, could result in incremental progress. Niebuhr rejected such liberal belief as a dangerous illusion because human beings are besotted with original sin — which he identified with collective egoism and self-interest — thus frustrating the advancement of the species. Dewey, in essence, countered that the problem with this doctrine is its defenders’ persistence in believing it, and that if freed of such dogma, humankind could move ahead.

Dewey did not deny that the human story was riddled with impediments and constraints. But, unlike Niebuhr and John Gray, he asserted that the future is open. If that is so, we simply cannot know where the limits of human progress lie. The refusal to believe that the human prospect is foreclosed is the source of the humanist’s hope, both then and now.

JOSEPH CHUMAN

Hackensack, N.J.

The writer is a leader of the New York Society for Ethical Culture and teaches courses on human rights at Columbia University.
459 2013-07-21 Boredom, it turns out, is a form of stress. Psychologically, it’s the mirror image of having too much work to do, says Jason Kring, president of the Society of Human Performance in Extreme Environments, an organization that studies how people live and work in space, underwater, on mountaintops and other high-risk places. If your brain does not receive sufficient stimulus, it might find something else to do — it daydreams, it wanders, it thinks about itself. If this goes on too long, it can affect your mind’s normal functioning. Chronic boredom correlates with depression and attention deficits.

Astronaut candidates go through two years of training before they’re even approved to fly. And before they are chosen to be candidates, they have to compete against thousands of other applicants. The 2013 class, for instance, had more than 6,000 applicants and only 8 were chosen. Astronauts are rigorously tested for psychological as well as physical fitness. But no mission in NASA’s history has raised the specter of chronic boredom to the degree that a Mars mission does, because none have involved such a long journey through nothingness.

What if, millions of miles from home, a chronically bored astronaut forgets a certain safety procedure? What if he gets befuddled while reading an oxygen gauge? More important, Danckert and Kring say, bored people are also prone to taking risks, subconsciously seeking out stimulation when their environment bores them.

The cognitive and social psychologist Peter Suedfeld says that people will sometimes do reckless, stupid things when they suffer from chronic boredom. In Antarctica, where winter can cut scientists and crew off from the rest of the world for as long as nine months, the isolation can lead to strange behavior. Suedfeld told me he has heard about Antarctic researchers venturing outside in 40-below weather without proper clothing and without telling anyone else they were going out.

The diaries of early polar explorers are full of tales of extreme boredom, depression and desperate attempts at entertainment reminiscent of prisoners’ stories from solitary confinement. An important lesson that Antarctica can impart on a Mars expedition is this: even scientists on important missions can get excruciatingly bored.

One effective way astronauts combat boredom is by staying busy with work. That’s a strategy at HI-SEAS, where the crew member Kate Greene told me that her schedule is packed — every hour planned and accounted for, from the time she wakes up to the time she goes to bed at night. Life on the International Space Station is similar. (In fact, historically, NASA’s problem has been overworking people: in 1973, the exhausted crew of Skylab 4 actually staged a relaxation rebellion and took an unscheduled day off.) But Antarctica is different from HI-SEAS or the International Space Station. Communications are limited. There’s nobody outside the base directing your day. Spectacular views vanish in a haze of white. It’s just you, the people you came in with, no way out and little to break up the monotony.

And so some researchers there have learned to actively fend off boredom by creating what you might call a unique office culture. They celebrate a ridiculous number of holidays, both traditional and invented. You need something to look forward to, Suedfeld says, and planning the events helps change the routine. Even ’s Antarctic crew found ways to put on skits and concerts. On one expedition, Shackleton brought a small printing press. At McMurdo Station, the 1983 winter crew created costumes, learned lines and acted out scenes from the movie It’s possible that we may, someday, watch recordings of Mars-bound astronauts acting out other films. (It’s not so far-fetched. Chris Hadfield, a Canadian astronaut, made a tribute to ’s “Space Oddity” that racked up more than 16 million views on .)

It might sound absurd, but many scientists say strategies like this are necessary because, without proper mental stimulus, we risk making a physically and technologically challenging endeavor into a psychologically grueling one. It would be catastrophic if humanity’s greatest voyage were brought low by the mind’s tendency to wander when left to its own devices.
460 2013-07-22 GURFEIN--Mendel, July 21, 2013. Devoted brother of Helen Ingerman and Elisha. A brilliant mind, Phi Beta Kappa, editor extraordinaire, speech writer for NYC mayor Robert Wagner. Kind, loyal and caring brother, friend who wished for peace and harmo...
461 2013-07-22 It’s conquered the West Coast. And finally by Monday if not sooner, Umami Burger is set to open its first New York restaurant.

As I sampled my first Umami Burger, I was primed to be aware of the legendary funky and savory fifth taste (after sweet, salty, sour and bitter), but it was a subtle presence in what was actually an extremely well-made burger — very juicy, beefy and tasty. Beef itself delivers umami, and it would be a fine burger without the added flavoring tricks. Adam Fleischman, the chief executive and founder of Umami Restaurant Group, is a big guy with a spiel about the balance between the burger (six ounces, freshly coarse-ground, seared on a griddle until just medium-rare) and the bun (soft Portuguese). But try telling that to many New Yorkers, who have no shortage of choices and opinions when it comes to burgers. The umamification of his burger — or what intensifies that fifth taste — comes from the stuff tucked under the lid of the bun, like a shiitake cap and a roasted tomato slice, a parmesan frico and some sautéed onions, a special sauce and other ingredients that make up the company’s “umami dust.”

On the burger menu of 10 or so choices ($10 to $15), including a truffle burger and a tuna burger, are some that are special to New York: a duck burger and a French-dip sandwich. The 128-seat two-story restaurant, with a full bar, has waiter service. Ask for the “cheesy tots,” warm little fried potato pillows. But when it comes to balance, except for the bloody Mary kissed with umami dust (there it is again), the cocktails concocted for the New York branch are mostly too sweet: Umami Burger, 432 Avenue of the Americas (10th Street), (212) 677-8626, umamiburger.com.
462 2013-07-22 The actor will produce and direct “Supermensch,” a feature documentary about the life of Shep Gordon....
463 2013-07-22 If Deutsche Bank does announce a plan to reduce its assets, it would probably do so on July 30, when it discloses second-quarter earnings....
464 2013-07-22 Beijing is taking incremental, but symbolic, steps toward financial reform, the author writes....
465 2013-07-22 Omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to have many health benefits. But they may have risks as well, including an increased risk for prostate cancer....
466 2013-07-22 A $92 quadrillion glitch. Manufacturing is sexy again. The case for paying your people more. And are you prepared to fail?...
467 2013-07-22 Judges from Vocabulary.com announce a winner and four runners-up in the fourth week of our Summer Reading Contest....
468 2013-07-22 Serena Williams won her 53rd WTA title by beating Johanna Larsson, 6-4, 6-1, in the final of the Swedish Open in Bastad. Larsson, a 24-year-old Swede, broke to lead by 3-1 in the first set before Williams fought back to 3-3. Larsson, ranked 76th, advanced to 4-3 before caving in to Williams’s strong serve and losing the next three games.
469 2013-07-22 Woody Austin won the Sanderson Farms Classic in Madison, Miss., on Sunday for his first PGA Tour victory since 2007, beating Cameron Beckman and Daniel Summerhays with an 8-foot birdie putt on the first hole of a playoff. The 49-year-old Austin is the eighth-oldest winner in PGA Tour history and the oldest since Fred Funk won at 50 in 2007.

Austin came into the final round two shots behind Summerhays and Nicholas Thompson, but made up ground with a five-under 67 to finish at 20-under 268. Beckman and Summerhays birdied No. 18 to match Austin, and Beckman missed a 5-foot putt that would have forced a second playoff hole.

■ Beatriz Recari of Spain outdueled Paula Creamer to win the Marathon Classic in Sylvania, Ohio, by one shot, rolling in a 12-foot birdie putt on the 14th hole to take the lead for good en route to her third L.P.G.A. Tour title.

Recari and Creamer, who won the tournament then known as the Jamie Farr Toledo Classic five years ago, started the day tied for first, three shots ahead of their nearest pursuers. They traded the lead until Recari birdied the par-3 14th.

Recari closed with a five-under 66 to finish at 17-under 267. Creamer had a 67.
470 2013-07-22 With one of his best rounds, Phil Mickelson surged to a three-shot win at Muirfield....
471 2013-07-22 Demand for bourbon had been declining since the early ’70s, in part because of the rising popularity of gin and vodka. And the slump was being felt at Buffalo Trace, where the work force was shrinking; it employed 250 people when Mr. Lee started in 1949 and would reach a low of 50 in the early 1990s.

For Blanton’s Single Barrell, Mr. Lee and his staff selected the best-aged bourbon whiskey in the warehouse and bottled it straight from the barrels, unblended, in decanters featuring horse-and-jockey bottle stoppers (a nod to another Kentucky industry). It sold for about $30 a bottle, compared with an average price of $10 to $15 for a most other bourbons.

The brand slowly built a devoted customer base. “We had to have cases and cases of it every Friday, or else,” said Eric Gregory, who as a University of Kentucky student worked part time in a liquor store in the mid-1980s and is now president of the Kentucky Distillers’ Association.

Many Kentucky distilleries have since added premium bourbons to their product lines.

“A well-made, well-aged bourbon offers a gorgeous spectrum of flavors,” the wine and spirits critic Eric Asimov wrote in The New York Times in 2007, “beginning with a distinctive sweetness that can, depending on the distiller’s aim, turn spicy and peppery with clear fruitiness.” Mr. Asimov judged Blanton’s Single Barrel “mellow and earthy, with flavors of mint, citrus, flowers and honey.”

Mr. Gregory, of the Kentucky distillers group, credited the premium market that Mr. Lee pioneered as a major factor in the bourbon industry’s turnaround in the last decade; sales reached 30 million gallons in 2012 for the first time since 1973, he said.

“He was first,” Mr. Gregory said. “He transformed our industry.”

Elmer Tandy Lee was born on Aug. 5, 1919, in Peaks Mill, Ky. His father died when he was an infant, and he was raised by his mother in Frankfort. He entered the University of Kentucky but withdrew to volunteer for the Army in World War II. He served as a radar bombardier in B-29 bombers based in Guam.

Mr. Lee returned to the university after the war to get his degree and began working at the distillery as a maintenance engineer when, under a different owner, it was called the George T. Stagg Distillery. He was promoted to plant superintendent in 1966 and to plant manager in 1969 and given the title master distiller in the early 1980s.

Mr. Lee’s wife, Libby, died in 2006. He is survived by his daughter, Peggy Comer; a grandson; and a great-granddaughter.

After his retirement, Buffalo Trace honored Mr. Lee with a single-barrel brand of his own, the Elmer T. Lee Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey, bottled from barrels he continued selecting himself into his 90s. The label won gold medals this year at both the Los Angeles International Wine and Spirits Competition and the San Francisco World Spirits Competition. The journal Whiskey Advocate described its flavor as “elegant and complex.”
472 2013-07-22 But Mr. Vallas has his admirers. Leon Woods, 51, an unemployed carpenter, credited a program for struggling students started by Mr. Vallas with helping put his son on track to graduation. “I’ve seen the difference,” Mr. Woods said. “I’ve seen the change.”

Mr. Vallas, who has moved to impose a standardized curriculum and to reorganize central offices in Bridgeport, said he was dismayed by the vitriol. On blogs, which he calls “electronic graffiti,” his critics have called him a racist and compared him to the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. The school district’s student population is 49 percent Hispanic and 39 percent black.

“There are some gigantic egos in this town,” Mr. Vallas said in an interview. “No good deed goes unpunished.”

Mr. Vallas, who makes $234,000 a year, arrived in Bridgeport less than two years ago with a mandate to rattle the status quo in one of Connecticut’s poorest cities. He was appointed by a state-controlled panel, but a court ruling early in his tenure left him reporting to a locally elected school board, with several of its members calling for his ouster.

Now Mr. Vallas, a veteran of big-city education battles, faces the once-unimaginable prospect that he will be driven out of town by summer’s end. A retired judge filed a lawsuit arguing that his lack of an education degree makes him unfit for the office, despite his years of experience running other school districts. Last month, a superior court judge agreed, and now Mr. Vallas has appealed the case to the Connecticut Supreme Court.

The battle in Bridgeport highlights the divisiveness of change in American education. Critics of the existing system are pushing centralized control, weaker teacher tenure protections and expanded charter schools, and some have made installing superintendents with backgrounds outside of education a priority, causing rifts in many districts.

Arne Duncan, the federal education secretary, said the opposition to Mr. Vallas was “beyond ludicrous.” He said too many school districts were afraid of innovation, clinging to “archaic ideas.”

“This, to me, is just another painfully obvious, crystal-clear example of people caught in an old paradigm,” Mr. Duncan said in an interview. “This is the tip of the iceberg.”

Mr. Vallas was hired in late 2011 to much fanfare: a nationally known advocate of change in education, with stints in Philadelphia, Chicago and New Orleans on his résumé, coming to the aid of a modest school district mired in budget cuts.

But almost immediately, his support began to erode. The state of Connecticut had been overseeing the Bridgeport district, responding to a dire fiscal situation, but two months into Mr. Vallas’s tenure, the Connecticut Supreme Court ordered the return of an elected school board.

Parents and community advocates who had long opposed the state’s intervention rejoiced. And the Working Families Party, a liberal coalition based in New York City with outposts in Connecticut, made removing Mr. Vallas its mission.

A memo circulated recently by the Working Families Party criticized Mr. Vallas’s hiring of outside consultants, suggesting he was working to privatize the system. “He abuses local school districts to create profits for his business allies, and implements extreme policies that exacerbate racial and economic inequality in the schools,” the memo stated. Mr. Vallas’s opponents said they worried he would move, as he had in other cities, to demand concessions from teachers in contract negotiations, and to expand charter schools, which the opponents believe would drain money from other public schools.

Mr. Vallas had a vulnerability: despite his decades of experience in schools and a master’s degree in political science, he lacked a degree in education, as required by Connecticut law. The state allowed for an exemption, but Mr. Vallas was required to complete a condensed version of the traditional 13-month certification program over the course of several months. “I didn’t view it cynically and I didn’t complain,” Mr. Vallas said.

But in public, he seemed skeptical of the requirement, at one point arguing, “That is like saying Michael Jordan can’t coach basketball because he doesn’t have teacher certification.” His detractors were outraged by the remark, saying it illustrated his arrogant approach to leadership.

Mr. Vallas completed the course, which involved speaking with a professor a few times and writing six papers. But Carmen L. Lopez, a retired judge and education activist, filed a challenge in April contending that Mr. Vallas’s course work was a sham.

“Bridgeport was viewed as so second-class that it could have an unqualified school superintendent,” Ms. Lopez said in an interview. “They don’t do this in the suburbs.”

The legal case has reignited tensions in Bridgeport. Three Working Families Party members have joined a Democrat on the school board in calling for the city to stop paying Mr. Vallas’s legal fees; a five-member majority, led by the board’s chairman, Kenneth H. Moales Jr., has resisted those demands. “I don’t participate in coups,” said Mr. Moales, a defender of Mr. Vallas.

Last week, parents gathered before a school board meeting to hang posters denouncing Mr. Vallas; as the meeting got under way, board members shouted at and interrupted one another.

“Are you finished with your circus?” Mr. Moales asked a critic of the superintendent, shortly before abruptly adjourning the session.

Mr. Vallas, 60, is a onetime politician who came within two percentage points of defeating Rod R. Blagojevich in a primary for the Illinois governor’s office in 2002. He said he did not know what he would do after Bridgeport, though he ruled out a return to politics. He runs an educational consulting business on the side. His clients have included schools in Illinois and Indiana.

But Mr. Vallas said he was determined to serve as superintendent in Bridgeport for at least one more year, so that he could help the district find a leader who would maintain the changes he has set in motion.

“If I left tomorrow, it’s going to be hard to break those things,” he said, seeming hopeful. But he added, “I never underestimate the capacity of a hostile board to destroy a good thing.”
473 2013-07-22 “I think Landon proved again today how valuable he is and now he can make a difference,” United States Coach Jurgen Klinsmann said. “This game was important for coaches to see who is a difference maker. Over all, we see our team clicking more and playing better and better.”

The United States has won nine straight full internationals, a record for the national team. The Americans have also prevailed in seven of their past eight Gold Cup matches, the exception being a 4-2 loss to Mexico in 2011 final.

“We are trying to catch up with the big teams in the world,” Klinsmann said. “It’s all about speed. I’m not talking about physical speed. I’m talking about mental speed, passing speed with every player going both ways. That’s what we’re working to. This is a process and I think that process is coming along.”

Rodolfo Zelaya scored on a penalty kick for El Salvador, which dropped to 1-19-7 over all against the United States.

“Collectively, they’re a very good team,” El Salvador Coach Agustin Castillo said through a translator. “They almost play by memory. They can find the spaces. It almost seems like every time they pass the ball into a space it’s going to nobody, then somebody appears and actually meets the ball. Good work, good movement.”

Goodson put the United States ahead in the 21st minute by converting a crossing pass from Donovan, who gained possession near the end line to the right of the net. It was Goodson’s fifth career goal, and his second in the Gold Cup.

Minutes later, the Americans’ goalkeeper, Nick Rimando, kicked aside a straight-on shot by Lester Blanco Pineda and batted away the subsequent rebound at the right corner of the net.

In the 29th minute, Corona gained possession at the top of the penalty area and used his right foot to line a shot into the left corner for a 2-0 lead.

That drained much of the enthusiasm from the strong contingent of blue-and-white clad El Salvador fans. But momentum shifted in the 39th minute, when El Salvador’s Rodolfo Zelaya was fouled by DaMarcus Beasley and converted the penalty kick to make it 2-1.

Johnson restored the two-goal advantage with a header off a pass from Donovan in the 60th minute. The score came 14 seconds after Johnson entered as a substitute.

Donovan converted a breakaway in the 78th minute, and Diskerud added the final goal from close range six minutes later, just as a sudden rain shower began to pick up intensity.

AFRICAN TROUBLES The African Champions League resumed this weekend with a curtailed schedule because of violence in Egypt and Cameroon’s soccer suspension. Only two of the four matches scheduled for the opening round of a disjointed eight-team group stage were played. Cameroon’s Coton Sport was not allowed to play Ivory Coast’s Sewe Sport after its national federation was suspended by FIFA for government interference, and the meeting of the Cairo rivals Zamalek and Al Ahly was put back until Wednesday because of political turmoil and the threat of violence.
474 2013-07-22 “I would do anything right now to be in Fenway playing some baseball,” he said Friday.

But then his left quadriceps felt tight Saturday morning. As a precaution, he was shifted to designated hitter from third base for Saturday night’s game. He struck out three times, and after the game, he spoke softly as he answered questions, rubbing his face and resting his chin on his hand. He said that he hurt his quadriceps sliding Friday but that the same quad had bothered him last week and had since healed.

He was asked if he thought this setback would jeopardize his return. “I don’t think so,” Rodriguez said. “I’m optimistic that Monday is our day.”

But his body language did not seem optimistic. So again, he was asked if his glum mood was because he might not be ready to return Monday.

“Even if Monday is in jeopardy, there’s always Tuesday,” Rodriguez said. “You know, it’s been a long road, and obviously — yeah, I’m just down about it.”

Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said Sunday that he had exchanged text messages with Rodriguez before the results of the M.R.I. were in, and that he did not expect a significant delay to Rodriguez’s return.

How many more games this costs Rodriguez is uncertain, and his return is also clouded by an M.L.B. investigation into his involvement with an anti-aging clinic in Florida that has been accused of dispensing performance enhancing drugs. But Girardi and the Yankees are growing eager at the prospect of having Rodriguez back.

“I think we’re all anxious to see how he looks physically and how he’s moving,” Girardi said Sunday in Boston before the Yankees played the Red Sox. “Was this surgery as successful as the other one? The other one, he came back great and moved fine. I talked to people who said he ran good the other day. He ran good yesterday. But I am anxious to see him.”

So were the fans here Sunday. Several dozen of them, mostly children and men, had crowded down the third-base line about an hour before the game, hoping to see Rodriguez. They had baseballs, ticket stubs and programs for him to autograph.

One boy, Luke Mushensky, 16, kept glancing down the line toward the dugout.

“I’d rather him be healthy than reinjure himself, like Derek Jeter did,” Mushensky said.

Adam Bancroft, 42, agreed, saying he would rather miss seeing Rodriguez on Sunday if it meant Rodriguez would be back healthy with the Yankees, “where he belongs.”

About 30 minutes later Frank Menechino, a RailRiders coach, stopped to sign autographs. Then a mascot walked down the line and gave high-fives. A few minutes later, one boy turned and shouted, “A-Rod’s not coming out!”

His rehabilitation stint was over, cut short by a new injury. In 13 minor league games, Rodriguez hit .200, with 2 homers, 8 runs batted in and 12 strikeouts. Yet he would still be an improvement over the parade of players the Yankees have tried at third base this season. In 97 games, entering Sunday, Yankee third basemen had batted .223 with 4 home runs and 92 strikeouts.

Rodriguez was out of Moosic, his locker cleared out, his nameplate already removed. Unfortunately for the Yankees, his next stop will be Tampa, not Texas.
475 2013-07-22 The future of television — a place where cable is not the only answer for average viewers — just drew a little closer.

Netflix has earned its place in that future. It won some victories on the programming side by financing creators and staying out of their hair, an approach invented and perfected by HBO. Given that HBO pulled in 108 Emmy nominations last week, Netflix has a long way to go.

But David Bianculli, a professor at Rowan University in New Jersey who blogs at TV Worth Watching, says that Netflix is more like Pixar than Hulu, showing that a Silicon Valley company could produce creative, successful programming.

Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, told The New York Times last week that the Emmy nominations solidified the idea that “television is television, no matter what pipe brings it to the screen.”

He’s right. Television used to come over the air or through the coaxial cable. Now it seems to come from everywhere on all kinds of devices.

Both Google and Apple continue to hover around the honey pot of television. Apple’s rumored effort at making a TV set has been like Godot — much anticipated, never arriving — but in the meantime it is in talks with distributors like Time Warner Cable and programmers like Walt Disney to explore collaboration on apps.

Google has been in talks with program providers, including cable channels, about distribution over the Internet, a more complicated approach — the cable systems that distribute programming would be left out of the mix — with a higher risk in execution.

In both instances, the companies are taking the same wine and putting it in a new bottle, creating a new interface to replace clunky remotes while hoping to gain a lot of valuable data in the process. Figuring out how to put a new skin on the same database can be lucrative — Weather.com, a huge business, is built on existing government data — but it’s one thing to present better navigation, and another to produce better television.

Apple reinvented the music industry on its terms and in doing so cut the legacy music business in half. The TV business, which is still sitting on healthy earnings, if not ratings, saw that movie already and wants no part of it.

But Apple is nothing if not relentless. One of its reported approaches is to enable ad-skipping while making a payment to ad-supported networks. “In essence they were saying that they would cut them a check while destroying their business model,” said Craig Moffett, a telecommunications analyst. “How long do you think that conversation lasted?”

Meanwhile Google is selling its ability to make content more visible and searchable; that sounds like the favor Google did for the newspaper business, which, like music, is half the size it once was.

Netflix realized early on that it was a frenemy to traditional media providers and distributors and has been careful not to threaten them. Instead, it has positioned itself as a feature to help cable companies sell broadband products while opening up new paydays for content providers.

As its fortunes rose, Netflix also realized that legacy companies would start cutting off access to quality programming, so it turned from being a movie provider with so-so television, to a television company with so-so movies. The ultimate play was baking and selling its own goods.

Original content is hard. As silly as the network process is — let’s finance 20 pilots, pick three and cancel two of them after three weeks — no one had come up with anything better until HBO came along. Its model of finding good people, paying them for full seasons and running their work until it builds an audience — or not — has been emulated to very good effect by Showtime, AMC, FX and now Netflix.

The difference at Netflix comes in execution and distribution. The release of all the episodes simultaneously around the world is a hugely disruptive strategy, one that has already altered consumer expectations. And the splash at the Emmys let talent, audiences and rivals know that it is playing for keeps in the ambitious, long-form genre that has become a signature TV product.

Oddly, Netflix, the media distribution company with the best handle on viewing numbers, refuses to share them because it doesn’t sell advertising. The lack of audience numbers in a business historically reliant on ratings for establishing value gives it a huge advantage in negotiating with the people who sell it the programming. And streaming rights, which were once a toss-in freebie from studios and production houses, are now hotly contested by all kinds of players. (Netflix’s willingness to pony up for AMC’s “The Killing” is part of why it was revived.)

Consumer cord-cutting is a looming threat, not a current reality, but without prospects for growth, cable companies and programmers will continue to robotically raise rates, blaming one another as they go and deepening consumer antipathy that will eventually come home to roost.

Netflix would do well in that new world. It already is doing so.

It now seems obvious that an industry ripe for disruption would eventually be transformed from the outside. I just didn’t think it would be by the company that used to mail red envelopes to my house.
476 2013-07-22 To Americans, Guy Pearce is a movie star, known for playing a crusading cop in “L.A. Confidential,” an obsessive amnesiac in “Memento” and a villain in “Iron Man 3.” At home in Australia, he’s also that guy who used to be on television — a regular in popular soap operas in the 1980s and ’90s and a star of the frontier story “Snowy River: The McGregor Saga” (in which his cast mates included Josh Lucas, Hugh Jackman, Wendy Hughes and Olivia Newton-John).

Last year, in a big event in Australia, Mr. Pearce returned to his roots, playing a private eye in a pair of TV movies based on the Jack Irish mystery novels by Peter Temple. Americans can see Mr. Pearce’s low-key performance as an unassuming hard-boiled hero when “Jack Irish: Bad Debts” and “Jack Irish: Black Tide” begin streaming online on Monday at Acorn TV.

Irish is a Melbourne lawyer whose world falls apart (in a particularly brutal way) in the opening minutes of “Bad Debts.” The action picks up with Irish reduced to collecting money for a local horseplayer and chancing upon small mysteries that happen to unravel lethal conspiracies hatched at the top levels of the police and government.

He’s the classic haunted private eye, but the anguish is underplayed, with the writers and Mr. Pearce emphasizing Irish’s doggedness, decency and deadpan humor. And the films are solidly constructed — nothing too surprising or exceptional happens, but the mysteries are logical, the texture is gritty, and the performances are more than capable.

They’re solid examples of how the Australian and British TV industries still put some care into the production of genre movies, a format that’s been reduced to hack work and camp in America. (Hello, “Sharknado 2.”) The only recent American comparison was the “Jesse Stone” series on CBS starring Tom Selleck, and while it was nice to see a network trying to do a serious and uncompromising contemporary noir, the self-consciousness of the films’ dialogue and their heavy-handed moodiness were off-putting.

The “Irish” films benefit both from a lighter touch and from location shooting in Melbourne, whose funkiness and edge of decrepitude help to supply the undercurrent of nostalgia and egalitarianism essential to satisfying noir. Irish’s man-of-the-people credentials include a Studebaker Hawk, a calming apprenticeship to a Yoda-like cabinetmaker and, most important, his regular, a shabby pub whose clientele consists of three geezers who idolize Irish’s father, a local football hero.
477 2013-07-23 Credit: Yana Paskova for The New York Times
478 2013-07-23 The biggest issue in interpreting the new health care law appears to involve how a company determines whether employees whose hours fluctuate must be offered insurance....
479 2013-07-23 In the latest incarnation of the hedge fund billionaires’ public spat over the nutritional supplements company Herbalife, one hedge fund manager (briefly) taunts another in a message on the Bloomberg terminal....
480 2013-07-23 The airline’s conditional offer was seen by some analysts as more maneuvering in its pursuit of Aer Lingus....
481 2013-07-23 A private job placement company said that there are plenty of job seekers in the United States for thousands of tech jobs, raising doubts over appeals for more foreign guest workers....
482 2013-07-23 The Supreme Court on Monday overturned the Bombay High Court’s suspension of a law dealing with tobacco advertising in shops....
483 2013-07-23 Samples of Sales Taxes on Products in Brazil

Brazilians pay at least 30 percent in sales taxes on more than 400 products and services, according to data compiled by a group advocating for reduced taxes. Below, protesters in Rio de Janeiro last month demonstrating against government spending on the 2014 World Cup.
484 2013-07-23 Inflation stands at about 6.4 percent, with many in the middle class complaining that they are bearing the brunt of price increases. Limiting the authorities’ maneuvering room, the popular indignation is festering at a time when huge stimulus projects are failing to lift the economy from a slowdown, raising the specter of stagflation in Latin America’s largest economy.

“Brazil is on the verge of recession now that the commodities boom is over,” said Luciano Sobral, an economist and a partner in a São Paulo asset management firm who maintains an irreverent economics blog under the name the Drunkeynesian. “This is making it impossible to ignore the high prices which plague Brazilians, especially those who cannot easily afford to travel abroad for buying sprees where things are cheaper.”

Brazil’s sky-high costs can be attributed to an array of factors, including transportation bottlenecks that make it expensive to get products to consumers, protectionist policies that shield Brazilian manufacturers from competition and a legacy of consumers somewhat inured to relatively high inflation, which remains far below the 2,477 percent reached in 1993, before a drastic restructuring of the economy.

But economists say much of the blame for the stunningly high prices can be placed on a dysfunctional tax system that prioritizes consumption taxes, which are relatively easy to collect, over income taxes.

Alexandre Versignassi, a writer who specializes in deciphering Brazil’s tax code, said companies were grappling with 88 federal, state and municipal taxes, a number of which are charged directly to consumers. Keeping accountants on their toes, the Brazilian authorities issue an estimated 46 new tax rules every day, he said.

Making matters worse for many poor and middle-class Brazilians, loopholes enable the rich to avoid taxation on much of their income; wealthy investors, for instance, can avoid taxes on dividend income, and partners in private companies are taxed at a much lower rate than many regular employees.

The result is that many products made in Brazil, like automobiles, cost much more here than in the far-flung countries that import them. One example is the Gol, a subcompact car produced by Volkswagen at a factory in the São Paulo metropolitan area. A four-door Gol with air-conditioning sells for about $16,100 here, including taxes. In Mexico, the equivalent model, made in Brazil but sold to Mexicans as the Nuevo Gol, costs thousands of dollars less.

The ability of many Brazilians to afford such cars reflects positive economic changes over the past decade, like the rise of millions of people from grinding poverty and a decline in unemployment, which is now at historically low levels. Salaries climbed during that time, with per-capita income now about $11,630, as measured by the World Bank, compared with $6,990 in neighboring Colombia. But Brazil finds itself far below developed nations like Canada, where the per-capita income is $50,970.

As a result, a resident of São Paulo, Brazil’s financial capital, has to work an average of 106 hours to buy an iPhone, while someone in Brussels labors 54 hours to buy the same product, according to a global study of wages by the investment bank UBS. To buy a Big Mac, a resident here has to work 39 minutes, compared with 11 minutes for a resident of Chicago.

Stroll into any international airport in Brazil, and such imbalances are vividly on display, with thousands of residents packing into flights each day for shopping trips to countries where goods are substantially cheaper.

Even though the Brazilian currency, the real, has weakened against the dollar this year (it currently stands at about 2.20 to the dollar), Brazilians spent $2.2 billion abroad in May, the highest amount on record for the month since the central bank began tracking such data in 1969.

Eyeing this market, some travel agents have begun tailoring trips to Miami for clients eager to buy baby products like digital monitors, strollers, pacifiers, even Pampers wipes, which in Brazil cost almost three times as much as in the United States.

Seeking to prevent such shopping binges from getting out of control, the federal police screen travelers upon arrival, picking out people whose luggage appears to bulge with too many items. If it can be proved that Brazilians spent over a certain limit abroad, they are immediately forced to pay taxes on their purchases.

Such screening catches foreigners, too. In May, the police at São Paulo’s international airport arrested two American Airlines flight attendants, both American citizens, on smuggling charges after they were found going through customs carrying a total of 14 smartphones, 4 tablet computers, 3 luxury watches and several video games. The smartphones were hidden in their underwear, the police said, and were intended to be sold on the black market.

Before the protests began, Brazil’s government had begun trying to combat price increases. The central bank raised interest rates after an uproar over food prices this year contributed to inflation fears. The authorities removed some taxes on some products, like cars. Even so, inflation remains high while the economy remains sluggish, leaving many Brazilians fuming about the high taxes embedded in the price of products they buy.

A new federal law requiring retailers to detail on receipts how much tax customers are being charged has fed some of this anger. Fernando Bergamini, 38, a graphic designer, was stunned after spending $92 one recent day on groceries like tomatoes, beans and bananas, only to glance at his receipt and discover that $25 of that was in taxes.

“It is shocking given the services we receive for giving the government our money,” Mr. Bergamini said. “Seeing it like this on a piece of paper makes me feel indignant.”
485 2013-07-23 One of Vietnam’s most prominent dissidents is on the 30th day of a hunger strike to protest against being held in solitary confinement, family members said Monday, casting attention on Vietnam’s human rights record ahead of trip by the country’s president this week to the White House. The dissident, Nguyen Van Hai, also known as Dieu Cay, is serving a 12-year prison term for conducting “propaganda against the state” through his blogging and citizen media activities. His case has been mentioned by President Obama, whose administration is appealing for the release of political prisoners. It is unclear whether human rights will be discussed in talks scheduled for Thursday between Mr. Obama and President Truong Tan Sang of Vietnam. Administration officials have said in the past that closer ties between Vietnam would be difficult unless it releases dissidents and loosens its grip on freedom of expression. So far this year, 46 people have been convicted and sentenced for dissident activities, many of them bloggers.
486 2013-07-23 Since last week, when Detroit became the largest American metropolis ever to file for bankruptcy, Mayor Dave Bing has appeared, in subdued tones, as a voice for his city. His office has issued statements, and he has turned up on network television. And in the hours immediately after the court filing on Thursday, Mr. Bing stood in his 11th-floor briefing room along with Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn D. Orr, fielding questions about how the city had reached such a dire spot.

“As tough as this is — I really didn’t want to go in this direction — but now that we’re here, we have to make the best of it,” Mr. Bing said that evening. Unsaid was that Mr. Orr and Gov. Rick Snyder, who appointed Mr. Orr to solve the city’s financial troubles, were the only ones with a formal role in Detroit’s decision to seek Chapter 9 protection.

Under Michigan’s law for cities teetering on the edge of collapse, which provides broad powers to emergency managers, Mr. Bing finds himself in a rare and somewhat perplexing position — still the mayor, but with no say on his city’s biggest choices.

“He’s been so embarrassed by all of this and so neutered,” said Steve Hood, a political consultant in Detroit.

Mr. Bing, 69, a former professional basketball star who is completing his first full mayoral term, took office in 2009 pledging to solve Detroit’s fiscal problems, which by then were already overwhelming. In the four years since, there have been numerous announcements of cuts to the city’s work force, efforts to fill annual budget deficits, and urgent calls for sacrifices from labor groups, not to mention the arrival of Mr. Orr. And in May, Mr. Bing declared that he would not run for re-election. A primary with a wide field of candidates, but not Mr. Bing, is set for Aug. 6.
487 2013-07-23 Wednesday’s hearing will be the first in what is expected to be a long, contentious bankruptcy case.

Bondholders, city employees, retirees and other creditors are poised to fight for whatever payment they can extract from the city, which in addition to its debts has run budget deficits for several years.

Mr. Orr and Mr. Snyder are determined to settle Detroit’s debts for pennies on the dollar to revitalize its finances and improve rapidly declining city services.

Legal experts were startled and intrigued that a state judge had taken the unusual step of trying to challenge a federal bankruptcy case.

Generally, the United States Constitution is clear about what happens when federal and state laws are in conflict. The so-called Supremacy Clause gives federal law pre-emptive power, in most cases, over state law. If Judge Rhodes were to follow that interpretation, he would probably order that the Chapter 9 case is protected from most legal challenges under state law.

“It’s a close call,” said Samuel J. Gerdano, the executive director of the American Bankruptcy Institute.

He noted that Chapter 9 bankruptcy does have a provision that prohibits proposing a bankruptcy plan that violates state law, which in Michigan’s case could include making changes to accrued public employee pensions and benefits.

“You have to take it seriously,” Mr. Gerdano said. “Michigan has this provision on public pensions, and it’s unusual.”

He predicted that the federal bankruptcy case would ultimately move forward. “It’s going to proceed,” he said, adding that there is a possibility that public pensions could be taken out of the bankruptcy equation and preserved.

A ruling by Judge Rhodes that insulated the Chapter 9 case from litigation could also be appealed. “Obviously it will be fought every step of the way,” Mr. Gerdano said.

Another expert said the supremacy of federal law might not be cut and dried in this case.

John A. E. Pottow, a law professor at the University of Michigan, said that he was dismissive at first of the state action.

“Now I’m convinced there is a plausible argument,” he said, that the federal filing may have infringed on the state Constitution. But he thinks the Chapter 9 case will move forward regardless.

“My hunch is that they are going to find that it’s O.K. to file a Chapter 9,” he said.

Union officials on Monday expressed confidence that the state law would prevail.

At a news conference in Detroit, the president of the United Auto Workers union, Bob King, said that Mr. Orr never truly tried to negotiate a settlement of retiree pensions as he has claimed.

“Kevyn Orr has not held a single bargaining session with the unions,” said Mr. King, whose union represents about 200 city workers. “They have meetings where they just talked at them and not with them.”

Mr. King contrasted the discussions with the negotiations between the U.A.W., the federal government, and the bankrupt automakers General Motors and Chrysler.

“With the auto companies we tried to resolve this together,” he said. “But Mr. Orr and Mr. Snyder aren’t interested in that.”
488 2013-07-23 Sunday’s election for the upper house of Parliament in Japan was a strong vote of confidence for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the pro-growth fiscal and monetary policies he has pursued since entering office in December. His conservative coalition now seems assured a working parliamentary majority through 2016, which would end the trend of weak revolving-door governments, which saw six successive prime ministers over the past six years.

Mr. Abe should not, however, treat the results as an endorsement of his disturbingly right-wing foreign-policy views, which include a nationalistic revision of World War II history, overheated rhetoric toward China and attempts to rewrite Japan’s Constitution to permit more assertive military actions. This election was about economics.

Mr. Abe challenged conventional economic wisdom during winter by using deficit spending and easy money to jolt Japan’s inert economy back to life. As a result, Japan’s annualized growth rate is now 4 percent, the highest among the leading developed economies. If he were wise, he would use his new strength to push through the remaining, and politically most difficult, parts of his economic agenda, like paring back agricultural subsidies, regulations on retail commerce and labor market restrictions that have weakened Japan’s growth for decades. If these issues cannot be tackled now, it is hard to imagine when they would ever be addressed.

Sustaining growth will require structural reforms to retool Japan’s high-wage, high-cost, high-regulation economy so that it can compete more effectively in a world where lower-wage countries can produce many of its exports for less. Japan’s educated work force helps, as does its first-class transportation systems and port infrastructure. But those assets have not been enough to get the country out of two decades of stagnation and will not be enough today.

Mr. Abe should use the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks, which Japan is scheduled to join this week, as a lever to win domestic support for the cutting farm subsidies, and he should pare back labor market restrictions that discourage workers from moving out of fading sectors like traditional manufacturing. He should also push for expanded immigration of foreign workers, which would add new energy to the labor force and help pay for the pensions of a rapidly expanding elderly population. And he needs to resist pressure from deficit hawks to increase consumption taxes, at least until economic recovery is more firmly established.

To keep commerce going with China, Japan’s most important Asian trading partner, Mr. Abe has to stop rubbing raw the wounds of World War II. That includes not visiting the Yasukuni Shrine, where war criminals from that conflict are honored. Nor should his government divert budget resources into military muscle flexing. Pushing into these politically contentious areas would erode the economic progress and promise of stable political leadership Mr. Abe has just worked so hard to achieve.
489 2013-07-23 LOS ANGELES — Michael Jackson’s mother continued her testimony on Monday in the wrongful death lawsuit she brought against the promoter of Jackson’s planned comeback concerts, appearing emotional and at times confused and exhausted, but saying that she was determined to find out the truth about how her son died four years ago.

“I wanted to find out what really happened to my son,” said Katherine Jackson, 83.

In her suit, Mrs. Jackson says that the promoter, AEG Live, is liable for Jackson’s death because it failed to properly monitor Dr. Conrad Murray, his personal physician for the shows. She is seeking damages equivalent to what her son could have earned had he lived, a sum that one witness estimated at more than $1.5 billion.

AEG counters that Jackson hired the doctor and kept secret his use of propofol, the powerful anesthetic that killed him. Dr. Murray is serving a four-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter.

Witnesses in the trial so far, called by Mrs. Jackson’s lawyers, have included Jackson’s creative partners, his 16-year-old son Prince, and AEG executives, whose flurry of e-mails about Jackson’s condition in the days before his death have been repeatedly parsed in court.

Mrs. Jackson said it had been difficult for her to hear what she called falsehoods about her son. She said it was also hurtful to see e-mails from AEG executives mocking Jackson, including one in which he was called “the freak.”
490 2013-07-23 Spyridon Gianniotis of Greece retained his title in the 10-kilometer open water marathon at the swimming world championships in Barcelona, Spain, surging ahead on the final lap to avoid a sprint with the Olympic champion Oussama Mellouli of Tunisia.

Gianniotis clocked 1 hour 49 minutes 11.8 seconds. Thomas Lurz of Germany, a five-time world champion, finished second, 2.7 seconds behind. Mellouli was third, 7.4 seconds back.

China captured both diving golds of the day, with Chen Ruolin and Liu Huixia winning the women’s 10-meter synchronized platform after Li Shixin retained his men’s 1-meter springboard title.
491 2013-07-23 Mr. Anthony doesn’t make records without serious sentimentality, live and wriggling. Here it’s packed into those beginnings of songs before they detonate, but musical sentimentality — as opposed to the merely emotional kind — runs thick in a couple of smart tracks. One is a cover of the bolero standard “La Copa Rota,” which has been performed by José Feliciano and others, a story of jealous rages and open wounds both real and metaphorical. The other is the hyper-dramatic “Hipocresía.” It’s an old song first done by the Peruvian pop group Los Pasteles Verdes in the mid-’70s, and Mr. Anthony’s hard-salsa version could pass for something from that long ago. But it’s played and sung as seriously as the album’s hit; different style, same intensity. BEN RATLIFF

One of the small untruths in circulation in the current jazz scene is the notion of an irreparable fault line between conservative and progressive factions, one side holding fast to definitions and the other doing its best to ignore them. Believe in that fissure too readily and you could find yourself making judgments that have little to do with music. You’d certainly have a hard time deciding what to make of the new album by Chris Morrissey, which belongs to neither camp, unless it belongs to both.

Mr. Morrissey is a bassist in his early 30s, living in Brooklyn. Like many improvising musicians who fit his demographic, he has an interest in indie-rock and singer-songwriters. Unlike some, he has worked extensively in those fields, with the likes of Ben Kweller, Sara Bareilles and Andrew Bird. He’s also the frontman of Taurus, a four-piece Brooklyn rock band with a tuneful and bittersweet air.

“North Hero” is Mr. Morrissey’s second instrumental jazz release, and at times — as on a track like “Hands Crystals Anderson,” with its throbbing bass line and motorik beat — it does call indie-rockish energies to mind. But that’s not unusual for an album with this pedigree. As he did a few years ago on “The Morning World,” his debut on Sunnyside, Mr. Morrissey leads a combo featuring a fellow Minnesotan, the saxophonist Mike Lewis, who has likewise toured with Mr. Bird, as well as with Bon Iver.

But while “The Morning World” introduced a bandleader-composer eager to lay his cards on the table, “North Hero” feels more measured and patient. Mr. Morrissey’s current quartet features Mr. Lewis along with the pianist Aaron Parks and the drummer Mark Guiliana, and their rapport runs casual yet deep. These are players who bring equal focus to a heavy dirge or an odd-metered slalom while never sounding academic.

And it would be foolish to argue that they aren’t rooted in the greater jazz tradition. “One Worn Mile” has the bleary cowpoke saunter of an outtake from “Way Out West,” the Sonny Rollins album. “Electric Blanket” is a postbop waltz with an interlude perhaps inspired by Debussy. And “Midland Texas Picnic Area,” a corkscrew swinger, elicits a two-minute solo from Mr. Parks that would lower the boom at any jam session.

It’s no idle detail that “North Hero” was produced by David King of the Bad Plus and Happy Apple, two bands with intrepid angles on the rock-meets-jazz equation. (Mr. Lewis is a member of the second one.) Mr. King, who has been a mentor to Mr. Morrissey, played drums, bracingly, on the previous album. He does something no less vital here, which is to encourage an unself-conscious style blender to be true to himself. NATE CHINEN
492 2013-07-23 Proposed biomarkers of aging haven’t yet convincingly cleared these hurdles, he added. But some provocatively telling ones have come to light.

In a 2010 study, Dr. Miller and colleagues analyzed medical records of 4,097 women, collected over two decades beginning when they were in their 60s, to sift out 13 factors that best predicted future mortality from different causes.

Oddly, contrast sensitivity — as measured by a test of the eye’s ability to pick out very lightly shaded images on white backgrounds — was among the most predictive of the 377 factors evaluated, as was the number of rapid step-ups on a low platform that the subjects could complete in 10 seconds. Taken together, the 13 factors “characterize the clinical presentation of healthy aging” in older women, the study concluded.

More recently, novel technologies that can detect thousands of age-associated molecular changes in cells have come to the fore in the biomarker hunt.

Earlier this year Dr. Zhang and his colleagues in San Diego reported that a kind of molecular aging clock is embedded in our genomes whose speed can be measured via blood testing. The moving parts of the clock consist of chemical tags on DNA molecules that control whether genes are active in cells. The researchers found that the patterns of the tags, called epigenetic markers, predictably change with age. In a study published in January in Molecular Cell, the scientists scrutinized around 485,000 of these tags in blood cells of 656 people aged 19 to 101. Some 70,387 tags were predictive of chronological age, the scientists found.

Collectively these tags spell out a “signature for age” that is “largely not changed by disease or ethnic background,” said Ronald Kohanski, an expert on biomarkers of aging at the National Institute on Aging. That means these markers may be less muddied by confounders than other factors tied to aging.

Of the markers, 71 most indicative of chronological age were selected to measure the speed at which people are growing old. That was calculated by comparing a subject’s epigenetic tags to the norm for his or her age — a 40-year-old whose pattern closely resembled the typical one for 50-year-olds, for example, would apparently be aging 25 percent faster than normal.

Already the molecular clock has yielded interesting findings. Men appear to age on average 4 percent faster than women, the scientists have found, which may largely explain why women’s life expectancy exceeds men’s by about 6 percent worldwide. And the research has shed intriguing light on cancer: The clock indicated that tumor cells have aged, on average, 40 percent more than normal cells taken from the same patients.

“We’re still far from having a diagnostic for biological aging,” said Trey Ideker, the chief of genetics at U.C.S.D and a co-author of the study with Dr. Zhang. “But this opens the door to an exciting new approach” to the problem.

Researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill recently implanted a firefly gene into mice, engineering animals whose cells light up as they age and become “senescent,” losing the ability to divide and renew damaged tissue. This loss is tied to aging-related ills in many species, including degenerative diseases and dwindling muscle mass.  Surprisingly, the brightness levels weren’t closely tied to longevity in the animals, suggesting that cellular senescence is just part of the larger aging puzzle. The researchers also found that noncancerous cells near nascent tumors emitted a remarkably strong glow: early-stage cancers apparently set off hot spots of accelerated cellular aging.

That means “we can literally see the earliest molecular stages of cancer” unfolding in the mice, said Dr. Norman E. Sharpless, a professor of medicine and genetics at U.N.C. who led the study, published in January in the journal Cell.

If this continuing research pans out, aging-rate tests may someday be standard in annual physicals, and tracking the results over time would offer unprecedented insights on health risks. But such tests also may well raise fractious privacy and social equity issues.

Insurers might demand that customers take them in order to set premiums for life and health care policies. The tests may also reveal how factors like exposure to environmental toxins and the stress of job loss accelerate aging, and by how much — fodder for lawsuits.

Some of us will be relatively short-lived, fast-aging “less fortunate,” and others will be long-lived, slow-aging “more fortunates,” predicted John K. Davis, a philosophy professor at California State University, Fullerton. And age discrimination will gain an entirely new meaning.
493 2013-07-23 The stock price for Netflix has more than doubled this year as investors placed bets that the company would just keep growing and growing. And sure enough, Netflix reported on Monday that it gained 630,000 subscribers in the United States in the spring, thanks in part to people who signed up to watch “Arrested Development,” the Fox sitcom that it revived in May.

Netflix’s subscriber gains — an improvement over last year’s performance during what is traditionally its weakest quarter of the year — and overall profits were well within projections, but some investors, hoping for more, sent the stock down about 8 percent in after-hours trading before rebounding somewhat. That result alludes to one of the challenges Netflix faces: maintaining the enthusiasm of both investors and subscribers to its video-streaming services.

Looking ahead, Netflix projected that it would add 690,000 to 1.49 million subscribers in the United States in the third quarter, continuing a growth trajectory that has made it one of the most closely tracked companies in the media and technology industries. Analysts say that Reed Hastings, Netflix’s chief executive, and his colleagues are under pressure to prove that they can keep adding members to what feels more and more like a Netflix club, with insiders who can watch the service’s original shows and outsiders who cannot.

On a first-of-its-kind video conference call between Netflix executives and two interviewers on Monday evening, the executives said that the original shows — including “House of Cards,” which was nominated for nine Emmy Awards last week — are only slightly affecting the bottom line now, but will ultimately add significantly to the company’s subscriber totals and revenues.

“If we do it right, these will turn into real franchises,” Mr. Hastings said.

Ted A. Sarandos, the company’s chief content officer, reminded investors that traditional networks like HBO and Showtime worked for many years to gain widespread recognition. In Netflix’s case, he said, “the brand is starting to mean something to viewers, already.”
494 2013-07-23 Aflatoxins — poisons produced by fungi that grow on moldy peanuts and corn — may be worsening Africa’s AIDS epidemic by helping suppress the immune systems of newly infected people, a new study has found.

The study, by researchers at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and published recently in the World Mycotoxin Journal, measured blood levels of aflatoxins and H.I.V. in 314 Ghanaians who had never taken antiviral drugs.

The more aflatoxins they had, the more likely they were to have high blood levels of H.I.V. — even those with higher levels of CD4 blood cells, meaning they had not been infected long and were not yet eligible for triple-therapy cocktails under the latest World Health Organization guidelines.

The toxins, produced by aspergillus fungi that grow on damp grains, nuts and beans, are so common as to be almost unavoidable in humid climates, but so dangerous that federal law limits concentrations in food to 20 parts per billion. American peanut-butter makers are always on the watch for them. Ground peanuts are a staple food of West Africa.

In high doses, aflatoxins can be deadly. A 2004 outbreak in Kenya killed 125 people; samples of moldy corn had up to 8,000 parts per billion. Regular exposure to low doses can cause liver cancer.

The authors suggested that aflatoxins either contribute proteins that help H.I.V. reproduce or somehow lessen the numbers of the white blood cells that the virus targets, making its attack on the immune system more potent.
495 2013-07-23 PARIS — Former Prime Minister Petr Necas of the Czech Republic acknowledged in an interview published Monday that he had shown poor judgment and said he had planned to resign even before he became ensnared in a corruption scandal that brought down his government last month.

Mr. Necas, 48, was forced to resign after the police charged his chief of staff with bribery and abuse of office. In the interview, published in Tyden, a Czech weekly magazine, Mr. Necas characterized the chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, as his girlfriend. She is accused of ordering the secret services to spy on his estranged wife, whom Mr. Necas is divorcing. “Our relationship is very deep, and I am counting on it for the future,” he told the magazine.

Ms. Nagyova has also been charged with bribing three members of Parliament, who opposed a government austerity plan, with offers of posts in state-owned companies in return for their agreement to leave Parliament. In total, eight officials with links to Mr. Necas were arrested in an elaborate anti-corruption sting operation that included wiretapping Ms. Nagyova’s phone conversations. She has denied any wrongdoing and was released from jail Friday, pending trial.

Elaborating on his extramarital affair for the first time and taking responsibility for what happened, Mr. Necas said he had known that being romantically involved with his chief of staff while he was prime minister was ill advised. But, he suggested, he was a man deeply in love. “Interconnecting a personal relationship with a working relationship is simply not correct, and I knew that,” he said. “I must bear personal political responsibility for this, too.”

Mr. Necas said he and Ms. Nagyova had both planned to leave their posts by the end of the summer but were pre-empted when the scandal erupted. He said that prosecutors must have known from the wiretaps of his departure plans and that the sudden and dramatic arrests in June appeared to be motivated to assure maximum exposure and embarrassment for him and Ms. Nagyova. “They knew that the colorful soap opera stage which they counted on exposing would disappear,” he said.
496 2013-07-23 The sports scientists and the journalists who analyzed Froome’s data carefully put it this way: the rider’s performances were in the realm of the humanly possible. And that was the best Froome and Sky could hope for.

“Basically, it is to say these performances were very good, strong, clean sporting performances,” Froome said.

Yet no one believes the questions will stop, if only because Froome is capable of exceptional performances — as when he left the Tour field behind on a climb in the Pyrenees, recording speeds and power that rivaled riders in the doping years. Even Froome has acknowledged that the doping questions, while disheartening, are legitimate in the post-Lance Armstrong era.

Jonathan Vaughters, a former rider who admitted to doping years ago and is now an antidoping advocate as team manager of Garmin-Sharp, said the sport had lost credibility. Until that changes, he said, the top riders will be asked questions that they can never satisfactorily answer.

“If you took a hypothetical situation where everyone knew that the antidoping controls were 100 percent effective, then these questions wouldn’t be asked,” Vaughters said. “And it wouldn’t be placed on Chris Froome.”

Vaughters argues that the onus for cleaning up the sport’s image should lie not with individual riders or even teams, but with its governing body, the International Cycling Union. The union points out that its testing program has been strengthened significantly, and many critics agree. But those critics, including Vaughters, say the union should take the additional step of ceding responsibility for testing to a fully independent agency.

The union’s president, Pat McQuaid, opposes that idea, but a challenger for leadership of the organization, Brian Cookson, has endorsed it.

Even a change in leadership would be only a start, Vaughters said. “This is a long war, and this isn’t going to resolve itself with one or two definitive actions,” he added. “Re-establishing credibility is incredibly hard. Losing it is easy.”

Like Froome, other riders in the peloton say they understand the skepticism about their performances. But they are also frustrated by their inability to put the questions to rest.

Andrew Talansky, an American rookie in the Tour this year with Garmin-Sharp, said he hoped some middle ground would emerge between blind faith and equally blind skepticism.

“If you want to look at it with a skeptical eye and say, ‘O.K., I see a performance that I don’t 100 percent believe in,’ that’s fine,” Talansky said. “As long as there’s room in there for people to eventually see that the performances they are witnessing in the Tour are real.”

Yet for some, such faith is just not possible anymore. They say they have seen too many doping scandals that were followed by promises for a cleaner day but instead gave way to new scandals. That is why some scientists and cycling journalists have taken it upon themselves to try to police the sport independently, and from afar, with whatever scientific data they can obtain.

Those watchdogs acknowledge that their methods are imperfect, and they do their best to avoid actually accusing anyone of doping. But in a world where there are no perfect tests, and where teams are reluctant to release physiological data about their athletes, the watchdogs’ long-distance monitoring is crucial, they say.

“The value of the process is not to look for that definitive answer; it’s to interrogate the performances critically,” said Ross Tucker, a senior lecturer at the University of Cape Town in South Africa who evaluates cycling performances on sportsscientists.com.

Scientific skeptics including Tucker say they believe cycling has been cleaned up significantly in recent years, as evidenced by slower times up big mountains. But some of Froome’s dominant climbs in this year’s Tour raised eyebrows anew.

By the same logic, Froome’s stumbles have served to bolster his case that he is clean. While chasing other riders on the second ascent of Alpe d’Huez last week, he “bonked,” as riders put it when they have low blood sugar. As a consequence, he slowed to eat an energy gel and lost time. “Froome today definitely looked like a regular guy,” Tucker said in an e-mail after the stage.

It is perhaps that human side that fans come to see when they crowd the roadsides of rural France each year, doping clouds notwithstanding. Anyone can ride a bike, those fans will tell you. But to do it over 21 stages, more than 2,100 miles and 2 mountain ranges requires not just superb conditioning but an ability to endure suffering on a Homeric scale. To the most ardent among them, it is a form of poetry.

Michael Barratt, for one, still keeps the faith. “If they haven’t been caught, then they’re not on dope,” Barratt, a plumber from near Yorkshire, England, said while waiting for Froome to start his climb up Mont Ventoux last week. “I’m pretty black and white about it.”

And if they test positive? “Well, then they’re lying,” Barratt said, finishing his sentence with a word that could not be printed. “But it won’t spoil the sport for me.”
497 2013-07-23 About the only thing anyone knew going into Sunday’s final round of the British Open was that demons would be cleared out of someone’s closet. Every single one of the contenders carried some serious issues around Muirfield. Collectively, they had enough baggage to open a Louis Vuitton outlet.

As it turns out, Phil Mickelson’s was probably the lightest of all. Hindsight now shows clearly that Mickelson’s problem at the Open was just a golf problem — his natural game isn’t suited for the links, his body’s vocabulary lacking the words “patience” and “bounce it up to the green.” Because if Mickelson’s failings in shindigs with Open in the title were going to make him cower, he would have taken refuge on his sofa in the fetal position eons ago.

So there he was Sunday in Scotland, bounding up the 18th fairway with that goofy grin on his face, having laid Muirfield’s punishing links low with what would be a 66 with one final birdie. Not only did Mickelson win the thing, he crushed it by three strokes, which on this course is sort of like winning the Indianapolis 500 by a lap.

This was an athletic achievement more than a psychological one. Mickelson left Lee Westwood to contemplate his latest belly flop in the final round of a major-less career, perpetually worrying that he doesn’t have the nerve to win one of these things, as James Lawton writes in The Independent. And Mickelson left Tiger Woods muttering obscenities to himself about green speeds and what happened to his personal intimidation power and his ability to keep drives from flying into the wrong ZIP code. This may have been Woods’s best chance to end his five-year drought in the majors, as Pat Forde writes on Yahoo.com, but the muttering continues.

For Mickelson, it was all joy. He fought back tears at the end, having figured out how to win the one major he suspected he never would. Mickelson and the British Open, as Cameron Morfit writes on Golf.com, used to be a bad mix, like coffee and orange juice. Heck, a year ago at Royal Lytham, he missed the cut. But at breakfast on Sunday morning, he told his wife, Amy, he thought he could win, as Gene Wojciechowski writes on ESPN.com, despite being five shots back and likely making Amy suspect he had poured orange juice into his coffee.
498 2013-07-24 Former President George Bush shaved his head to show solidarity with a 2-year-old leukemia patient....
499 2013-07-24 The popular “Rain Room” installation at the Museum of Modern Art will be open until midnight on Sunday, its last day....
500 2013-07-24 Owners take plenty of risk with their businesses. Should they be more conservative with their investments?...
501 2013-07-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
502 2013-07-24 Although Apple reported lagging sales in some large overseas markets, investors did not seem to mind, pushing shares up in late trading....
503 2013-07-24 Lance Armstrong urged a federal judge to dismiss the Justice Department’s False Claims Act lawsuit against him, arguing that the Postal Service got its money’s worth out of its sponsorship deal and that the statute of limitations had run out. The Justice Department this year joined Armstrong’s former teammate Floyd Landis’s whistle-blower lawsuit against the disgraced cyclist.
504 2013-07-24 Gov. Bob McDonnell said Tuesday that he had repaid a political donor more than $120,000 in loans to the governor’s wife and a business Mr. McDonnell owns with his sister. Mr McDonnell’s relationship and the gifts he and his family received from the donor, Jonnie Williams, chief executive of the troubled nutritional supplements maker Star Scientific, are at the center of state and federal investigations. No charges have been filed, and the Republican governor has said he did nothing illegal. Among the gifts was $15,000 to Mr. McDonnell’s daughter to help her defray catering costs for her 2011 wedding. The governor did not disclose the gifts or loans on his required annual statements of economic interest.
505 2013-07-24 A boat carrying as many as 170 people believed to be asylum seekers bound for Australia has sunk off the south coast of Indonesia, with up to 60 people feared dead or missing, the Australian news media reported Wednesday. The latest disaster at sea involving boat people came less than a week after Australia slammed the door on would-be refugees with a deal to send all boat arrivals to Papua New Guinea for assessment and eventual settlement. As many as 170 people were on board the vessel, which broke up in heavy seas late on Tuesday, News Ltd. reported. More than 100 people, mostly from Iran and Sri Lanka, were rescued by fishermen in the area overnight, it said.
506 2013-07-24 President Salva Kiir dismissed his entire cabinet and his vice president on Tuesday and suspended his top negotiator at talks to defuse tensions with Sudan, state news media said. State television cited a presidential decree saying the ministries would be run for now by their under secretaries. Mr. Kiir has been facing dissent over an economic crisis, largely the result of disputes with Sudan that have prevented it from exporting crude oil, and endemic corruption. Vice President Riek Machar recently hinted that he might challenge Mr. Kiir for the party leadership before the 2015 elections, and Mr. Kiir stripped him of some his duties in April in what seemed to be a move to lower his profile. No further details were immediately available.
507 2013-07-24 “I don’t know what he expected to do with his life other than be a novelist,” said his third wife, Virginia Dugan, 64, who married Sauer in 1979. The marriage lasted a year and a half. “He never saw his life as anything else.”

Keifer, 70, said that she believed her brother always intended to be a writer, and her earlier memories of Sauer were of him jotting down his thoughts — “sometimes dark” — on the nearest sheet of paper. His Jets teammates would tease him about his “little black box,” Keifer said. The box was a small container filled with index cards. He would write down words that he did not know on the cards so he could go back and learn them.

After football, Sauer would always talk of his novel, the project he would work on no matter his day job. Having once been employed as a textbook editor by Simon & Schuster, the New York publishing house, Sauer submitted his partly completed manuscript for consideration, but it was turned down.

One day, Dugan glanced at the pages of the legal pads with Sauer’s writing. She found a title, “Never Before Seen Again,” and a protagonist, named Aggie Bitters, but was unable to discern a plot or the tale Sauer was attempting to tell.

“It was almost as if he wanted to convince the world that he was an intelligent human being and not just a dumb football jock,” she said. It was also, she said, likely therapeutic.

But it seemed as if he tried to through his writing. When Sauer’s father died in 1994, Sauer wrote a poem he called “Father” that hinted at his fear that the Alzheimer’s that afflicted his father could one day affect him, too. (The younger Sauer died of congestive heart failure, after his struggles with Alzheimer’s.) He wrote:

an old man dances in my heart —

By the late 1990s, George Sauer Jr. was living in Sioux Falls, S.D., working at the Sunshine Food Stores stacking shelves by day and writing his novel by night.

“George would talk about how he would go home and write, but, you know what, I would never see any of his writing,” said Mike Dhaemers, 55, who was Sauer’s supervisor. Dhaemers remembered him as being friendly, intelligent and interesting, but a private person. He was so private that he worked in the store for more than a year before anyone there discovered he was a former football player.

“He asked for time off to go to New York and he showed up on the ‘Monday Night Football’ ” broadcast, which was commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Jets’ Super Bowl team, Dhaemers said.

A co-worker, Dane Knutson, 66, had not watched the 30th anniversary show, but had heard about it and approached Sauer after a weekend shift to see if it was true that he had once been a football player. Sauer casually confirmed it and spoke to Knutson about the sport in far more favorable terms than he had in the 1970s. The only qualm he still had involved how little players were paid for the physical hits they took when Sauer played, Knutson said.

Knutson soon realized that football was not one of the many subjects that excited Sauer.

“He was, without a doubt, the most intelligent and talented man I’ve ever known,” Knutson said. “He knew and understood things from medicine and nuclear physics to classical and popular music to Saturday morning cartoons and ’50s and ’60s TV sitcoms. He was Curious George in the flesh.”

Sauer told Knutson that, because of an old football injury, he slept in a sleeping bag on his living room floor, Knutson recalled. His bedroom was littered with piles of books and magazines, many with yellow sticky notes marking spots that Sauer planned to return to. When Knutson knew him, Sauer was having trouble in his fourth marriage and often seemed “tormented.”

Knutson said, “He always seemed so frustrated that he could never finish anything.”

He added, “But one day, he would finish that novel; that would be the one thing he would complete.”

Sauer never did finish the book, according to his sister and others who knew him. In 2002, he moved back to Texas to care for his mother, who was ill. It was then, Keifer said, that the signs of Alzheimer’s, which she had noticed many years earlier, became more prominent. She said Sauer became verbally abusive toward her and her mother, and was increasingly introverted. In 2007, he was found to have Alzheimer’s.

After his mother died in 2008, Sauer moved into an assisted living facility in Westerville, Ohio, where his sister lived. It was about two years before that move that his novel — years in the making, in a white folder, yellow sticky notes plastered all over it — was last seen. Keifer said that the story she thought George was trying to tell was of a confessional booth, with different characters discussing their personal issues.

After he died, a small, private funeral was held in Westerville. Nobody connected to Sauer’s football career attended.

When hearing of Sauer’s death, Knutson, who still has letters and poems Sauer sent to him, wrote a tribute for some closure.

“George Sauer was the most interesting guy I’ve ever known,” he wrote. “It always amazed me that, though I had gotten to be such a friend to a Super Bowl hero, I was never awe-struck by it. I think that was because of the depth of the man. The more I came to know him, the more I realized how much more there was to him than just a former football star. He was an incredible man who could never overcome his demons. His is a sad story about a man who, I think, wanted to achieve greatness and, at the same time, was scared to death of the greatness that he wanted to achieve.”
508 2013-07-24 Detroit played a huge role in creating America’s modern economy, not to mention building the tanks and warplanes that helped us win a war that threatened our way of life. And in the postwar years it was a Detroit-based union, the United Auto Workers, that negotiated the breakthrough contracts that opened the doors to the middle class for blue-collar workers.

Maybe it’s time to repay these large favors. We talk about investing in infrastructure: Why not help a downsizing Detroit bootstrap its recovery by tearing down empty eyesores and replacing them with affordable housing? Why not make long-term zero-interest loans to replace decrepit ambulances and streetlights and hydrants? Why not pool our resources to ensure that Detroit workers get the pensions they’ve earned?

In short, why not help make Detroit a shining example of what this nation can still do when we put our heads together and commit to the common good?

If we can bail out the banks, we can bail out Detroit for a lot less money, and more assistance to those who need it.

Re “Cries of Betrayal as Detroit Plans to Cut Pensions” (front page, July 22):

It is reprehensible to cut the pensions of retirees in Detroit. Why should there be shared sacrifice? Detroit workers did not cause this crisis, and in fact have made many concessions over the past decade, including large pay cuts.
509 2013-07-24 AT&T reported a quarterly profit on Tuesday that missed Wall Street expectations because it was hit by rising costs.

AT&T’s revenue benefited from growth in the company’s wireless and enterprise businesses, but strong wireless growth comes at a price because the company has to heavily subsidize new smartphone purchases by customers signing long-term contracts.

“Both wireline and wireless revenue were a little better than I expected,” said Todd Rethemeier, an analyst with Hudson Square Research, but he noted that the difference was not big enough to increase the company’s share price. AT&T’s revenue rose 1.6 percent in the second quarter, to $32.08 billion, from $31.58 billion a year earlier, compared with Wall Street expectations for $31.81 billion. The company’s earnings of 67 cents a share, excluding one-time items, were a penny behind analysts’ estimates, according to Thomson Reuters.

Net income slipped 2.1 percent in the latest quarter, to $3.82 billion, or 71 cents a share, compared with $3.9 billion, or 66 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter when there were more shares outstanding.

AT&T, the nation’s No. 2 mobile service provider after Verizon Wireless, said it added more than 550,000 contract customers in the second quarter, slightly ahead of its target for about 500,000 and an improvement from its 320,000 net additions in the year-earlier quarter.

This growth, however, pushed down AT&T’s wireless profit margin to 42.4 percent in the second quarter compared with 45.8 percent a year earlier because of the smartphone subsidies.

And the company’s subscriber growth was still well behind the 941,000 net additions at Verizon.

AT&T also faced additional pressure in the second quarter as its smaller rival, T-Mobile US, started selling the Apple iPhone, a top seller for AT&T.
510 2013-07-24 Senator John McCain, who is calling for greater American involvement in the Syrian civil war, said Tuesday that he was lifting his hold on Gen. Martin E. Dempsey’s nomination for a second term as Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman. Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, said last week that he would block the nomination after he and the general had a testy exchange over whether the administration was doing enough to assist Syrian rebels. But on Tuesday, according to his spokesman, the senator said the president “has the right to choose the team around him, particularly as far as military advisers are concerned.” The senator criticized a letter from General Dempsey to the Armed Services Committee that listed the pros and cons of intervention in Syria. The general’s assessments “are beyond anything that any rational military thinker that I know would ever contemplate,” Mr. McCain said.
511 2013-07-24 DOVER, Del. — The chemicals giant DuPont reported on Tuesday a nearly 12 percent decline in second-quarter earnings and said it was exploring a possible sale or spinoff of a chemicals unit.

DuPont is a global leader in the production of titanium dioxide, a whitening pigment used in a broad range of products, and lower pricing for titanium dioxide was partly to blame for the profit decline, DuPont said. The company has wrestled for more than a year with sluggish demand for the whitener, a crucial part of its performance chemicals unit, which it said it was considering selling.

DuPont’s chief executive, Ellen Kullman, said on Tuesday that the markets for performance chemicals were cyclical and volatile, and that they had low growth profiles compared with other DuPont products.

“These are strong, healthy businesses,” she told analysts, then added, “but DuPont has always embraced change. We are always looking around the next corner.”

Ms. Kullman said no decisions had been made and no timetable had been set for determining the future of the unit, which generated total sales of $7.2 billion in 2012.
512 2013-07-24 Gaining a foothold in foreign markets is becoming increasingly vital for Apple. Its growth has slowed in the most recent quarters, as its devices have largely saturated the United States and some top markets in Europe.

The tepid growth has led many investors to clamor for a new blockbuster product to restart growth and give Apple’s sagging stock a much-needed lift. But no such product has been announced. For several quarters now, Mr. Cook has suggested that the company has plenty of new products in the pipeline, and that some could reach the public this fall or next year.

The company could decide to introduce a cheaper iPhone to spur growth in China and other foreign markets, or even a so-called smartwatch that would compete in a brand-new market of wearable computers. Those ideas have long been discussed and considered at the company.

“Competition is heating up,” said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares. “They need to come up with some game-changers pretty soon.”

The third quarter is typically a slow time for Apple. That is because the company traditionally introduces a new iPhone model in the fall, so in the summer many consumers are waiting for the next model to be released.

But sales of iPhones were strong. The company sold 31.2 million iPhones, up from 26 million in the same period a year ago. It was the most Apple had ever sold in a third quarter.

Those sales helped generate a net income in the third quarter of $6.9 billion, or $7.47 a share. But that was down from $8.8 billion in the same quarter a year earlier. The company said revenue was roughly flat at $35.3 billion, from $35 billion a year ago.

The net income beat the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected $7.32 a share and revenue of $35 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.

Analysts closely watch Apple’s gross profit margins. For the third quarter, Apple’s gross margin was 36.9 percent, down from 42.8 percent a year ago. In April, Apple warned that its gross margin would continue to fall in the fiscal third quarter to 36 to 37 percent.

Strong sales of Apple’s cheaper iPads and older iPhones are putting the squeeze on the margins. Apple did not disclose how many of each phone or tablet model it sold. But it said that while its iPhone 5 was the best seller, sales of the previous generations, the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, were also strong. Late last year, Apple added the cheaper iPad Mini to its lineup.

Even with the Mini, Apple’s iPad sales were a disappointment, coming in at 14.6 million for the quarter, missing analyst estimates for 16.7 million. Mac sales were also down slightly, at 3.8 million, from 4 million a year ago.

Investors concerned about Apple’s growth have punished the company’s stock. The stock price has fallen by roughly 40 percent from its peak of $705.07 in September. Shares closed at $418.99 on Tuesday, down 1.7 percent, before gaining ground in after-hours trading.

Apple may face a challenge in China, but the tech industry’s other two giants, Microsoft and Google, have their struggles, too. Microsoft posted a profit of almost $5 billion for the quarter, missing expectations of analysts, thanks in part to disappointing sales of its Surface tablet and an industrywide decline in sales of personal computers. Google also posted a profit, of $3.23 billion, but still missed analysts’ expectations as its desktop search business continued to slow and ad prices shrank.

Mr. Cook told investors to stay optimistic about Apple in China. About half a million people there are creating apps for iOS, Apple’s mobile software system for iPhones and iPads, he said. Sales of the iPad in greater China were up 8 percent and up 37 percent in mainland China, he said.

“Over the arc of time, China is a huge opportunity for Apple,” Mr. Cook said, “so I don’t get discouraged over a 90-day kind of cycle with economic factors.”
513 2013-07-24 WASHINGTON — Wall Street’s lucrative commodities businesses came to the fore here Tuesday as a Senate panel questioned whether banks should be allowed to control warehouses, pipelines and other infrastructure used to store and transport essential goods.

The hearing, convened by the Senate Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection subcommittee, came as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and others face growing scrutiny over their role in the commodities markets and the extent to which their activities can inflate prices paid by manufacturers and consumers. The Federal Reserve is reviewing the potential risks posed by the operations, which have generated many billions of dollars in profits for the banks.

The hearing followed an article in The New York Times on Sunday that explored the operations of warehouses controlled in part by Goldman Sachs. The bank’s tactics, along with those of other financial players, have inflated the price of aluminum and ultimately cost consumers billions of dollars, an investigation by The Times found. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is now gathering information on the warehouse operations.

Several witnesses at Tuesday’s hearings warned that letting the country’s largest financial institutions own commodities units that store and ship vast quantities of metals, oil and the other basic building blocks of the economy could pose grave risks to the financial system. The ability of those bank subsidiaries to gather nonpublic information on commodities stores and shipping also could give the banks an unfair advantage in the markets and cost consumers billions of dollars, the witnesses said.

Representatives from the financial industry did not testify on Tuesday, but Goldman Sachs for the first time addressed its role in the aluminum market. In a statement posted on its Web site, Goldman said that its ownership of aluminum warehouses did not affect prices of the metal, in part because only 5 percent of the aluminum that is used in manufacturing passes through the warehouses owned by Goldman and others. Goldman controls 27 warehouses in the Detroit area that are used to store aluminum for customers.

In addition, Goldman said, delivered aluminum prices are nearly 40 percent lower than they were in 2006. During the financial crisis, warehoused inventories of aluminum more than tripled, the company said, because of weakened consumer demand.
514 2013-07-24 For the better part of a dozen years, the chef and restaurateur Marc Forgione has relied on Soulayphet Schwader as his executive chef in several ventures. Now, Mr. Schwader and Mr. Forgione will be partners in a restaurant that will feature Laotian-inspired Southeast Asian cuisine. Mr. Schwader, known as Chef Phet, was born in Laos and grew up in the Midwest, where he recalls his mother giving him lunches of Laotian food to take to school when all he wanted was a ham sandwich like the other kids. He studied at the New England Culinary Institute in Montpelier, Vt., then worked at a number of restaurants mainly in New York, including Talay on the western edge of Harlem, where he called on his Laotian heritage. At his new place, you can expect sticky rice embellished with sausage or duck and spare ribs massaged with lemon grass, which has the earmarks of a signature dish. Drinks will include Lao Lao Whiskey, with seasonal herbs and spices mixed with Hennessy Cognac. (Opens Monday): 157 Duane Street (West Broadway), (212) 587-1089, khe-yo.com.

ATRIUM DUMBO The space formerly housing the Governor, which succumbed to Sandy, has been turned into this airy place with a mezzanine and water views. Laurent Kalkotour, who grew up in Provence, is the chef in partnership with Alexander LaPratt in the beverage department and Leslie Affre running the dining room. Mr. Kalkotour calls on his background for octopus carpaccio with fennel and olives but channels a different southern region for a pork chop garnished with spoon bread, piquillo peppers and bacon jam. (Thursday): 15 Main Street (Water Street), Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 858-1095, atriumdumbo.com.

BURKE & WILLS A polished Australian outpost has set up shop in the former home of the Sunburnt Calf. One might hope its track record will be better than that of Robert O’Hara Burke and William John Wills, who led an expedition of 19 men that was the first to cross Australia from south to north but who died on the trip back to Melbourne. Modern Australian fare, including prawns on the plancha (not shrimp on the barbie), a kangaroo burger and seared barramundi, are served. Manhattan Cricket Club, a lounge upstairs, will open in the fall. (Thursday): 226 West 79th Street, (646) 823-9251, burkeandwillsny.com.

CAGEN Toshio Tomita, a chef at Nobu restaurants since 1996, will serve high-end traditional Japanese fare, in a style called kappo ryori, in a space formerly occupied by Kajitsu. Highly designed with a chef’s counter, the space had remained empty because the owner, Shuichiro Kobori, was insistent that the next tenant be a Japanese restaurant that could move in and make few changes: 414 East Ninth Street (First Avenue), (212) 358-8800, No Web site yet.

FLAT TOP A little restaurant group called Gourmet Foundry has set up shop in the Columbia University area and has just added this Mediterranean place to its holdings. It also owns Jin Ramen nearby. Charles Cho, the chef for the group, has come up with a Caesar salad that includes prosciutto and a poached egg, mushroom risotto, duck breast with lemon-grass rice, a burger and yuzu cheesecake: 1241 Amsterdam Avenue (121st Street), (646) 820-7735, flattopnyc.com.
515 2013-07-24 Griffith delivered 17 punches in five seconds with no response from Paret, according to Griffith’s trainer, Gil Clancy, who counted them up from television replays. Griffith may have punched Paret at least two dozen times in that salvo.

At last the referee stepped in, and Paret collapsed with blood clots in his brain.

“I hope he isn’t hurt,” Griffith was quoted saying in his dressing room afterward. “I pray to God — I say from my heart — he’s all right.”

Paret died 10 days later at Roosevelt Hospital in .

Griffith, who had batted away rumors about his sexual orientation for years, survived a beating outside a gay bar in Times Square in 1992 and later acknowledged an attraction to men, died on Tuesday in Hempstead, N.Y., his boxing earnings and his memory long gone. He was 75.

The cause was and complications of , said Ron Ross, the author of “Nine ... Ten ... and Out! The Two Worlds of Emile Griffith,” published in 2008.

Griffith won the welterweight title three times and the middleweight title twice and briefly held the newly created junior middleweight title. He was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 1990. But he was most remembered for the death of Paret. It followed him for the rest of his life.

Emile Alphonse Griffith was born on Feb. 3, 1938, one of eight children, on in the Virgin Islands. His father left the family when Griffith was a child, and his mother came to New York to work after sending the children to live with relatives.

When Griffith was a teenager, his mother sent for him, and he worked as a stock boy at a Manhattan factory that manufactured women’s hats. When the owner, Howard Albert, a former amateur boxer, noticed his physique — a slim waist with broad shoulders — he sent Griffith to Clancy, who developed him into a national Golden Gloves champion. Griffith turned pro in 1958, with Clancy remaining as his trainer.

Griffith won the welterweight title with a knockout of Paret in April 1961, but then lost the crown to Paret on a decision that September.

In boxing circles, Griffith had been rumored to be gay, and Paret seized on that to needle him at the weigh-in for their third fight.

“He called me maricón,” Griffith told Peter Heller in 1972 for “In This Corner: Great Boxing Trainers Talk About Their Art,” a book of interviews with boxing champions. “Maricón in English means faggot.”

Griffith wanted to attack Paret on the spot, but Clancy held him back and told him to save it for the ring. “Anytime you’re inside with this guy, you’ve got to punch until he either falls or grabs you or the referee stops you,” Clancy recalled telling him, as quoted in the book “In the Corner” by Dave Anderson, a former sports columnist for .

But Clancy did not believe that Griffith had gone into the fight looking to make Paret pay for his slur. “I’ve always thought that what happened at the weigh-in had absolutely nothing to do with what happened in the Garden that night,” he said.

Paret’s death brought an inquiry by the New York State Athletic Commission, which absolved the referee, Ruby Goldstein, for his delay in stopping the fight.

Griffith lost his welterweight title to Luis Rodriguez in March 1963, then regained it in a rematch that year. He won the middleweight championship by a decision over Dick Tiger in April 1966, but that required him to give up his welterweight crown.

He lost the middleweight title to Nino Benvenuti of in April 1967, won it back from him, then lost it again in their third bout. He briefly held the new junior middleweight title in the early 1960s.

After losing three consecutive fights, Griffith retired in 1977 with 85 victories, 24 losses and 2 draws. He later worked occasionally as a boxing trainer and lived in Hempstead, on .

In 1992, Griffith was severely beaten after leaving a gay bar in the Times Square area, his kidneys damaged so badly that he was near death. The assailants were never caught.

“That really started a sharp decline in his health,” Ross, his biographer, said on Tuesday.

Over the years, the questions concerning Griffith’s long-rumored homosexuality kept surfacing.

“I will dance with anybody,” Griffith told Sports Illustrated in 2005. “I’ve chased men and women. I like men and women both.”

He added: “I don’t know what I am. I love men and women the same, but if you ask me which is better ... I like women.”

That same year, he spoke to Bob Herbert, then a columnist for The Times.

“I asked Mr. Griffith if he was gay, and he told me no,” Mr. Herbert wrote. “But he looked as if he wanted to say more. He told me he had struggled his entire life with his sexuality, and agonized over what he could say about it. He said he knew it was impossible in the early 1960s for an athlete in an ultramacho sport like boxing to say, ‘Oh, yeah, I’m gay.’

“But after all these years, he wanted to tell the truth,” Mr. Herbert went on. “He’d had relations, he said, with men and women. He no longer wanted to hide.”

Griffith’s marriage to Mercedes Donastorg ended in divorce. Survivors include three brothers, Franklin, Tony and Guillermo; four sisters, Eleanor, Joyce, Karen and Gloria; and his longtime companion and caretaker, Luis Griffith, whom Ross described as Emile Griffith’s adopted son.

Griffith said he was tentative in the ring after the death of Paret.

“After Paret, I never wanted to hurt a guy again,” Sports Illustrated quoted him saying in 2005. “I was so scared to hit someone, I was always holding back.”

In a 2005 -Ron Berger documentary film about his life, Griffith embraces Paret’s son, Benny Jr.

“I didn’t want to kill no one,” Griffith told him. “But things happen.”
516 2013-07-24 The administrators of the Man Booker Prize released its longlist for this year’s award on Tuesday, a list of 13 novels that was notable for its diversity. The Booker is Britain’s most prestigious literary award, given to an author in the former British Commonwealth, Ireland or Zimbabwe for what the judges consider the finest novel of the year.

Robert MacFarlane, the chairman of judges, said in a statement that the books on the list “range from the traditional to the experimental, from the first century A.D. to the present day, from 100 pages to 1,000 and from Shanghai to Hendon.” The winner will be named on Oct. 15.

The books on the longlist are:

“We Need New Names” by NoViolet Bulawayo (Chatto & Windus)

“A Tale for the Time Being” by Ruth Ozeki (Canongate)
517 2013-07-24 Still, Americans consume far less yogurt than their European counterparts. The French, for example, eat 33 kilos, or a little more than 72 pounds (144 cups), of yogurt per capita in a year, Mr. Riboud said, while Americans each eat an average of only 6 kilos, or roughly 13 pounds (or 24 cups).

That gap has convinced companies like Starbucks that as fast as yogurt sales have increased here, there is still plenty of room for the market to grow. “When I attended the natural foods show in Anaheim in the spring, I could not believe the ubiquity of yogurt brands,” said Howard Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks. “And over the last 18 months, there has been an acceleration of yogurt sales in our stores that is bigger than anything we’ve seen in the past.”

Harry Balzer, the chief food industry analyst at the NPD Group, has been calling yogurt “the food of the decade” for more than a decade. “Why yogurt is the food of the decade for that long is for this primary reason: You don’t need to prepare it,” Mr. Balzer said. “It can be breakfast, it can be lunch and it is the fastest growing dessert at dinner time, but what’s best about it is there is no cooking and no cleaning up involved and that’s exactly what Americans want.”

Yogurt sales have grown quickly over the last decade. Packaged Facts, a market research firm, estimates that yogurt sales in the United States grew 6.6 percent, to $7.3 billion in 2012, compared with 2011, driven almost wholly by increased sales of Greek yogurts.

But Mr. Balzer said sales had flattened this year because children were not eating as much. “Greek yogurt is a very important part of what’s driving the market, but it’s an adult product,” he said.

The perceived health benefits, he said, are secondary to convenience, but health is why Starbucks decided to rethink the yogurt parfait it has long sold in its stores. “Over the last few years, we have certainly begun to notice that anything we did in our stores that even evoked a healthier alternative has resonated with our customers,” Mr. Schultz said. “Adding healthier items and tweaking existing ones to increase their healthiness has provided a significant tail wind in terms of serving our customers.”

Additionally, he said, Starbucks’s business has become less dependent on morning traffic than ever before. “People are using Starbucks stores in many, many other ways throughout the day, and that has created opportunities for us in the food space,” Mr. Schultz said.

The company bought Evolution Fresh, a juice business started by the founder of Naked Juice, in 2011, and earlier this year, it paid $100 million for La Boulange bakery. Evolution products have begun showing up in Starbucks stores and on grocery shelves, and La Boulange’s products will begin replacing the company’s traditional lineup of baked goods and foods later this year.

Mr. Schultz and Mr. Riboud have known each other in passing for several years, but first met for a heart-to-heart about eight months ago, after Mr. Riboud read “Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time.” “I really wanted to meet Howard because of what he expressed in the book about the management of human resources and the DNA of the Starbucks company,” Mr. Riboud said. “I got the feeling that our DNA was not so far apart when I read about all the social programs of Starbucks, and I asked for an appointment.”

He shared a famous speech his father, Antoine Riboud, had made in 1972 about the social responsibilities a company has, and in March after a nice dinner, Mr. Riboud and Mr. Schultz shook hands on the deal to collaborate on Evolution Fresh, Inspired by Dannon.

“I have eaten more yogurt in the last 18 months than I have eaten in my entire life,” Mr. Schultz said. “The product I love is Actimel” — a probiotic yogurt drink known as DanActive in North America — “which I think is an unbelievable hidden jewel within Danone.”

The new products will first appear next spring in Starbucks stores and in grocery stores in 2015. The companies said they would then roll them out in various international markets.
518 2013-07-24 The stock market lacked direction on Tuesday following some uneven corporate earnings news.

Most major indexes closed slightly lower, except for the Dow Jones industrial average. Yet even the Dow’s modest gain was a result of a 3 percent increase in one stock, United Technologies.

Better earnings from big banks, health insurers and other companies have helped drive the stock market higher this month. On Tuesday, however, the encouraging and the discouraging seemed evenly matched. Wendy’s and United Technologies surged after posting stronger results than financial analysts had expected. Netflix and the Altria Group, maker of Marlboro cigarettes, sank after their results fell short.

“In the absence of major economic news, the focus is on earnings this week,” said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial. “And there’s nothing today to drive the market dramatically one way or another.”

The Dow industrials rose 22.19 points, or 0.14 percent, to 15,567.74. If not for the gain in United Technologies stock, the Dow would have closed down a point.

United Technologies jumped $3.01, to $105.12, after the conglomerate said strong orders for commercial airline parts and elevators helped lift its profit.
519 2013-07-24 ABERDEEN, Scotland — Chevron said on Tuesday that it had awarded contracts worth more than £550 million, or more than $844 million, on its planned Rosebank and Alder oil and gas development projects in British waters.

If the company decides to proceed with the projects to produce oil and gas from the fields, it would wind up spending billions of pounds on platforms, drilling equipment and undersea systems. The key subsea contract announced on Tuesday appeared to be won by a joint venture between the oil services giant Schlumberger and the American valve maker Cameron International — perhaps best known in lay circles as the maker of the blowout preventer that failed in the Gulf of Mexico oil disaster in 2010.

Others that won Chevron contracts announced Tuesday included Aker Solutions, a Norwegian oil and gas equipment maker, and Technip, a French oil services management company. Peter Blake, chief of Chevron’s subsea operations, said all of the underwater equipment for the project would probably be made in Europe.

Rosebank, an oil and natural gas field, is on what is becoming one of Europe’s key fossil-fuel frontier areas, the margins of the Atlantic Ocean west of the Shetland Islands off Scotland. Alder, a gas field, is in the central North Sea, which is also attracting major new investments. Northeast Scotland has evolved into the hub of Britain’s and in some respects Europe’s oil industry, with hundreds of suppliers of high-tech services and undersea gear.

Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., has been studying Rosebank since it discovered oil there in 2004. A final decision on whether to develop the field is not expected until next year. But Chevron and its partners, including Statoil of Norway, have already spent hundreds of millions of pounds on early drilling and design work, Stuart Klein, the project’s chief, said in an interview in the company’s European headquarters in Aberdeen.
520 2013-07-25 FREEMAN--Doreen Doreen Sheila (Brown) Freeman was born on February 28, 1923, in Liverpool, England. She subsequently lived in Ohio, USA, until 1933 when she and her parents and her brother, Freddie, returned to England. Doreen attended a convent i...
521 2013-07-25 As Cambodians prepare for elections Sunday, Prime Minister Hun Sen is facing perhaps the strongest challenge to his 28-year rule....
522 2013-07-25 Five people were accused of hacking into the servers of more than a dozen large American companies and the Nasdaq stock exchange, showing the financial system’s vulnerability to cybercrime....
523 2013-07-25 A vote by the Federal Election Commission effectively doubles the amount that legally married gay couples may contribute to federal candidates....
524 2013-07-25 The New York Times’s staff scours the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday’s selections include a question of etiquette in favoriting Twitter posts and an essay on the apparent hubris of Silicon Valley aficionados....
525 2013-07-25 Shares in the social network rose 30 percent on Thursday, after the company reported stronger-than-expected revenue and profit growth....
526 2013-07-25 At a Brooklyn soup kitchen on Thursday, Anthony D. Weiner acknowledged that he had engaged in inappropriate online communications with at least three women since leaving Congress.
527 2013-07-25 Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, alluded to “amazing new products” that the company will introduce in the fall and across 2014. What could these secret gadgets be?...
528 2013-07-25 Height is associated with a greater risk of cancer for both men and women, new research shows....
529 2013-07-25 In October 1975, Mayor Abraham D. Beame signed a formal petition attesting to municipal default, but at the last minute, the city dodged the financial fate that Detroit suffered last week....
530 2013-07-25 Hyundai has redesigned the 2014 Equus, offering a large car that is quiet, comfortable and powerful. But is it ready for competition against other luxury segment marques?...
531 2013-07-25 Researchers have stumbled on a way to persuade patients to plan for end-of-life care: convince their doctors to ask about it....
532 2013-07-25 New ideas? No thanks....
533 2013-07-25 A University of Chicago program, led by the Obama re-election campaign’s chief scientist, is intended to let aspiring young data scientists apply their skills to urban and social problems....
534 2013-07-25 Credit Suisse is joining Goldman Sachs and other Wall Street rivals in reporting improved results for the second quarter, helped by an increase in client activity in sales and trading and investment banking....
535 2013-07-25 Chicago’s Elena Delle Donne sustained a concussion in the Sky’s 82-78 loss to the Washington Mystics on Wednesday and is questionable for the W.N.B.A. All-Star Game this weekend. Delle Donne, the W.N.B.A.’s third-leading scorer at 18.6 points per game, is the first rookie to lead the All-Star voting.
536 2013-07-25 Two United Nations officials arrived in Syria on Wednesday to discuss the scope of an inquiry into the suspected use of chemical weapons in the war. The officials, Angela Kane, the high representative for disarmament affairs, and Ake Sellstrom, a Swedish expert in chemical weaponry appointed by the secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, to lead a panel of inquiry, planned two days of discussions with Syrian officials. The Syrian officials want to limit the panel’s work to one episode of suspected use of the deadly nerve agent sarin on March 19 near the northern city of Aleppo. The United Nations has requested unfettered access for the panel. The visit began a day after the special United Nations envoy for the Middle East reported that 13 possible episodes of suspected chemical weapons use in Syria had been compiled so far. The Syrian government and the opposition have accused each other of deploying chemical munitions.
537 2013-07-25 Ike Davis has been working his malfunctioning swing into form since returning from the minors earlier this month. He tried a different approach early in Tuesday’s game: he bunted.

Or tried to, at least. With nobody on and one out in the second inning, Davis squared around against Atlanta’s Kris Medlen and bunted the ball right back to the pitcher’s mound — a failed bid to shake things up for the offensively challenged Mets.

The move did not bother Manager Terry Collins as much as perplex him. Davis is the Mets’ No. 5 hitter, with a proven ability to hit with power, so why was he trying to bunt for a hit?

“I think there are going to be situations where I’d prefer that he swing,” Collins said Wednesday.

There is another question at play with Davis: where is his power? He has yet to hit a homer since his recall from the minors in early July.
538 2013-07-25 For his first trip abroad since he was selected as pope in March, Francis chose Brazil, which has more Catholics than any other nation, to emphasize Latin America’s importance to the church. At Aparecida, a city that is home to a massive shrine to Brazil’s patron saint, the pope offered an upbeat Mass. “The dragon, evil, is present in our history, but it does not have the upper hand,” he said, referring to the Book of Revelation. “The one with the upper hand is God.”

The pope ended his appearance in Aparecida by switching from Portuguese to Spanish, smiling and clearly enjoying the moment as he connected to thousands gathered in the rain to see him. He said he planned to return to Brazil in 2017. Later on Wednesday, the pope returned to Rio, where he visited a hospital for drug addicts. At the hospital, he criticized supporters of decriminalizing drug use and called traffickers “merchants of death.”

Commentators have focused attention on how Francis was getting a taste for the challenges which Rio’s residents face daily.

“As in the case of thousands of others in Rio de Janeiro, the pope ended up in a traffic jam on Presidente Vargas,” Elio Gaspari, a newspaper columnist, wrote about the frenzied scene on Monday. He noted that among the street chaos, Francis had calmly blessed a child thrust in his direction. “He was just a man without fear of the people.”

Playing down security concerns, the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, told reporters that the pope wanted “direct contact with the people” and not a “militarization of the situation.” But the church substituted a closed vehicle for an open popemobile for Francis’s Wednesday ride through the working-class neighborhood of Tijuca.

Police officials on Wednesday again rejected claims that their own intelligence agents were inciting confrontation at protests, with some demonstrators contending that this was a strategy for cracking down on street dissent. Still, the revelation that Rio’s security authorities had infiltrated protest movements with undercover agents provoked disgust among some. João Paulo Soares, 21, a student, said the police’s tactics violated the right of “freedom of expression.” But he welcomed the visit of Francis, an Argentine-born Jesuit with spartan habits. “He is revolutionary, like we are,” he said.

Rio’s mayor, Eduardo Paes, suggested that it was time to move on and make the remainder of the pope’s trip, which continues through Sunday, as smooth as possible. “Any explanation seems unnecessary and useless at this moment,” he said. “What we need to do is apologize.”
539 2013-07-25 “As the coach of the team, I’m primarily responsible for the people that we bring into the football operation,” Belichick said.

The Patriots released Hernandez shortly after he was arrested but before he was charged with first-degree murder. Hernandez also faces five gun-related charges and is being investigated as the possible gunman in a double homicide in Boston in July 2012, a month before he signed a contract extension worth more than $40 million.

Hernandez was scheduled for a hearing Wednesday in his first-degree murder case, but it was delayed to allow the prosecution to collect more evidence for presentation to a grand jury. The next hearing is scheduled for Aug. 22. Hernandez is being held without bail in a county jail in North Dartmouth, Mass.

Belichick said he learned of the situation while he was out of the country.

“I and other members of the organization were shocked and disappointed at what we had learned — having someone in your organization that’s involved in a murder investigation is a terrible thing,” he said. “After consultation with ownership, we acted swiftly and decisively.”

When asked about defensive back Alfonzo Dennard, a felon still on the roster, Belichick declined to comment, again citing a continuing legal case. In February, Dennard was convicted of assaulting a police officer, an episode that occurred a week before the Patriots drafted him in 2012. He is to serve a 30-day jail sentence in March. Two weeks ago, Dennard was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence, a possible parole violation. He is scheduled to have another hearing Aug. 27.

“Our players are generally highly motivated, gifted athletes who come from very different backgrounds,” Belichick said. “They’ve met many challenges along the way and have done things to get here. Sometimes they made bad or immature decisions.”

He added: “We try to look at every single situation on a case-by-case basis and try to do what’s best for the football team and best for the franchise. Most of the decisions have worked out. Some don’t. Over all, I’m proud of the hundreds of players that have come through this program.”

Referring to the Hernandez case, Belichick said, “I’m personally disappointed and hurt in a situation like this.”

The team’s owner, Robert K. Kraft, recently said, “If this stuff is true, then I’ve been duped.” Belichick, when asked if he felt the same way, declined to comment. Belichick also declined to say whether he had retained legal counsel or had been subpoenaed.

He said the team had not been aware until recently of the July 2012 shooting being investigated for a possible link to Hernandez.

The team’s methods for evaluating players, Belichick said, have been in place since 2000. He said he was comfortable with the methods but might make a few minor changes.

“Obviously, this process is far from perfect, but it’s one we’ve used from 2000 until today,” he said. “Unfortunately, this most recent situation, with the charges that are involved, is not a good one on that record.”

No players spoke to the news media Wednesday, but quarterback Tom Brady, when asked this week about Hernandez, told Sports Illustrated, “I have moved on.” Belichick expressed similar sentiments.

“We’ll learn from this terrible experience and become a better team from the lessons that we’ve learned,” Belichick said.

He added: “My comments are certainly not in proportion to the unfortunate and sad situation we have here. It’s time for the New England Patriots to move forward.”
540 2013-07-25 In the end, Mr. Anderson was lucky. His alibi was rock solid; prosecutors were forced to concede that there must have been some other explanation. It’s hard to believe that, out of the growing number of convictions based largely or exclusively on DNA evidence, there haven’t been any similar mistakes.

In one famous case of crime scene contamination, German police searched for around 15 years for a serial killer they called the “Phantom of Heilbronn” — an unknown female linked by traces of DNA to six murders across and . In 2009, the police found their “suspect”: a worker at a factory that produced the cotton swabs police used in their investigations had been accidentally contaminating them with her own DNA.

Contamination is not the only way DNA forensics can lead to injustice. Consider the frequent claim that it is highly unlikely, if not impossible, for two DNA profiles to match by coincidence. A 2005 audit of ’s DNA database showed that, out of some 65,000 profiles, nearly 150 pairs matched at a level typically considered high enough to identify and prosecute suspects. Yet these profiles were clearly from different people.

There are also problems with the way DNA evidence is interpreted and presented to juries. In 2008, John Puckett — a California man in his 70s with a sexual assault record — was accused of a 1972 killing, after a trawl of the state database partially linked his DNA to crime scene evidence. As in the Anderson case, Mr. Puckett was identified and implicated primarily by this evidence. Jurors — told that there was only a one-in-1.1 million chance that this DNA match was pure coincidence — convicted him. He is now serving a life sentence.

But that one-in-1.1 million figure is misleading, according to two different expert committees, one convened by the , the other by the . It reflects the chance of a coincidental match in relation to the size of the general population (assuming that the suspect is the only one examined and is not related to the real culprit). Instead of the general population, we should be looking at only the number of profiles in the DNA database. Taking the size of the database into account in Mr. Puckett’s case (and, again, assuming the real culprit’s profile is not in the database) would have led to a dramatic change in the estimate, to one in three.

One juror was asked whether this figure would have affected the jury’s deliberations. “Of course it would have changed things,” he told reporters. “It would have changed a lot of things.”

DNA forensics is an invaluable tool for law enforcement. But it is most useful when it corroborates other evidence pointing to a suspect, or when used to determine whether any two individual samples match, like in the exonerations pursued by the Innocence Project.

But when the government gets into the business of warehousing millions of DNA profiles to seek “cold hits” as the primary basis for prosecutions, much more oversight by and accountability to the public is warranted. For far too long, we have allowed the myth of DNA infallibility to chip away at our skepticism of government’s prosecutorial power, undoubtedly leading to untold injustices.

In the Anderson case, thankfully, prosecutors acknowledged the obvious: their suspect could not have been in two places at once. But he was dangerously close to being on his way to death row because of that speck of DNA. That one piece of evidence — obtained from a technology with known limitations, and susceptible to human error and prosecutorial misuse — might mistakenly lead to execution at the hands of the state should send chills down every one of our spines. The next Lukis Anderson could be you. Better hope your alibi is as well documented as his.
541 2013-07-25 “All the pain is on Harrisburg city residents,” said the city controller, Dan Miller. He said Chapter 9 bankruptcy would have forced bondholders and other financial creditors to share more of the pain of the restructuring, as Detroit is proposing to do. Bankruptcy would have also allowed Harrisburg to void expensive union contracts, Mr. Miller said.

But bankruptcy was put out of Harrisburg’s reach by the state. As Harrisburg’s debt woes loomed larger in 2011, the City Council sought expert legal advice and did file a petition with the Federal Bankruptcy Court. Pennsylvania promptly passed a law making Harrisburg ineligible for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, and the judge dismissed the city’s case. That left Harrisburg with far more limited forms of restructuring assistance available under state statutes.

Robert J. Philbin, the mayor’s chief of staff, said that course had helped Harrisburg steer clear of a legal showdown that could have done lasting damage.

“A rash of municipal bankruptcy filings across the country highlighted what the damage could be,” he said, citing losses in jobs, health benefits and pensions that have been dealt out in various forms in places like Vallejo, Stockton and San Bernardino in California; Central Falls, R.I.; and Prichard, Ala.

Avoiding bankruptcy is also thought to have kept municipal bond buyers relatively bullish on the debts of other Pennsylvania cities. After Detroit proposed, in bankruptcy, to put general obligation bonds on par with retiree health benefits — all would be cut to about 10 cents on the dollar — there were reports of other Michigan cities paying a penalty of about a half-percentage point on their debt.

Harrisburg’s new debt restructuring agreement rests primarily on the sale of the incinerator, to the Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority. It was selected as the sole bidder in June 2012 after two other potential buyers were rejected, Mr. Lynch said.

Cory Angell, a spokesman for the receiver, said that the incinerator would fetch about $130 million, but that the exact amount would depend on market conditions when the deal is made final, probably this fall. A spokeswoman for the buyer, Kathryn Sandoe, declined to confirm the price.

The restructuring also depends on a deal to lease some city parking garages to an outside vendor and have a new state borrowing authority issue new debt to replace existing parking-authority debt. The agreement anticipates big savings on garage operations, and some of the resulting profit will be used to pay back the bond guarantors. The city would get the garages back at the end of the lease, expected to last five or six decades. Mr. Angell declined to specify the amounts, saying they would become public in October, when the city must have the terms approved by a state court.

Mayor Thompson said these transactions would “permanently absolve the City of Harrisburg, and the Harrisburg Authority, from all future liability related to the incinerator.” The authority is the independent entity that issued the incinerator bonds.

Once the incinerator debt is resolved, Ms. Thompson said the city would work to eliminate its structural budget deficit. She said the budget was “stabilized” through 2016, thanks to new revenue sources she did not identify.

This month, the city raised about $2.7 million by auctioning off some 8,000 Wild West artifacts collected by a former mayor, Stephen Reed, who had planned to house them in a museum that never came to fruition.

In addition, the city is calling on its police officers, firefighters and other municipal workers to forgo scheduled pay increases and pay part of their health insurance premiums. Mr. Angell said the city’s branch of the Fraternal Order of Police had agreed to these concessions, but the firefighters’ union and the local chapter of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees had yet to vote on the proposal.

Mr. Miller, the controller, said Harrisburg had been spending more than it could afford for years. “It’s no different from Detroit, in that it’s decades in the making.” he said. “I have not seen anything yet that shows how this plan is going to work. The numbers don’t add up.”
542 2013-07-25 Whatever blame for the grim environmental consequences of global warming elsewhere in the world that might be placed on the petroleum industry, in the Far North, companies like Novatek and Total, Exxon Mobil of the United States and Statoil of Norway stand to make profit.

“It’s a reality of what is available today, and commercially it is a route that cuts cost,” Emily Stromquist, a global energy analyst at the Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview.

Because of easing ice conditions and new hull designs, the tankers will not even require nuclear-powered icebreakers to lead the way — as is the practice now — except through the most northerly straits.

Novatek’s alternative was extending the natural gas pipeline that goes to Europe over hundreds of miles of tundra, at great cost. While shipping the gas from the field on the Yamal Peninsula, one of the long, misshapen fingers of land that extend north of the Urals in Russia, remains expensive, it is relatively cheap to drill and produce from these rich fields, making the overall project competitive.

In addition to making it easier to ship to Asia, the receding ice cap has opened more of the sea floor to exploration. This has upended the traditional business model of using pipelines to Europe. Thawing has proceeded more slowly in the Arctic above Alaska, Canada and Greenland, but one day what is happening in Russia could happen there.

Still, the Arctic waters are particularly perilous for drilling because of the extreme cold. Tongues of ice that descend from the polar cap for hundreds of miles obstruct shipping and threaten rigs. After a rig ran aground last year, Shell canceled drilling this summer in the Chukchi Sea off Alaska.

This is not the first Arctic venture to benefit from newly cleared sea lanes. The decision to open the Arctic Ocean to drilling passed Russia’s Parliament in 2008 as an amendment to a law on subsoil resources. Exxon and Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, are already in a joint venture to drill in the Kara Sea, and last month they agreed to expand to seven new exploration blocks in the Arctic. Fourteen wells are planned.

With these ventures, Exxon has placed itself in the vanguard of oil companies exploring commercial opportunities in the newly ice-free waters.

In Russia, the mining company Norilsk can now ship its nickel and copper across the Arctic Ocean without chartering icebreakers, saving millions of rubles for shareholders.

Norway is also drilling deep in Arctic waters, but has less territory to explore. Tschudi, a Norwegian shipping company, has bought and revived an idled iron ore mine in the north of Norway to ship ore to China via the northern route.

In northwest Alaska, the Red Dog lead and zinc mine moves its ore through the Bering Strait, which is less often clogged with packed ice than in past decades.

What is new in the Novatek project is an oil industry business plan that relies explicitly on the Northeast Passage. Though Russian ships have moved goods along the country’s sprawling Arctic coastline for more than a century, and the route was opened to international shipping in 1991, it became apparent only recently that climate change would make the trip profitable.

The German shipping company Beluga made the first international commercial transit in 2009. The first transshipment with fuel, a cargo of gas condensate bound for China, crossed in 2010. By last summer, just three years after the first passage, 50 ships crossed above Russia, including eight tankers chartered by Novatek to test the route.

Novatek has said it needs bank guarantees for $16 billion in project financing, while it and its partners will finance the rest. To secure these loans, the company needs a change in Russian law lifting Gazprom’s monopoly for exports.

President Vladimir V. Putin, in a speech at an economic conference on June 21, said the law would change before this year was out, signaling that Yamal LNG had full Kremlin backing.

If Russia can ship large volumes of gas to Asia, it could send ripples through the Asian markets and put a damper on plans to build liquefied natural gas export terminals in the Gulf of Mexico. The United States and Russia are the world’s two leading gas producers.

Novatek has been experimenting with commercial models to complement the new shipping route. To fulfill contracts in the winter, when the northern route is more hazardous, the company can ship gas west over northern Russia, then around Europe, through the Suez Canal, and onward to Asia.

It has also negotiated with Qatar, a major Middle Eastern natural gas exporter, for a swap arrangement to save tanker fuel and time: Qatar would fulfill Novatek’s Asian contracts during the winter while Novatek, in exchange, would fill Qatar’s contracts to European customers during those months.

The company intends to open the Arctic plant by 2016. It has already asked for bids for two ice-hardened tankers, which should be able to navigate the sea lanes toward China seven months a year and the routes to the west year round.

It says it has mastered building in the Far North where, counterintuitively, Russians labor mainly through the cold polar night in winter, when the tundra is more accessible to heavy equipment.

The company, Mr. Lozovoi said, is keeping an eye on climate studies of the Arctic.

He said that because of engineering tolerances built into the ship designs, “even if the climate turns toward cooling, and the ice thickens, we will make money.”
543 2013-07-25 Noting that the government stood to bring in nearly $200 billion over the next 10 years because of the higher rates, Ms. Warren denounced the bill.

“This is obscene,” she said. “Students should not be used to generate profits for the government.”

House Republicans, who had approved a plan similar to the one the Senate passed, although with slightly higher loan rates, are expected to pass the Senate bill before Congress leaves for its summer recess next week.

Republicans did not even try to contain their delight that a plan they championed had passed over the objections of liberal senators. Speaker John A. Boehner’s office released a chart comparing the House bill with the Senate bill, noting wryly, “The final legislation is a permanent fix, and it protects taxpayers by not adding to the deficit — things that never would have come to pass if Senate Democrats had gotten their way.”

The Democrats defected despite arm-twisting from Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, and deep involvement from the White House, which supported a market-rate compromise.

The White House was pressing for a fix to rates on Stafford loans, which jumped to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent on July 1 after Congress failed to come up with a plan to replace the rate structure that expired last summer. Congress had also failed to reach an agreement then and just extended the rates a year.

In that sense, the trouble over student loans was like so many other disputes on Capitol Hill today: self-inflicted and prolonged.

“Congress has trouble with deadlines. I think we all know that,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who helped broker the deal. “We’re here today trying to fix the problem we have with the government’s student loan programs because we kicked the can down the road last year.”

The Obama administration estimated that the fix would help 11 million borrowers who will take out loans this school year. The new rates would apply retroactively to people who had borrowed since July 1.

Under the new rate structure, loans to undergraduates, graduate students, and their parents under the PLUS program would be subject to a fixed rate tied to the 10-year Treasury note — specifically the yield on the 10-year note as determined by the last auction held before each June.

Rates for loans taken out after July 1 of this year would be 3.9 percent for undergraduates, 5.4 percent for graduate students and 6.4 for those receiving PLUS loans. The rates would be fixed over the life of the loan.

In a compromise that pleased many Democrats who had initially been wary of using a rate that fluctuated with the markets, Congress set a cap on all loans: 8.25 percent for undergraduates, 9.5 for graduate students and 10.5 for PLUS recipients.

Liberal critics said that while interest rates are low now, forecasters predict they will rise considerably.
544 2013-07-25 Boeing topped analysts’ expectations with a 13 percent increase in second-quarter profit, thanks to growing sales of commercial airplanes and exports of military equipment, the company reported Wednesday.

The company, based in Chicago, also raised its forecast for all of 2013. It projected earnings of $5.10 to $5.30 a share for the year, an increase from an earlier estimate of $5 to $5.20 a share. It now expects revenue of $83 billion to $86 billion, compared with its earlier forecast for $82 billion to $85 billion.

The gains reflected the strong recovery in commercial aircraft sales since the recession. Like other major military contractors, Boeing has increased profit by cutting costs and expanding foreign arms sales.

The results showed that Boeing had not been hampered much by recent problems with its new 787 Dreamliners. The first 50 jets were grounded from mid-January to late April after two episodes of fire or smoke involving its new lithium-ion batteries. British investigators said last week that another fire, on a 787 parked at London’s Heathrow Airport on July 12, appeared to have been caused by a pinched wire on an emergency locator transmitter, a common device that had nothing to do with the novel systems on the planes.

Boeing delivered 16 additional 787s in the second quarter. The 787, which entered service in late 2011, is made substantially of lightweight carbon composites and has efficient engines that help slash fuel costs by 20 percent. Boeing said it expected to deliver at least 60 Dreamliners this year.
545 2013-07-25 In distinct contrast to the rather austere benches of other religious communities, the Oneida’s benches had backs, molded seats and comfortable armrests.

And at Camphill Village Kimberton Hills, a community in Pennsylvania for people with developmental disabilities, benches aren’t used for meals, but to encourage and support labors, from which the members derive all sorts of benefits.

There, Mr. Cape found simple and sturdy benches in entry halls, designed for putting on and removing work shoes.

Seventeen of Mr. Cape’s benches are at the Murray Guy Gallery in Manhattan through Aug. 2. He’ll be leading a talk there July 31. A reporter spoke to him last week.

Q. You quote Brother Arnold Hadd, one of the last remaining members of the Shaker community, saying, “We are not the religious society of furniture makers.” But, of course, when we think “Shaker,” we think furniture. Were you surprised?



A. It’s funny, isn’t it? My conversation with Brother Arnold was set up by Daniel Fuller, director of the Institute of Contemporary Art at Maine College of Art. I had never interviewed anyone before in front of a crowd, and 50 furniture makers showed up, not to hear me, of course, but Brother Arnold. I was tremendously relieved that Brother Arnold, who was very charismatic and very opinionated, was at the slightest touch ready to go on at length about all manner of subjects. Anyway, he basically said the Shakers were a pragmatic people and when it made sense for them to make furniture, they made furniture, and when it was cheaper to have somebody else do it, they would. The example Brother Arnold gave is of the dining tables at Sabbathday Lake, in New Gloucester, Me., the last active Shaker community. At a certain point someone realized they were valuable, sold them and just made some more. As far as he was concerned, a table was something you ate off. The vast majority of the furniture there is ornamental late Victorian. They just bought stuff from a company that was like the Ikea of the 19th century.

You wrote that another Shaker, Sister Tabitha Babbitt, invented the circular saw. What can you tell me about her?

I know nothing about her apart from this wonderful fact. This again is an example of how many of these communities were interested in doing things as efficiently as possible. She probably saw the brothers working in a saw pit — you can imagine one brother below and one above and the one below getting sawdust in his eyes — and she must have thought: “This is a terribly inefficient system. There has to be a better way!”

Do you have any favorites among the benches?

I have several favorites, and all for different reasons. I like the Amana church bench without the back: the simplicity of the plank with the tapered, turned legs I find incredibly beautiful. The Amanas were always on the move, escaping religious intolerance in Germany and settling in Buffalo, and then moving again because Buffalo’s materialism threatened their spiritual life. So the church benches were designed to be easily taken apart and reassembled. Then I like the benches from Camphill Village because I had such a good time there.
546 2013-07-25 The next day, Judge Rosemarie Aquilina of Ingham County Circuit Court ruled that the filing violated the Michigan Constitution, which protects the pensions of retired public employees. The city, led by the state-appointed emergency financial manager, Kevyn D. Orr, is expected to seek reductions in pensions in bankruptcy as part of its broader efforts to reduce Detroit’s estimated $18 billion in debt.

Judge Aquilina’s ruling was appealed by the state attorney general to the Michigan Court of Appeals, which on Tuesday issued a stay of her order pending an appellate decision.

But on Wednesday, in the first hearing in the case, Judge Rhodes settled the matter by approving a motion by Mr. Orr to freeze all litigation against the city during its bankruptcy. The judge said that concentrating all legal issues in federal court increased the chances that Detroit could reorganize its debts and emerge from bankruptcy in better financial shape.

“My orders enhance the likelihood of Chapter 9 reorganization, speeds the bankruptcy case and cuts costs to taxpayers,” he said.

The judge also extended protection from litigation to Mr. Orr, Governor Snyder and other state officials directly involved in the bankruptcy.

Mr. Orr attended the court arguments, but was not present when the judge made his decision. Afterward, a spokesman for the emergency manager, William Nowling, said he was pleased with the court’s action. “This clears the way so we can proceed in an orderly fashion with bankruptcy proceedings and restructuring Detroit,” Mr. Nowling said.

Lawyers representing retired police officers, firefighters and other city employees declined to say whether they would appeal the ruling by Judge Rhodes.

Union officials gathered outside the courthouse said they expected to raise the pension issues and the constitutional questions at future hearings on whether Detroit has met all legal requirements for a bankruptcy filing.

“We are going to fight this all the way,” said Edward McNeil, an official with the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. “We don’t believe the city should even be in bankruptcy court.”

Both Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr have said that a bankruptcy filing was the only option to reverse Detroit’s long decline, improve city services and settle its crushing debt load. But city workers, retirees, bondholders and other creditors have accused Mr. Orr of failing to negotiate deals on outstanding debts that could have averted the filing.

Judge Rhodes made it clear on Wednesday that he had not ruled on whether the filing violated the state’s Constitution, or whether pensions should be protected.

“All of the issues in which the court is not ruling are fully preserved,” he said.

Those issues and others will be part of what is likely to be a protracted legal battle over the city’s eligibility to file for bankruptcy. Hearings will begin later this summer, and will include testimony by Mr. Orr on the dismal condition of Detroit’s finances.

Mr. Nowling said the eligibility hearings were the first critical step in Mr. Orr’s road map for the city’s recovery. “One thing that was clear was that Judge Rhodes wanted an efficient and speedy process, and we think that’s essential for turning the city around,” he said.

The bankruptcy filing has riveted the attention of the city and surrounding region, and spurred a small but loud group of protesters to form outside the courthouse on Wednesday.

About two dozen men in red T-shirts representing the Detroit Fire Department chanted “Help us help you” as they marched down Lafayette Boulevard.

Darryl Brown, a firefighter who went on disability last year, criticized Mr. Snyder and other state officials for targeting retiree pensions. “They can’t touch it; it’s protected by the Constitution,” Mr. Brown said. “But they’re still doing everything they can to figure out how to get at it.”

A Detroit police officer, Rodney Fresh, said he feared the bankruptcy would gut what was left of the city’s dwindling middle-class population.

He accused Mr. Snyder of failing to consider the hardship the bankruptcy would cause retirees. “I want him to look at the situation and just be fair,” Mr. Fresh said. “He’s looking at everything from his point of view.”
547 2013-07-25 One important guest was missing from the Tuesday night premiere of the film “Blue Jasmine”: the director, Woody Allen.

As organizers explained, Mr. Allen was away but had a brief announcement to make. “He sent me a text, if you can imagine that,” said Leslee Dart, his spokeswoman, as the audience took its seats at the Museum of Modern Art. “And it says: ‘I am in the South of France, so I can’t be there this evening. I only wish I was in New York and couldn’t be there.’ ”

It’s not that Mr. Allen is ashamed of the film, said Michael Barker of Sony Pictures Classics, the film’s distributor, but he views premieres as being parties for the actors, and he doesn’t really care for parties. So he doesn’t come.

Others were glad to take his spot on the red carpet.

Cate Blanchett, the film’s lead, arrived looking statuesque in a pink Balenciaga cape and gown. Alec Baldwin, who plays her husband, showed up with his real-life and very pregnant wife, Hilaria Thomas. Andrew Dice Clay, who co-stars as Ms. Blanchett’s brother-in-law, was hamming it up for the cameras in an ensemble that might be described as aging biker.

There were lots of questions for all of them about what Mr. Allen is like to work with. “Very focused,” said Michael Stuhlbarg, another actor in the film. “He’s not afraid to tell everybody what he wants.”
548 2013-07-25 The United States will be seeking its 10th straight victory on Wednesday night (7 p.m. Eastern, Fox Soccer) when it faces Honduras in the semifinals of the Concacaf Gold Cup at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex. Mexico and Panama will play the second game of the doubleheader, with the winners scheduled to play for the tournament championship in Chicago on Sunday.

The match against Honduras will be the third between the two teams this year: Honduras won the first game, the opener for both teams in the final round of regional World Cup qualifying, 2-1, on Feb. 6; the American team capped a string of three victories in qualifying by defeating Honduras, 1-0, in Sandy, Utah, on June 18.

The semifinal doubleheader in Texas is expected to draw a healthy crowd to Cowboys Stadium. But some of the pregame chatter has centered on the temporary grass field that was placed not over an artificial turf surface, but directly on top of a concrete floor. Sod was also installed over the playing surface for last Sunday’s quarterfinal doubleheader at M&T Stadium in Baltimore, where the U.S. beat El Salvador, 5-1.

Here are some pregame notes:

■ The former D.C. United midfielder Andy Najar scored the game’s only goal Sunday when Honduras ousted Costa Rica, 1-0, in the quarterfinals. Najar, who moved to the United States with his family at age 13, had the option to declare his international allegiance to the U.S. or his native country. He chose Honduras in April 2011, rather than wait to receive U.S. citizenship.

■ The U.S. has a 10-2-2 record in 2013 (having lost only to Honduras and to Belgium in a friendly). The American team has a 9-1-1 record on U.S. soil.
549 2013-07-25 For this reason, they are often advised to follow two rules with the money they manage to save: invest conservatively and diversify. Following that advice, however, does not come naturally to all business owners. Many are eager to invest in stocks and do not want to consider fixed-income securities.

When Mr. Lewis started investing in the stock market, he bought mostly health care and pharmaceutical companies, industries he is exposed to through his business — a common mistake.

“It seemed to make sense for me to invest in health care because I know it so well,” he said. “Most of my business is tied up in that sector.” He eventually realized that it would be wise to change that approach, and he now owns shares in technology, oil and gas and financial companies.

Mr. Gerber, whose financial management firm is based in Columbus, Ohio, said he believed that assets that are liquid, have low volatility and generate income were generally an entrepreneur’s best bet. Many of his clients own corporate bonds that can either be sold quickly or held to maturity, and mutual funds that invest in equities and pay dividends. He avoids mutual funds that invest in bonds, he said, because when interest rates rise, they lose value.

CUT YOUR OWN PAY? When times get tough, many owners stop saving for retirement. They either forgo salary altogether or reduce their pay. That can be a mistake, said Ellie Byrd, founder and chief executive of ForumSherpa, a business based in Atlanta that offers executive leadership and training courses.

Ms. Byrd used to run a software training company. In 2000, she stopped taking a salary, and a year later, she found herself $500,000 in debt. With no income, she could not contribute to a savings plan — or pay her bills. When a business struggles, deciding not to pay yourself may seem a natural reaction, but it can obscure larger issues.

In retrospect, Ms. Byrd says she believes she should have laid off staff members and made other adjustments before stopping her own pay.

Mr. Gerber said owners should stop saving only if it is clear the business can be turned around. If not, there probably are bigger problems, and stopping saving isn’t going to solve them. “You often have to do some real soul searching to figure out why the business is struggling,” he said.

Of course, there are times when it makes sense to hold off on saving personally to invest more in the company. In these instances, Mr. Gerber said, the business should be running smoothly, and the investment should promise a healthy return. He likes to see an investment, like a new piece of equipment, generate a return that is three times greater than can be gained in stocks or bonds. If it cannot do that, he advises putting the cash in a personal account.

BUY THE BUILDING Although Lenny Verkhoglaz invests in an individual retirement account, he thought he should hold more than just stocks and bonds in his overall portfolio. In 2006, Mr. Verkhoglaz, the founder of Executive Care, which is based in Hackensack, N.J., and provides in-home health care to the elderly, bought the building that holds his offices.

When he retires, he plans to sell his company and the building together. He holds the building in a separate company for rent-related purposes but thinks he will get a better price by selling the two assets together. “If I sell the company without the building,” he said, “the value of the real estate may go down if the company moves out and another tenant doesn’t take its place.”

Even so, Mr. Gerber suggests keeping ownership of the company and the building separate. That makes it possible to sell the company and keep the real estate, collecting rent from a new occupant. A separation can also limit liability, Mr. Gerber said.

There is another advantage to owning your own building: you do not have to deal with a landlord, rising rent of eviction threats. And you have a dream tenant: yourself.

KNOW YOUR BUSINESS’S WORTH If selling your business is any part of your retirement plan, Mr. Gerber said, it is essential to know what your business is worth. And it is important to start tracking its value long before you plan to sell.

Mr. Gerber suggests hiring a professional who can figure out the current value of your company. Then determine how much money you will need to live the lifestyle you want. Most important, think about whether you will be able to increase the value of your business enough to match that retirement number.

At age 43, one of Mr. Gerber’s clients decided he wanted to retire at 50. To do so, he determined, he would need to build his business to $20 million in revenue from $10 million. Doing that meant finding new channels to sell his products. It is working, Mr. Gerber said, but if not, he would have to think about retiring later. “It’s about the math,” he said. “It needs to be clear.”

Business owners also must be prepared to sell early if their business or their industry starts to slip. Another of Mr. Gerber’s clients was in a sector that was consolidating quickly. She received an offer on her business that was far less than she believed it was worth, but she decided to take it, knowing that it would be tough to compete against the big players beginning to dominate the market. “If you think the number will get worse and not better,” he said, “then get out when the getting’s good.”
550 2013-07-25 He is also strengthening his campaign staff. According to recent financial reports, his re-election campaign has paid more than a dozen consultants and consulting firms, including Crowdverb, a Seattle start-up specializing in “behavioral science.” And he has been aggressively raising money, traveling from Florida to New York to Texas to raise roughly $1.7 million in the second quarter, giving him nearly $9.6 million at the end of June.

Mr. McConnell now also faces a Tea Party primary challenge from the right, which could further complicate his efforts as he tries to simultaneously appeal to his party’s more conservative base and peel off the female voters Ms. Grimes is targeting. Matthew Bevin, a Louisville businessman, announced on Wednesday that he planned to challenge Mr. McConnell in the Republican primary.

Democrats say Mr. McConnell has reason to be nervous, particularly after politically charged comments on gender issues hurt Republicans in the 2012 elections, costing them Senate seats in Indiana and Missouri.

“I think everything Mitch McConnell does right now is just another example of how worried he is and how vulnerable he feels,” said Representative John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat and longtime opponent. “Obviously, just the fact that there’s a gender difference makes Alison much more credible with women voters, and she’s going to have a much more receptive audience for discussions of things like how Mitch’s attempts to destroy the Affordable Care Act will hurt women.”

The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee is already attacking Mr. McConnell on his opposition to the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would help women fight pay discrimination in the workplace, and his recent vote on the Violence Against Women Act. It is also trying to portray him as an embodiment of entrenched Washington.

“He’s a symbol. He’s a caricature,” said Matt Canter, a spokesman for the committee. “If Walt Disney were making a villain of Washington, he’d probably look a lot like Mitch McConnell.”

Mr. McConnell’s aides see the situation differently. They not only say they are eager to defend his record on votes like the one against the Violence Against Women Act — asserting that he supported an even stronger alternative — but also say a full accounting of his time in Washington will show that he is the candidate who best represents both the men and women of Kentucky.

They say it is impossible to tell the story of Mr. McConnell without talking about the accomplished, powerful women who have always been integral to his life, including his mother, who devoted herself to helping a young Mitch overcome polio; Ms. Chao; and many of his top staff members.

“Senator McConnell is married to an extremely distinguished, well-educated, powerful woman,” Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said when asked if she thought Mr. McConnell’s 2014 race could become about women’s issues. “That’s not the sign of a man who feels threatened by powerful women.”

An analysis by LegiStorm, an online database that tracks Congressional staff members, supports the assertions of Mr. McConnell’s office: the staff in his Washington office is 54 percent female, putting him in the top third of senators in terms of hiring and employing women.

In three recent meetings at the White House, Mr. McConnell’s staff pointed out, the chief of staff in his leadership office, Sharon Soderstrom, was the only woman in the room besides Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader. And previous female staff members talked about how Mr. McConnell’s office was a meritocracy.

Janet Mullins Grissom, who ran his first Senate campaign in 1984 and then came to Washington with him as his first chief of staff, recalled, “There were very few female chiefs in 1985, and very few female campaign managers.”

“In the course of my career, I’ve had two bosses who were gender blind when it came to the work force — one was Secretary Baker in the Bush administration, and one was Senator McConnell,” she said. “It was solely based on merit.”

However, Ms. Grimes’s campaign sees an opening with female voters and plans to cast her as an advocate of their concerns.

“There’s a strong contrast between the two on issues that are important to women,” said Jonathan Hurst, a senior adviser to Ms. Grimes’s campaign. “I think Kentuckians, especially women, will vote for Alison Lundergan Grimes because she’s been a champion of issues that are important to women, and I think it will be tough for Senator McConnell because he’s obstructed real meaningful solutions.”

As Democratic e-mails continue to paint Mr. McConnell as a “self-proclaimed ‘proud guardian of gridlock’ ” who is “hurting Kentucky women with unprecedented levels of obstruction,” his team is ready with its own long list of examples that counter the Democratic portrayal.

His aides point to, among other things, his decision in 1995, as chairman of the ethics committee, to recommend that Bob Packwood, at the time a Republican senator from Oregon, be expelled for sexual misconduct charges; the fact that he was a co-sponsor of an early version of the Violence Against Women Act (though he voted against the original law in 1994); and his early support and cosponsorship of legislation allowing female Air Force pilots to fly combat missions.

The first time Mr. McConnell and Ms. Grimes are likely to face each other is early next month at a political picnic in Graves County, Ky., and the race is still taking shape. But Trey Grayson, the director of the Institute of Politics at Harvard and a former Kentucky secretary of state, explained, “When men are running against women, it’s a different dynamic than when two guys are running against each other.”

Mr. McConnell’s team also expects his wife, Ms. Chao, to defend her husband on the campaign trail.

“Believe me,” said Mr. Holmes, the McConnell aide, “Elaine Chao is happy to talk about how the senator views women.”
551 2013-07-25 Mr. Richie’s account, based on what he said were extensive conversations with her, cannot be independently verified. The woman, who is identified in online profiles as Sydney Elaine Leathers, has declined repeated requests to discuss the matter. A spokeswoman for Mr. Weiner also declined to comment.

The new details about Mr. Weiner’s interactions with the woman surfaced on a day when he faced intensifying calls to drop out of the race for mayor, from Democratic leaders and the editorial boards of The Daily News, The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times.

Mr. Weiner, who now acknowledges that his habit of sending racy messages to women had persisted long after his resignation from the House in 2011, has not disputed reports that he had an online relationship with the woman that extended into 2012. But he has said elements of the reporting about the episode are inaccurate, without elaborating.

In the interview, Mr. Richie suggested his Web site would publish new and embarrassing information about the relationship in the coming days.

Mr. Richie said the woman told him that during the relationship, which lasted months, Mr. Weiner discussed with her his plans to run for mayor. It is unclear, though, when that exchange took place.

According to the woman, Mr. Richie said, Mr. Weiner had told her that he loved her and discussed the possibility of securing a place for them to meet in Chicago.

In their conversations, Mr. Richie said, Mr. Weiner repeatedly sought photographs of the woman. “He would demand pictures almost every day,” Mr. Richie said. “He always wanted pictures with heels in them. He loved her heels.”

He estimated that the woman sent Mr. Weiner about 35 images. The Dirty has reported that Mr. Weiner sent an image of his penis to the woman.

Mr. Richie said he first heard from the woman in April but was unsure of her credibility. About a week ago, she told him that she had kept screenshots capturing her conversations with Mr. Weiner and asked how she could submit them to Mr. Richie’s Web site.

He said he had no desire to hurt Mr. Weiner, whom he referred to during the interview as Carlos Danger, the nickname Mr. Weiner used in exchanges with the woman.

“I have nothing against Carlos Danger,” Mr. Richie said. “I’m not trying to bring this guy down.”

The woman, he said, harbors no animosity toward Mr. Weiner, either. “She actually still likes the guy; her whole thing is he lied,” Mr. Richie said. “He said he’s a changed man, but he’s really not a changed man; he’s Carlos Danger.”
552 2013-07-25 During his speech at the Bombay Stock Exchange, Mr. Biden focused on the need for greater ease in doing business with India and called for further economic reforms, highlighting the frustrations many American businesses have had as they have sought to tap into India’s potentially huge consumer market.

“India is no longer an economic island and will continue to rise as an economic power,” Mr. Biden said as he extolled the economic growth of the country since its economy was opened up in 1991. “However, significant challenges and problems persist. It is time we take this relationship to a new level to achieve our shared vision.”

Mr. Biden said that among the obstacles to a friendly business environment in India are the lack of protection for intellectual property, inconsistent tax rules, high barriers to market entry, and protectionist policies. He called for a trade and investment partnership that would be open and fair to both countries and pushed for an improved bilateral trade agreement.

Addressing the American immigration bill that would limit the number of foreign workers allowed into the United States, Mr. Biden said that the number of visas the United States has granted has recently increased. He added that bilateral trade between India and the United States had grown fivefold over the last 13 years, reaching nearly $100 billion this year, and could increase even further if both countries make the right choices.

India has introduced many economic reforms since September 2012, reducing the restrictions for certain types of foreign investment, but American officials believe the changes have not gone far enough.

While India’s market of 1.2 billion people has attracted several global companies, the country has proved to be a challenging business environment, thanks to deep-seated corruption, bureaucratic red tape and convoluted and ever-changing government regulations.

Recently, an amendment to the law that allows the Indian government to tax past overseas transactions involving Indian assets led to a battle with British telecom company Vodafone Group and created considerable apprehension among foreign investors. In April, India’s top court alarmed overseas drug companies by allowing Indian pharmaceutical companies to make generic versions of the Gleevec, a chemotherapy drug from Novartis, which raised questions about the protection of intellectual property in India.

Building on Secretary of State John Kerry’s recent visit to India, Mr. Biden also urged India to address the challenges posed by climate change and begin working toward cleaner energy options.

“Unless development is sustainable, the consequences of climate change will seriously undermine the economic progress made by India and risk the very health of the people of the country,” he said, suggesting that the two countries work to reduce the use of hydrofluorocarbons and encourage scientists from both countries to work on green technology options.

He also pushed for an increased security partnership, adding that such ties would be good for business and regional stability.

“There is no contradiction between strategic autonomy and a strategic partnership,” he said. “Global powers are capable of both.”

He added that the United States would like to see India achieve its cherished goal of a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, as well as take a bigger role in regional leadership.

Mr. Biden received warm applause when he congratulated India’s cricket team for beating England in January.

Mr. Biden’s visit to India, his first official trip to the country since assuming office in 2009, is the first by an American vice president in almost three decades. He arrived in New Delhi on Monday and spent a day meeting with India’s top political leaders, including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice President Hamid Ansari and Sushma Swaraj, the leader of the opposition.
553 2013-07-26 Experts offer suggestions for ensuring that discharged patients stay out of the hospital....
554 2013-07-26 Last night, we hosted our second annual Open Source Science Fair....
555 2013-07-26 Have these nine items at the ready and you’ll be equipped to deal with warm, sticky weather, wherever you find it....
556 2013-07-26 A. O. Scott and David Carr talk about Netflix’s amazing evolution, and how people are watching its critically acclaimed shows....
557 2013-07-26 In this week's episode, A. O. Scott and David Carr talk about Netflix's amazing evolution, and how people are watching its critically acclaimed shows.
558 2013-07-26 A bit of a gray area for Target’s marketing; should she pop the question?...
559 2013-07-26 Japan’s biggest brokerage said Friday its net income for the most recent quarter was nearly 35 times higher than a year ago....
560 2013-07-26 Brendan Steele topped the Canadian Open leader board at seven-under-par 65, birdieing five of the first seven holes on his back nine at Glen Abbey in Oakville, Ontario. Matt Kuchar, a two-time winner this year, was a stroke back along with Scott Gardiner and Scott Brown.

■ Gene Sauers mastered a stiff breeze to shoot a three-under 67 for a one-stroke lead after the first round of the Senior British Open in Southport, England. Four players were at 68, among them Bernhard Langer. (AP)
561 2013-07-26 Roger Federer lost to a low-ranked opponent for the third straight tournament, his new and larger racket failing him Thursday in a 6-3, 6-4 defeat to Daniel Brands in the second round of the Swiss Open in Gstaad.

Playing on clay and before home fans, Federer was troubled by the serve and big forehand of the 55th-ranked Brands. Federer’s other losses in the past month were to players ranked No. 116 (Sergiy Stakhovsky, at Wimbledon) and No. 114 (Federico Delbonis, at Hamburg, Germany). Federer, 31, is at No. 5, his lowest ranking since he started his run of 17 Grand Slam singles titles at Wimbledon in 2003.

■ Viktor Troicki of Serbia was handed an 18-month suspension for violating an antidoping rule. Troicki, 27, ranked 53rd in the world, provided a urine sample at the Monte Carlo Masters event on April 15 but failed to provide a blood sample, saying he felt unwell. (REUTERS)
562 2013-07-26 Now, it seems, they are more than halfway home. In 2008, statistics show, 5,000 bats broke in hitters’ hands, with 2,500 of those shattering in what wood technicians call “multipiece failures,” and those in the line of fire call less printable names. Last year, the number of broken bats was down only slightly, but the number of shattered bats dropped to just over 1,200.

The change is the result of an unusual partnership between Major League Baseball and the Forest Service, whose scientists looked deep into maple’s core to find why it was so brittle, and how it could be made less so. Giving up the wood entirely was deemed out of the question.

As David E. Kretschmann, the Forest Service scientist who led a team of colleagues working on the maple mystery, said, “If someone’s making millions of dollars using a certain thing, they’re not going to mess with it.”

What Mr. Kretschmann’s team told Major League Baseball’s equipment specialists is that it was harder to follow the orientation of the grain of maple wood than of ash. In ash trees, the veinlike vessels that carry water up through the trunk are larger and arrayed in clear, almost regimental form in the growth rings.

In maple trees, these vessels are smaller and scattered through the dense wood fiber nearly randomly. This makes them harder to see, and harder to follow when carving billets — the round cylinders that are carved into bats — out of a tree. The more that the wood grain in the cut wood deviates from its original slope, the more shatter-prone the bat, he said.

With Mr. Kretschmann’s information in hand, baseball changed the specifications for its maple bats. Handles had to be thicker. The wood had to meet a minimum density. The weight-to-length ratio could not fall below specified limits. And the grain in the bat could not deviate more than 3 percent off the true path of the grain in the original wood.

To ensure that the grain was easy to see and measure, a black ink dot was added, allowing the ink to bleed into the grain and make it more visible.

Chuck Schupp, the director of pro baseball sales and promotions for Hillerich & Bradsby, the makers of the Louisville Slugger bat, credited these rules for lessening the risk of flying maple shards in ballparks. “Maple’s been around for 13 years,” he said. “The rules helped make it less a question of safety.” Mr. Schupp said that his company has about 50 percent of the bat market.

Don Fine, the president of Viper Bats in Washington State, a boutique operation that sells to teams like the Philadelphia Phillies and Seattle Mariners, said that he has changed the way he cuts the cylindrical billets out of the wood, mimicking the action of splitting a fence rail.

Mr. Fine said ballplayers are very conscious of the shattered bat issue, and will quickly call if they feel a bat has shattered because of poor construction. “Most of the guys will know. ‘That was an outside slider. I shouldn’t have swung at it. Drat, I broke my bat.' ”

“But if they are hitting it on the sweet spot and it’s still shattering,” he said, “they will send it back.”

The decline in shattered bats has continued for the past four years, and it can be measured by the new statistic Mr. Kretschmann’s team has given to baseball, a sport famous for them: multipiece failures per game. In 2008, the MPF rate was about 1.0. Through the first 1,300 games of 2009, after the rules were changed, it was 0.69, he reported.

Through the first 1,300 games of 2013, it is 0.47.

This is, however, a downside to the trend, at least for Mr. Fine at Viper Bats. “It’s created a longer business cycle for wood bats,” he said. “A guy might have bought six of them every summer until last year. Now he’s buying three.”
563 2013-07-26 TOKYO — Japanese consumer prices rose in June at their highest annual pace in nearly five years in an early sign of an end to persistent deflation, boding well for the central bank’s bold stimulus plan to achieve its 2 percent inflation target in two years.

The 0.4 percent rise in core consumer prices, which is slightly higher than a median market forecast for a 0.3 percent increase, was largely because of a rise in electricity bills and a weak yen that inflated the cost of gasoline imports.

But it is an encouraging sign for the Bank of Japan, eager to end 15 years of grinding deflation, because it suggests that more companies are optimistic enough about the economy to believe they can raise prices or at least not cut them.

The data is also a boost to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s sweeping pro-growth policies that aim to pull the world’s third largest economy out of stagnation.

Mr. Abe’s government, which is driving an aggressive policy mix of monetary and fiscal stimulus to foster sustainable long-term growth, has already seen positive signs as first-quarter data showed Japan was the fastest-growing major economy in the world.

The increase in the core consumer price index, which excludes fresh food but includes energy costs, was the highest annual pace since a 1 percent rise in November 2008. It is the first time in 14 months that consumer prices have risen. (In May, prices neither rose nor fell.)
564 2013-07-26 “That’s a leadership position as well,” Ryan said. “There may be more gray area with that than there would be at, say, right guard. I think that’s safe to say.”

Sanchez said it felt a bit like 2009, when as a rookie he outdueled Kellen Clemens to win the starting job, but that might be the only similarity. Sanchez was a first-round pick, Clemens was not the incumbent and Ryan, in his first year as coach, had more job security than a tenured professor.

The consequences for Sanchez and Ryan, who is fighting the perception that he is in danger of being fired if the Jets miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season, are more stark now.

“I’m in it to win it,” said Ryan, who added that he would hope to settle on a starting quarterback “sooner than later.” But he said, “I think the big thing is to make sure that there’s fair competition and you feel good about the decision.”

In 2009 Ryan announced a winner two days after the Jets’ second preseason game, and it is possible that by that juncture this year — Aug. 19 — he will have gathered enough information to reach a conclusion. If Smith were to distance himself from Sanchez, he would immediately validate the Jets’ decision to draft him. And if he does not?

“Well, it would just mean that I have lots of work to do, more work than maybe I thought,” Smith said, adding, “I know eventually down the line there will be another shot for me to win a starting job if I don’t come out of this camp.”

Facing a far shakier future, Sanchez reiterated that “I feel good about my ability, I’m confident in my ability.” Still, he is seeking to sustain his career. And he will attempt to do so with an inexperienced receiving corps that is missing Santonio Holmes (foot surgery) but received a boost when Edwards returned for his third tour with the Jets. Edwards by no means becomes the dependable No. 2 threat that the Jets have long needed, but he has a strong rapport with Sanchez, and he is more accomplished than most of the receivers in camp.

“I didn’t come here in a role that I’m going to help,” said Edwards, who, inspired by a conversation with the former general manager Mike Tannenbaum, lost about 15 pounds during the off-season. “I came here to start.”

Edwards is no different from guard Stephen Peterman or linebacker Antwan Barnes or tight end Jeff Cumberland. There are more jobs available than perhaps at any other point in Ryan’s tenure — a reflection of the failures of last season, and of the prospects afforded by a new regime. Sanchez expects to seize his. So does Smith. In a month or so, they will know.

“One thing he doesn’t have to worry about is getting a fair shake,” Ryan said of Smith. “He’ll definitely get that opportunity.”

Rex Ryan said he was disappointed that the rookie cornerback Dee Milliner, the only Jets draft pick who remains unsigned, did not report Thursday. ... Running back Mike Goodson, who continues to face legal issues after a May arrest on drug and weapons charges, did not report, either, though in a statement Ryan said the team understood the cause of his absence.
565 2013-07-26 At least 10 current or former SAC employees have been tied to allegations of insider trading while working at the hedge fund. Here is how some of those cases have progressed.
566 2013-07-26 FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — The Patriots followed the example set the day before by their head coach. They talked about the sadness of a lost life. They talked about the need to move forward. The team captains Tom Brady and Vince Wilfork did not mention the full name of their former teammate Aaron Hernandez — the only topic of conversation when they addressed the news media on Thursday.

Referring not only to the homicide for which Hernandez is charged, but also to the casualties from the Boston Marathon in April, Brady said: “There’s a very human, compassionate element that we all have, and when it’s someone you know has been on our team, it’s a very sad thing. I think that we as a team have tried to move forward with better awareness and understanding of these types of things. Hopefully nothing like this ever happens again.”

The Patriots used the two days before the start of camp to address the Hernandez situation, with Bill Belichick speaking Wednesday for the first time on the matter and Brady and Wilfork, the two most veteran captains, doing the same on Thursday. Two other captains, Devin McCourty and Jerod Mayo, also spoke with reporters.

Belichick gave a seven-minute prepared speech Wednesday and answered questions for 15 minutes. Brady mentioned Hernandez’s first name once, saying he was “really not supposed to comment on Aaron; I wish I could.” Hernandez’s name did not cross the lips of Wilfork.

A tight end for the Patriots from 2010 until he was released on June 26, Hernandez is charged with first-degree murder in the execution-style shooting death of an acquaintance, Odin Lloyd, on June 17. Additionally, he faces five gun-related charges and is also a suspect in a double homicide in Boston in July 2012. He is being held without bail in a county jail in North Dartmouth, Mass. The Patriots released Hernandez on the day he was arrested.

The opening of training camp Friday may put an end to the Hernandez questions; Belichick said he would no longer talk about the case, and he is advising his players to do the same. But while the issue may go away from the public discourse, Wilfork said there still could be repercussions.
567 2013-07-26 Yet despite Mr. Hun Sen’s ability to overcome the resistance of even his toughest enemies, he is finding new challenges from other quarters of Cambodian society in the fifth parliamentary election since 1993, when multiparty democracy was restored. Younger, more restless voters, many of whom were born after the Khmer Rouge scourge, take peace for granted. And voters in the increasingly modern capital, Phnom Penh, are tiring of what is effectively one-party rule.

As a result, Mr. Hun Sen — who maintains a difficult-to-defeat political machine — faces what analysts describe as a formidable contest, tougher than the governing party is accustomed to and one that features starkly competing political priorities.

His Cambodian People’s Party is underlining the achievements of the past three decades, including economic growth that hovers around 7 percent. The opposition is focusing instead on issues that preoccupy many Cambodians today: growing corruption and an uneven distribution of wealth in a country where the richest (and often politically connected) drive luxury cars and own villas while their countrymen struggle on amid grinding poverty.

Opposition leaders are also highlighting the authoritarian ways of Mr. Hun Sen’s government, which keeps tight reins on most news media outlets and closes down organizations viewed as antigovernment.

It is a paradox of modern Cambodian politics that the end of chaos and widespread starvation is freeing some Cambodians to become more critical. “People are not only thinking with their stomachs anymore,” said Lao Mong Hay, a professor of law and economics. “They are thinking with their hearts, too.”

The rallying cry of the young opposition supporters in Phnom Penh is “change.” They campaign throughout the city on motorcycles, emblems of greater mobility and incomes than their parents knew.

The opposition was galvanized by the return last Friday of Sam Rainsy, a former finance minister who fled Cambodia in 2009 rather than face charges in a highly politicized trial. Mr. Sam Rainsy, who was greeted by tens of thousands of supporters at the Phnom Penh airport, was pardoned by Mr. Hun Sen under pressure from the United States and other governments that provide aid to the country.

But the National Election Committee has ruled that Mr. Sam Rainsy missed the deadline to put his name on the ballot. He says he will contest his exclusion, raising the possibility of a disputed election and clashes between government supporters and those from his Cambodian National Rescue Party.

In a country without a tradition of reliable opinion polls, the election’s outcome is difficult to predict. Analysts say, however, that Mr. Hun Sen has a great advantage in his tight control of the news media, the patronage machine he has built up over the years for the Cambodian People’s Party and the ability to use the party’s wealth to mobilize support. The party currently controls the overwhelming majority of the lower house, whose seats are up in the election and whose chairman names the prime minister.

Sok Touch, the rector of Khemarak University in Phnom Penh, said government officials had been telling voters that a vote for the opposition would mean being cut off from government largess. “Cambodia is still very poor,” he said. “But the C.P.P. is getting richer and richer, and it can buy people.”

Across the country, employees of companies with close links to the government are often treated as foot soldiers of the party. That tendency was on display recently at a newly constructed casino here in Anlong Veng that is owned by a businessman with close ties to Mr. Hun Sen.

Croupiers, mostly young women in yellow vests and bow ties, had been summoned to the casino’s cafeteria, where a man seated at a table showed them a sample ballot. “There are eight political parties, and the C.P.P. is No. 4,” he said. “If you love the C.P.P., tick No. 4.”

The past mixes awkwardly with the present in Anlong Veng. Mr. Nhem En, the former photographer for the Communist Khmer Rouge, runs a massage parlor where masseuses wear high heels and heavy makeup. He is also deputy governor of the district. Ten minutes from the center of town, across the street from the casino, visitors can pay $2 to see a pile of ashes in an unkempt vacant lot, the spot where the body of the Khmer Rouge leader, Pol Pot, was cremated in 1998.

Old Khmer Rouge soldiers, many with visible war wounds, now run small businesses or till the rice and cassava fields. At night, officials from the ruling party project campaign videos on large portable screens, extolling its achievements.

The opposition is barely visible here, as is the case in many other remote areas. A former Khmer Rouge platoon commander, Teng Sakun, who lost his left foot to a land mine, said he knew nothing about the opposition because he had never seen it represented on television. The Khmer-language news media report little about Mr. Hun Sen’s challengers.

Mr. Teng Sakun said he could trust Mr. Hun Sen because of the prime minister’s peasant background. (Mr. Hun Sen was himself a Khmer Rouge cadre before joining the Vietnamese forces to overthrow the movement.)

After decades of turmoil, during which he lived in thatch huts in the jungle, Mr. Teng Sakun now has a grocery shop in Anlong Veng and drives a Toyota Camry.

That type of trajectory may be one reason that in the last election, in 2008, Mr. Hun Sen’s party won comfortable majorities in all five of the western provinces with strong concentrations of former Khmer Rouge soldiers.

Elsewhere, the country also seems ready to put the past to rest. Although only a handful of Khmer Rouge leaders have been brought to trial for the deaths of 1.7 million Cambodians from 1975 to 1979, the lack of prosecutions is not an issue in the election.

Mr. Nhem En said that “sometimes” his past taking photos of adults and children headed to their executions haunted him.

But then he changed the subject to his massage parlor and the resort he plans to open.

“Of course the past always meets the present,” he said. “But we have to be flexible.”
568 2013-07-26 An exhaustingly pretentious heave of artistic self-involvement, “The Time Being” takes an exceptionally handsome journey to nowhere at all.

Getting there, however, requires a great deal of angst and moody visuals, these last faultlessly provided by the Romanian cinematographer Mihai Malaimare Jr. The angst is left to Wes Bentley, playing a struggling, near-catatonic artist named Daniel whose primary modes of expression are staring and brooding. (In a comic book, he’d have a cartoon cloud hovering over his head.) Daniel’s wife (Ahna O’Reilly) is understandably fed up, though probably less for his professional malaise — when he does rouse himself, he paints a drowning man — than for his utter lack of a personality.

When Daniel is summoned to the gloomy home of Warner, a dying eccentric (an underserved Frank Langella), any hope we might have that something is finally going to happen is soon dashed. Issuing bizarre assignments to videotape sunsets and children, Warner shuffles from bed to sofa and back again, all cryptic comments (“Artists don’t have families”) and withering looks. Languid shots of pylons and plumes of paint flowering in water punctuate listless conversations, and the various reflections in Daniel’s bulging cornea — a clock, a blank canvas — are more clearly displayed than the characters’ motivations.

The first feature from Nenad Cicin-Sain (who also wrote the story with Richard N. Gladstein), “The Time Being” wants to say something about artistic selfishness. But it’s speaking in a vacuum; however prettily wrapped, this is still just an empty box.
569 2013-07-26 WASHINGTON — Orders for long-lasting factory goods rose in June, bolstered by an increase in aircraft demand and more business spending. The increase suggests that American companies are more confident in the economy and could increase economic growth in the second half of the year.

The Commerce Department said on Thursday that orders for durable goods increased 4.2 percent last month. That followed a 5.2 percent gain in May, which was revised higher.

Most of the gain occurred because aircraft orders, which are volatile month to month, jumped 31.4 percent. Boeing said it received orders for 287 planes in June, up from 232 in May. Excluding autos and airplanes, orders were unchanged.

Orders that signal planned business investment, which exclude volatile transportation and military orders, increased in June for the fourth straight month. The 0.7 percent gain last month was buoyed by more machinery demand. And orders in May were much stronger than previously reported.

Even with the gain, business investment is not likely to help economic growth in the April-June quarter, economists said. That is because the government measures shipments, rather than orders, when calculating business investments’ contribution to growth. Shipments fell in June. But the increase in orders this spring suggests shipments will rise in the July-September quarter and add to growth.
570 2013-07-26 BEIJING — A well-known human rights advocate who lives in Beijing, Hu Jia, was detained for several hours on Thursday evening by the police in the southern city of Shenzhen, along with his five-year-old daughter, Qianci, according to Mr. Hu’s wife, Zeng Jinyan.

Also detained was Teng Biao, a lawyer from Beijing.

The three were at a restaurant in Shenzhen, which is across the border from Hong Kong. It was Mr. Hu’s 40th birthday.

A photograph of the three standing in front of a birthday cake with a pair of lit candles circulated on Twitter late Thursday.

Mr. Hu served three years in prison after being found guilty of “inciting subversion of the state.” That is a common charge used to silence critics of the Communist Party and its policies.

Mr. Teng is often put under temporary house arrest, especially during delicate public anniversaries.
571 2013-07-26 Federal prosecutors brought what they called the largest hacking and data breach case in the country.
572 2013-07-26 SEOUL, South Korea — South and North Korea threatened to terminate their last remaining joint economic project on Thursday after they failed to narrow differences over reopening the project, a jointly operated industrial complex at Kaesong just north of the border the countries share.

The complex, where companies manufactured consumer goods using Southern capital and technology and a mainly Northern work force, has been shuttered for three and a half months. Officials from both Koreas met in Kaesong on Thursday, their sixth round of talks this month, but the talks ended without an agreement or a date for further talks.

The North withdrew its 53,000 workers from the complex April 8, blaming tensions it said were caused by joint American-South Korean military exercises. The South later withdrew its own citizens, most of them factory managers.

A major issue in the talks has been the South’s demand that the North take responsibility for the damage caused by the abrupt shutdown of the factories. The North says the shutdown was the South’s fault and that the South’s confrontational attitude has kept it from reopening.

Inter-Korean relations deteriorated earlier this year as the two sides exchanged threats after the North’s nuclear test in February. Some dialogue between the governments has since resumed, but the barbed exchanges on Thursday revealed their deep mutual mistrust.

Both sides say that the fate of the Kaesong industrial park has become a watershed: whether they can reach a deal to reopen it will have broad implications for broader relations between them.

The conservative government of President Park Geun-hye in South Korea appears determined to use the Kaesong talks to end a “vicious cycle” of provocative behavior by the North and appeasement by the South.
573 2013-07-26 Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California and the minority leader, described Mr. Weiner’s behavior as “reprehensible; it’s so disrespectful of women.” Even Mr. Weiner’s rank-and-file donors said they were disillusioned by the disclosures that had recast the candidate who they viewed as a liberal hero into a habitually misbehaving and misleading figure.

“This kind of behavior is very bad,” said Kishore Belani, the owner of a video company in Queens who recently contributed to Mr. Weiner’s campaign. “I don’t think that he deserves another chance.”

“I have children,” Mr. Belani added. “For children, this is not a good politician to learn from.”

The accounting of online flirtations offered by Mr. Weiner, 48, on Thursday, while at times awkward, was the most detailed he has provided since he resigned from office in 2011, vowing to learn from his mistakes, reconcile with his wife and seek therapy.

When he re-emerged this spring, asking for a second chance to serve the public, he portrayed himself as a rehabilitated figure who since his resignation had reflected on his past errors and abandoned his habit of sending lewd messages and photos to strangers he met online.

But those claims were belied by a series of embarrassing admissions this week. On Tuesday, he said that he had initiated explicit exchanges with a young woman from Indiana a year after he had resigned, using the alias “Carlos Danger”; and on Thursday, he acknowledged doing the same with two more women during the same period.

The latest revelations jolted a candidate who had improbably climbed to the top of polls, and they invited searing attacks from rivals and the city’s political establishment.

“To me, he has committed the cardinal sins: those are, lying to the public,” said Richard D. Emery, a civil rights and election lawyer in New York who is supporting Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, who is also seeking the Democratic nomination for mayor. “Lots of politicians do it, but he has done it in a way that reaches new heights of hypocrisy.”

Mr. Weiner, he said, “has really forfeited his right to participate in the election.”

Adding to the melodrama, Sydney Leathers, the Indiana woman with whom Mr. Weiner connected for his most recent online escapade, emerged publicly, appearing on “Inside Edition,” the tabloid television show, to describe their relationship, which lasted months and continued even as he made plans to run for mayor.

Ms. Leathers, 23, a Democratic activist who once revered Mr. Weiner for his strident voice on liberal causes, accused him of lying to his wife and to the public about ending his online dalliance.

“I’m disgusted by him,” she told the show. “He’s not who I thought he was.”

During the interview, Ms. Leathers was asked whether she told Mr. Weiner that she loved him. “Yes,” she replied. Asked if Mr. Weiner had said he loved her, she replied, “Yes.”

She urged Mr. Weiner to leave the campaign. “Stop lying, stop embarrassing his wife and get help,” she said.

Mr. Weiner said on Thursday that he was still seeking professional help for his online behavior, and that he did not believe he had an addiction.

He made his comments as he tried to shift the spotlight from his personal life to his policy ideas, by going to a soup kitchen in Brooklyn to lay out his plan to appoint a cabinet-level official to oversee nonprofit groups in the city.

“I want to return to having a conversation,” he said. “I don’t know if I’ll have a chance to.”

But questions about his character kept cropping up. After he accused a Democratic rival, Christine C. Quinn, of misleading the public on changing term limits, Ms. Quinn, who is the City Council speaker, questioned his fitness for public office at a news conference in Lower Manhattan.

She went after him for a “pattern of reckless behavior” and his “significant challenge with telling the truth.”

Even as his opponents and the newspaper editorial boards called for Mr. Weiner to abandon his bid for mayor, his most ardent supporters said they would overlook his failings.

“It’s completely irrelevant to his ability to be mayor,” said Adam R. Rose, co-president of Rose Associates, a real estate management company and a donor to Mr. Weiner’s campaign. “My support for Anthony is unwavering.”

But some longtime supporters, alarmed by the continuing commotion, said they could no longer stomach his candidacy.

“The man needs to look himself in the mirror and say, ‘Really?’ ” said Maryanne Adams, a donor to his campaign from New Hampshire, who said she had admired his outspoken support for overhauling health care. “Grow up.”

She was already starting to talk about his campaign in the past tense. “It’s too bad,” she said. “So much talent wasted.”
574 2013-07-26 With time running down, Ronaldinho had a golden chance to be the hero as he set up for a free kick, one of his specialities still at age 33, just to the left of center about 30 yards from Silva’s goal. But his kick was smashed into the wall and his shot off rebound of his own attempt was deflected for a corner kick.

But minutes later, Bernard sent a cross into the goal box from the right side. Central defender Leonardo Silva rose to head the ball back across the goal and inside the far post to tie the match. Olimpia’s Julio Mansur was sent off in the 85th minute for a rash tackle and the Paraguayan team was forced to play a man down for the 30-minute extra time period. With the match still tied, it was on to penalty kicks.

In earlier rounds, Atlético had escaped in epic fashion, riding a penalty save by goalkeeper Victor late in its quarterfinal against Tijuana of Mexico and another in the semifinal shootout victory against Newell’s Old Boys of Argentina.

He was up to it again Wednesday night, thwarting the first Olimpia attempt, by Herminio Miranda with one of his trailing legs. Atlético converted all four of its penalty attempts with Leonardo Silva succeeding on the fourth kick. Olimpia’s bid to stay alive ended when Matías Giménez hit the post with his attempt.

If Atlético had been forced to take its fifth kick it would have fallen to Ronaldinho, a former two-time world player of the year.

“I have no words to describe Ronaldinho,” Atlético forward Bernard told Bloomberg News after the game. “He deserves everything that’s come his way. He’s always trying to help everyone, he’s always smiling and happy, and God is blessing him with the things he deserves.”

Before joining Atlético, Ronaldinho spent 15 months at Flamengo after he returned to Brazil from a decade playing in Europe, where he also won league titles with Barcelona and Milan of Italy. He was practically drummed out of Flamengo, ridiculed as too fat, out of shape and over the hill. But he was rejuvenated by the move to Atlético, winning the award as the best player in the Brazilian league in 2012, and his recent form gave him hope of being recalled to the national team for last month’s Confederations Cup. But that was not to be.

A team from Brazil has won the Copa every year since 2010: Internacional, Santos, Corinthians and now Atlético.
575 2013-07-27 Readers comment on my column about the growing animal rights movement....
576 2013-07-27 Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon attempt to explain one of the mysteries of life....
577 2013-07-27 Elena Delle Donne will miss the W.N.B.A. All-Star Game on Saturday while recovering from a concussion. She was injured in the Chicago Sky’s loss to the Washington Mystics on Wednesday when she was going for a loose ball. Delle Donne, who is averaging 18 points a game, was the first rookie to lead the All-Star voting.

■ The Stanford senior guard Toni Kokenis, a member of two Final Four teams, will end her playing career after two concussions in the past year.
578 2013-07-27 Hunter Mahan birdied the final three holes for an eight-under 64 and a two-stroke lead after the second round of the Canadian Open in Oakville, Ontario. John Merrick was second after a 62. He tied the course record set by Leonard Thompson in 1981 and matched by Andy Bean in 1983 and Greg Norman in 1986.

■ Mark Wiebe of the United States shot a five-under 65 to share the lead with Bernhard Langer after the second round of the Senior British Open at Royal Birkdale. Langer, the 2010 champion, shot a 67 and made five birdies. (AP)

■ Russell Knox shot the fifth 59 in Web.com Tour history, missing a chance to break the tour record when he settled for pars on the final two holes in the second round of the Boise Open.
579 2013-07-27 Pictures From the Week in Business
580 2013-07-27 History is filled with examples of financial speculators who tried to make big profits by hoarding commodities like gold, silver and copper. Now, some big users of aluminum, including Coca-Cola and MillerCoors, say that the practices of large financial institutions like Goldman Sachs have driven up the price of that important metal.

Unlike investors in the past that bought up the commodities they were trying to control, Goldman is not buying the world’s aluminum. Rather, it is storing the metal for other banks, traders and aluminum producers in a complex of warehouses outside Detroit that it acquired in 2010. The problem, as described in The Times by David Kocieniewski, is that since the bank entered this business, the time it takes buyers to get the metal from those warehouses has shot up to more than 16 months, from 6 weeks. Goldman has attributed the delays to a shortage of trucks and forklift drivers. But Goldman also pays incentives to owners of the metal to keep it in the bank’s warehouses.

Those delays have bolstered Goldman’s profits, because the bank earns more rent the longer metal stays in its warehouses. However, companies that use aluminum argue that the delays hurt them by making them wait for deliveries and can also raise the spot price of aluminum because that price is calculated by a formula that includes a premium based on storage costs. An official at MillerCoors told a Senate committee that the difficulty in getting metal supplies had cost it and other companies $3 billion last year.

Goldman Sachs says that its warehouses follow the rules of the London Metal Exchange, a commodity market that regulates the operation of a network of aluminum warehouses around the world. The bank also says that any company needing aluminum can buy the metal elsewhere, including directly from producers like Alcoa.

Since the rules of the London Metal Exchange require warehouse operators to move out only a small amount of aluminum every day, warehouse operators like Goldman, which until recently owned the Metal Exchange along with other big banks, could hold on to the metal at the expense of businesses that need aluminum.

The Metal Exchange has proposed changes in its rules that would force warehouses to reduce their delays, but those modifications would not go into effect until next year. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has also begun looking into the warehouse operations.
581 2013-07-27 Federal and state governments are entering the home stretch in the race to carry out the most important in more than four decades. The most pressing task is to establish new health care exchanges, the electronic marketplaces in which consumers will be able to compare and buy plans just as they buy airplane tickets or rent cars on the Internet.

The exchanges are scheduled to start enrolling people on Oct. 1 in policies that will become effective in January 2014. It is a challenging task but not an impossible one, as long as Americans have a chance to learn how they can benefit from the coverage and from sliding-scale subsidies provided by the federal government under the Affordable Care Act.

To their shame and discredit, Republicans are trying to block efforts to inform people about the law and are using scare tactics to keep them from enrolling. The Republican mantra is that the nation will face economic and medical catastrophe — a “train wreck,” they say — unless health care reform is stopped in its tracks.

Their tactics are despicable. When , the secretary of health and human services, revealed that she was talking with the and other athletic organizations about ways to inform their fans about insurance on the exchanges, the two highest-ranking Republican senators wrote a threatening letter that caused the league to back off.

, a conservative group co-founded by the Republican strategist , has been running a video comparing the law to a tornado that will produce “a rising tide of health care costs” and leave “nobody safe from its wrath.”
582 2013-07-27 JPMorgan Chase is exiting physical commodities trading, the bank said, as Wall Street’s role in the trading of raw materials comes under intense political and regulatory pressure. The firm, Wall Street’s biggest bank, said an internal review had concluded it should pursue “strategic alternatives” for its physical commodities operations, which include assets like its Henry Bath metals warehousing subsidiary and a vast global team trading everything from African crude to Canadian natural gas. The firm will explore “a sale, spinoff or strategic partnership” for its physical arm, the statement said. The announcement, which surprised many, comes after a week of increased scrutiny of Wall Street’s commodity operations.
583 2013-07-27 Coughlin was not revealing his 2013 slogan, which he usually delivers to the team early in training camp, but it was unmistakably clear what was on his mind.

“Last year’s experience at the end of the season was not a very pretty one,” Coughlin said. “I think we’re better than that. And I think that’s on everyone’s mind.”

The message may have already gotten through to some of the players, at least the veterans, like Eli Manning, who was beginning his 10th training camp as a Giant.

“We’re coming here with something to prove,” Manning said. “We’ve got to get back to being precise and everything being done the right way to ensure that we’re winning these games that we should be winning.”

Cruz conceded that the late, lopsided losses last season “were still lingering.”

And safety Antrel Rolle, one of the team’s most unfailingly expressive players, which can help and hurt, proved he was in midseason form even on the opening day of training camp.

“To say we’re hungry now is an understatement,” he said.

Asked to describe the collapse in some games at the end of last season, Rolle answered: “We went out there and played the best of the best defense some weeks and went out there and played the worst of the worst defense some weeks.”

That might make a good slogan, except it would not fit on a T-shirt.

FIVE MISS TEAM CONDITIONING Five players will start the season on the physically unable to perform list, including defensive lineman Jason Pierre-Paul, who had back surgery in the off-season. Pierre-Paul did not participate in the team conditioning drills, but he did work out on the sideline and appeared to be running and moving well.

“He’s coming,” Coughlin said. “He’s done well. He’s worked hard. I’ve seen him the last two days on the machines in there. His weight is good. He’s optimistic.”

Chris Snee, recovering from hip surgery, was involved in similar workouts. Fullback Henry Hynoski, cornerback Terrell Thomas and defensive tackle Markus Kuhn, all of whom are coming back from knee operations, are the other players on the physically unable to perform list.

MANNING SAYS NICKS IS HEALTHY Eli Manning said the Giants’ top receiver, Hakeem Nicks, who missed some of the voluntary workouts in the spring, told him he was completely healthy.

“I think Hakeem was just being smart and making sure he was healthy coming into camp and into the season, having gone through that stretch last year with his foot during O.T.A.’s and with his knee during the season,” Manning said. “But from what he’s told me, he’s 100 percent and ready to go, and that’s what we’re expecting and that’s what we need him to be.”

CRUZ SAYS HE IS NOT UNDERPAID Victor Cruz seemed eager to distance himself from recent comments in which he suggested that his new contract was not lucrative enough.

“I don’t feel underpaid at all,” he said. “I was very excited about my contract, and I’m very excited to be here with this team.”

The Giants’ first full practice is Saturday afternoon.
584 2013-07-27 “General Motors’ investigation into our recall of the Chevrolet Tavera, which is built and sold exclusively in India, identified violations of company policy,” G.M. said in a statement. “G.M. subsequently dismissed several employees.”

One person briefed on the dismissals, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said at least 10 employees, mostly in India, were involved. The highest-ranking employee was Mr. Winegarden, who is based in the United States and is the top engineer for the company’s engine operations worldwide.

The company, which said it was voluntarily recalling the vehicles, acknowledged that the Indian government was aware of “an emissions issue” with the Tavera, one of G.M.’s mainstream models in the country.

“G.M. India informed Indian government authorities of an emissions issue involving the Tavera BS3 meeting certain specifications on July 19,” the company said.

The company stopped production of the Tavera in India this month. It said it would make changes to vehicles built as far back as 2005 and perform the required engineering validation. It gave no timetable for notifying customers and doing the work.

The recall is a setback for G.M.’s growth plans in India, particularly if it damages the reputation of the American automaker.

“Our customers are at the center of everything we do,” said Lowell Paddock, head of G.M. India, when he announced the recall.

On Thursday, G.M. reported that its net income in the second quarter dropped 19 percent, partly because of smaller-than-expected profits in Asia.

G.M.’s chief financial officer, Daniel Ammann, said on Thursday that India was among the international markets where G.M. struggled during the quarter.

The decision to oust executives is in keeping with a zero-tolerance policy about violation of corporate ethics led by G.M.’s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson.

“We take these matters very seriously and hold our leaders and employees to high standards,” the company said. “When those standards are not met, we will take the appropriate action to hold employees accountable.”

Last year, Joel Ewanick, G.M.’s chief marketing officer, was forced to resign after questions were raised inside the company about his handling of a sponsorship deal with a British soccer team.
585 2013-07-27 “Market terror! Amateur investors, get out now!” screamed a headline on the cover of the popular weekly magazine Shukan Gendai after a particularly bad run last month.

The volatility continued on Friday as the Nikkei stock index fell almost 3 percent after news that Japanese consumer prices rose in June to their highest annual pace in nearly five years.

The question market watchers are asking remains: Can Japan’s retail investors get over a deeply entrenched suspicion of the stock market made worse by recent volatility?

“Japanese still think of the stock market as a place where people, blinded by greed, manipulate prices based on some sort of voodoo magic,” said Ryoji Musha, president of Musha Research, a private financial research firm based in Tokyo, and former chief investment adviser at Deutsche Securities in Japan.

The continued wariness casts a cloud on the long-term strength of Japanese stocks, even as individual investors are crucial to sustaining a recovery, experts say. Fear of stock markets also limits the broader effect of the wealth generated so far by Mr. Abe’s economic policies, because too few ordinary Japanese stand to benefit directly from stock market gains. And it undermines efforts by Mr. Abe to shift the trillions of yen sitting in low-yielding savings accounts in Japan toward more productive investments.

“Any long-term market recovery hinges on the support of individual investors,” said Masayuki Doshida, senior market analyst at Rakuten Securities, an online retail brokerage firm. He said that some individual investors had bought stocks on margin, or borrowed money from brokers to pay for their stock purchase. But once those stocks fell past a certain value, many investors were forced to sell their shares, worsening the market fall.

“But I’m optimistic. I’m waiting for investors to regain their nerve and jump back in,” Mr. Doshida said.

The Japanese remain some of the most cautious investors in the industrialized world. Stocks and mutual funds together made up just 11 percent of financial assets held by individuals in Japan at the end of last year. That is less than half the levels seen in 1990 near the bubble’s peak, and far below the current 45 percent in the United States and 22 percent in the euro zone, according to figures from the Bank of Japan.

Japanese households instead hold 55 percent of their financial assets as cash and savings, despite near-zero interest rates. At the peak of the bubble, Japanese savers stashed only 40 percent of their assets there. The comparable rate is about 15 percent in the United States and 36 percent in Europe.

In the bubble years, novice investors followed Japanese corporations in taking up zaiteku, a Japanized abbreviation of investment technology, or the art of speculative investment in stocks, bonds and real estate. Neighborhood stockbrokers popped up across Japan.

The 1987 listing of Nippon Telegraph and Technology, the former state-run telecommunications company, drew such investor enthusiasm that its share price almost tripled in the first two months of trading, briefly making it the world’s most valuable company by market capitalization.

Legends were born. Nui Onoue, a bar hostess in Osaka, earned a reputation for getting stock tips through divine guidance and became one of Japan’s most active individual investors, controlling billions of yen in investments. Self-made billionaires like Kazuo Kengaku earned notoriety as “shite” (pronounced she-tay) or market movers who reaped hefty profits by driving stock prices up and down.

Then things starting going awry. By 1992, N.T.T. shares had lost four-fifths of their value, wiping out investors across Japan. Ms. Onoue was arrested in a $2.5 billion fraud scandal. Mr. Kengaku ran into trouble with his gangster associates, and his body was discovered encased in concrete in a forest in Kyoto.

“The excesses of the bubble era gave stocks a dirty image,” said Sumio Mochizuki, who runs Icas, a nonprofit company that is trying to popularize investment clubs in Japan. “Even if you’re just getting together to trade shares, some people suspect you’re up to no good, or that you’re a criminal group,” he said.

But as markets surged in 2013, “semiprofessional” day traders and Japan’s wealthy seized the market upside and made some serious money, according to an analysis by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank.

The fervor later spread as mom-and-pop investors who had watched nervously from the sidelines raced to the market. Suddenly, a proliferation of investment guidebooks hit bookstores: “Get rich with Abenomics,” one advertised on its cover. “It’s true: You can make money off stocks!” gushed another.

Soon, brokerage firms said they were inundated with applications for new accounts and attendance at investment seminars ballooned. In late May, Daiwa Securities, one of Japan’s biggest investment banks, said it would increase its sales force by about 50 percent to handle the renewed interest in stocks.

“It’s incredible. For a while, I didn’t know anything but a bull market,” said Mirei Tsugawa, 33, a novice investor who works at Narita Airport in Tokyo. “I didn’t tell my parents what I was doing, though, because they’d be worried.”

Perhaps for good reason. On May 23, the rally came to an abrupt halt. The market plunged 7 percent in a single trading session as foreign investors were unnerved by signs of a manufacturing slowdown in China and concerns over an early end to monetary stimulus in the United States.

“Individual investors suddenly felt like they were sheep about to be gobbled up by hedge fund wolves,” said Shinichi Watanabe, a professor in finance and economics at Tokyo International University and a former fund manager at the Sumitomo Trust and Banking.

A shift from saving to investment is a critical part of Mr. Abe’s reforms. Next year, Japan is set to introduce tax-exempt individual accounts for stocks and mutual funds. Nomura Asset Management recently predicted that nearly 10 million people might use such accounts, generating a 26 trillion yen inflow into shares and investment trusts.

The drive has plenty of skeptics, however.

“Stock markets today are just a money game,” said Mitsuru Sakurai, policy chief and lawmaker at the opposition Democratic Party. “Prime Minister Abe is creating a dangerous bubble, and we all know what happens to bubbles.”
586 2013-07-27 But for LearnVest to succeed, Ms. von Tobel will need to sell its product — one that, let’s face it, feels a little like eating your vegetables — to a vast number of customers across the country.

LearnVest, which started in 2009 as a budgeting Web site directed at women, just received another large round of financing from big-time investors, which will allow it to hire more planners and support staff as well as open a training and adviser hub in Phoenix. The company raised $16.5 million, which comes on top of the nearly $25 million raised since its inception.

The plan is to beef up its operation so it can handle the big distribution partnerships that are in the works, including a potential deal with American Express, one of its new investors. The company has broad plans to provide its newly designed product: a seven-step, customized financial plan. Ms. von Tobel, who dropped out of Harvard Business School to start the company, also said it was working with employers and financial planning firms to sell its program within 401(k)’s.

Most financial planners focus on wealthier people, whom they can charge $1,000 to $3,000 for a financial plan, or collect 1 percent of their assets, on average, to manage their money. In contrast, LearnVest charges a $399 upfront fee and $19 a month, or $608 annually. You can pay less for help on a specific goal, like paying off debt or starting a budget.

Ms. von Tobel, who is represented by William Morris Endeavor, the talent agency, has worked hard to raise the company’s profile — as well as her own — in the world of personal finance, though she has not yet reached Suze Orman status. A book by Ms. von Tobel will be released in December.

At the moment, her company does not have much direct competition, aside from the smattering of unbiased advisers that charge a flat or hourly fee. Several relatively affordable online financial firms have cropped up in recent years — including Betterment, Wealthfront, Flat Fee Portfolios and FutureAdvisor — but their focus is much narrower. These companies help assemble and manage low-cost investment portfolios. But they won’t determine how much you can afford to spend on a mortgage, what sort of life insurance you should buy and whether you should be saving more for a child’s college tuition or your own retirement.

Personal Capital, an online wealth management firm, also combines real advisers with technology, but it, too, focuses on money management and requires a minimum investment of $100,000. NestWise, a unit of LPL Financial, opened last September and probably comes closest to competing directly with LearnVest. It has 23 advisers who use technology to connect with its clients, but not all are certified financial planners. Its most expensive service costs about $825 for the first year and $575 annually thereafter, though it will manage your money for about 1 percent of your assets, in addition to the cost of the underlying investments.

So what do you get at LearnVest for $19 a month? Since the company became a registered investment adviser last year, it can now offer investment advice. Ms. von Tobel says she is ripping a page from Weight Watchers’ playbook with the most recent version of its service: a seven-step action plan, which begins with a diagnostic call that typically lasts 45 to 90 minutes. “You can be someone who is extremely sophisticated with millions of dollars or a doctor with $200,000 in debt,” said Ms. von Tobel, who became a financial adviser earlier this year. “But you should still go through this process.”

The advisers save time by leaning heavily on the company’s technology: a planner could see where you overspent on dinner the night before by viewing your online profile.

Clients connect all their accounts to LearnVest’s online “money center.” This captures every last financial transaction across your accounts, like checking, savings, credit cards and investments. Your adviser uses all this data, combined with a financial questionnaire and the information gathered on the call, to tailor a plan. You can both view your personal “money center,” which is a cross between an e-mail in-box and a giant checking register, while on the phone.

In about 10 days, you receive a customized financial plan. The sample I reviewed was about 77 pages, with a section dedicated to each of its seven steps — which include “organizing” and “building” — that cover all aspects of your financial life. The plan provided specifics on how to get out of debt, set up a college savings plan for a child, and how much to save for retirement, among other things.

You are assigned a financial planner, and, at least for now, the cost includes unlimited phone and e-mail chats. “When I say unlimited, I mean unlimited,” Ms. von Tobel said. To make sure you follow through, the financial planner e-mails what the company calls bite-size challenges — say, to buy life insurance or increase your 401(k) savings by 1 percent — with a deadline. “When you miss a deadline, the planner is also notified and can nudge you to help hold you accountable,” she added.

Right now, the service stops short of making specific mutual fund recommendations, but instead tells you how much money to put in each type of investment, like large-capitalization stocks and bonds. It also included a list of “vetted providers,” like Charles Schwab, Fidelity, TD Ameritrade and Vanguard, and detailed information about their costs.

Time will tell whether the planners, all salaried employees who receive bonuses based on customer satisfaction, can handle the number of clients required of them. LearnVest currently has about 25 certified planners in 10 states and five time zones, with plans to expand to about 35 by the end of the year. Ms. von Tobel declined to say how many customers the advisers, most of whom work from home, would ideally handle at full throttle. NestWise’s chief executive said the goal was for each of its advisers to oversee 500 clients.

Former LearnVest employees told me that some people left the company because they were overworked, but those were also relatively early days at a start-up. It’s also possible that LearnVest will be owned by someone else a few years from now, since many entrepreneurs with big investors are building companies to sell them.

For now, Ms. von Tobel said she was focused on getting the program, which holds great potential to revolutionize financial planning for the masses, in as many hands as possible.

“There is no reason this can’t be enormous,” Ms. von Tobel said.
587 2013-07-27 Consumer advocates said that the test would be whether importers were required to conduct such on-site audits, or whether that was left to the companies’ discretion, as one option proposed in the draft rules would allow. If that option becomes final it would effectively allow the industry to police itself, advocates said.

“Without more clarity, this could end up as a paper exercise,” said Erik Olson, head of food programs at the Pew Charitable Trusts. He added, however, that the rules were “an important improvement over the weak current import system.”

Michael R. Taylor, deputy commissioner for foods and veterinary medicine at the F.D.A., said the different options simply reflected an effort to be flexible regarding a very complex food supply. “We envision circumstances in which it would be required to have an on-site audit,” he said. “We are trying to — with these two different options — flesh out different ways of getting there.”

These are the last major rules needed to put into effect the Food Safety Modernization Act, a law passed by Congress in 2010 that was the first significant update of the agency’s food safety authority in 70 years. The Obama administration has been criticized for taking more than two years to propose the rules; some complained that the White House delayed acting to avoid Republican attacks, at the cost of public safety.

Some of the biggest importers, like Walmart and Cargill, praised the proposed rules and said they already do much of what they would be required to do to avoid food outbreaks that could damage their global brands.

“What we’re really looking for is a level playing field here,” said Michael Robach, vice president for food safety at Cargill. He said the company was still studying the rules to determine if it needed to make any changes.

Consumer groups said that outbreaks had persisted under the current system, and noted that a significant share of imports were brought to the United States by smaller companies.

The new rules on imports would cost $400 million to $500 million, Mr. Taylor said. The money reflects new costs, because, in the past, no one was legally accountable for ensuring safe food production before the food arrived in the United States.

The F.D.A. is responsible for the safety of about 80 percent of the food that Americans consume. The rest falls to the Agriculture Department, which is responsible for meat, poultry and some eggs.

Daniel Carpenter, a Harvard political scientist who studies the F.D.A., said it was not possible — or desirable — to send armies of F.D.A. inspectors across the globe to make sure food was safe for Americans. Supply chains are now highly decentralized and mobile, and the most efficient way to keep food safe is to require companies doing business with foreign sellers to impose checks at critical points in the chain before the product arrives in the United States.

The current system “relies on the F.D.A. detecting and reacting to problems at the border,” Mr. Taylor said. “The big paradigm shift is toward prevention and industry being responsible for documenting what they have done to prevent problems.”

The agency is also asking for more resources for itself since its employees will be responsible for auditing the new company records, though some observers say Republican opposition in Congress may make additional money to carry out the regulations difficult to obtain. The F.D.A. has about 1,600 investigators handling imports of everything from food to drugs and medical devices, a spokeswoman said. President Obama has requested about $260 million more in his 2014 budget, much of which would go to build the system to regulate imports.

“If you look at the cost of doing it all by the feds, what you end up with is inadequate dollars,” said Dr. David Acheson, a former F.D.A. official who is now with Leavitt Partners, a food safety and health care consulting firm in Washington whose clients include food companies. The current system, he said, “doesn’t work anymore. So let’s leverage the private sector.”

The rules proposed on Friday will be open to public comment for 120 days. They exempt seafood and fruit juices, which are subject to different rules.

Mr. Olson of Pew Charitable Trusts said eight multistate outbreaks of illness linked to imported food products the F.D.A. regulates had occurred since January 2011, when the bill was signed into law.

Caroline Smith DeWaal, the food safety director for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer health advocacy group, said the fact that there were two different options in the rule for on-site inspections indicated that there was disagreement within government — possibly between the F.D.A. and the White House — over which policy to adopt.

Without on-site visits, she said, “importers could just rely on paperwork and promises that may or may not reflect conditions on the ground in these facilities.”

Mr. Taylor said the new rules would be unlikely to prompt objections from foreign trading partners and described them as being “well within those obligations,” an assertion that Mr. Olson echoed. Part of the delay in the rules, a source close to the negotiations said, was the Obama administration making sure they did not interfere with any foreign trade obligations.
588 2013-07-27 Regulators in Europe have concluded that there is little evidence that widely used drugs to treat Type 2 diabetes could cause pancreatic inflammation or pancreatic cancer, a finding that might reassure patients while also removing a potential sales threat for Merck and some other drug companies.

“Presently available data do not confirm recent concerns over an increased risk of pancreatic adverse events with these medicines,” the European Medicines Agency said in a news release on Friday.

Both the European agency and its American counterpart, the Food and Drug Administration, have been reviewing the safety of a big class of drugs that includes Januvia by Merck and the drugs Byetta, Bydureon and Onglyza, which are sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca.

A spokeswoman for the F.D.A. said the agency agreed with the European regulators that there was no cause for concern based on available data. But she said the F.D.A. review was continuing.

The concerns have been raised over the last few years, mainly by Dr. Peter C. Butler, the chief of endocrinology at the University of California, Los Angeles. Dr. Butler has been hailed by some drug safety watchdogs as a hero for standing up to the drug companies, but he has also been criticized by diabetes experts as a zealot.
589 2013-07-28 HEMINWAY--Willard "Spike" Sands Heminway, Jr.,a long-time resident of Greenwich, CT, died peacefully Wednesday, July 24th, at his summer home in Kennebunkport, ME, at the age of 79. A resident of Hobe Sound, FL, Mr. Heminway had many passions but ...
590 2013-07-28 A closer look at the animals we rely on, and the line between ‘persons’ and other life....
591 2013-07-28 Microsoft has been trying to shed its reputation for highlighting features over simplicity, but old habits are proving hard to break....
592 2013-07-28 AnnMarie Lynn Micikas and Jeffrey Kane Bridges were married Saturday evening at the Kitchen, a restaurant in Denver. The Rev. Dr. Cameron E. Partridge, an Episcopal priest, officiated.

The couple met at Harvard, from which they each received master of divinity degrees.

The bride, 26, is taking her husband’s name. Next month she will begin pursuing a Ph.D. in the study of religion at Harvard. She graduated with honors from the University of Chicago. She is the daughter of Lynda B. Micikas and Michael P. Micikas of Highlands Ranch, Colo.

The groom, 32, is the executive director of Vote Your Values, a political action committee in Washington that raises money to help elect candidates or to support political causes. He graduated cum laude from Kenyon College. He is a son of Barbara A. Bridges of Cheyenne, Wyo., and Rutt Bridges of Littleton, Colo.

The couple first met at an orientation at Harvard in April 2009. Ms. Micikas, looking for a seat during a lunch break, came across Mr. Bridges. The first thing she noticed was his brown cowboy boots.

Thinking she had just insulted his Western attire, Mr. Bridges shot back: “Look, I’m from Colorado, O.K.? So I can wear cowboy boots.”
593 2013-07-28 Emily Alexandra Triebwasser and Matthew James Bandelt were married Saturday evening by Rabbi Sol Goodman at the Rhode Island Country Club in Barrington, R.I. The Rev. Albert P. Marcello III, a Roman Catholic priest, assisted in the ceremony.

Mrs. Bandelt, 26, teaches English at Carlmont High School in Belmont, Calif. She graduated from Villanova, from which she also received a master’s in secondary education.

She is the daughter of Jamie Reider Triebwasser and Dr. Andrew S. Triebwasser, of Barrington. The bride’s father, an anesthesiologist, is a partner in Providence Anesthesiologists in Providence, R.I. He works in Providence at Rhode Island Hospital and Hasbro Children’s Hospital, where he is the division director of pediatric anesthesia.

Mr. Bandelt, 25, is pursuing a Ph.D. in civil and environmental engineering at Stanford, where he also conducts research on materials that protect infrastructure from natural hazards, as part of a fellowship with the National Science Foundation. He graduated cum laude from Villanova, from which he also received a master’s degree in civil engineering.

He is the son of Alice Martin Bandelt of Middlesex, N.J., and the late Joseph A. Bandelt Jr. The groom’s mother is the director of parish operations at the Church of the Sacred Heart in New Brunswick, N.J. His father was a vice president and senior accountant at the former Independence Savings Bank in Brooklyn .
594 2013-07-28 Emily Beth Rotella and Sheila Jeanelle Hicks are to be married Sunday at the Sand Castle, an event space in Franklin Square, N.Y. Kim Kirkley, a Universal Brotherhood minister, is to officiate.

Ms. Rotella (left), 28, is the director of data and operations for the alumni affairs team of the national office of Teach for America in Manhattan. She graduated magna cum laude from American University and received an M.B.A. from Baruch.

She is a daughter of Wendy Millard Rotella and Joseph A. Rotella of West Windsor, N.J.

Ms. Hicks, 30, is the director of financial aid at Riverdale Country School in the Bronx. She graduated from Dartmouth and received a master’s degree in school leadership from Harvard.

She is the daughter of Gaynor Carter Hicks and Theartis Hicks of Winston-Salem, N.C.

The couple will take the surname Hicks-Rotella.
595 2013-07-28 Emily Leemor Shaked, the daughter of Dr. Babs H. Waldman and Abraham A. Shaked of Evanston, Ill., was married Saturday evening to Andrew Charles Greene, a son of Laurie Sheldon Greene and Howard R. Greene of Wilton, Conn. The Rev. Adam Greene, a brother of the groom and an Episcopal priest, officiated at the Four Winds, a farm in Salisbury, Conn.

Mrs. Greene, 27, is the manager of the office of the president at Women’s World Banking, a nonprofit group in New York that helps create credit, savings and insurance products designed for women with low incomes. She is responsible for communications and strategic projects and is a liaison to the boards of directors. She graduated cum laude from Barnard.

Mr. Greene, 26, teaches seventh grade at St. Bernard’s School in New York, where he also advises secondary school students on applying to high school. He graduated summa cum laude from Columbia.
596 2013-07-28 Dr. Lori Ann Goldstein and Emil Steiner were married Saturday evening in Prague. Miroslav Sebela, a solemnizing officer, officiated on the grounds of Prague Castle.

Dr. Goldstein, 35, is keeping her name. She is a psychiatrist in Philadelphia, where she is also the staff psychiatrist at the college counseling center at Drexel University. She graduated from the University of Virginia and received a medical degree from Jefferson Medical College.

She is a daughter of Linda A. Goldstein and Corky Goldstein of Harrisburg, Pa. The bride’s father is the senior counsel specializing in criminal defense at Abom & Kutulakis, a law firm in Carlisle, Pa. Her mother is a vice president and the chief operating officer at the Harrisburg Regional Chamber and Capital Region Economic Development Corporation. She is a trustee at Harrisburg Academy, a private school.

Mr. Steiner, 34, is a freelance journalist who has written and edited blog posts on washingtonpost.com. Until June, he was an adjunct professor of communications at Temple University in Philadelphia. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master’s in journalism from Temple, where he is to begin doctoral studies in media and communication. His previous marriage ended in divorce.

He is the son of Wendy Steiner of New York and Peter Steiner of Philadelphia. The groom’s mother retired as the Richard L. Fisher professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania. She has written seven books on the arts, including “The Scandal of Pleasure: Art in an Age of Fundamentalism,” and two opera librettos. His father is a professor of Slavic literature at Penn.
597 2013-07-28 Hunter Mahan gave up the lead in the Canadian Open in Oakville, Ontario, when his wife went into labor, and Brandt Snedeker grabbed the top spot a few hours later Saturday. Mahan was 13 under par after two rounds when he got a call saying his wife, Kandi, had gone into labor with their first child. He rushed to the airport for a flight to Texas. Snedeker had a nine-under 63 to take the lead after the third round.

■ Bernhard Langer took a three-shot lead in the Senior British Open in Southport, England, mastering Royal Birkdale for a four-under 66.

■ Gabriella Then won the United States Girls’ Junior in Fort Wayne, Ind., spoiling Lakareber Abe’s bid to become the first black female individual champion in United States Golf Association history. Then beat Abe, 2 and 1, in the 36-hole final.

■ Michael Hoey shot a seven-under 65 to lead the Russian Open in Moscow by five strokes going into the last round.
598 2013-07-28 Mikhail Youzhny will play unseeded Robin Haase in the Swiss Open final in Gstaad. Haase rallied to beat fifth-seeded Feliciano López, 4-6, 6-1, 6-4. The sixth-seeded Youzhny broke Victor Hanescu’s serve twice in each set to beat him, 6-3, 6-3.

■ Third-seeded Fabio Fognini saved three match points before reaching the final of the Croatia Open in Umag, beating Gaël Monfils, 6-0, 3-6, 7-6 (3). Fognini will face fifth-seeded Tommy Robredo, a 6-3, 2-6, 6-4 winner over second-seeded Andreas Seppi.

■ Top-seeded John Isner beat No. 7 Lleyton Hewitt, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6 (5), to reach the Atlanta Open final. Isner will play second-seeded Kevin Anderson, a 6-3, 7-6 (3) winner over Ryan Harrison.

■ Dominika Cibulkova reached her second WTA Tour final this year, coasting past Sorana Cirstea, 6-4, 6-0, in the Bank of the West Classic in Stanford, Calif. Cibulkova will face top-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska, who overcame a shaky start to beat the American Jamie Hampton, 6-3, 6-2, with relative ease.
599 2013-07-28 Republicans are hardly unanimous about the wisdom of entangling themselves in a national battle over abortion rights; many believe that the party should remain focused on addressing economic issues and fighting Mr. Obama’s .

“I’m focused on energy, the economy and what’s happening with the president’s health care law,” said Senator of , a member of the Republican leadership. Asked whether he thought abortion was a distraction for his party, he stuck to a popular Republican refrain: “I’m completely focused on jobs, the economy, the health care law.”

Democrats, meanwhile, are wary of the damage that a “no” vote on second-trimester abortion restrictions could inflict on some of their more vulnerable senators up for re-election in 2014, particularly in , and , where legislatures have recently imposed strict limits. On Friday, the governor of North Carolina said he would sign into law new regulations on abortion clinics.

“Look, I’ve taken a lot of tough votes,” said Senator , Democrat of Louisiana, who added that she doubted she could support a ban at 20 weeks. “That’s what I’m here for, to take votes. And if we have to take it, we take it.”

The success of new limits on when, how and where abortions can be done has invigorated the Republican base like few other issues this year. Because of such intensity, anti-abortion groups say they have found interest among the newer generation of Republican senators, especially those seeking to build up, or in some cases repair, their standing with conservative voters.

Some see even broader appeal. Though the issue of reproductive rights has been problematic for Republicans — who have been embarrassed by comments like those of , the Senate candidate who said that women’s bodies blocked pregnancy in cases of rape — those supporting 20-week bans say the dynamics of this debate are less alienating to swing voters than fights over .

And some conservatives see this as the only winning social issue they have left in their political arsenal. Unlike , which has steadily gained support, recent polls have shown that the public believes that abortions later in pregnancy should be restricted. A Washington Post-ABC News poll last week found that 56 percent of Americans said they would prefer to impose limits on abortions after 20 weeks rather than the 24-week standard established by the in Roe v. Wade.

Anti-abortion activists said that after the recently approved House measure and success in states like , which approved a 20-week ban this month, they saw an opportunity they could not pass up.

“We really thought it was a moment to be very ambitious,” said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, one of the groups pushing for the Senate to take up the 20-week ban.

Abortion rights groups say the real goal of these laws, all of which challenge Supreme Court precedent, is to get another case before the court in the hopes that the justices will further restrict abortion rights. “These bills are not happenstance,” said Donna Crane, policy director of Naral Pro-Choice America. “These bills are a calculated, cold strategy.”

Mr. Cruz of Texas, for his part, is trying to build a larger following among Republicans beyond his home state. He visited last weekend to meet with evangelical pastors and other members of the state’s conservative establishment. Joining him was Senator of , who has also expressed interest in signing onto a 20-week bill, according to Ms. Dannenfelser and a spokeswoman for the senator.

Mr. Rubio of , who has been discussing for months how to introduce this issue into the Senate, is also eager to raise his national profile. But he must first overcome some of the doubts conservatives have about him for his pivotal role in helping the Senate pass an bill with a provision to eventually grant citizenship to immigrants here illegally.

Mr. Portman of , who was on ’s short list to become the Republican vice-presidential nominee last year and who has told his colleagues that he would like to be deeply involved in the 20-week legislation, is trying to rebuild conservative support that he lost back home in March after he spoke out in favor of same-sex marriage. (One Republican who saw internal poll numbers after Mr. Portman’s announcement said the senator’s unfavorable ratings jumped by double digits and were especially high in the southern part of Ohio, where his core support is.)

Drafting a bill, however, will require conservatives to resolve a fundamental disagreement: how to find constitutional justification for a nationwide ban despite their reservations about giving the government broad regulatory powers.

This has been especially challenging for Senator Mike Lee of , one of the Senate’s leading anti-abortion voices. He strongly opposes a bill that uses as its legal rationale the commerce clause of the Constitution, which many conservatives consider a violation of their principles.

Some in the Republican leadership express similar doubts, including Senator of Texas, the No. 2 leader. He said he supported the 20-week ban that passed in his home state this month, but added: “I think that this can adequately be taken care of at the state level. And so there may not be a need for the federal government to get involved.”

Then there is the issue of how new abortion regulations might be perceived among women. So far, none of the four Republican women in the Senate have stepped forward to get involved.

Senator Deb Fischer of , who has a solidly anti-abortion voting record, said, “I’m focused on a lot of other issues now.”

Senator of said, “It’s not something that is really on my priority list.”
600 2013-07-28 At the International Exotic Animal Sanctuary near Fort Worth, a self-trained behaviorist is using a method known as emotional enrichment to improve the lives of animals in captivity....
601 2013-07-28 This is functionally similar to the system the court struck down last month, but Section 3 has several distinguishing features. It does not contain a preset list of jurisdictions, and it is forward-looking: instead of relying primarily on historical evidence of discrimination, it allows individual voters or the government to ask courts to zero in on any jurisdiction, like Texas, that continues to try to impose racially discriminatory voting laws.

Section 3 is also flexible. The period of coverage for preclearance under Section 3 is determined by court order, and may last for only as long as a federal judge deems it necessary to overcome voting discrimination in that jurisdiction.

These features make Section 3 a useful provision, but it has its weaknesses. The preclearance may be imposed only if a federal judge determines that the jurisdiction’s laws are intentionally discriminatory. When the Voting Rights Act was passed, such laws were much easier to identify. But lawmakers have since discovered countless ways to discriminate on the basis of race without saying so explicitly, and will continue to do so.

In the Texas case, a Federal District Court in Washington found that state redistricting maps showed intentional discrimination — among other things, black and Hispanic lawmakers were excluded from the map-drawing process, and districts were drawn to minimize the power of minority voters in ways that “could not have happened by accident,” including one district shaped like a lightning bolt. While the Texas record is full of clear evidence of discriminatory intent, in most places such a claim is harder to show. To address that problem, the has called for Section 3 to be amended to apply to voting laws that have a discriminatory effect, whether or not intent can be proved. If Congress is serious about protecting voting rights, it should pass this amendment immediately.

Some Republicans, like Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the , have spoken out recently in favor of Section 3 as a method of protecting voting rights after Shelby. But Republican support for any amendment is uncertain at best, and some party members have vowed to oppose any fixes to the Voting Rights Act in light of the Justice Department’s filing.

Texas remains a hothouse of voter discrimination, where laws of dubious legality seem to sprout every day. The Justice Department’s brief cited four instances in the last three years alone in which local jurisdictions failed to show that proposed voting changes did not have a discriminatory purpose. That’s not including either the redistricting case or a separate suit filed over Texas’s new voter ID law, which will also be put on hold if the Section 3 request is successful.

Gov. has complained that the Justice Department’s action was an “end run” around the Supreme Court and cast “unfair aspersions” on his state. He should be more concerned with reversing Texas’s long run of discriminatory voting laws.
602 2013-07-28 The juxtaposition of the two reviews made me wonder: Some day, will our descendants be mystified by how good and decent people in the early 21st century — that’s us — could have been so oblivious to the unethical treatment of animals?

There certainly has been progress. Centuries ago, a European game consisted of nailing a cat to a post and head-butting it to death without getting your eyes scratched out. These days, torturing animals is a crime.

Peter Singer, the Princeton philosopher, published his landmark book “Animal Liberation” in 1975, and, at first, the idea was regarded as a quixotic source of amusement.

Who would have thought then that today we would be discussing the rights of killer whales, or that the National Institutes of Health would be halting most lab experiments with chimpanzees? Who could have imagined that Burger King would now be buying cage-free eggs out of concern for hens? Or, more accurately, out of concern for tens of millions of customers who empathize with hens?

Today, the challenge is factory farming, which produces food exceptionally cheaply, at huge cost in animal welfare.

“There are still tens of billions of animals suffering horribly in factory farms every year, around the world,” Singer told me.

Big Agriculture has dug in its heels, backing “ag gag” laws that punish whistle-blowers who secretly document abusive conditions for livestock or poultry. The House of Representatives recently had the gall to amend the farm bill so as to nullify many state laws protecting farm animals. “In a single legislative act, it could undo two decades of state lawmaking to protect animals,” said Wayne Pacelle, president of the Humane Society of the United States; let’s hope the Senate-House conference committee will drop this amendment.

A surprising force for positive change has been food companies, responding to consumer pressure. In 2013, so far, there have been commitments to stop using pork from gestation crates (which don’t allow sows to turn around) from General Mills, Tim Hortons, IHOP, Applebee’s, Marriott and Au Bon Pain.

McDonald’s, Burger King, Wendy’s, Safeway, Oscar Mayer, Costco and others had announced in 2012 that they would move away from gestation crates.

Europe has also already moved decisively to improve animal welfare. Most astonishing, a grass-roots animal rights movement has emerged in China, winning a battle this year against companies that cruelly “milk” bears of bile to sell for quasi-medicinal purposes.

Look, I confess to hypocrisy. I eat meat, albeit with misgivings, and I have no compunctions about using mousetraps. So what? We have the same inconsistencies, controversies and hypocrisies in dealing with human rights. We may disagree about waterboarding terror suspects, but almost everyone shares a revulsion for genocide, the use of poison gas or the torture of children.

Now we are plodding along a similar controversial, inconsistent, hypocritical — and progressive — path on animal rights. We may disagree about eating meat, but growing numbers share a disgust for extreme behavior, like the force-feeding of geese (now banned in California) to produce pâté.

We as a global society have crossed the Rubicon. We disagree about where to draw the line to protect animal rights, but almost everyone now agrees that there is a line to be drawn.

May our descendants, when, in the future, they reflect uncomprehendingly on our abuse of hens and orcas, appreciate that we are good and decent people moving in the right direction, and show some compassion for our obliviousness.
603 2013-07-28 In a sign of their growing influence, in the mid-1990s, after intensive lobbying, the reformists succeeded in getting the Brotherhood to issue official statements endorsing party pluralism and women’s rights. The reformists began to interact on a regular basis with professionals, journalists and civil society activists outside the movement’s insular networks. Such interaction, several of them told me in interviews conducted from 2004 to 2011, changed their outlook dramatically.

As Essam Sultan, who represented the Brotherhood in the Egyptian lawyers’ syndicate, recalled: “We thought we were the only ones qualified to manage the affairs of the country, and that other opinions and viewpoints were always mistaken. But our interactions with others changed our convictions.” Likewise, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, a doctor who became the Brotherhood’s leading progressive figure, explained that through engagement with the broader society, “we came to realize that the scope for agreement and cooperation was in fact quite broad.”

In Tunisia and Morocco, leaders with similar ideas ultimately rose to the top of Islamist parties and have shaped their direction ever since. But in Egypt, the reformists never gained more than a seat or two in the Brotherhood’s executive council, or Guidance Bureau. Instead, the Bureau remained the nearly exclusive preserve of a close-knit group of veterans whose prestige rested on their long history in the movement and their enormous sacrifices on its behalf. As they saw it, the young “upstarts” had no right to challenge their authority or demand a greater share of decision-making power.

Aboul-Ela Maadi, an Islamist active in the engineers’ syndicate in the early 1990s, explained that while he and other reformist leaders were busy holding conferences on democracy and human rights, the old guard was consolidating its control over the recruitment and socialization of new members. As Mr. Maadi ruefully observed, he and other reformist leaders failed to appreciate the importance of grass-roots outreach. Their own neglect of the Brotherhood’s base, Mr. Maadi explained, set the stage for the “great theft,” allowing the old guard to steal the loyalty of the younger generation from them.

Eventually, growing frustration with the old guard’s rigid ideas and autocratic management style prompted some of the Brotherhood’s most capable and dynamic leaders to leave the group and strike out on their own. The exodus of the reformists accelerated during the 2011 uprising against Mr. Mubarak and the political opening that followed it. Mr. Sultan, Mr. Aboul Fotouh, Mr. Maadi and other former Brotherhood members are now involved in new parties, and many Islamist youth who share their progressive outlook have left the Brotherhood to join them.

When Mr. Morsi became president, he and his colleagues in the Guidance Bureau adopted a highhanded approach to governing that a more influential reformist wing might have persuaded them to jettison before it was too late.

Mr. Morsi squandered numerous opportunities to share power with other groups. He replaced old Mubarak appointees in key government agencies with Brotherhood members without any serious effort to address systemic mismanagement and corruption. He allowed pro-regime thugs to bully his opponents and failed to guarantee the security of minority Coptic Christians and Shiite Muslims. He did little to acknowledge or resolve the severe underrepresentation of women in Parliament and the blatant gender discrimination inherent in the country’s marriage, divorce and inheritance laws.

Finally, by rushing ahead with a referendum on a new constitution that lacked broad nationwide support, Mr. Morsi opened himself to the accusation that he was using his democratic authority for nondemocratic ends. The Brotherhood failed to appreciate that a narrow victory in the presidential race didn’t grant Mr. Morsi a mandate to do as he pleased.

YET now, as a result of the army’s intervention, Mr. Morsi has suddenly been transformed from a tone-deaf and ineffectual leader to a hero of the Islamist cause. The Brotherhood is pitching itself as a victim of a conspiracy, rather than taking responsibility for its mistakes.

Some reformist figures inside and outside the Brotherhood who were openly critical of Mr. Morsi’s policies when he was in office have rallied to his side and joined in denouncing the military-imposed interim government. And those most inclined to acknowledge — and learn from — the Brotherhood’s missteps are unlikely to gain traction as long as the military seems bent on the Brotherhood’s destruction.

Had reformists in the Muslim Brotherhood gained the upper hand in 2011, Egypt’s transition might have taken a very different turn. The Brotherhood may not have run a candidate of its own for president, or if it had, it might have selected someone more disposed to compromise and consensus building than Mr. Morsi. Such a president would most likely have worked to strengthen ties with the secular opposition, rather than made the controversial moves that eroded its trust and good will.

Now those reformist voices are barely audible — and military intervention has robbed Mr. Morsi of the authority he had gained in free and fair elections. No amount of demonstrating is likely to put him back in power, given that the army, secular parties and millions of ordinary Egyptian citizens vigorously oppose him. The Brotherhood’s senior leaders have always been very good at recruiting members and mobilizing them at the ballot box and on the streets. They are much less adept at negotiation and compromise. Yet these are precisely the skills that are needed for the Brotherhood to play a constructive role in shaping Egypt’s future.

At the same time, the military’s campaign against the Brotherhood has recklessly and irresponsibly hardened the group’s will to resist and increased the risk of a prolonged conflict. For good or ill, the Brotherhood is the largest independent movement in Egypt. Its further demonization will only increase the chances of violence and chaos, strengthen the movement’s hard-liners and diminish the resonance of internal calls for reform.
604 2013-07-28 The Yankees had an experienced roster when Boone played for them, in 2003, but their stars were closer to their primes and less prone to injury. Now, few high-impact Yankees seem capable of producing at their peak.

“There’s Robinson Cano — one star player in the prime of his career,” Boone said. “You could also say Mariano’s in his prime, which he is, but Cano’s the one guy. It’s the perfect storm of injuries and, now, your star power and your great players over the years are at that point of getting old. I see it as a transitional phase, entering into a transitional phase.”

The Yankees, whose business model depends on competing for a championship every year, have no recent experience as a team in transition. They have reached the playoffs in 17 of the last 18 seasons, often taking advantage of an American League East that offered little competition besides the Red Sox. This season is different, with Boston, Tampa Bay and Baltimore seeming much stronger, and healthier, than the Yankees.

“It’s hard to imagine them, right now, legitimately competing in this division, it is,” Boone said. “At least at some point, you’ve got to consider being willing to reset a little bit if trades come up. Even though it’s the Yankees, you’ve got to be realistic, too, from a long-term standpoint, sometimes. This isn’t like anything we’ve seen over a lot of years for them.”

Trading some of their better players could, in theory, add depth to a discouragingly thin farm system, but General Manager Brian Cashman has focused on trying to fortify the major league roster. At some point, though, the Yankees must break their cycle of depending so much on expensive veterans unlikely to repeat their past glory.

“But it’s who we are,” Manager Joe Girardi said, “and things are eventually, probably, going to change somewhat, because players retire and you do get a little bit younger. But this group of players has accomplished an awful lot.”

It should be remembered that Rodriguez, too, has contributed plenty on the field. But the off-field drama will always obscure that, and the fight over the remainder of his swollen contract — which guarantees him $86 million over the next four seasons — continues.

The Yankees could only hope that Rodriguez does what Boone did: commit a clear violation of the deal. Playing basketball cost Boone almost all his $5.75 million contract for 2004, but he never considered lying about what happened. He told the Yankees the truth immediately, and absorbed the financial hit.

“For the period of time he was here,” Cashman said the next spring, “he was a great makeup guy, the prototypical type of guy we’d be attracted to.”

Over a decade with the Yankees, Rodriguez has left a much larger imprint than Boone. But for purposes of good will, their legacies could not be much more different.

James Francis Galvin, known as Pud, won 365 games and threw more than 6,000 innings across 15 seasons in the 19th century. He died in 1902, which made him a no-show at his induction to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1965.

That ceremony was the last to feature no living inductees — until Sunday, when Cooperstown welcomes three new members, all deceased, who were elected through the veterans committee. The former umpire Hank O’Day, the Yankees owner Jacob Ruppert and the former third baseman and catcher Deacon White all died in the 1930s.

Their relatives — a grandnephew for O’Day, a great-grandniece for Ruppert and a great-grandson for White — will make acceptance speeches. Haley Swindal, the granddaughter of another Yankees owner, George Steinbrenner, will sing the national anthem.

The specter of steroids could hang over the ceremony because the baseball writers did not elect any new members last December despite the presence of the career home run leader, Barry Bonds, and the career leader in Cy Young Awards, Roger Clemens, on the ballot. This December’s ballot includes standouts not suspected of steroid use — most prominently Tom Glavine, Greg Maddux and Frank Thomas — and is unlikely to produce another shutout.

To its credit, the Hall of Fame will do its best to hold a memorable ceremony. Thirty-four living members are scheduled to attend, and will take turns reading the plaques of 12 members who were unable to participate in an official induction ceremony. Among the notable pairings: Joe Morgan will read for Rogers Hornsby, and Cal Ripken will read for Lou Gehrig, whose consecutive-games record he broke in 1995.

There was some cosmic poignancy July 20 to one of the more bizarre pitching performances in recent history: Erik Bedard’s six and a third no-hit innings that resulted in a loss. Bedard, the veteran left-hander for the Houston Astros, became the first starter since Matt Young in 1992 to lose despite working more than six innings without allowing a hit.

Bedard, who has had three shoulder operations and did not want to risk injury by exceeding 110 pitches, lost to the Seattle Mariners, a team still reeling from the trade it made to acquire him in 2008.

The Mariners sent four players to the Orioles for Bedard, who had gone 13-5 with a 3.16 earned run average. Three of the players Seattle gave up have become All-Stars for Baltimore: reliever George Sherrill, who made the team in 2008; starter Chris Tillman, who made it this year; and center fielder Adam Jones, a three-time selection.

Bedard pitched parts of three seasons with Seattle, making only 46 starts because of shoulder problems.
605 2013-07-28 BEIRUT, Lebanon — A missile attack by government forces on the city of Aleppo in northern Syria killed at least 29 people, including 19 children, Syrian monitors said Saturday.

According to the monitors at the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, the Friday night attack struck the Bab al-Neirab neighborhood in the city’s southwest, home to the headquarters of a number of rebel brigades, including the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, which is linked to Al Qaeda. It was unclear how many of the dead were civilians, but the Syrian Observatory, which monitors the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts in Syria and which sympathizes with the opposition, said four women were among the dead.

The forces of President Bashar al-Assad have stepped up the use of such missiles, which often reduce city blocks to rubble, a strategy that analysts say suggests that the military lacks sufficient infantry to accomplish its goals.

In central Syria, government forces struck a powerful, if symbolic, blow against rebel forces by seizing the historic Khalid bin al-Waleed mosque in the city of Homs, which rebel forces had held since last year.

Homs, Syria’s third-largest city, was one of the principal launching sites of the anti-Assad uprising that turned into a civil war. The government has been eroding the rebels’ grip on parts of the city since it seized the town of Qusayr near the border with Lebanon last month, cutting a key rebel supply line into Homs Province.
606 2013-07-28 At the time, Mr. De Gucht said he had been left with no choice but to impose the tariffs since his investigators found a systematic effort by Chinese companies to sell solar panels in Europe below the cost of making them, a practice known as dumping.

On Saturday, officials at the European Commission said they could not give details of the deal, including the price that Chinese exporters would pay to sell their panels in Europe, until the arrangement had been formally approved by the commission. But a European Union official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been formally approved, said the two sides had agreed to a minimum price of 0.56 euros per watt (74 cents), which would base any potential surcharge on the amount of electricity generated by each imported panel.

The European solar manufacturers who lobbied for tougher action against the Chinese exporters on Saturday promised to sue over the settlement.

The agreement “is contrary in every respect to European law,” said Milan Nitzschke, the president of EU ProSun, an industry group. A minimum price of 0.55 to 0.57 euros was at the level of “the current dumping price for Chinese modules,” the group said in a statement.

The arrangement would cover exports from 90 of about 140 Chinese exporters that were examined during the investigation, and that represent 60 percent of the panels sold in Europe, the government official said. Those 90 companies would no longer face tariffs that were put in place in June. Chinese exporters that did not agree to the terms will still face tariffs that are set to rise to 47.6 percent on Aug. 6 from the current level of 11.8 percent, the official said.

The Chinese government hoped from the start of the trade case with the European Union for a negotiated settlement instead of a legal battle. This deal comes as a relief, said He Weiwen, the co-director of the China-United States-European Union Study Center at the China Association of International Trade in Beijing.

The European settlement with Beijing in some ways complicates a similar dispute between the United States and China. The United States Commerce Department imposed final anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs last spring on imports of solar panels from China. China responded on July 18 that it was preparing to impose tariffs of more than 50 percent on polysilicon, the main material for solar panels, on imports from the United States and South Korea.

The United States began trying in early summer to arrange a comprehensive deal among Beijing, Brussels and Washington that would set new global trade arrangements for solar panels in exchange for the removal of the American tariffs and the preliminary European tariffs. But faced with a complex process in the United States for removing tariffs once the Commerce Department has made them final, the European Union pushed ahead with its own negotiations with China, a Senate aide with detailed knowledge of the issue said on Friday.

“The administration has been doing the right thing on this, pushing for talks and trying to get a joint settlement with Europe, but the Europeans have not had the same attitude and instead are pursuing talks with China independently of the U.S., which has stalled progress on U.S.-China talks,” said the aide, who spoke anonymously because of the diplomatic sensitivity of the issue.

The Office of the United States Trade Representative, which is part of the White House, had no immediate response to the European deal, which was announced shortly before dawn in Washington.

Solar panels represent more than 6 percent of China’s exports to the Continent, making them one of the largest Chinese exports to the European Union. In 2011, Chinese exports of panels and their main components to the European Union were worth about 21 billion euros or $27.4 billion.

China grew from a tiny player in the global solar panel market five years ago to the world’s dominant producer now through a program of enormous lending by state-owned banks and a wide variety of manufacturing incentives by local and provincial governments. That has allowed Chinese producers to drive down the price of panels by three-quarters over the same period.

But Chinese manufacturers have expanded faster than the market, and the largest of them now face severe financial difficulties.
607 2013-07-28 But keep one eye on the horizon. ROBERT ITO

In “It Came From the Nightosphere,” an episode of the Cartoon Network series “Adventure Time,” Marceline, a vampire over 1,000 years old but who looks 19, sings a tender ballad about feeling betrayed by her father, who also happens to be an unkillable, soul-sucking demon. The Emmy-nominated episode was co-written by Rebecca Sugar, and so was the ballad “Daddy, Why Did You Eat My Fries?”

A graduate of the School of Visual Arts in New York, Ms. Sugar was wooed by the network after her self-published comics, created while in high school in Maryland, caught the eye of Pendleton Ward, the creator of “Adventure Time.”

Since then, Ms. Sugar has created 21 episodes, including celebrated ones like “Fionna and Cake,” in which the heroes switch genders, and “Lady and Peebles,” featuring a unicorn speaking in long passages of untranslated Korean.

This fall, Ms. Sugar will get her own series, “Steven Universe,” about a pudgy 12-ish boy whose closest friends are a team of space-spanning women with magical powers. The boy is loosely based on Ms. Sugar’s brother, Steven, now 22, who draws backgrounds for the show and whom Ms. Sugar, 26, clearly adores. “We were best-friend siblings, and people would tell us, ‘Oh, um, that’s unusual,’ ” she said. “I tried to make the character like him, where you’re so comfortable in your life because you get all the attention, but you also want to rise up and not be the little brother.”

With “Steven Universe,” Ms. Sugar becomes the first solo female show creator at Cartoon Network. Talk about expectations. “I’m under so much pressure making this show,” she said. “If there’s added pressure, I’m not sure I can feel it.” ROBERT ITO

In Minkyu Lee’s retelling of the Garden of Eden story, a bat-eared mutt is the central figure, Eve is something of an afterthought, and the fall occurs offstage.

The pacing of the tale, “Adam and Dog,” his first animated short, is glacial compared with your typical feature — Mr. Lee cites Michelangelo Antonioni, Jean-Luc Godard and Terrence Malick as influences — the message and story, subtle.

“You’d be surprised at how many people don’t get that it’s the Adam and Eve story,” Mr. Lee said. “I’ll ask them: ‘So what did you think the story was about? A naked man frolicking around the forest with a dog?’ ”

Mr. Lee, a 27-year-old graduate of the California Institute for the Arts, worked on the film for two and a half years, laboring nights and weekends when he wasn’t working at Walt Disney Animation Studios on projects like “Tangled” and “The Princess and the Frog.”

His independently produced short earned an Academy Award nomination this year, alongside entries from powerhouses like Disney and Fox.

Not bad considering he was new to creating cartoon animals. “I’d never actually animated a quadruped,” he said.

Jennifer Hager, a friend and quadruped pro, helped with the dog; also pitching in were colleagues from CalArts and Disney.

Make that former colleagues. Mr. Lee recently quit his Disney day job to focus on a number of projects, including an animated TV series, a live-action feature and a graphic novel. Unlike “Adam and Dog,” however, none of these will be self-financed.

“All the projects I’m developing right now I’m trying to sell somewhere,” he said. “Maybe that’ll change in the future, if I become superjaded about the industry and I lose all hope. But hopefully that won’t happen.” ROBERT ITO

If a detective in a live-action crime procedural came upon a dead body, slipped in a pool of blood and landed on top of the corpse, then accidentally set the dead guy’s house on fire while trying to get up, well, that wouldn’t necessarily be all that funny.

Cartoons, however, are different. Or at least that’s the hope of Jason Ruiz, a creator of “Murder Police,” an animated series set for Fox early next year.

Manuel Sanchez (above left) is Mr. Ruiz’s clumsy but well-meaning homicide detective, the main figure in an ensemble that includes a job-hunting cop who gives his résumé to witnesses and perps, and another who, in Mr. Ruiz’s words, “just wants to go out and beat people up.”

This 28-year-old animator is the first and so far only alumnus of Fox’s Inkubation program (an initiative created in 2008 to foster new talent) to secure his own network series. (The show’s co-creator is David A. Goodman, whose credits include “Family Guy.”) It’s a coup for any animator, but perhaps even more so for Mr. Ruiz, who never attended art school — he took a single course in Flash animation at his local community college in Stockton, Calif. — and is largely self-taught.

The transition from creating cartoons alone at home to meeting with his animation team has been an adjustment, Mr. Ruiz admitted.

“The biggest misconception about being an animator is that it’s all a big party, that we just sit around and drink beer and smoke weed all day,” he said. “It’s not like that at all. At the end of the day, we’re working at an office.” ROBERT ITO

Justin Roiland owes “Rick and Morty,” his series set for December on Adult Swim, to a cease-and-desist order. In 2005, he had his first brush with recognition — and legal liability — with “House of Cosbys,” his bizarre cartoon about a commune of Bill Cosby clones that won fans online and at Channel 101 in Los Angeles, the monthly short film festival.

Lawyers for Mr. Cosby were less amused, and after Mr. Roiland was ordered to discontinue the series, he followed with another: “The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti,” a shameless “Back to the Future” rip-off. “It was originally intended to just bait a big studio into being mad at me,” Mr. Roiland said.

But a funny thing happened on the way to defiling another classic: Mr. Roiland fell in love with his version of the characters, and plugged them into other failed pilots. When Dan Harmon, the mind behind NBC’s “Community” and a creator of Channel 101, asked him to help develop an Adult Swim show, they found their vehicle.

In “Rick and Morty,” Morty is an idiotic lad in thrall to his grandfather, Rick, a brilliant but nihilistic scientist. Mr. Roiland voices both characters and designed the look of the show, although “now I have this team of amazing artists who can draw faster than me, and who draw better than me.”

He’s also taking his “third crack” at a Fox prime time show. “When you kind of don’t care,” he said, “for some reason that’s when things happen.” JEREMY EGNER

Timothy Reckart, a New York animator, inverted the usual show-business formula. His introduction to Hollywood came in the form of an Oscar nomination.

This Tucson native, 26, still isn’t sure how he scored an animated short nod in 2012 for his student film, “Head Over Heels.” The poignant stop-motion work tracked a couple living separate lives together — the husband on the floor, the wife on the ceiling. Produced at the National Film and Television School in Britain, the 11-minute film took Mr. Reckart and a 40-member team 15 months to complete. Undergraduates designed the film’s stars.

Mr. Reckart has been fascinated with stop-motion since childhood; when a neighborhood video store went out of business, he cajoled his mother into buying all its “Gumby” VHS tapes.

He is currently developing a feature adaptation of the comic “The Pterodactyl Hunters in the Gilded City,” set in 1904 New York, that he hopes to film in stop-motion. " ‘The Incredibles’ is perfect in CG, but something like this, set in that time with the scaly dinosaurs, would be totally beautiful in stop-motion,” he said.

The filmmaking process is grueling, Mr. Reckart acknowledged, but the hours of manipulation create an intimate connection to the characters. He was “totally choked up” as he filmed the reunion in “Head Over Heels,” he said. “I had spent a year with these two characters,” he said. “You’re living with them in slow motion.” JEREMY EGNER
608 2013-07-28 If this C25 is indeed the Paris car — and there seems to be no one claiming it is not — it at some point lost the two-tone paint scheme seen in period photographs. And incredibly, it survived World War II, when many luxury cars vanished — stolen, destroyed, vandalized or cannibalized.

“We have known of instances where cars were buried, hidden behind false walls, even disassembled and smuggled away in pieces,” Mr. Gooding said. “We have no idea how this car survived, or in whose possession it was during all of those years.”

But how did it come to be painted black? “We hope when we put these cars out there that we will hear from people who might know additional information and be able to help us fill in some of the blanks,” Mr. Gooding said. “It has happened before.”

After de Kilmaine died in 2008, his collection was sold off and the black Voisin ended up in England, according to the Le Mans museum. The new owner ordered a full restoration. It was painted midnight blue and gray, with a rococo blue interior using fabric from the mill that originally supplied Voisin. Mr. Gooding said the new motif was inspired by the Paris show car.

It now looks very much like the C25 that won Best of Show in 2011 at the Pebble Beach Concours d’Élégance. That car is owned by Peter Mullin, a noted collector of French cars.

“I am not personally familiar with this car, but I knew of its existence,” Mr. Mullin said in an e-mail. “These almost never come up for sale.”

Locating a Voisin like this is like finding a lost Rembrandt, he offered.

Mr. Mullin is credited in recent years with raising consciousness and appreciation within the collector car fraternity for not only forgotten Voisins, but also for other French Art Deco designs, including those from Delahaye and Talbot-Lago. His collection includes 16 other Voisin automobiles.

Voisin’s recognition as a featured marque at Pebble Beach in 2006 also helped to bring attention to the marque — and increased the prices they brought. Before 2006, no Voisin had ever sold for more than $1 million, Mr. Mullin told The Los Angeles Times. The C25 in his collection might be worth $5 million or more today, he estimated.

Gooding has placed a presale estimate of $2 million to $3 million on No. 50023.

The 1934 Paris show was a showcase for other groundbreaking French offerings, including the Citroën Traction Avant and the Renault Aeroprofil.

Voisin was known for his exotic creations, but the C25 Aérodyne was the topper; it suggested the limitless artistic possibilities of automotive design, even though the extreme costs associated with bringing it to life probably helped to doom the company.

By 1934, the handwriting was really already on the wall for Voisin’s somewhat quixotic dream of designing the world’s most perfect automobile. Chronically underfinanced — a condition worsened by the Depression — Gabriel Voisin had already let go many of his top people. He was unable to upgrade his smoky 6-cylinder sleeve-valve engines.

But there was no scrimping on the design.

Voisin’s cars employed construction methods, and lightweight materials like aluminum and magnesium, developed for use in aviation. The company used airplane-style fender struts to reduce body flex, aerodynamic wheel covers and a fastback profile with an integrated trunk.

Evolved from the C24, the new Voisin was brimming with revolutionary curiosities — a retracting sunroof, fold-down rear seats, a shortwave radio and even rudimentary turn signals.

According to Gooding, the C25’s price of 88,000 francs — as compared with 70,000 francs for a Bugatti Type 57 — marked the C25 as a car intended for an elite clientele. Movie stars, politicians, artists and architects ordered them. In total, just 28 examples were built in 1934-37, of which no more than eight were fashioned with the extreme Aérodyne coachwork.

That wasn’t enough production to sustain the company. Voisin tried to soldier on, despite the economic headwinds of the times.

Then, Voisin noted in his autobiography, “a certain Hitler unleashed the regrettable chain of events that French people are all too familiar with.”

And so, Avions Voisin passed into history; decades would pass until the survivors would be rediscovered.
609 2013-07-28 “Without Barnoar, it would have happened much slower and not at the same volume,” said Gal Uchovsky, a longtime and outspoken L.G.B.T. activist. “Barnoar amplified everything.”

In the succeeding years, as investigators came up empty on clues, the public had its own theories as to the culprits. “People pointed to the orthodox community, to the people who always gay-bash,” said Mr. Uchovsky, referring to Israel’s ultrareligious Jewish population, a member of which stabbed a marcher at the 2005 Jerusalem Pride Parade.

But in June, as rainbow flags flapped around the city for the annual Pride festivities, the police stunned the community when they announced that the Barnoar killers had been caught, and the investigators were no longer calling it a hate crime but rather an act of personal revenge.

Over several tense days, a murky picture began to emerge: One of those arrested was the center’s director, now 50, who was accused of having a sexual relationship with a boy, then 15, whose relatives are suspected of committing the crime in response.

The following weeks played out like a Hollywood script: two suspects turned state’s witnesses, and one of them escaped and was on the loose for almost three days before being caught. Ultimately, on July 8, only the 23-year-old gunman was indicted on two counts of first-degree murder and 10 counts of attempted murder, “motivated by feelings of revenge and anger” and “hostility toward the victim’s sexual orientation,” according to the indictment.

“The news was confusing, is still confusing” Ms. Nir said.

Since the shooting, much of the country seemed to be sharing in the gay community’s blossoming pride. But now many gay men and lesbians are on the defensive, struggling to address the sordid allegations, while some right-wing politicians accuse the community of crying wolf. Most gay men and lesbians, speaking in the news media or on social networks, are still adamant that the crime was driven by deep homophobia and deserves the distinction of a hate crime, an argument the indictment appears to accept.

But not everyone agrees.

“People don’t question whether it was a hate crime,” said Alon Shani, a reporter for Israeli television who covered the case when it occurred and who also identifies with the L.G.B.T. community. He thinks gay leaders have clung to the narrative of a hate crime for so long that they don’t dare let go. But with hate crimes, he points out, motives matter. And until the case is argued in court and a verdict is handed down, there’s simply no way to know for sure.

As uncomfortable as it is to say, there is a certain “loss in terms of P.R. value” when what seemed like a clear-cut hate crime narrative turns out to be marred, said Shuki Cohen, an assistant professor of psychology at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. Dr. Cohen, born in Israel, counts himself as a member of the L.G.B.T. community as well. For many minorities, he said, “our suffering is our identity card.”

Mr. Uchovsky admits: “It’s not so good when you have to hang onto a massacre. Same way I don’t think we have to cling to the Holocaust to explain why Israel should exist.”

A massacre may be extreme, but a symbol can also evolve from any event that unearths, or at least appears to unearth, social injustices. Two high-profile cases in the United States reignited national debates on race, gender and socioeconomic status: the 1987 Tawana Brawley case, in which a black teenager from New York claimed that she had been abducted and raped by a gang of white men, prompting a racially charged controversy that played out for more than a year, and the 2006 Duke lacrosse scandal, when accusations of rape and assault against three student-athletes became part of a national debate about violence against women by cosseted athletes.

Ultimately, however, investigators in both cases found evidence to dispel the original accusations, so, as social symbols, they collapsed.

Barnoar isn’t so simple: crimes were indeed committed, young adults were killed and there really was a wolf to cry wolf about.

Aug. 1 will be the four-year anniversary of the Barnoar killings. It is expected to be a much quieter event this year, not only because the case has essentially been solved, but also because it’s not clear what it stands for anymore.

Many in the Israeli L.G.B.T. community insist that, despite the revelations, the event is important to their collective history and must be commemorated. Far from rejecting the new evidence before them, many in the community agree that they must now look inward.

Ms. Nir suggested that, as a symbol, Barnoar can be both a hate crime and a warning sign. “The subject puts the spotlight on the dark side of the community,” she said. “It’s a red light for us.”

But turning a tragedy into a symbol is ultimately an act of healing as well, and there appear to be no plans by the community to wash its hands of the matter completely, no matter how unsavory the new narrative has become.
610 2013-07-28 PG: Isn’t that the idea that underpins Biden’s statement? You really only need to meet the person you think is a freak before you realize: “Oh, he’s just like me.”

EM: I’ve always said: There’s maybe a chunk of this country whose minds never change on the issue. But the ones whose minds do change won’t change because of a rally in West Hollywood or the Village. They’re going to change because of shows like ours that make it normal.

JESSE TYLER FERGUSON: That makes it safe. Ty Burrell [who plays Phil Dunphy on “Modern Family”] calls shows like ours “Trojan horses” because you sneak in there and make people feel comfortable. And then maybe you show a little bit of an agenda. But the audience is acclimated to it at a very comfortable rate.

EM: That’s the real political time bomb. Neither of our shows made sexuality an issue. Will was gay on Day 1. And Jesse was part of a couple from Day 1.

PG: Do you ever think about the politics of a scene when you’re reading a “Modern Family” script? Have you ever gone into the writers’ room and said: “No, no, no. Or could we try it this way, instead?” Or is just being funny hard enough?

JTF: Obviously, our main objective is to be funny and make people laugh, and whatever comes out of it, comes out of it. But there were certain times, especially in our first season, when we didn’t have any gay writers, when it was harder. Then in our second season, we acquired Abraham Higginbotham, who was also a writer on “Will & Grace” and a great — —

JTF: He and Jeff Richman are our two gay acquisitions. But in the first season, some of the writers would come to me and be like: “Is this offensive? Are we going too far with this?” And Eric Stonestreet [who plays Mr. Ferguson’s partner on “Modern Family”] was always concerned about making sure everything was up to my standards. And I kept saying: Stop worrying about it! PG: Why’s that?

JTF: Once you start worrying about being offensive, you’re doing a disservice to yourself and the creative process. I also begged them to get some gay writers so I didn’t have to be bothered with their questions.

EM: Well, that was the thing. We had our two creators. One was gay, and one was straight. So from the beginning, we had guys at the top who were going to take the heat.

PG: For all the progress, there was also a flip side to that “Meet the Press” piece. There were a lot of nasty, homophobic online comments about “Will & Grace” and gay people. And still, only 13 states allow gay marriage. Have you ever gotten blowback personally for playing gay on TV?

JTF: That’s what the Internet allows people to do. No one would ever say the awful things they say on online chat boards to your face. I’ve received nothing but positive feedback from people. Have you — —

EM: Very, very little. And even the guys who stand around hating our shows, they say, “Good job, man.” It’s totally hypocritical.

EM: It’s entirely fear. Fear of change they don’t understand. But it baffles me that it’s still an issue.

PG: When you took the role of Will Truman, back in the late ’90s, did anyone say: “Oh, Mary, don’t do this role. It’ll ruin your career.”

EM: Actually, the ones that call me Mary were fine with it. There was a slight conservatism on the part of the network. They said: “Let’s not lead with it. Let’s not say, ‘Next up, the gayest show on television!’ ” They pitched it as a show about friends. But it’s pretty clear what the show is in the first two scenes. So we eased our way in.

PG: Ten years later, Jesse, were any of your team worried about you taking this gay role?

JTF: I think I was the only one thinking that because I had just come off another show.

PG: What was it called?

JTF: “Do Not Disturb.” It got canceled after three episodes. It was a three-part mini-series, I like to say. It didn’t work. I played a gay character on it, and it was not a good fit. And I was nervous about going into another gay role until I read the “Modern Family” script. But it was such good writing. A wonderful character, a wonderful story. It didn’t occur to me for a second to worry about it.

PG: And you turned out to be right.

JTF: Yes, but when I was in that in-between time, between jobs, I was thinking: O.K., that was not a good experience. Don’t do yourself a disservice by playing a character that you don’t particularly like.

EM: That’s the hard part of television. When you walk into the network tests, you’re signing away seven years of your life. That was the only trepidation I had about “Will & Grace.” It had nothing to do with the sexuality of the character. It was more: this could be the next 7 to 10 years of my life.

PG: Here’s where you teach me about acting: As a gay kid, I was very watchful of how straight people behaved. I didn’t want to get teased, so I wanted to act how they were acting. Am I wrong to assume that it’s harder for you, Eric, as a straight guy, to play a gay character than it is for Jesse, a gay guy, to play a straight one because Jesse had all those years of watching? Or is that just crazy?

EM: I think most actors go into the business thinking: “I can play everything. Why can’t I play a black woman? Just give me a chance.” Then you grow up and realize it’s probably better that they cast an actual black woman. As I got older, I realized that my life experience, what I really had, was always going to be more valuable than what I pretended to have. Before “Will & Grace” started, I had known plenty of gay men, and had been called names since I was in second grade. So I had enough of my own experiences to bring to it. It’s harder to play a murderer. I would never kill anyone.

PG: So you didn’t need to develop a new way of relating to women, or men, to play gay?

EM: I wasn’t uncomfortable with any of the physicality that came with it: of looking at a guy and coming on to him, or thinking he was attractive.

JTF: Any more than I was uncomfortable when I did a show called “The Class.” I played a suicidal kid who had this beautiful love story with a woman he runs over with his car. I never felt uncomfortable looking at her that way. It’s just part of playing a character. You click over. This is the world that this character lives in, and these are the rules this character abides by.

PG: After big successes like “Will & Grace” and “Modern Family,” do you get offered the same role a lot: clean-cut gay guys?

EM: Not anymore. I think there are a lot of roles that my name might come up for, where somebody goes: “Yeah, he’s great, but not for this.”

JTF: I’ve made it well known that my first love is theater, and I really take almost every opportunity on hiatus to do something onstage.

PG: You both have serious theater backgrounds. The first time I saw you, Jesse, was on Broadway in “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,” in 2005. And Eric, you had five seasons at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Ontario. Would you like to do more theater?

EM: Thank you. I was back last year for “The Best Man” [by Gore Vidal, on Broadway]. It was a really fun show. I would do it more, I would do what you do, Jesse. But it’s not always possible with a family.

PG: Eric, let’s talk about your new show, “Perception.” You play a schizophrenic psychiatrist who teaches at a university. But it’s a crime procedural, and the twist is that the clues that help you solve the crimes are revealed to you in hallucination.

EM: I loved the idea of playing a teacher. And I loved how flawed he was. I’m always drawn to characters that have something going wrong.

PG: It’s going well, too, in terms of ratings and the business of TV.

PG: So, let me ask about business. You both started on the stage. Was TV a lure, in itself, or was TV cash the alluring thing?

JTF: With “The Class,” my first show, I was very excited to work in a medium I had never worked in before. I am a huge fan of “Friends” and “Will & Grace” and all these classic sitcoms. So, to be in front of a live studio audience with Jimmy Burrows, who is the icon of all icons when it comes to directing multicamera shows, I felt like I was living in a dream.

PG: How many seasons did it run?

JTF: Just one, 19 episodes. But it was such a learning experience. It was Sitcom 101 for me.

EM: For me, it was three different dreams that were all related. I very much wanted to be onstage, but I also grew up with “Get Smart” and “All in the Family” and “M*A*S*H.” And every boy wanted to be Al Pacino or Robert De Niro. It seemed like I had to choose, but maybe we don’t. There’s a crossover happening.

JTF: Especially between TV and theater.

EM: Theater’s too expensive not to have a few actors that people recognize. That used to be a bad thing, and those actors who came to New York from TV and film in L.A. used to be damnable and laughed at. But when I first came here to do “The Music Man” in 2001, the reception I had from the Broadway community was nothing but positive.

PG: You’ve both worked steadily since you were very young. What if it hadn’t worked out? What if the world said: “Sorry, we don’t have any roles for you”?

EM: Did you have a backup plan?

JTF: I thought maybe I could teach acting. When I was a kid, I wanted to be a zookeeper or bake cakes. Not a baker, just a cake baker. But zookeeper and baking cakes seemed ridiculous, so I stuck with acting.

EM: I’m going to use zookeeper as my answer.

PG: Jesse, I read on the Internet — so it must be true — that you are getting married imminently, yes?

JTF: Yeah. By the time this piece runs, I will be married. (On July 20, Mr. Ferguson married Justin Mikita in a ceremony in New York.)

PG: Any marital advice for Jesse? You’ve been married for 16 years, right? How will this affect his career?

EM: It’s not so much the marriage. It’s kids and figuring out how you both feel. A lot of people think: “They’re just kids, they’ll be fine. We’ll just move them wherever we go.” But my wife moved around a lot as a kid, and we both agreed that it would be better to find someplace to call home. And for now, that’s Los Angeles. And if I have to go off, I go off, but it does make those choices harder. When “The Best Man” came along with that incredible cast and a limited run, I said: “Honey, there’s nothing I can do. I have to do this.” And she agreed.

JTF: I imagine that it slows you down a bit. But I’m looking forward to that slowdown.

EM: I get torn because there’s stuff that you’re going to miss, but at the same time, I like the idea that my son sees me truly following my passion, that he sees me happy in my work. And when I come home, I’m happy to be home.

JTF: For me, I’ve been so passionate about working and finding good work and immersing myself into it, that I felt like I was married to acting. And now that I’ve met Justin, there’s something else.

PG: Is he an actor, too?

JTF: No, he’s a lawyer. Score! It was actually a relief to meet someone I could actually put some of this passion onto, so it wasn’t all just workload. I’m actually looking forward to the day that I have a kid, so I can disperse even more. I feel like it equalizes things, that it will make me a fuller, better person.

EM: I think if somebody said to you, when you were 20, what do you want to act for? You’d just laugh at them. What do you mean? It’s for me. It’s for love, for joy. But at what point does that have to become something else? At what point is good writing and the love of the audience not enough? Now, I’m doing it in a way that gives me joy so that there’s a happy man coming home.

PG: In a way, it also brings me back to your signature shows. Will was famously unable to form a long-term attachment. That was part of the setup. Why would he? He had Grace. But do you think it was also saying something about the times? We love you, Will, but please don’t make us think too much about your sex life?

EM: I think something ironic happened, yes. It was a comedy first. I didn’t even like watching Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt make out on “Mad About You.” That’s not what sitcoms are for. So to make a show about a gay man and not have a lot of sex, you have to make him a man that is looking for love, and that’s what we did. Will was looking for the right guy. He talked about kids, he talked about settling down. And to go back to that Biden comment, that’s where we were laying groundwork we didn’t even realize we were laying. How can you be afraid of the Will Trumans and the Jesse Tyler Fergusons of this world?

PG: It’s the same in “Modern Family.” You skip over the mating and courtship, and now you’re two harried fathers, just like everyone else.

JTF: It was what I loved so much about the pilot, the way it opened up with them bringing home this child and starting there. We didn’t see the struggle of trying to adopt. We didn’t see the dating process. It just started with this established couple. It shouldn’t have been revolutionary, but it was. And if their struggle is learning how to be parents, that was something that so many people could relate to. And it clicked.

PG: Is there a sitcom in a superhot gay man or lesbian sleeping his or her way through life?

JTF: I’m trying to think of the safe straight version of that sitcom.

EM: That sitcom is “Two and a Half Men,” and that was Charlie Sheen. I simply didn’t get why that character was so beloved.

JTF: I loved “The Cosby Show,” but there was always that scene on the couch where Claire got a foot rub, and I didn’t want to see that. It was just a foot rub, but the faces Cosby made, and the jazz he turned on. I don’t want to see that, and neither does Rudy.

EM: I think if you want to change things, it has to be subtly, from within. And if you bash people over the head, then — —

JTF: You get so much farther with a laugh than you do with a bullhorn.

JTF: Exactly. Everyone would prefer that course of action.
611 2013-07-28 GOLF IN CHINA IS YOUNGER THAN TIGER WOODS, BUT GROWING UP FAST

I guess this is intended as a story about a child prodigy and meant to stimulate discussion about whether or not children should be raised like this. For me, however, this is foremost a story about income inequality and about a country (and world) with messed-up priorities. How about using all this wealth to make China a better place for the millions of wage slaves and farmers living in squalid conditions? How about training this boy to become a doctor or scientist rather than a golfer? TOM M, New York, posted on nytimes.com

To people who think that training children at a young age to play golf is child abuse — really? Have you ever played golf? It’s fun. Sure, the training regimen sounds pretty intense, but it’s a given if you want to excel at any sport. What kid would rather go to school than play golf all day? I would have traded places with these Chinese kids in an instant if I had the chance. ALENA ZHU, London, posted on nytimes.com

Always nice to read about an 8-year-old who drives it farther than I. The real reason to fear China. @captainwhacky

THE CHELSEA HOTEL HAD ITS OWN ELOISE

I grew up in New York in the ’70s with parents who were artists, in a rent-controlled apartment. When my parents weren’t dancing with Martha Graham or on Broadway, they existed on unemployment. There were no frills, but there was an abundance of riches. We were raised in museums, concerts and art studios. I was not poor, nor was Gaby Hoffmann. Now my own child, raised in Brooklyn, wants to begin a creative career. Where can he use his talents and live affordably? My son may well have to pursue his artistic vision in Cleveland, Detroit, upstate or out West. It’s an uncalculated loss that so many talented people are no longer able to make New York their home. CATHERINE HODES, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

The notion that Manhattan has been somehow pre-empted by the rich is easy enough to believe. But it is countered by a walk through my neighborhood around Herald Square and by my interactions with people of all ages. They seem to have more of the spirit that people miss from the fabled ’80s. STEPHEN C. ROSE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

YES, THE AIRLINE BUSINESS IS TAKING OFF IN SOMALIA

I was just in Somalia for a week, flying on the U.N. Humanitarian Air Service route from Nairobi, which stops in Galkayo, Garowe and Bossaso. There are regular commercial routings from Nairobi to Mogadishu as well. Clearly, the Somali diaspora and humanitarian assistance work from NGOs and development agencies are helping to make this air service viable. But Somalia is big. The nation is the size of Texas, with one of the longest coastlines in Africa. Most of the country can be reached only over rough gravel or rubble, accessible by 4x4s or camels. Clearly, air travel is needed to enable the country to rebuild economically and stabilize politically. Someday, there might be hotels on the coast of Puntland and Somaliland, and people will be flying there. MICHAEL ZWIRN, Washington, posted on nytimes.com

Here is a good example of businessmen as unsung heroes providing a useful service. Most people love to hate them when they become rich and successful, but most of business life is about putting everything on the line and struggling for years on the slim chance that you might hit it big. TK, Hoboken, N.J., posted on nytimes.com
612 2013-07-29 HEMINWAY--Willard "Spike" Sands Heminway, Jr.,a long-time resident of Greenwich, CT, died peacefully Wednesday, July 24th, at his summer home in Kennebunkport, ME, at the age of 79. A resident of Hobe Sound, FL, Mr. Heminway had many passions but ...
613 2013-07-29 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission formally accused JPMorgan Chase of manipulating energy markets, foreshadowing a settlement expected as early as this week....
614 2013-07-29 Jet-setters are turning to a new cure-all for everyday maladies &emdash; intravenous injections of vitamins and electrolytes....
615 2013-07-29 The government’s failure to cleanly deal with Fannie and Freddie’s stock and bondholders during the financial crisis is coming back to haunt it, the authors write....
616 2013-07-29 A look at top travel stories from the weekend....
617 2013-07-29 A small business, Nuts ‘N More wins huge exposure and a $250,000 investment, but was there a better way to raise the money?...
618 2013-07-29 Brentwood Associates invests in a wide variety of companies, but all have one thing in common — a fiercely loyal customer base....
619 2013-07-29 Directed by Paul Greengrass and based on real-life events, “Captain Phillips” stars Tom Hanks as the commanding officer of the Maersk Alabama, a United States-flagged cargo ship that was hijacked by Somali pirates....
620 2013-07-29 Bob Mansfield, a longtime top executive at Apple, has switched to a role working on special projects at the company....
621 2013-07-29 The merger of Omnicom and Publicis signals that advertising is in the business of personal information. | A seemingly small change to the voting rules for the proposed buyout of Dell could have a big effect. | What were SAC Capital’s compliance ...
622 2013-07-29 Chief financial officers are more optimistic. A report says small businesses are particularly vulnerable to climate change. But for one fishmonger, business still stinks. Do you pay your interns?...
623 2013-07-29 Brandt Snedeker won the Canadian Open on Sunday at Oakville, Ontario, for his second PGA Tour title of the year, closing with a two-under 70 for a three-stroke victory over Dustin Johnson, William McGirt, Matt Kuchar and Jason Bohn. Hunter Mahan’s wife, Kandi, gave birth to a daughter, Zoe Olivia, in Texas. Mahan led after two rounds when he left to join his wife.

■ Bernhard Langer and Mark Wiebe were tied after two playoff holes when play was suspended for darkness in the Senior British Open at Southport, England. They will resume Monday morning.

■ Michael Hoey shot a two-under 70 to win the Russian Open at Moscow by four strokes over Alexandre Kaleka and Matthew Nixon.
624 2013-07-29 Missy Franklin helped the United States women’s team to victory over Australia in the final of the 4x100-meter freestyle relay, securing her first of a possible eight gold medals in the world championships at Barcelona, Spain. The American Katie Ledecky won the women’s 400 free. The French men rallied past the Americans in the final of the 4x100 free relay.
625 2013-07-29 Mikhail Youzhny won his first Swiss Open title on his eighth attempt, beating Robin Haase, 6-3, 6-4, at Gstaad.

■ Tommy Robredo won the Croatia Open at Umag over Fabio Fognini, 6-0, 6-3.

■ Dominika Cibulkova outlasted Agnieszka Radwanska, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4, to win the Bank of the West Classic at Stanford, Calif.
626 2013-07-29 “Look, this isn’t a story that anybody, particularly the Clintons, are happy to see splashed over the front pages,” Ms. Myers said. “If they could choose, they would certainly have Weiner get out of the race and Huma to get on with their life.”

Ms. Myers said later that she had not spoken to the Clintons about Mr. Weiner’s travails.

For his part, Mr. Weiner, who appeared at a church in Brownsville, Brooklyn, on Sunday morning, tried to sound a defiant note.

“We’ve gotten more volunteers and more people coming over the transom to help the campaign in the last several days than any time since the campaign started,” he told reporters.

But he also declined to elaborate on why his campaign manager, Danny Kedem, had resigned, saying only, “He did a remarkable job.”

The troubles facing Mr. Weiner have provided an opening to one of his chief Democratic opponents, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, who sharply criticized Mr. Weiner’s Congressional record on “Meet the Press.”

Ms. Quinn appeared uneasy when asked by the show’s host, David Gregory, if Mr. Weiner’s online conduct had disqualified him as a candidate. Mr. Gregory asked the question three times; Ms. Quinn eventually replied: “He disqualified himself, but not just because of these scandals,” going on to cite what she saw as his lack of accomplishments in Congress.

A far harsher response came from the veteran CBS News anchor Bob Schieffer, who commented on “Face the Nation” that Mr. Weiner’s continuing attempt to become mayor of New York “is not funny — it is sickening.” He added that the candidate had “no business” seeking to run City Hall.

Aides to Mr. Weiner have said there are few indications that he is considering leaving the race. In an interview published on Sunday in The Staten Island Advance, Mr. Weiner made his intentions clear: “You’re stuck with me,” he said.

Mr. Weiner went as far as to joke about raising his young son, Jordan, in Gracie Mansion. But he conceded that the past week had taken a toll.

“I’ve been derailed the last few days,” Mr. Weiner said. “No doubt about it.”
627 2013-07-29 Boeing asked airlines on Sunday to inspect several additional models of aircraft worldwide to gather data on Honeywell International emergency beacons that have come under scrutiny following a fire on a parked 787 Dreamliner more than two weeks ago.

As many as 1,200 aircraft from its smallest to largest models have been fitted with the devices, but Boeing is asking that airlines inspect as many as possible and report back within 10 days to help regulators decide what action to take, if any.

“Boeing is asking specific operators of 717, Next-Generation 737, 747-400, 767 and 777s to inspect aircraft with the Honeywell fixed emergency locator transmitters,” a Boeing spokesman said in an e-mailed statement late Sunday.

“The purpose of these inspections is to gather data to support potential rule-making by regulators,” he added.

The move is the latest response to a fire that caused serious damage on a parked 787 Dreamliner owned by Ethiopian Airlines at Heathrow Airport outside London on July 12.
628 2013-07-29 After nearly a full day of silence from Washington, the administration issued a thinly veiled criticism late Saturday afternoon of Europe’s decision to cut its own deal. “We believe there needs to be a global solution, consistent with our trade laws, that creates stability and certainty in the various components of the solar sector,” said Michael Froman, the United States trade representative.

Li Junfeng, a senior Chinese government energy policy maker, said that the trade deal was good for both China and the European Union. China has captured close to 80 percent of the European market for solar panels over the last several years, with exports that reached $27 billion in 2011, before the trade battle began. China has expanded its industry using huge loans from state-owned banks as well as cheap land and other incentives from government agencies. Industry executives say they expect China’s market share to fall to between 60 and 70 percent with the minimum price agreed on Saturday.

The politics of the solar trade case within Europe were highly unusual from the start. In most European trade cases regarding an imported product, the main country in Europe making the same product energetically favors protection from subsidized imports. Other European countries tend to like low-cost imports and be less enthusiastic about imposing tariffs.

The European solar panel industry is concentrated in Germany, and has felt the brunt of the impact of lower prices, yet the German government emerged as the biggest critic of confronting China on solar panel exports. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany opposed the trade case from the very beginning, saying that it would be preferable to continue talking with Chinese officials about the issue. Solar panel manufacturers in Germany tend to be independent companies that are not part of the country’s big industrial powerhouses like Volkswagen or BASF.

Germany has had far more success in exporting to China than any other European country, particularly in shipments of factory equipment, and Ms. Merkel has sought to cultivate a special relationship with Beijing. Most big German companies were unenthusiastic about the trade case, fearing that it could lead to a broader trade war that might hurt German exports.

“A tit-for-tat policy will more destabilize than help us,” Martin Brudermüller, the vice chairman of the German chemicals giant BASF, said at a news conference in Hong Kong last month.

The German government not only opposed the case but also rallied other European governments to join them. China helped Germany do so by threatening to impose tariffs on imports of European wine if the European Commission imposed steep tariffs on Chinese solar panels, a threat that appalled France, although the risk of any actual imposition of tariffs seemed to recede with Saturday’s deal.

Ocean Yuan, the founder and chief executive of Grape Solar, a solar panel distributor in Eugene, Ore., said that the minimum price of 56 euro cents a watt was lower than what the Chinese government had expected, as some in Beijing had anticipated that Brussels would drive a tougher bargain. But the deal has divided the Chinese solar industry, upsetting many small manufacturers, said Mr. Yuan, whose long career in the Chinese and American solar industries has given him a broad range of contacts.

A vast quantity of solar panels, produced by companies that have already gone bankrupt from selling panels below cost or are close to doing so, is available at deeply discounted prices, as low as 30 euro cents a watt.

Sales in Europe at such low prices will be banned under Saturday’s agreement. Customers are only likely to pay the new minimum price of 56 euro cents per watt for the highest-quality solar panels with the best warranties, giving an advantage to the largest Chinese manufacturers. That is consistent with the Chinese government’s goal of thinning its nation’s solar panel industry to produce a few world-leading companies that can set high, profitable prices.

Out of 140 Chinese solar panel exporters, 50 refused to accept the minimum price, which means that they will face a prohibitive 47.6 percent tariff on any further shipments to the European Union. Since the United States Commerce Department imposed tariffs totaling only 31 percent last spring, the European Union’s settlement could send another wave of extremely low-priced Chinese solar panels without warranties toward the United States instead.

“The terms may be set with the E.U., but we all know that China’s excess production will continue to be targeted at other markets — the U.S. and elsewhere,” said Michael Wessel, a longtime trade lawyer in Washington who has advised the United Steelworkers union on solar panels. “Rather than abide by the terms of its W.T.O. commitments, once again China has bullied others into submission.”
629 2013-07-29 A court in Kiev fined three activists of Femen, the Ukrainian feminist organization known for its bare-breasted protests, and a Russian photojournalist on Sunday and released them following their Saturday arrest.

Femen said that the women had been beaten and kidnapped when they were arrested and that they had been targeted by Ukraine’s security service, the SBU, to prevent protests during a visit to Kiev by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Patriarch Kirill I of the Russian Orthodox church, who have been accosted by Femen members in the past.

Police said that the women, Oksana Shachko, Alexandra Shevchenko, and Yana Zhdanova, were detained by a patrol car after officers spotted them naked and arrested them for “petty hooliganism” after they failed to cover up. The photojournalist, Dmitry Kostyukov, was accused of disobeying police orders.

Mr. Kostyukov told the Russian television channel Dozhd, on Sunday that all the women had been clothed and that he and they were attacked and beaten by 15 to 20 men in plain clothes as he was photographing the activists outside an apartment building. A police car drove up then to arrest them.

“My head, face and back hurt, and I have some dizziness,” Mr. Kostyukov told Dozhd. “Oksana was hit in the kidneys and the chest.”

Sunday’s fines were small, the equivalent of about $10.50 for each woman and just over $16.70 for Mr. Kostyukov, the Interfax-Ukraine news agency reported. Femen’s leader, Anna Hutsol, said she was attacked twice on Saturday, in which her dog was kidnapped and she was beaten in the face.

“This is not possible in a normal, democratic country,” she in a telephone interview. “More and more we are resembling Russia and Belarus.”
630 2013-07-29 “Ideally, I would want all of our work freely available,” Mr. Hattem said in a telephone interview, “but we have to deal with the way things are.”

And the way things are, he said, is that university presses are known to be skeptical about agreeing to publish a book when the Ph.D dissertation it is based on is readily available online.

“If you want tenure at a university, you have to publish a book,” he said. “It’s professional currency.”

This term, “embargo” — so common in how journalism doles out information in the digital age — perhaps is evidence that some academics are learning from journalists: readers simply have less interest in old news, even old news about the British colonies.

The historical association, which is based in Washington and has 14,000 members, including high school teachers, government historians and university professors, was inspired to act, officials said, because of simmering concerns that institutions were moving to require that students’ work be shared freely.

“I have heard from junior scholars, newly minted Ph.D’s, I have heard from my colleagues who are mentors to these younger scholars, from university press acquisition editors, who say ‘we are very happy you released this statement,’ ” said Jacqueline Jones, a history professor at the University of Texas at Austin, who is the vice president of the professional division at the historical association.

Critics of the embargo argue that knowledge should circulate freely on the Internet. In this case, they say that if incentives in academic hiring discourage such sharing, then the American Historical Association should agitate to change those incentives, not promote the idea of embargoes.

“The idea of locking up ideas for six years is not right,” said Heather Joseph, the executive director of the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, which favors open research. “The thing that bothered us the most is that it was a one-dimensional response to a multidimensional issue, and a missed opportunity.”

The association has tried to frame the issue as giving scholars a choice, while also noting that it has pressed for greater inclusion of digital-based scholarship. Questions and answers published in response to criticism tried to lower the stakes.

“Is the A.H.A. recommending that students embargo their dissertations?” was the first question, and “No” was the first answer, with the explainer, “The A.H.A. is recommending that universities adopt flexible policies that will allow newly minted Ph.D’s to decide for themselves whether or not to embargo their dissertations.”

Despite this clear explanation of motive and intention, a lot of fogginess remains in the arguments from all sides, beginning with the central question: Do university presses really care if a dissertation is available when they are publishing a thoroughly revised work years later?

A recent survey of university presses found a sliding scale of concern among executives who were asked about publishing work derived from a dissertation that was “openly available.” Depending on how the findings are interpreted, they could be worrisome — only 10 percent responded “always welcome” — or reassuring in that a large majority said they were open to giving such work a chance to impress.

Peter M. Berkery Jr., the executive director of the Association of American University Presses, said he spent a day quickly learning about the issue, which had not been on his radar, and came away confused by the stir.

He said he spoke to 15 heads of university presses, and “I haven’t found one person who has said if it is available open access, we won’t publish it.” Citing his own experience at Oxford University Press, he said that a book was necessarily an entirely different work from the dissertation that laid its groundwork, and is judged on its own terms.

Still, Professor Jones and others say they know directly from their students that there is pressure to keep material out of general distribution. As for the leaders of university presses, she said, “They don’t necessarily know what their acquisition editors know.”

Other arguments in defense of the graduate students put the august Ph.D in a less than flattering light.

Professor Jones and others described the dissertation as little more than a rough draft on the way to becoming a monograph, on which the hopes of academic tenure rest. When a new Ph.D decides to withhold her work, she is really saying to her professional colleagues, do not judge my research and analysis until I am ready to publish in print.

“Really, if my scholarly career was based on my dissertation I probably would be washing dishes at Denny’s,” she said, adding that, “four years later it was a good book.”

In a post Mr. Hattem said he would publish on The Junto, a group blog on early American history, he wrote that he expected to wait at least two years before sharing his own dissertation.

He said in an interview that he regretted that these were the terms he must live under as a scholar. But they were not new to him.

“It may look to us like a step back, but they have never stepped forward,” he said. “We still do the degrees in the way we did in the 1800s.”
631 2013-07-29 “Under these circumstances, how to avert financial risks is quite an urgent issue,” said the official, Ma Xiaofang. Those concerns have already prompted the office to audit 36 local governments this year, after a similar check in 2011, Mr. Ma said. “We must have more insight into problems, risks and hazards in local government debt management,” he said.

China has made periodic efforts over the years to assess the scope of local government debt, and Sunday’s statement by the National Audit Office was too terse to tell how comprehensive the latest effort would be. Bankruptcy proceedings started this month by Detroit surprised and alarmed many in China, however, prompting renewed concern about the financial health of Chinese cities and towns.

While the Chinese government has considerable unused borrowing capacity at the national level as well as $3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, any move by the central government to bail out profligate local governments would be politically contentious.

Using the foreign exchange reserves to cover local government debts would also be extremely difficult for practical reasons. The central bank has financed those reserves mostly by borrowing from Chinese commercial banks and needs to be able to repay them.

Beijing imposes many restrictions on the ability of local governments to borrow. But local governments have been widely sidestepping them by setting up special financing entities that borrow for the governments.

Many local governments also own businesses and have used their political connections to help these businesses borrow from state-owned banks. This has further increased possible financial liabilities for the local governments themselves.

These governments’ revenues tend to be heavily dependent on the sale to developers of long-term leases for government land, which is then used for building apartments, factories, shopping malls and other projects.

Developers’ interest in these leases tends to be cyclical, soaring when the real estate market is strong and crashing when real estate prices fall. With Beijing trying to make housing more affordable for the last couple of years by limiting real estate speculation, developers have been more cautious about acquiring additional leases.

Many local governments have also guaranteed loans to borrowers in politically favored sectors like solar panel manufacturing. That allows the borrowers to obtain loans at low interest rates. But the local governments are exposed to huge losses if the borrowers default — a constant risk given the overcapacity and declining profit margins that bedevil many Chinese industries.

“These problems must attract serious attention, and there should be effective measures taken to strengthen management of local government debt,” Mr. Ma said.
632 2013-07-29 Advisers to Mr. Thompson have suggested that voters in minority neighborhoods may make up their minds late in a campaign, and, in the final stretch of the race, he will make a major push to secure their embrace.

When Mr. Thompson first took the plexiglass lectern at the squat church filled with folding chairs shortly after 11 a.m., he acknowledged that delving into the sensitive subject of race was “not my first or natural instinct.” But he proceeded to put forth the most assertive address of the campaign on the polarizing issue of stop and frisk, a tactic heralded by the city’s police as a lifesaving deterrent and assailed by a generation of black and Latino men as overused and abusive.

Of what Mr. Thompson said were the 600,000 blacks and Latinos stopped by the New York police in 2011, a vast majority were innocent, he said — “profiled as Trayvon was profiled.”

“If our government profiles people because of skin color and treats them as potential criminals, how can we expect citizens to do any less?” Mr. Thompson asked, as church members loudly applauded and occasionally interrupted with cries of “amen.”

For black voters unsettled by the Bloomberg era of law enforcement, Mr. Thompson occupies an intriguing place in the campaign. He has defended elements of the stop-and-frisk policy as effective and stops short of the call to abolish it advocated by a Democratic rival, John C. Liu, the city comptroller, positions that have earned Mr. Thompson the support of major police unions.

But he has made clear he would replace the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, overhaul the stop-and-frisk strategy to ban racial profiling, and limit reliance on the practice by hiring 2,000 more officers and putting more experienced ones in high-crime areas.

On Sunday, though, he talked about the issues in human terms, as a father and a husband. Mr. Thompson, the son of a Democratic judge in State Supreme Court and a schoolteacher, acknowledged that his biography did not put him in the same shoes as many black and Latino men across the city.

“I am the son of the struggle before me,” he said. “And although it has not ended, I have lived in the blessing of its success so far.”

But, invoking the “dreams of our fathers” and “dreams for our sons,” he said he felt compelled to speak out after the acquittal of Mr. Zimmerman. “When the rules of society — that we call and honor as the law — allow even one of those dreams to be snuffed out in anger and fear without consequence or action, those rules fail us all,” he said.

Inside the church, where the mostly black congregants said they had anticipated a tepid speech from another politician, there was a mixture of surprise and admiration.

“I wasn’t expecting that at all,” said Karen Khan, 52, who teaches middle school in Brooklyn, and had never known Mr. Thompson to talk about race. “I thought it was going to be one of those speeches designed to pacify the issue. Sweep it under the rug — O.K., let’s move on.”

Several said in interviews that the speech had compelled them to re-evaluate his candidacy.

“He would get my vote based on the passion in his speech today,” said Khalid Douglas, 33, a structural engineer. “It improved my opinion of him.”

For Mr. Thompson the speech was a departure not just in tone, but in style. He spoke about “a chorus of common dreams” and “the stubborn stain of enduring racism.” He described the emotional experience of watching President Obama discuss the George Zimmerman verdict, “stripped of that power, not as president, but as the black man he is, I am, and we will always be.” He wondered what moved this “dignified, calm, thoughtful man” to speak, almost sounding as if he could be referring to himself.

Mr. Thompson said he had endured criticism “from people I know and trust and respect” for declaring, after Mr. Zimmerman’s acquittal, that Mr. Martin was killed because of his skin color. But he reiterated that belief again on Sunday.

“Trayvon Martin did die because he was black. Of that, there is no doubt,” Mr. Thompson said, adding, “The verdict in Florida was a verdict — but it was not the verdict.”

The 20-minute address will not be the last appeal to minorities, who, for the first time, are expected to make up a majority of the New York City electorate this season, starting with the Sept. 10 primary. Bill de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, has showcased his interracial family (he married an African-American) while Christine C. Quinn is targeting black and Latino women, and the city’s comptroller, Mr. Liu, is talking up his immigrant roots.

In a Democratic field where substantive differences can seem reed-thin, voters are especially attuned to the candidates’ passion and message.

Leaving church on Sunday, Ms. Khan said Mr. Thompson’s thoughtfulness “pushed me closer to saying ‘Hmm, now it’s a tossup between him and Bill de Blasio, because Bill de Blasio is very outspoken, too.’ ”
633 2013-07-29 A proposal for Yosemite National Park would, among other things, restore more than 200 acres of meadows, reduce traffic congestion and close rental facilities for bicycling....
634 2013-07-29 At the bicycle rental stand that could be closed, Fred Chytraus, who was picking up some bicycles with his family, said he wanted the facility to remain open. It was more convenient for his family, he said, than bringing bicycles or renting from a shop outside the park, alternatives the Park Service is recommending. At the same time, he said, reducing traffic congestion should be a priority.

“There’s just too many people here,” said Mr. Chytraus, a resident of Carlsbad, Calif. “It’s a beautiful place, but we have to be conscious of our footsteps. But the bikes have no emissions. I have more problems with the number of cars coming in. If they bused people in and added biking, that would be the way to go.”

The National Park Service early this year released the 2,500-page plan, called the Merced River Plan, in response to a long-running lawsuit charging that it was failing to preserve the river. The stretch of the Merced inside Yosemite was designated a National Wild and Scenic River in 1987 and is protected under federal law.

After the Merced flooded in 1997 and destroyed many facilities, the Park Service drew up a rebuilding plan in 2000 that would also protect the river. Two environmental groups sued the Park Service, and a succession of courts rejected the first plan as well as a revised plan in 2005. After a federal appeals court ruling in 2008, the Park Service began working on its current, third plan.

The agency had been required to produce a final plan by the end of July but was granted a five-month extension on Thursday.

Scott Gediman, a spokesman for Yosemite, said the current plan incorporated more scientific analysis and public input than the two previous ones. In the public comment period after the release of the plan in January, he said, the Park Service has held 60 public meetings and received 30,000 comments, two-thirds of which supported the plan. The final plan must satisfy the 2008 federal appeals court ruling, which pointed specifically to the commercial services near the Merced as contributing to “the level of degradation already experienced in the Merced.”

“We want, for the American public, a plan that not only protects the river and provides the access but has to be legally sufficient,” Mr. Gediman said.

Greg Adair, the leader of Friends of Yosemite Valley, one of the two groups that sued the Park Service, said there was insufficient scientific analysis underlying the current plan. He said the plan was about the “status quo” and should have done more to decrease commercial services.

The commercial services that the current plan proposes to remove, he said, were “tokenism,” adding, “There could have been 30 or 40 such things put on the chopping block.”

Mr. Adair said the plaintiffs had retained the option to litigate. “We do think they could probably revise this plan, but significantly, not a tweak or tinkering, to get it right,” he said.

The other plaintiff, Mariposans for the Environment and Responsible Government, sounded more conciliatory. Its leader, John Brady, said the group had “reluctantly endorsed” the Park Service’s plan, though he said he would like to see more restoration of the riverbanks and a significant reduction of the daily maximum capacity of visitors — 19,900 — that is proposed.

“We feel that more could be done,” Mr. Brady said, “but we recognize that there are a lot of demands for use on the park.”

Over the years, Mr. Adair said, the plaintiffs have financed their lawsuits through the sale of T-shirts and donations from individuals, as well as two companies, Patagonia, the outdoor clothing manufacturer, and Clif Bar, an organic food producer.

At the Congressional hearing, the plan drew rebukes from critics of the reduction in commercial services.

Brian Ouzounian, head of the Yosemite Valley Campers Coalition, said the number of camping sites would be increased under the plan but would still be below the numbers that existed before the 1997 flood.

Wendy Brown, a resident of Mariposa, Calif., and a leader of Yosemite for Everyone, said removing bicycle rentals and other services would make such activities inaccessible to most visitors.

“We want the amenities and recreational activities that have been there for 150 years to continue,” Ms. Brown said. Referring to the Merced’s designation as a National Wild and Scenic River, she added: “We need to undesignate it and leave that section of the river alone. That would solve a lot of problems.”

Neal Desai, an associate director of the National Parks Conservation Association, which has endorsed the Park Service’s plan, said there was a history of rethinking the park’s role and the kind of activities allowed. For example, two longstanding activities — the feeding of bears by park rangers and the Yosemite Firefall, a summertime practice of dropping hot embers from the top of Glacier Point — were ended in the 1950s and 1960s.

“Yes, those were interesting things back then” Mr. Desai said. “But with more information and science and the changing views of the public, the park updates how it provides visitor amenities and services.”
635 2013-07-29 The opposition challenged the governing party, the Cambodian People’s Party, with a strikingly populist platform calling for a sharp rise in civil servants’ salaries, monthly payments to those over 65 years old, and an increase in the minimum wage. It also included a guaranteed, government-set price for agricultural products, lower gasoline costs and free health care for the poor.

Mr. Hun Sen’s party, as well as many analysts, questioned whether the opposition would be able to pay for all the proposed measures.

But in a country with wide income disparities, where 40 percent of children under 5 are malnourished and more than two-thirds of households lack a flush toilet, the opposition’s program resonated. The opposition also highlighted corruption, land seizures and the granting of wide swaths of forest to foreign companies, especially ones from China and Vietnam.

There are competing pictures of Cambodia two decades after the United Nations helped organize the country’s first multiparty elections in 1993. That followed the genocidal rule of the Khmer Rouge, from 1975 to 1979.

Opposition leaders, foreign governments and many foreign analysts have criticized what they say is Mr. Hun Sen’s monopoly on power and the intimidation of his critics.

Patrick Merloe, an analyst with the National Democratic Institute, an American nonprofit organization that promotes free elections, told the United States House Foreign Affairs Committee in July that Cambodia “remains mired in a corrupt, quasi-authoritarian political system that has persisted even though the country receives massive amounts of aid to improve its governance.”

But Mr. Hun Sen’s supporters say they are grateful for the stability that his party has provided. This is especially true for those old enough to remember the rule of the Khmer Rouge, which led to the deaths of 1.7 million Cambodians from starvation, overwork and execution.

The International Republican Institute, another American nonprofit organization, conducted a poll of 2,000 Cambodians in January and February and reported that 79 percent of the respondents said the country was “generally headed in the right direction.” Only 20 percent of them said they were worse off than they were five years ago, when Mr. Hun Sen’s party won an overwhelming victory in the last general election.

David Chandler, a leading historian of Cambodia, said that Mr. Hun Sen, 60, had remained in power for 28 years through a mix of political threats and intimidation — and by delivering tangible improvements in people’s lives.

“There are more roads, more factories, more motorcycles — the patronage flows down and the loyalty flows up,” Mr. Chandler said Sunday.

But Mr. Hun Sen has shown himself to be ruthless when threatened politically, Mr. Chandler added: “Whenever this government shows its teeth, it bites into people.”

As in years past, officials from the governing party said during the campaign that voters should show their gratitude for three decades of peace, an argument that still has some resonance among some Cambodians.

Karona Pok, a 32-year-old receptionist at a charity, said she had voted for the governing party because “we wouldn’t be here today” had Mr. Hun Sen, along with Vietnamese-backed troops, not invaded the country and driven out the Khmer Rouge.

Election monitoring groups reported numerous problems at the polls on Sunday. Supposedly indelible ink to prevent people from casting votes more than once, for example, was easily removed with lime juice or bleach, observers said. And scores of people were turned away because their names were not found on voter lists, causing minor scuffles at one Phnom Penh polling station. It was unclear late Sunday whether the opposition would pursue earlier claims that the election was unfair.

The slimmer majority for the governing party is politically significant because Mr. Hun Sen would now need support from opposition members to amend the Constitution, which requires the approval of two-thirds of the National Assembly. The opposition also now has the power to deny a quorum in the assembly, the minimum votes required to make proceedings valid. Seven-tenths of the assembly must be present to achieve a quorum.

Mr. Rainsy, a former finance minister who spent much of his early adult life in France, led the opposition’s campaign but was barred from voting or standing as a candidate by the country’s election committee. After spending the past four years abroad, he returned to Cambodia on July 19, after Mr. Hun Sen, under pressure from foreign governments, issued a last-minute pardon for a conviction of racial incitement and other charges filed by the government four years ago.

Mr. Rainsy, 64, was greeted by tens of thousands of supporters when he arrived at the Phnom Penh airport, and his campaign rallies have attracted thousands more. During his week of campaigning, Mr. Rainsy exploited anti-Vietnamese sentiments in the country by railing against “invading” Vietnamese, using a coarse term to describe them. Similar outbursts led to his conviction for racial incitement in 2010.
636 2013-07-30 FOWLER--Emily O'Connor, Born December 4, 1920, died July 19, 2013. Widow of H.W. Fowler and C. Tucker. She is survived by her five children, 16 grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren, and her sister, Libby O'Connor. She is buried at St. Matthew'...
637 2013-07-30 La Défense, the business hub of Paris, has long been criticized as dehumanizing and disconnected to the city. Efforts are under way to change that....
638 2013-07-30 OpenTable, the world’s largest online reservation service, is getting ready to take the next step and let diners pay for the meal with its app, too....
639 2013-07-30 Does YogaFit need venture capital — or a chief operating officer?...
640 2013-07-30 Apple designs its retail stores to be a seamless shopping experience. But some of Apple’s former retail employees say working at the stores was less than smooth....
641 2013-07-30 A former technology analyst at the research firm Collins Stewart was charged with leaking secret information to at least two different hedge funds, including SAC Capital Advisors....
642 2013-07-30 The violin, three centuries old and valued at £1.2 million (about $1.8 million), was found after a 2010 it was stolen from the violinist Min-Jin Kym in London in 2010....
643 2013-07-30 Sloane Stephens, the No. 2 seed, playing her first match since Wimbledon, fell to unseeded Olga Puchkova, 7-5, 6-3, in the first round of the Citi Open in Washington. In the men’s event, Mardy Fish rebounded from an early exit in Atlanta and losing the first set to defeat the qualifier Matthew Ebden, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3.
644 2013-07-30 WASHINGTON — Days after his administration filed suit against Texas to protect minority voters, President Obama told civil rights leaders and local officials on Monday that the federal government would vigorously enforce voting rights in the country despite a Supreme Court ruling against a core section of a landmark 1965 law, several participants said after a White House meeting.

“The president said that the Voting Rights Act is not dead, it’s not even critical, it’s just wounded,” said the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights activist and MSNBC talk show host. “He was very reassuring,” Mr. Sharpton added.

Mr. Obama met with the group for about 40 minutes, and administration officials led by the attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., met with the group for a bit longer. The administration was addressing what Mr. Sharpton described as the civil rights community’s “alarm” over the court’s 5-to-4 vote last month. In that case, Shelby County v. Holder, the majority struck down as outdated and unnecessary the law’s language requiring that the federal government review and clear any changes in election laws in nine states, most of them in the South.

Even before the meeting, the Obama administration reassured civil rights leaders last week with Mr. Holder’s announcement that the Justice Department was asking a Texas federal court to require that state and local officials there get approval from the federal government for any changes in election law. The department’s case is based on surviving provisions of the voting law.

Texas’ Republican leaders had said after the Supreme Court ruling that they would immediately put into effect new maps for electoral districts, which Latinos had challenged, as well as a new law requiring voters to show acceptable proof of identity.

Mr. Obama also said that he would seek bipartisan support for legislation reversing the impact of the court’s decision, but participants were skeptical that he could prevail.
645 2013-07-30 In the fall of 1995, as a staff writer at Fortune magazine, I wrote a story about the mass litigation surrounding silicone breast implants. Plaintiffs’ lawyers had filed thousands of cases against Dow Corning, accusing it of selling a product — the silicone used in implants — that caused autoimmune diseases. Fearful that the litigation could put it out of business, Dow Corning filed for bankruptcy protection.

The scientific evidence for the plaintiffs’ claims was slim. Nonetheless, Dow Corning felt it had no choice but to agree to a huge settlement, which it did in 1998. Subsequently, the Institute of Medicine concluded that, indeed, there was no scientific link between silicone breast implants and autoimmune disease. Not that that ever really mattered.

We all have experiences that shape our view of the world, and this was one of mine. Until that story, I’d always taken the liberal view of plaintiffs’ lawyers as avenging angels, righting wrongs and helping wrest compensation for people who had been harmed by greedy corporations.

But watching Dow Corning knuckle under caused me to look at major plaintiffs’ lawsuits with a more skeptical eye. Yes, there are certainly times when the court system provides the appropriate forum to address corporate wrongdoing. But just as often — more often, in my view — plaintiffs’ lawyers gin up cases because, well, that’s what they do. Like the corporations they sue, big-time plaintiffs’ lawyers have a business model. Theirs requires them to constantly seek out cases that can be blown up into giant mass torts, as they’re called, which can then be used to extract billions from companies.

I’ve seen mass torts where the actual plaintiffs get coupons while the lawyers reap millions. Mass torts where the connection between the product and the harm is illusory. Mass torts built on fraud (silicosis). Complex litigation settled for billions even when the government implies that consumers are responsible (Toyota sudden acceleration). I’ve also seen cases where some victims hit the jackpot with a giant jury verdict and other victims come up empty. Or where a corporation really has done harm but pays off the lawyers instead of the victims. Over the years, I’ve thought: There’s got to be a better way.

I know from the reaction to several of my recent columns that many readers think I’m misguided to be defending BP against the plaintiffs’ lawyers who sued the company in Louisiana. BP, after all, despoiled the Gulf of Mexico and harmed the people who live there. It had nearly $12 billion in profits last year, and more than $375 billion in revenue. It both deserves what it is getting and can afford to pay the price.
646 2013-07-30 It was not a major move, but the timing was a clear acknowledgment of the Angels’ plight: the deal came two days before the non-waiver deadline, and one day after the news that Pujols was likely to miss the rest of the season with a partial tear of the plantar fascia in his left foot.

“I saw him earlier this season, and it hurt me to watch him run,” said one major league scout, who was granted anonymity so he could candidly discuss another team’s player. “It reminded me of when Mark McGwire had that problem, although he was in his late 20s. It might take Pujols a little bit longer.”

The McGwire comparison is sobering for the Angels. Foot and heel problems, including plantar fasciitis, cost McGwire most of the 1993 and 1994 seasons. He returned and flourished, but with the help of steroids in the era before testing.

Pujols will be 34 in January and is signed through 2021 on a heavily backloaded contract. He is due $23 million in 2014, and his salary rises by $1 million each year after that, topping out at $30 million. Among the bonuses is a $7 million prize for home run No. 763, which would break Barry Bonds’s tarnished record.

The Yankees, infamously, arranged a $30 million bonus package with Rodriguez under the guise that he would be the “clean” home run champion. They envisioned sharing the spoils of a marketing bonanza with Rodriguez, who was coming off a season of 54 homers at age 32. All he had to do was average 25 home runs a year for the next decade. How hard could that be?

Now Rodriguez needs 116 homers to break Bonds’s record. Pujols needs 271. The notion that either player could mount a serious challenge seems laughable. Even if Rodriguez returns to play for the Yankees, they expect him to be no more than an average third baseman. The Angels cannot expect the Pujols from his St. Louis prime.

“I think there’s a direct correlation between the foot injury and his skills, but if it clears up, he could still be a very serviceable D.H.,” the scout said. “I’m giving him the benefit of the doubt, because he’s been such a good hitter when healthy.”

The benefit of the doubt — the belief that this player is special enough to defy age and produce at a high level for another decade — fueled both contracts. So did desperation. The Yankees had gone four years without a pennant. The Angels had missed the playoffs two years in a row and craved a star attraction for their television deal with Fox. Rodriguez and Pujols satisfied the needs of the moment.

But as the Yankees have learned, physical breakdowns and eroding skills do not make for compelling TV. Pujols’s on-base-plus-slugging percentage had declined in each of his last three seasons with the Cardinals. He was still an elite performer, but it should be no surprise that the downward trend has continued.

Pujols overcame a slow start last season to hit .285 with 30 homers and 105 runs batted in. But his O.P.S. was the worst of his career, at .859, and this year’s figure is .767. Pujols is hitting .258 with 17 home runs and 64 R.B.I.

Last winter, the Angels signed Josh Hamilton (five years, $125 million) to support Pujols, but Hamilton is also having the worst year of his career, and the team’s starting rotation has been among the worst in the majors. After a weekend sweep in Oakland, the Angels were left without Pujols and with this mind-bending calculation:

Since July 1, 2012, the low-budget Athletics were 50 games over .500. The Angels, in the same period, were one game over .500 — with eight more years and $212 million more invested in the brittle body of a faded star.
647 2013-07-30 Boeing said it was presenting the repair options to the airline and would not discuss them publicly. Its engineers are running computer models to analyze the costs and other trade-offs, like how much the added weight from the bracing might reduce the plane’s heralded fuel savings.

Boeing executives say they have been developing the repair techniques for years, as they gradually increased the use of composite parts in other planes. And many of them are similar to the methods used with aluminum.

“We feel comfortable that we know how to address this issue and most other structural issues as they arise,” Boeing’s chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., said last week.

But some analysts seemed more skeptical, saying the fire on the Ethiopian jet raised a wild card that could make the repairs much more complicated than others on the 70 Dreamliners delivered since late 2011. Boeing said it had made smaller composite repairs on a few 787s that had been hit by lightning or bumped by airport service vehicles or mechanics’ tools.

Given how crucial the innovative jets are to Boeing’s future — it expects to sell thousands of them in the coming decades — “they will do anything at this point to show that that airplane is repairable,” said Robert Mann, an aviation consultant in Port Washington, N.Y. “We’ll know how long it takes them to fix it, but realistically, we may never know what it costs.”

The use of composite materials started on military jets and has grown steadily on commercial planes over the last several decades. Only 1 percent of the weight of Boeing’s 747 jumbo jet came from composite parts when that jet was introduced in 1969. That increased to 11 percent by 1995 on the 777, which has an all-composite tail section. Airbus, the European plane maker, has followed the same trend, using composites on the wings and upper fuselage of the double-decker A380.

Composites now account for half of the 787’s weight, which, together with more efficient engines, cut fuel consumption by 20 percent. The 787’s future rival, the A350, also has a composite fuselage.

Boeing and its suppliers build the 787’s fuselage out of long strands of carbon fiber coated with an epoxy resin. Resembling black masking tape, the strands are layered around a rotating mold by a computer-controlled robot that looks like a spider spinning a barrel-shaped web. The fuselage is built in several sections at plants in Japan, Italy and the United States, where the deafening sounds of metallic clanging have been replaced by the electrical whir of robots and automated systems.

These giant sections, the largest of which measures 84 feet long, are then baked and hardened in high-pressure ovens known as autoclaves. The result after several hours is a structure that is lighter than metal but just as strong. The sections are then sent to Boeing’s final assembly plants — one near Seattle and the other in Charleston, S.C. — where they are bolted together.

Early on, Boeing struggled to master the new technology, discarding some sections that developed wrinkles. Building the plane with composite barrels also cuts production time and labor costs, as well as weight, by eliminating much of the riveting that holds aluminum jets together. As a result, the 787 has fewer than 10,000 holes for fasteners in its structure, compared with one million on the 747.

Still, the composite materials have created new challenges for airline mechanics, who need new maintenance tools and skills. Unlike aluminum, carbon structures do not dent visibly and require special ultrasound probes to identify damaged areas, and there is a shortage of mechanics with the right training.

To address these concerns, Boeing has devised repair kits to fix common types of damage, like when luggage carts bang against a plane.

To reduce the need for complicated fixes, and cut repair time, Boeing has engineered spare parts that can be bolted onto areas that have been prone to damage on other planes. Those include damage around the plane’s nose, from pilots dragging the tail on the runway, or collisions with service vehicles near passenger and cargo doors.

“There are well-established repair techniques that have been developing to repair composite structures but it is fair to say that these recognized techniques are for smaller areas,” said Mark Tuttle, a professor of mechanical engineering and the director of the Center for Advanced Materials in Transport Aircraft Structures at the University of Washington.

For minor scrapes, mechanics can make simple repairs by bonding new layers of composite over the damaged areas with epoxy and heat from portable blowers. Other damage might require casting molds, special cutting tools, vacuum seals or small-scale ovens as well as bolts to hold the new composite layers in place.

The biggest problems come with more substantial damage, like on the Ethiopian Airlines jet. In this case, experts said, Boeing has to come up with a custom repair given the extent of the damage and its location at a critical area right in front of the tail, where the vertical stabilizer is attached to the fuselage.

Airbus has taken a somewhat different approach in building its A350 jets. Instead of the barrel-shaped architecture favored by Boeing, Airbus is using 40-foot to 60-foot composite panels for each section of the fuselage. Airbus contends that the process will make for easier repairs.

But as techniques improve, and airlines perfect the ability to cut out and replace damaged pieces within a section of the fuselage, it may not make much difference in the end whether the fuselage is made out of barrels or panels.

For now, though, all eyes will be on the Ethiopian jet and how the repair is handled.

“This is a very important test for the industry and the airlines,” said Mr. Weber, the aviation consultant.
648 2013-07-30 Bernhard Langer gave Mark Wiebe one too many chances at the Senior British Open. Wiebe took advantage of Langer’s failure to close out the tournament, beating him on the fifth playoff hole Monday at Royal Birkdale in Southport, England, for his first senior major title.

Wiebe used a superb approach shot from the rough to set up a two-putt for par, and Langer failed to get up and down.

Langer led by two shots going into the final hole of regulation Sunday, only to settle for a double bogey when he struggled to get out of a bunker. The playoff was then halted after two holes because of darkness.

“I just was luckier today and last night than Bernie, I guess,” said Wiebe, who had tied Langer at nine-under 271.
649 2013-07-30 And because insurers cover procedures strongly recommended by the task force, eligible patients would no longer have to bear the cost themselves. Under President Obama’s health care law, those who are eligible for the scan would have no co-pay. The procedure’s average price is about $170, according to the Advisory Board Company, a health care research firm in Washington, which polled oncology professionals.

Medicare would also begin reimbursing for the scan. A Medicare spokesman said the agency would not immediately comment on how much the new screenings could cost taxpayers.

The task force’s final recommendation will be issued three to six months after a public comment period, which ends on Aug. 26, a spokeswoman said.

Dr. Harold E. Varmus, the director of the National Cancer Institute, said the recommendation would “change the way people think about lung cancer.”

But he added that screening should not give smokers a false sense of security. “The main message is unchanged,” he said. “Don’t smoke.” Smoking is the culprit in about 85 percent of all lung cancer deaths.

The recommendation is aimed at a high-risk population of current and former smokers: about 10 million people ages 55 to 80 who have smoked at least a pack a day for 30 years, or the equivalent, even if they quit as long as 15 years ago, said Dr. Michael LeFevre, a professor of medicine at the University of Missouri and a member of the task force. The task force did not recommend screening for people who could not tolerate subsequent treatment, like surgery.

Using modeling, the task force estimated that the screening would prevent about 14 percent of the 160,000 lung cancer deaths per year, Dr. LeFevre said.

The low-dose CT scan being recommended has the potential to change the course of the disease by detecting it early enough for treatment to be effective.

The scan can detect much smaller tumors than chest X-rays can, said Dr. Mary Reid, an associate professor of oncology at the Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo.

“Imagine looking at a plum versus the end of your pen,” she said, describing the difference in size. “This kind of screening really shifts things to an earlier stage.”

But Dr. Kenneth Lin, a primary care physician who is also an associate professor of family medicine at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, was more cautious. “I’ll bring it up with patients,” he said of screening, “but I won’t necessarily push it hard.”

Dr. Lin noted that the National Cancer Institute study found the benefits of screening to be overwhelmingly among the highest-risk participants.

For the lower-risk participants, he said, the harms of early screening could outweigh the benefits. CT scans can pick up abnormalities that look like cancer but will not ultimately harm the patient, leading to unnecessary surgery or invasive tests like biopsies. The task force mentioned the potential harm of overdiagnosis but said it did not outweigh the benefits of screening in the target population.

Dr. Lin added that little was known about the cumulative risks of years of CT scans. The task force also noted the risk of radiation, but the number of lives saved by the screening would far outnumber the lives lost from cancers from radiation exposure.

Dr. Peter B. Bach, a pulmonologist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said that the National Cancer Institute’s trial was conducted at top clinical research centers, where the scans and their interpretations were top-notch. But broader use of the scans in places with lower-quality medical care, he said, could lead to many more medical procedures that were not needed in the first place.

“This is going to be very hard to replicate in real life,” Dr. Bach said of the outcome of the trial.

Because the benefits of screening vary greatly depending on how much an individual has smoked, Dr. Bach has developed an online tool for people to assess whether they would be good candidates for screening.
650 2013-07-30 On Monday, in the midday heat, Mr. Thompson and Mr. de Blasio held bread-and-butter campaign events aimed at important bases of support — for Mr. Thompson, minority voters, and for Mr. de Blasio, middle-class liberals.

Mr. Thompson’s appearance came a day after he delivered a forceful speech in which he criticized the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk policy, asserting that the city’s policing tactics were rooted in the same racial stereotyping that had led George Zimmerman to confront Trayvon Martin in Florida.

Mr. Thompson was flanked by Councilman Fernando Cabrera, a Bronx Democrat, and Assemblyman Karim Camara, a Brooklyn Democrat who is the pastor of the church at which Mr. Thompson delivered his head-turning speech on Sunday.

“Today I feel compelled to speak in the same vein, because the rules of our criminal justice system are failing young people and families, especially in our communities of color,” Mr. Thompson said before lamenting that New York and North Carolina are the only states that treat 16-year-old defendants as adults.

Around the same time, Mr. de Blasio received the endorsement of Tenants PAC, a group that works to elect candidates who will fight rent increases and preserve the supply of rent-stabilized and rent-controlled housing. Standing on the corner of 16th Street and First Avenue, Mr. de Blasio said that under his mayoralty, every major development would be required to have affordable housing on or near the site.

“Last time I checked, it wasn’t the real estate industry’s town, and we were just living in it,” Mr. de Blasio said, in remarks punctuated by applause and shouts of “That’s right!” from the two dozen tenants gathered, who were holding “De Blasio for Mayor” signs.

Earlier in the day, Mr. de Blasio had been in Brooklyn, where he put forth a plan to coordinate spending among small Brooklyn hospitals, in order to save the financially troubled Long Island College Hospital, which has been scheduled to close. At the tenants’ event, he brought up that fight to take a veiled dig at Ms. Quinn, whom some downtown residents accuse of not doing enough to save St. Vincent’s Hospital Manhattan in Greenwich Village. The hospital closed in 2010.

“We lost health care, we got condos,” he said. “That’s not the future of this city.”

In an interview later on Monday, Mr. de Blasio said that he believed the race was now wide open.

“People are just beginning to focus,” he said. “It’s anybody guess right now which combination of candidates will be in the runoff.”

Mr. Weiner, campaigning in Queens, dismissed calls from prominent Democrats and newspaper editorial boards that he drop out of the race.

“I am going to leave this decision to the people of the city of New York, period — end of conversation,” Mr. Weiner, a former congressman, told reporters outside a senior center. “It’s their decision. It’s not yours. It’s not mine. It’s not some Sunday talk show pundit’s.”

With his campaign in critical condition, Mr. Weiner affirmed his outsider status in a fund-raising letter to supporters on Monday, with the subject line, “I’ll let you decide.”

“A lot of people who don’t have a vote want to decide who our next mayor will be,” Mr. Weiner wrote. “They’ve all made up their minds that they want to stop our campaign right now.”

But the Quinnipiac Poll suggested that likely Democratic voters had also soured on his candidacy: 53 percent said he should drop out of the race.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who has stayed out of the mayoral race, said on Monday that he would not join the chorus of Democrats asking Mr. Weiner to drop out. He said it was not his place to say who should or should not run for office.

But when asked about Mr. Weiner’s candidacy, Mr. Cuomo was not encouraging.

“This is summer political theater in New York,” he told reporters on Long Island. “We laugh, because if we didn’t laugh, we would cry.”
651 2013-07-30 Although an agreement to end the conflict is not in sight, keeping it from exploding again is critical in today’s volatile Middle East....
652 2013-07-30 The vernacular understanding of the word “loft” has changed tremendously over the last few decades. (Perhaps the only real estate term with a more altered meaning in the city is the word “expensive.”) Today, “loft” means airy and open, often high-priced, but in the 1970s it meant you were on your own in an empty commercial space, or maybe a chilly old factory, the kind of place that generally came without luxuries like a kitchen and a bathroom. It was the loft tenants, like the ones at 31 Desbrosses Street, who put those in.

One of 31 Desbrosses Street’s early uses appears to have been the sale of Pertussin cough syrup. (“Coughers, why be an outcast — here’s relief!” declared a rather hysterical 1939 advertisement in The Observer, of Rockford, Ill. “Do friends shun you — fail to invite you to social gatherings? Are you glared at in public places because of your frequent coughing, so annoying to others?” The afflicted were advised to write to Pertussin for a free bottle.) But by 1969, when Mr. Landfield and his wife, Jenny, moved in, Pertussin was long gone, as was just about everything else in the neighborhood.

“There was nothing — no stores, no school,” Mr. Landfield said, sitting in the tiny month-to-month rental he and his wife now occupy two blocks from Times Square. But, he continued, there was very little crime, too.

“There was nobody to mug,” Ms. Landfield said. “A robber would have had to hang out and wait for days.”

Today, Ponte Equities, controlled by Vincent Ponte, owns 31 Desbrosses Street. The Ponte family has been in TriBeCa for decades. Through corporations it controlled, the family started buying properties in the area in at least the mid-1960s, according to public records, and opened the F.illi Ponte restaurant at Desbrosses Street and West Street in 1967. Companies controlled by the Pontes have owned 31 Desbrosses Street for nearly 35 years, and they are now major landowners in TriBeCa.

But the Pontes have had other business interests as well. In 1997, Mr. Ponte’s father, Angelo, who owned what was once the city’s largest trash-hauling operation, pleaded guilty to joining a Mafia-controlled cartel that inflated costs. The son pleaded guilty the same year to paying a $10,000 bribe to secure an office building contract.

After decades of mostly buying and holding properties in the neighborhood, Mr. Ponte appears to have become more interested in development in recent years. Across the street from 31 Desbrosses, Ponte Equities leased land to a developer so the company could build what became Truffles Tribeca, a 2009 rental building where 700-square-foot one-bedroom apartments cost about $4,000 in monthly rent. (At 31 Desbrosses, which has six stories and three sets of tenants, all of whom are in rent-stabilized units, rent is about $1,000 per floor.)

Neither the owner of 31 Desbrosses nor its tenants argue that it was primarily the storm that brought it to its current state. There are cracks in the building, and bricks have come loose on the facade. The vault underneath the sidewalk is badly deteriorated. Nonetheless, certain repairs must be made before the red tag can come off, and at the crux of the suit is whether the costs to repair it would be more than the building is worth.

Jeffrey Ween, the lawyer representing the tenants, said that an appraiser found the value of the building to be $3 million based on comparable sales. Court documents filed on behalf of Ponte Equities cite a 2009 city valuation of $324,000.

“They have used Sandy as an excuse,” Mr. Ween said. “For a couple of years now, they’ve tried to take advantage of whatever they could in the hopes that people would either have to suffer through it or leave.”

In housing court two weeks ago, Ponte Equities’ lawyer, Joseph Burden, strongly hinted there might be development plans for the block on which 31 Desbrosses stands, repeatedly asking an engineer whether the building was sturdy enough to withstand new construction on lots immediately adjacent, lots that Ponte Equities owns.

Mr. Burden declined to comment at the request of his client. Calls to Ponte Equities were not returned.

Rent-stabilized apartments may be the holy grail for tenants, but for property owners they are a scourge. They exact enormous restrictions on what an owner can do with a building, and a huge toll on the value owners can wring from it. Many opponents also say that rent stabilization and rent control make rents more expensive for those who have to pay market rate.

“We know we’re lucky,” said Dr. Robert Millman, a psychiatrist who lives in a duplex at the top of the building. “On the other hand, we built these apartments. Every nickel that was put in here for 40 years was ours.”

As the two sides wrestle in court, the apartments stand empty and spectral, in many ways a monument to the Manhattan of years ago. But the building also carries signs of the city’s newest reality piled on the floor — paintings rolled up, smudged and molded, ruined by floodwater.
653 2013-07-30 But the results were the poorest showing for the governing party since 1998. The Cambodian People’s Party won 55 percent of the 123 seats in the National Assembly, according to the party’s Web site — a relatively narrow victory, and down from 73 percent of the seats in the last election, in 2008. Analysts said voter turnout was about 70 percent.

Mr. Hun Sen, 60, has been in power for 28 years, and the election on Sunday was one of the most closely contested of his career.

Kem Sokha, the vice president of the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, said an opposition victory was still possible.

“We have a chance to win,” Mr. Kem Sokha said. “It’s never been this close in our history.”

He appeared to issue a veiled threat to the government, saying he feared that “Cambodian people who don’t like the result will rise up and make chaos.”

The governing party’s statement on Sunday included an “appeal to all Cambodians to keep calm, maintain stability, security and good social order.” The opposition made a similar appeal for calm on Sunday after two police trucks were destroyed by protesters.

Phnom Penh was quiet on Monday, but some streets were shut by security forces, including the one leading to Mr. Hun Sen’s residence. The opposition won a majority of the votes in the capital, according to the preliminary results.

The Cambodia National Rescue Party was founded last year through a merger of Mr. Sam Rainsy’s party — named for him — and another group, and it has given the opposition a unified voice. It also effectively means that Cambodia has a two-party system for the first time since multiparty democracy was restored in the 1990s.

Mr. Sam Rainsy, who said the party had calculated that 1.2 million to 1.3 million would-be voters had been omitted from voter rolls, called for the creation of a special committee to deal with irregularities and to decide whether new balloting or recounting was necessary. He proposed that the committee include members of both parties, as well as independent election observers, both Cambodian and foreign, and that the committee finish its work before Aug. 31.

“We acknowledge that there were irregularities,” said Thun Saray, the president of the board of directors of Comfrel, a Cambodian election monitoring organization. He said there were many reports of duplicates in the voter rolls that appeared to have allowed more than one vote per person.

A survey by the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs, an American organization that promotes elections, found that at 60 percent of polling stations, citizens with adequate, valid documentation were turned away. And in a quarter of the polling stations, people were allowed to vote without a valid ID.

“The overall picture is both disenfranchisement, illegal voting and sporadic chaos at the polls,” said Laura Thornton, the head of the institute’s Cambodia office. “There needs to be an independent investigation into these irregularities.” She described the opposition’s proposal for a committee to investigate the election results as "reasonable.”

But analysts were also waiting for clearer signals from Mr. Hun Sen, who kept a low profile on Monday.

To his supporters, Mr. Hun Sen is a benefactor who has brought stability to the country. With help from the Vietnamese in 1979, he helped drive out the Khmer Rouge, whose genocidal policies led to the deaths of 1.7 million Cambodians.

But after the withdrawal of the Vietnamese and after United Nations-backed elections in 1993, Mr. Hun Sen accumulated unrivaled power and authority. Partly through effective control of the Khmer-language news media and the co-opting of the police, the army and business elites, his party has won every election since 1998.
654 2013-07-30 You may have never set eyes on an oil palm tree, but it’s probably an intimate part of your everyday life. Whether you start your day with a shave or an application of lipstick, you are probably putting the oil from the tree’s fruits on your face. You buy a donut on the way to work, and with each bite, you swallow some of the palm oil in which it was cooked. After work, you stop at the supermarket, and about half the products on the shelves contain palm oil. Before bed, you scrub your face with soap and brush your teeth with toothpaste. They’re both palm oil’s way of wishing you good night.

In just the past few decades, the oil palm tree Elaeis guineensis has become a huge global industry. In 1961, the world’s palm oil plantations produced 1.7 million tons of oil; today that figure is up to 64 million tons a year. A single acre of oil palm trees can generate up to $4,500 annually. Those prices will probably stay high in decades to come, as demand for the oil increases. China and India are now shifting to using palm oil for cooking food, for example, and some countries are exploring palm oil as a biofuel.

But the oil palm tree industry is also an environmental disaster, according to many conservation biologists. The tree “grows best in those parts of the world that support tropical rainforests,” said Ben Phalan of the University of Cambridge. “Oil palm expansion in recent decades has been one of the main drivers of deforestation in Southeast Asia.”

That expansion has helped push many species, including pygmy elephants and orangutans, closer to extinction. The palm oil industry is also leaving its mark on the atmosphere. Some farmers use fire to clear land for plantations, and swampy forests converted to stands of oil palm trees become more prone to burning. The forests, which store huge amounts of carbon, release it into the atmosphere after they are replaced by plantations.

On Wednesday a team of Malaysian and American scientists published a pair of papers in Nature on the genome of this profoundly important tree. In its 34,802 genes, they have been able to reconstruct millions of years of its evolution. They hope to use that knowledge to grow better trees that can yield more oil — and possibly reduce the pressure on the world’s remaining rain forests.

Conservation biologists hail the research, but caution about its potential to help the environmental crisis. The solution to the palm oil problem, they say, lies beyond its DNA.
655 2013-07-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
656 2013-07-31 A member of the I.M.F. board said the notion that Greece would pay back its debts in full was “all but a delusion.”...
657 2013-07-31 William A. Ackman’s firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, is likely to follow a well-worn path taken by both activist investors and his own fund in seeking to shake up the management and strategy at Air Products and Chemicals....
658 2013-07-31 In recent months, one of SVB Financial Group’s subsidiaries, Silicon Valley Bank, has added venture capital firms and young companies in Brazil as clients. And SVB Capital, another subsidiary, expects to make new investments in South American ve...
659 2013-07-31 On foreign policy, the G.O.P. looks increasingly like a party without a center....
660 2013-07-31 The senator expressed his frustration with Rand Paul, Ted Cruz and the no-compromise wing of the Republican Party....
661 2013-07-31 The Great Recession was not as bad as we thought, and the recovery since then has been a little better than we thought, according to the latest government revisions....
662 2013-07-31 The Lotus recall appears to be for a problem similar to one that resulted in a 5,000-car recall in 2011....
663 2013-07-31 Our next Ask an Expert features Danielle Galland, an interior designer who will answer readers’ questions about two kinds of living transitions that many baby boomers face: the semi-empty nest, with children leaving for college but returning during breaks, and the empty nest geared toward retirement.

She can suggest ways to reconfigure or re-envision living spaces that better suit parents yet provide flexibility and serve multiple uses. (She does not address reorganizing of one’s possessions, which is a different field.) She can also consult from a design perspective on whether downsizing is the answer.

Ms. Galland started her own firm in New York City, Danielle Galland Interior Design Inc., in 2004. Since 2011 she has taught classes in hand drawing and rendering at the New York School of Interior Design. Previously she taught at Parsons the New School for Design and for two years was interim director of the interior design BFA program. She received her M.A. in the history of the decorative arts from Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum Program at New School University.

Here are examples of questions that Ms. Galland is prepared to answer:

1. Is there a way to rework our space so that we can use it, but still make our child feel welcome?

2. We are retiring. Our child just graduated and is now teaching abroad. We have a full bedroom; do we keep it?

3. From a design perspective on downsizing, what should we be looking for if we are thinking of relocating?

Please leave your questions in the comments section. Ms. Galland’s answers will be posted on Aug. 7.
664 2013-07-31 Microsoft has a tech culture that yearns for more features. Apple prizes design and simplicity. Where is Google on the spectrum?...
665 2013-07-31 By clearly posting their prices, The Surgery Center of Oklahoma provides transparency for patients paying their own bills....
666 2013-07-31 The $2.2 billion bet on Air Products and Chemicals, a producer of industrial gases, is the largest ever made by William A. Ackman’s firm, Pershing Square Capital Management....
667 2013-07-31 In Nassau and Suffolk Counties, 43 percent of homes and businesses are heated with natural gas, according to National Grid, an electric and gas utility that serves Long Island. Liquefied natural gas has become more viable as its price has declined.

“Eastern Long Island is still on propane,” said Jim Donofrio, a former charter boat captain and executive director of the Recreational Fishing Alliance, one of many groups in the region that are reviewing the proposal. “They could use natural gas.”

Referring to what he called “showroom environmentalists” who dismiss the Port Ambrose proposal on its face, Mr. Donofrio added, “I want to see them heat their homes on windmills.”

As detailed in Liberty Natural Gas’s proposal, Port Ambrose would consist of two submerged buoys that would stand about 30 feet off the seabed, with a radius of about 40 feet.

An arriving shuttle vessel with its cold cargo of natural gas would connect to a buoy during the winter months. Over several days, the vessel would regasify its shipment onboard, and deliver natural gas through the buoy, a new pipeline and an existing pipeline.

There would be enough capacity to heat and power more than one million homes throughout the region, said Roger Whelan, the president and chief executive of Liberty Natural Gas.

Skeptics contend that the port is just a backdoor way for Liberty Natural Gas to build an export business, which would be more profitable than importation. The port would operate near the Marcellus Shale, which lies beneath parts of New York and Pennsylvania and contains natural gas that could be tapped, should a state moratorium on the extraction process known as hydrofracking be lifted.

“I think these companies are determined to get in early,” said Bruce Ferguson, a founder of Catskill Citizens for Safe Energy. “An import facility just isn’t credible. If there’s a deepwater port off Long Island, it’s going to be irresistible to fracking.”

But Liberty Natural Gas has no intention to export natural gas, having neither the technology nor permits to do so, Mr. Whelan said.

“That is one sticking point we find frustrating — the view that we are an export project in disguise,” he said in an interview. “Absolutely in no way can this ever be an export project. We have trouble getting that message through.”

Instead, Mr. Whelan said, he sees the terminal as a “reasonable and safe” alternative to hydrofracking, one through which natural gas would be shipped into the region.

“This is proven and safe technology,” he said. “Our mission: We want to supply an area that is often starved for gas.”
668 2013-07-31 “There will be new people coming in with different, very highly valued skills, people within the organization who will be redeployed and there will be people whose jobs are replaced with technology,” he said.

“As we get to that 50 percent,” he said, referring to the balance between automated ad buying and created content, “we’re able to reinvest the saved dollars and reinvest more on the custom and sponsorship end.”

Susan Bidel, a senior analyst at Forrester Research, said automation could lead to staff cuts, but relationships between sellers and buyers “are important and lead to the biggest programs and the largest chunks of revenue.” Sales staffs will be smaller but more strategic, Ms. Bidel said.

“They will be made up of women and men who can understand the technology and understand the audience and package it appropriately for advertisers,” she said.

Mr. Seiler said that media agencies had traditionally been planning and distribution vehicles, with creative duties being “outsourced to somebody else.” Adding a publishing division will create a new agency model of “you come up with it, you make it and you distribute it,” he said.

The new division will be led by Mark Himmelsbach, who will become its chief operating officer, and Teddy Lynn, who will be the chief creative officer. Before IPG, both men worked at BBDO, an agency in the Omnicom Group.

“We will not be looking to have brands to produce content to put out on NBC,” Mr. Himmelsbach said. “We will be looking to help brands produce content to put on their own channels,” like a Web site or social media.

“Instagram, Vine, Twitter, Facebook, each channel requires something different that must resonate with consumers,” he said.

Having one location to manage all of a brand’s media assets will give IPG a competitive edge when it comes to creating multiplatform advertising campaigns, Mr. Lynn said. “It’s not just social but what happens when you are in a parking lot reading Twitter, what happens when you walk into a store,” he said.

Susan Jurevics, a senior vice president at Sony, a brand that works with IPG, said the new publishing unit, combined with more automated media buying, had the potential to help streamline all of the moving parts of an ad campaign.

“Producing content that’s relevant to your audience is actually really hard, especially if that’s not a core competency of what you do,” she said.

Understanding how to create and distribute different types of content for specific audiences across multiple platforms is a challenge for many brands, she said.

One target for Sony is consumers from 13 to 30, the so-called millennials. Traditional 30-second ads are not as effective with that group, Ms. Jurevics said, adding “they really don’t want to be marketed to.”

Marc Speichert, chief marketing officer at L’Oréal USA, said, “We’re excited about the initiative because more and more we position ourselves as publishers.”

For a beauty and cosmetics company like L’Oréal, the desire for video tutorials on how to use products is great, Mr. Speichert said.

“It means creating more assets than ever before,” he said. “The whole point about how you take media and creative and bring them together, I think it’s what all agencies should be obsessed with.”
669 2013-07-31 “La Défense has always suffered from a creative hypothermia,” said Wojciech Czaja, an Austrian architecture critic. “It is a sad area because it is atmospherically and emotionally perceived as a business district only.”

The public agency that manages the complex has hired an architectural firm to draft a new master plan in hopes of making the grandiose vision for La Défense a livable reality. It is difficult to determine whether the plan can withstand the headwinds of Europe’s continuing financial woes, and France’s lingering recession and an unemployment rate near 11 percent.

But it would be wrong to call La Défense a business failure, because it is home to 1,500 head offices, including those of 15 of the world’s 50 largest companies. French corporations with their signature headquarters here include the oil and gas giant Total, the big bank Société Générale and Areva, a leading builder of nuclear power plants. And developers continue to build.

Critics have long derided the mixed commercial, residential and retailing complex, which covers 1.6 square kilometers, or 0.62 square miles, as dehumanizing. While about 20,000 mainly low- and middle-income people live here, the vast central plaza can feel like a ghost town after 5 p.m. and on weekends, once most of the district’s 150,000 office workers have left by train, bus or subway to more desirable parts of Paris or its less surreal suburbs.

“There is nothing good about living here,” said Carlin Pierre, 54, who works at a waste disposal center in the district and resides in one of the Brutalist communal, rent-subsidized housing blocks tucked amid the high-rise office buildings. “Sure, it’s a nice area to come as a tourist, or even to work,” Mr. Pierre said, “but it’s terrible to live in La Défense.”

Alessandra Cianchetta, a partner at AWP, the firm mapping the master plan, acknowledges the enormousness of her task. “La Défense as a concept is a bit obsolete,” Ms. Cianchetta said. “There is no interaction, no hospitality here.”

Vacancy rates at La Défense, long an up-and-down indicator of the French economy, are once more on the rise. Next to the Grande Arche is the site of what was to be a 71-story office tower, Tour Signal, commissioned with much fanfare in 2008 to the French architect Jean Nouvel. It has been canceled.

Still, three new, architecturally ambitious office towers are under construction at La Défense. And the recently financed Hermitage Plaza project on the Seine River at the easternmost edge of La Défense, if it opens as planned in 2018, will include Europe’s tallest residential building. Some of the continued activity, of course, has to do with the long lag between conceiving a commercial real estate project and getting it built — a speculative roll of the dice that has paid little heed to shorter-term considerations like France and Europe’s current economic travails.

“La Défense’s ambitions to create a new kind of urbanism have been disappointing,” said Robert A. M. Stern, the dean of the Yale School of Architecture and principal of his namesake firm.

Because “the residential areas are too isolated in their own zones,” Mr. Stern said, it is rare to spot locals buying groceries in one of the complex’s shopping malls or to see families with strollers on the weekends.

A confined office area can work in some big American cities, but mostly because they are connected to the surrounding neighborhoods. Lower Manhattan “has residential areas right at its edge with streets threaded through to the city itself,” Mr. Stern said.

Despite these misgivings, Mr. Stern’s firm was willing to take the commission to design Tour Carpe Diem, a tower under construction in a dense cluster of high-rises on the northern edge of the district.

“Carpe Diem is not just another aloof, objectlike office building sitting on a podium,” Mr. Stern said. “It is a dual-oriented piece of connective tissue linking the center of La Defénse with the peripheral roads of Courbevoie,” a middle-class municipality.

In any case, there are no tenants yet signed for Carpe Diem, which is to be completed in September.

A defining feature of La Défense is the plaza, a pedestrian slab of some 30 hectares, or 74 acres, that acts as a roof to underground shops, a bus terminal and a hangarlike train and subway depot with none of the charm of most Paris train stations.

Those who pass through each day, but live elsewhere, often make their peace with La Défense.

The master plan of AWP calls for a complete makeover of the transportation center, adding entertainment sites to the public plaza and building footbridges to connect the now largely isolated slab with the surrounding neighborhoods.

There are new business districts on the competitive metropolitan Paris office market that real estate agents say are luring companies with lower prices — for example, areas in the north along the Seine and in the so-called inner rim of Paris, which includes the district of Saint-Denis, home of France’s national stadium, the Stade de France.

Société Générale, which has 20,000 employees at its La Défense headquarters, plans to transfer several thousand people to the eastern Paris suburb Fontenay-sous-Bois, where it is building a new business campus.

“A lot of the towers in La Défense are going to empty out as companies look to rationalize their usage of office space,” said Alexis Motte, chief executive of Mobilitis, a real estate advisory agency. “The market in La Défense is clearly oversupplied.”

The vacancy rate in La Défense stands at 7.5 percent, compared with 3.3 percent in the second quarter of 2008.

The Tour Eqho, a semicylindrical glass tower that formerly housed the French headquarters of I.B.M., is undergoing a top-to-bottom renovation by its developer, Icade. But so far, Icade is struggling to find enough tenants for its reopening later this year, people involved in the market say. Icade declined to comment.

But some developers evidently think eventual success is simply a matter of timing. Consider Hermitage Plaza, a project featuring a pair of towers planned for the western bank of the Seine and designed by the British architect Norman Foster.

“The idea is to create a Manhattan in the French style in La Défense,” said Emin Iskenderov, a Russian developer who secured a loan this year from Sberbank, which is based in Moscow, to build the towers.

The complex will be only a short walk from one of La Défense’s two subway stations. And it is near the Pont de Neuilly, a bridge that pedestrians can cross the river to reach the upscale Paris suburb Neuilly-sur-Seine.

It might feel more like part of Paris, in other words, than most of the rest of La Defénse does.

“La Défense,” said Ms. Cianchetta, the master planner, “is like an iceberg that is disconnected from the areas around it.”
670 2013-07-31 The drug maker Pfizer agreed to pay $491 million to settle criminal and civil charges over the illegal marketing of the kidney-transplant drug Rapamune, the Justice Department announced on Tuesday.

The settlement is the latest in a string of big-money cases involving the sales practices of major pharmaceutical companies; four years ago, Pfizer paid $2.3 billion for improperly marketing several drugs. The recent case centers on the practices of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, which Pfizer acquired in 2009.

Rapamune, which prevents the body’s immune system from rejecting a transplanted organ, was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1999 for use in patients receiving a kidney transplant. However, federal officials said Wyeth aggressively promoted the drug for use in patients receiving other organ transplants, even offering financial incentives to its sales force to do so.

Accusations of Wyeth’s practices became public in 2010 after a whistle-blower lawsuit filed by two former employees was unsealed.

After lawmakers announced a Congressional inquiry, the Justice Department opted to join the lawsuit. The settlement announced Tuesday, which also resolves a second, similar whistle-blower suit, includes a criminal fine and forfeiture of $233.5 million, and a civil settlement of $257.4 million with the federal government, all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

Pfizer disclosed last fall that it was negotiating a settlement in the case, and took a $491 million charge in the third quarter of 2012.
671 2013-07-31 It is a remarkable turn of events for Mr. Donziger, who has chased after Chevron with the single-mindedness of Ahab. Reports of questionable ethical conduct have cast doubt over his motives. He is accused of engineering the ghostwriting of a crucial report submitted to the Ecuadorean court that decided the case, a claim he says is exaggerated and misconstrues local legal customs. Some of his former allies have abandoned him and signed statements taking Chevron’s side.

Even his lawyer in the fraud case has withdrawn himself because, he said, Mr. Donziger could no longer pay his bills. And this month U.S. District Court Judge Lewis A. Kaplan denied Mr. Donziger’s plea for a delay in the trial, expressing skepticism that he and his backers did not have the money to hire another lawyer. (Judge Kaplan noted in his ruling that Mr. Donziger stood to gain a fee of over $1 billion should the Ecuadorean judgment, which Chevron is challenging, be enforced.)

The particulars of the case have been litigated and relitigated. Mr. Donziger insists that Chevron’s predecessor, Texaco, cut through the Amazon, spilled oil into pristine rain forests and left behind what remains to this day a toxic mess. Chevron says he is an ambulance-chaser who has fabricated facts for his own financial ends, blaming the company for pollution mostly caused by Petroecuador, the national oil company that was once a partner of Texaco and continues to produce oil in the region.

But Mr. Donziger, a bear of a man with a quick laugh and a robust ego, says he is unbowed.

“It is creepy and scary,” Mr. Donziger, 51, said of his experiences during a six-hour interview at his home. Chevron, a company worth $240 billion, is trying to scare him away, he says. “When I walk into a deposition and see 15 Chevron lawyers there ready to eat me for lunch, I realize I’ve been bestowed an honor,” he said, smiling.

To which Chevron says: Nonsense. “He thinks he can one-up P. T. Barnum and fool all the people all the time,” said Randy Mastro, a lawyer working for Chevron. “But it’s his own confidants who have now turned on him.”

Many environmentalists, perhaps predictably, are still behind him.

“I have admiration for anyone who is willing to take on a rich, powerful oil company,” said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club and a longtime supporter of Mr. Donziger’s efforts. “And to do it for more than two decades is either crazy or impressive and probably both.”

These days, Mr. Donziger spends much of his time working at his dining room table below an expansive portrait of Mao walking among his people — more of a joke than an expression of his political beliefs, he says. He still finds time to take his 6-year-old son to school, take yoga classes and walk the dog. His apartment is virtually a gallery of the case. Photographs of Ecuadorean Indians, jungle pipelines and the first day of the Ecuadorean trial hang on its walls.

The origins of the case go back to the 1970s, when Texaco, which was later acquired by Chevron, operated as a partner with the Ecuadorean state oil company Petroecuador in the Amazon.

Mr. Donziger, who had worked as a journalist in Nicaragua, was a Harvard Law School student when he heard about the cause from a fellow student of Ecuadorean descent. Even though Texaco had reached a $40 million agreement with Ecuador that obliged it to clean some of the waste pits and well sites, villagers filed a class-action suit in 1993. Mr. Donziger dived in and emerged as the lead legal organizer.

Mr. Donziger’s activism is something of a birthright. He remembers how his mother, a social activist from Jacksonville, Fla., took him as a young boy to a picket line in front of a grocery store to back César Chávez’s lettuce boycott. His grandfather, Aaron E. Koota, was a Brooklyn district attorney and judge who decorated his office with pictures of himself with Hubert H. Humphrey and Robert F. Kennedy.

Inspired by them, he said he went to law school committed to help people who otherwise could not get access to legal services.

Two years out of law school, he traveled to Ecuador in 1993. “I saw what honestly looked like an apocalyptic disaster, almost like the end of the world,” he said, describing seeing entire jungle lakes filled with oil and children walking barefoot on oil-covered roads. That set the stage for a life dominated by the case.

Chevron never accepted the validity of the Ecuadorean judgment, and has looked for any opening to discredit it.

It found one in the documentary film “Crude,” which essentially stars Mr. Donziger, and highlighted his unorthodox style. Chevron lawyers argued before Judge Kaplan that the release of outtakes could prove that the company had been wronged.

Judge Kaplan agreed, and the flood of damaging revelations began.

One outtake filmed in a restaurant showed Ann Maest, a scientist working for Stratus Consulting, telling Mr. Donziger that there was no evidence that contamination spread from the oil pits and that “nothing has spread anywhere at all.” Mr. Donzinger, who had hired the company to research the contamination, was unmoved. “This is Ecuador, O.K.,” he said. “At the end of the day, there are a thousand people around the courthouse, you will get whatever you want. Sorry, but it’s true.”

Mr. Donziger has also been compelled to surrender a diary that revealed his secret meetings with Ecuadorean judges. He has been forced to hand over e-mail correspondence that contains several messages from one of his Ecuadorean colleagues about “paying the puppeteer” that Chevron insists are references to bribes to a judge. (Mr. Donziger says that was a joke, referring to “a former very bossy lawyer” with whom his team has a longstanding fee dispute.)

Sworn statements by environmental consultants who formerly worked with him have contended that he ignored scientific evidence that challenged his allegations of widespread contamination and that he engineered the ghostwriting of the critical report to the Ecuadorean court.

“Donziger created this fiction of massive environmental contamination,” said Kent Robertson, a Chevron spokesman, who acknowledged that the company had hired private investigators to protect itself from fraud.

Mr. Donziger countersued Chevron for fraud and extortion, accusing Chevron of corruption, bribes and threats to officials in Ecuador, but Judge Kaplan dismissed the case this week.

Mr. Donziger denies that he has crossed any ethical line, and says the sworn statements against him were obtained under legal pressure from Chevron, which he refuses to bow to.

“A giant oil company is trying to destroy me because I was able to hold them accountable for toxic dumping on a mass scale,” he said.

By Mr. Donziger’s account, however, Chevron is also feeling the heat. Even though today it has no meaningful operations in Ecuador, it faces enforcement actions to confiscate its assets in Canada, Brazil and Argentina. He added with typical bluster, “As I take the long view, it’s Chevron that faces the risk, not Steven Donziger.”

As he prepared to leave the lobby of his building the other day to take his cocker spaniel for a walk, he said of himself and his family, “It’s stressful, but we’ll be fine.”
672 2013-07-31 Home values are rising as more people are bidding on a relatively tight supply of houses for sale. One concern is that rising mortgage rates could slow home sales. But many economists say rates remain low by historical standards and would need to rise much faster to halt the momentum.

Svenja Gudell, senior economist at Zillow, a home price data provider, said a big reason for the recent price gains was that foreclosed homes made up a smaller proportion of overall sales. Foreclosed homes are usually sold by banks at low prices.

“Typical home values have appreciated at roughly half this pace for the past several months, which is still very robust,” Ms. Gudell said.

Ms. Gudell said higher mortgage rates and a probable increase in the number of homes for sale in the coming months should slow the pace of price gains and stabilize the housing market.

The S.& P./Case-Shiller index covers about half of American homes. It measures prices compared with those in January 2000 and creates a three-month moving average. The May figures are the latest available.

Despite the recent gains, home prices for much of the country are still about 25 percent below the peaks they reached in July 2006. That is a major reason the supply of homes for sale remains low, as many homeowners are waiting to recoup their losses before putting their houses on the market.

Separately, the Conference Board, a private research group based in New York, said on Tuesday that its consumer confidence index dipped to 80.3 in July. That is down from a reading of 82.1 in June, which was revised slightly higher and was the best reading since January 2008.

Despite the slight drop in July, confidence remains well above year-earlier levels. And consumers are more optimistic about the current job market.

“Over all, indications are that the economy is strengthening and may even gain some momentum in the months ahead,” said Lynn Franco, an economist for the Conference Board.

Amna Asaf, an economist at Capital Economics, attributed the July drop in confidence to rising gasoline prices. But she said the confidence index remained at a level that was consistent with stronger growth in consumer spending in the July-to-September quarter.
673 2013-07-31 The drug maker Merck’s second-quarter profit fell by half as generic competition hurt revenue from several older medicines.

Acquisition costs and other charges also affected the bottom line, Merck said, and unfavorable exchange rates reduced revenue 3 percent.

Merck maintained its profit outlook for the year but reduced its forecast for revenue, citing exchange rates and other factors. It now says it expects sales to be 5 to 6 percent below their level in 2012, when sales dipped nearly 2 percent, to $47.27 billion.

The lower revenue outlook is unusual for Merck. When it has been weathering patent expirations in the past, as with the osteoporosis pill Fosamax and the cholesterol drug Zocor, it has always aimed to keep revenue fairly steady and generally has done so.

But this year, it has been hurt by plunging sales not just for its former top seller, the asthma and allergy medication Singulair, but also the migraine drug Maxalt, the baldness treatment Propecia and the allergy pill Clarinex.

Merck said its second-quarter net income was $906 million, or 30 cents a share, compared with $1.79 billion, or 58 cents a share, a year earlier.
674 2013-07-31 Maxwell’s, the feisty little club in Hoboken, N.J., will close on Wednesday after 35 years. In that time, just about every indie-rock and alternative-rock band has played there, from the Feelies to R.E.M. to Sonic Youth. Todd Abramson has been a near-constant presence since the mid-’80s, first as a booker and then as a part owner. Mr. Abramson, 51, left, has booked more than 200 gigs a year. He reflects fondly here on some memorable moments:

One of the best things of the job for me has been the opportunity to work with some of my musical heroes. That January Dave Davies of the Kinks played two magical shows in one night. I think everyone in the audience was as pumped up as I was. It meant a lot to me, as well, because when I was briefly not involved with the club in the mid-’90s, I went and saw him perform at a dinner theater in New Jersey, and when I returned, one of my first thoughts was that I needed to book him, so people didn’t have to go through that experience again.

At this show, the Hoboken band Yo La Tengo brought out the rocker Jon Spencer as a surprise guest, part of its first Hanukkah benefit series. Now 72 such shows later (skipping a few years), the series has become a Maxwell’s institution. That Sunday night show was probably the most raucous of them all, with Yo La Tengo teaming up with Jon to cover songs by the Rolling Stones, DMZ and Jon’s own band, Pussy Galore. Many who witnessed that evening’s performance of “Love Power” (originally performed by Dick Shawn in “The Producers”) are still trying to recover.

Doug Sahm, a Texan, gave his Sir Douglas Quintet a British-sounding name, but its 1960s hits like “She’s About a Mover” were really Tex-Mex music. He came to Maxwell’s with a quintet including his longtime co-conspirator Augie Meyers on electric organ, playing a Texas treasury of rock ’n’ roll, country, R&B, Tex-Mex and more. His sax player, Rocky Morales, told me in the men’s room, “I used to be in the bughouse, but I’m O.K. now.”

I knew a little about this Texas country singer from his work in the Flatlanders, but thought his first solo album, “Fair and Square,” was a revelation. He played on a Friday night, and the fact that there weren’t that many people there enabled the show to turn into a honky-tonk dance party, a rarity over the years at Maxwell’s. A few days later, the band came back to town and hung out at my place. We went over and had drinks at the Elysian (down the block from Maxwell’s), back when it was a working-class dive.

This might have been the most transcendent show I ever witnessed at Maxwell’s. I had never paid much attention to the family singing group with 1960s pop hits like “Indian Lake,” so I was taken aback when it tore it up. The energy and love in the room was unbelievable. The band did the old hits, some great new material and a killer version of “Going Down to Liverpool.” I tried booking it a few times after this show, and it never worked out, which might have been for the best.

The term “oldies” has negative connotations for most people, even those who enjoy much of the music thrown under its umbrella. But this manic band from Houston turns the term upside down with its love of songs from the ’50s and ’60s and the joy with which it plays them. I fell in love with Allen Hill and his crew, watching them perform at SXSW that year and flew them up for a gig. The show lasted three and a half hours, and when it ended, the entire audience was onstage, and Allen alone in the audience.

After hearing of Maxwell’s closing, Jon Langford of the Mekons wanted to do one last show at the club where he had played many times with the Mekons, Waco Brothers, Three Johns, etc. Two sets, no opener (my choice). The first set was “serious,” or as serious as Jon ever got. The second set, he played three Mekons songs in a row and announced that that was more than the Mekons ever did. Even though he had just flown in from Chicago that day, the versions of George Jones’s tune “A Good Year for the Roses” and Fats Domino’s “Before I Grow Too Old” were haunting and beautiful. What a wonderful send-off.
675 2013-07-31 A Government Accountability Office report found that the Agriculture Department pays pays millions of dollars in farm subsidies each year to farmers who have died.