1 2007-05-01 Shares of several newspaper publishing companies posted big gains after Dow Jones disclosed that it received an unsolicited takeover offer from News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch's global media empire. Dow Jones said Tuesday it was considering the p...
2 2007-05-01 "Attorney General Alberto Gonzales signed a highly confidential order in March 2006 delegating to two of his top aides - who have since resigned because of their central roles in the firings of eight U.S. attorneys - extraordinary authority over t...
3 2007-05-01 Microsoft has emerged as a contender to buy the online advertising firm 24/7 Real Media in an effort to stay competitive with online rivals Google and Yahoo, The New York Post reported Tuesday. Citing unnamed sources, the Post said that Microsoft ...
4 2007-05-01 Delta Air Lines emerged from bankruptcy protection Monday after surviving a hostile takeover bid and cutting billions in costs in a 19-month overhaul. The board will now turn its attention to picking a successor to its chief executive, Gerald Grin...
5 2007-05-01 Some of the largest of the demonstrations were in Los Angeles and in Chicago....
6 2007-05-01 But it remains unclear how long it will then be before the first indictments are brought. And even if all goes smoothly, it is likely to be months before the first defendant is brought into a courtroom to face charges.

“It comes down to time,” said Youk Chhang, director of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, which has been gathering potential evidence for a trial.

“We need to use time wisely in order to catch up with the aging Khmer Rouge leaders,” said Mr. Chhang, who is a survivor of the Khmer Rouge years, from 1975 to 1979. “People use so much time to deal with little things, probably because the victims are not their priority.”

Since technical preparations began last summer, nearly one-third of the planned three-year period for the tribunal has been consumed by disputes and delays.

Before that, it took the United Nations and the Cambodian government six years of often-unfriendly talks to reach an agreement in 2003 to hold the trial.

The United Nations demanded that international standards be met and the Cambodians complained that their national sovereignty was being abused. The resulting hybrid has been criticized by human rights groups for setting too low a standard of justice.

The fee dispute illustrated the chill that has grown between the 12 foreign judges and prosecutors and the 17 Cambodian judges and prosecutors, who must reach agreement every step of the way, from indictment to final judgment.

“They sit across the table from each other, but they communicate by public statement,” reported one official of the tribunal, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to comment in public.

The fee became an issue in April when the foreign judges and prosecutors pulled out of discussions on rules of procedure for the tribunal.

The fee, they said, was “not in line with accepted practice at the international level” and could be a prohibitive financial burden on defense lawyers.

“The international judges wish to emphasize that the window of opportunity is closing quickly and they simply cannot allow for endless delays,” they said in a statement at the time.

The disputed amount included a $500 registration fee, a $2,000 fee to sign on a client and $200 a month in additional fees. All but the registration fee has now been waived.

Compared to the tribunal’s $53 million budget and to other fees in the legal profession in general the amount seemed small.

The near-breakdown it caused offered a glimpse into what may be the tenor of discussions on more substantive legal questions that the international teams will face.

“I think there will be more issues like this every step of the way,” Mr. Chhang said. “And I just hope they don’t take more time than the victims can stand.”

Every delay over the years has revived concerns that the aging potential defendants may live out their lives in quiet retirement in Cambodia and evade trial entirely.

The Khmer Rouge leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998. His right-hand man, Son Sen, was killed the year before that. Ta Mok, the Khmer Rouge military commander, died last July.

All of the major remaining figures — Nuon Chea, Khieu Samphan and Ieng Sary — are reported to be in poor health.

The only prominent figure in prison is Kaing Khek Iev, the commandant of the prison and torture house Tuol Sleng.

Despite these problems, the judges and prosecutors have resolved more than 100 sometimes-complicated procedural rules, crossing barriers of legal systems, language and culture.

Under a complicated supermajority system, the Cambodians outnumber the foreign participants. But the foreigners retain the right to veto any decision. The standoff over the lawyers’ fees showed that they are quite ready to use that power.
7 2007-05-01 A Congolese military court cleared the opposition politician Marie-Thérèse Nlandu and nine others of inciting an armed insurrection. The tribunal in Kinshasa ordered their acquittal and release after finding the charges unfounded. “This is God’s victory,” Ms. Nlandu said. The 10 were arrested in November after clashes with the police.

Correction: May 7, 2007 

 A report in the World Briefing column on Tuesday about a Congolese military tribunal clearing an opposition politician of inciting armed insurrection misspelled the name of the city in which the tribunal met. It is Kinshasa, not Kinshasha.
8 2007-05-01 The Security Council endorsed a resolution extending by six months the 10,000-member United Nations mission that helps enforce the 2005 peace accord that ended decades of civil war in southern Sudan. The measure expressed “grave concern” over the crisis in Darfur, in western Sudan, but to achieve the unanimous backing of the 15-member Council the United States had to drop language putting pressure on Sudan to accept a proposed United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force there.
9 2007-05-01 A United Nations exhibit on the Rwandan genocide that was dismantled three weeks ago after Turkey objected to a reference to the Armenian genocide was opened in revised form by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Where the original exhibit had an entry called “What is genocide?” that cited the deaths “following World War I” of a million Armenians “in Turkey,” the revised entry is called “Defining the Crime” and refers to “mass killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire during World War I.” Some 1.5 million Armenians were killed by Ottoman Turks, but Turkey says they were victims of war and unrest instead of genocide. The exhibit observes the 13th anniversary of the 100-day slaughter in Rwanda of 800,000 Tutsis by Hutus.
10 2007-05-01 The police have identified the man who killed two people in a mall parking lot on Sunday before he was shot dead by officers as David W. Logsdon, 51. “He had been an employee of that Target store and had been turned down for a private security license,” Chief James Corwin said. “His objective was to go to the mall and cause havoc.” The victims were Leslie N. Ballew, 33, of Kansas City, and Luke A. Nilges, 30, of Shawnee, Kan. Chief Corwin said they appeared to be random victims.
11 2007-05-01 The Justice Department does not keep statistics on the political parties of the subjects of its corruption investigations, officials said, so there is no comprehensive way to determine the breakdown or whether the cases disproportionately involve Democrats. Department officials point out that several prominent Republicans have been prosecuted in recent years, including former Representatives Randy Cunningham of California and Bob Ney of Ohio.

Some critics, though, are suggesting that the department dismissed some prosecutors to squelch corruption investigations of Republicans, while encouraging other prosecutors to go after Democrats.

“Democrats do occupy most public offices in Allegheny County,” Thomas J. Farrell, a former federal prosecutor in Western Pennsylvania, wrote recently in The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, referring to investigations of the former Pittsburgh mayor, the sheriff’s office and the area medical examiner. “But are the Republican officials in the 24 other counties of the Western Pennsylvania District all squeaky clean?”

Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, along with other senior Justice Department officials and prosecutors, has rejected the criticism.

“We’ve prosecuted members of Congress, we’ve prosecuted governors, Republicans, and so this notion that somehow we’re playing politics with the cases we bring, it’s just not true,” Mr. Gonzales told the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 19.

In Eastern Michigan since 2001, at least 21 Democratic public officials have been charged or linked to corruption inquiries, including the governor, the mayor of Detroit and several local officials, including Mr. Marlinga. Officials at the United States attorney’s office in Detroit identified one Republican who had been charged and said they did not have a list by party that would allow them to identify others.

Some of those Michigan cases resulted in convictions on significant charges. They included a member of the Pontiac City Council who pleaded guilty to taking a bribe from F.B.I. agents posing as local businessmen, a Detroit councilman convicted of fraud, and a former Wayne County official convicted of accepting gifts from a Detroit airport contractor.

On the other hand, several cases resulted in acquittals or no charges being filed, or convictions on relatively minor offenses. A Wayne County lawyer who pleaded guilty in 2004 to a misdemeanor charge, for example, used an intern to enter data on potential Democratic political donors for the pending governor’s race.

In Mr. Marlinga’s case, the State Republican Party and his Republican opponent in the House race filed complaints asking for an investigation. The charges centered on a legal motion by Mr. Marlinga, while serving his fifth elected term as county prosecutor, to the State Supreme Court in 2002 agreeing that it should re-examine a decade-old rape case. He had doubts about the case because an orthodontist who had appeared as an expert witness — testifying that there was at least a 3 million to 1 chance that a bite mark on the victim came from someone other than the suspect — had since been discredited. A second expert witness had recanted her testimony.

The testimony was crucial to the prosecution, and Mr. Marlinga said he felt morally obligated to notify the Supreme Court of his doubts. The convicted man was later acquitted, after the Supreme Court agreed that he should be retried.

But Mr. Marlinga’s request to review the case nearly ended his career as a lawyer. Several days before he filed it, he attended a holiday party where he solicited campaign contributions for his Congressional race, including a $2,000 donation from a real estate agent who employed the sister of the convicted man.

Mr. Marlinga knew that the real estate agent — who had no financial or family relationship with the rape suspect — believed that the man deserved a new trial. Mr. Marlinga said he saw no issue with accepting the donation, because he had decided months earlier to file the brief.

When Republicans learned of the contribution, they asked the authorities to investigate if it might have been a bribe. “It seemed to me it was worthwhile to take a look at this,” said Rusty Hill, then chairman of the State Republican Party.

Stephen J. Murphy, the United States attorney in Detroit since 2005, defended his office’s handling of the case. “There was no political calculus that went into that prosecution,” Mr. Murphy said in an interview.

When Mr. Marlinga testified, the case quickly fell apart, jurors said.

“It seemed like they were trying to build a case with really nothing to stand on,” Susan Kramer, a teacher in Rochester, Mich., said in an interview. Ms. Kramer said that she and other jurors thought Mr. Marlinga had been treated so unfairly that they wrote him a letter and invited him to dinner.

“We felt that he had really been run through the mill,” she said. “He deserved to know that we didn’t just feel that he was not guilty, but that he was truly innocent.”

By then, Mr. Marlinga had long since lost his race for Congress, and stepped down from his job as county prosecutor.

Other cases across the country have also provoked questions. In Alabama last week, an editorial in The Decatur Daily asked if charges against former Gov. Donald E. Siegelman, a Democrat, were motivated by politics.

The state attorney general, a Republican, began an investigation of Mr. Siegelman weeks after he took office in 1999. The attorney general eventually teamed up with the United States attorney, who failed to convict Mr. Siegelman of Medicaid fraud. In 2005, after Mr. Siegelman had left office and was running again for governor, federal prosecutors charged him with taking bribes from the chairman of a hospital company in exchange for a seat on a state board that approves hospital construction.

Prosecutors did not show that Mr. Siegelman benefited personally from the money; it went to a campaign he set up to promote the creation of a state lottery to finance education. But he was found guilty on 7 of 33 charges, including one bribery count, a conviction he is appealing.

Tom Wright, executive editor of The Decatur Daily, said the case looked to him like a witch hunt against a Democrat. “Their conviction just doesn’t seem right,” Mr. Wright said in an interview. “It appears they were looking for ways to get him.”

In Wisconsin, the United States attorney, Steven M. Biskupic, has come under fire for bringing charges against a former state employee, Georgia Thompson. She was convicted on charges involving directing a state travel contract to a firm linked to Gov. James E. Doyle, a Democrat. But a three-judge panel overturned the conviction in early April, and freed her from prison. One judge called the evidence “beyond thin.” Six Democratic senators have asked the Justice Department to explain why it brought the case.

And in Pennsylvania, Democratic Party officials and Mr. Farrell, the former federal prosecutor, are questioning if Mary Beth Buchanan, the United States attorney there, has tried to impress her bosses in Washington by investigating Democrats.

Her office spent more than two years looking into whether former Mayor Tom Murphy of Pittsburgh, offered firefighters a favorable labor contract in exchange for their endorsement. After Mr. Murphy left office, Ms. Buchanan announced she would not indict him.

She did not pursue charges against a Republican state legislator, Jeffrey E. Habay, or former Senator Rick Santorum, when they were accused of wrongdoing, Mr. Farrell said.

Ms. Buchanan said the questions about Mr. Santorum — which related to where he claimed residency — have been referred to officials in Washington. More broadly, she said, Democrats outnumber Republicans by such a heavy margin in Pittsburgh it is only natural that more Democrats are the subject of investigations. What matters, she said, is that each case is handled fairly.

“Whenever wrongdoing is brought to my attention, it’s my job to investigate it and where appropriate, I will bring charges,” she said.
12 2007-05-01 WASHINGTON, April 30 — President Bush, under pressure from allies in Europe to be more forthcoming about his plans for basing missile interceptors in the region, said Monday that he was intensifying his efforts to persuade Russia to cooperate with the United States on the initiative “so that they don’t see us as an antagonistic force, but see us as a friendly force.”

Mr. Bush said he was trying to convince President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia that cooperation was “in Russia’s security interests,” even though Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates did not win Mr. Putin’s support during a trip to Moscow last week.

The president spoke in the Rose Garden after a meeting with leaders of the European Union that produced an agreement for the United States and Europe to work together to reduce pollution, which scientists say leads to climate change. But the agreement did not address the enormous differences that remain between the United States and Europe over those greenhouse gas emissions, and what role governments should play in reducing them.

Mr. Bush has been criticized for coming late to the idea that human actions contribute to the threat of global warming, and in his first term he renounced the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, which European states agreed to.

On Monday, with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who currently holds the European Union’s presidency, and José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, the union’s governing body, by his side, the president said the three “share a common interest,” adding, “We recognize that we have a problem with greenhouse gases.”

But Mr. Barroso characterized the agreement as “a work in progress,” adding, “To be very frank, it was better than what I was planning.”
13 2007-05-01 The Italian cyclist Ivan Basso quit the Discovery Channel team after Italian authorities reopened an investigation into his role in a Spanish doping scandal.

Less than two weeks before he was to defend his Giro d’Italia title, Basso asked to be released from his contract during a meeting Sunday with Discovery officials, the team said in a statement yesterday.

“This was a very difficult decision for me and my family, but I think it is the right thing to do,” Basso said. “The team is trying to find a new sponsor and win bike races, and my situation is a distraction to both of those goals. It is important that everyone knows this was 100 percent my decision.”

Basso is scheduled to appear tomorrow before the Italian Olympic Committee on charges of having used or attempted to use a banned substance or method.

“Ivan’s request was unexpected, and he was very emotional but adamant about his decision to be released,” said Johan Bruyneel, the director of the Discovery team, which suspended Basso last week.
14 2007-05-01 Verizon reported net income of $1.5 billion in the quarter, or 51 cents a share, compared with $1.63 billion, or 56 cents a share, a year earlier.

The results include a one-time loss of $131 million, or 5 cents a share, related to the nationalization of Venezuela’s main phone company, in which Verizon was a part owner. The company also completed the sale of assets in Puerto Rico in the quarter.

Excluding special items and discontinued operations, Verizon would have earned $1.56 billion, or 54 cents a share, up from $1.36 billion, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected Verizon to earn 53 cents a share on revenue of $22.49 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Financial. Verizon shares rose 29 cents, to $38.18.

“The quarter was largely in line,” said Qaisar Hasan, an analyst with Buckingham Research. “Their wireless did a little better than we thought it would, and the wireline a little worse.”

Mr. Hasan said he was impressed by early growth that was better than expected of Verizon’s new digital video and data network, called FiOS.

“The reception is as good as it could be,” Ms. Toben said. She said the company continued to add regions and expected to achieve the hefty subscriber goals it set for itself as it tries to meet growing consumer demand for access to video programming like that offered by YouTube.

The continued high cost of introducing FiOS diluted Verizon’s earnings by 11 cents a share, as the company had forecast. Company executives said they expect the dilution to amount to 10 cents a share in the second quarter.

Verizon added 416,000 high-speed connections in the quarter, helping offset its losses in its landline business. The company added 141,000 customers to its FiOS TV service, ending the quarter with 348,000. As of last week, AT&T had about 20,000 subscribers to its new television service, U-verse.

Verizon’s wireless business, which Verizon owns jointly with the Vodafone Group, reported revenue of $10.3 billion in the first quarter. The unit added 1.7 million wireless subscribers, ending the quarter with 60.7 million subscribers, second only to AT&T Wireless, which serves 62.2 million customers.

Mr. Hasan said Verizon was also helped by the fact that a larger number of Verizon’s wireless customers in the quarter were monthly subscribers, rather than prepaid customers.

Adding to its good news, the rate at which Verizon customers canceled subscriptions, known as the churn rate, declined to 1.08 percent from 1.14 percent a year earlier.

Verizon, like AT&T, has struggled to stem defections from its wireline customers. Its wireline business had a 0.1 percent increase in revenue in the quarter, to $12.5 billion, with most of that coming from Verizon’s acquisition of MCI last year. Adjusting for the acquisition of MCI, wireline revenue declined 1.7 percent.

Verizon is embroiled in a lawsuit with Vonage Holdings, the Internet phone company, which Verizon has accused of patent violation. Last week, a federal appeals court ruled that Vonage could continue to sign up customers while it appealed an earlier ruling that found Vonage to be in violation. The court set a June court date to hear Vonage’s appeal, several months sooner than expected.
15 2007-05-01 A recent report by Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate broker, said that the average rent for prime office space in Midtown Manhattan had attained a record high of $70.77 per square foot.

In Midtown, “for anyone looking for a block of space in excess of 300,000 square feet during the next two years for less than $100 per square foot, this is your only option,” said Darcy A. Stacom, the broker at CB Richard Ellis who sold the property for The Times in 2004 and handled the sale to Africa Israel for Tishman Speyer.

Mr. Fasulo said that the new owners should expect “above-average rents for the property, given its history and location,” meaning that tower floors could fetch above $75 per square foot and lower floors slightly less.

The 750,000-square-foot, 15-story Times Building, which opened in 1913, needs an extensive top-to-bottom refurbishing — including a renovation of the lobby, the former newsprint loading bays, and the subbasements that once housed the newspaper’s printing presses — before it can be rented to corporate and retail tenants.

“The loading docks will be prime retail space,” Mr. Fasulo said, “because that large a space just doesn’t exist in Times Square.” He added: “They can get a blue-chip retailer there at a prime price.”

The Times Company is in the process of moving into its new headquarters, a skyscraper at 620 Eighth Avenue between 40th and 41st Streets, opposite the Port Authority Bus Terminal.

In a press release, Africa Israel Investments Ltd. said the property was the most expensive its United States subsidiary had bought in New York City.

The Israeli billionaire Lev Leviev, as chairman, owns 76 percent of the Africa Israel holding company, “and is looking to do more deals than this, even on a larger scale,” said Rotem Rosen, the chief executive of Africa Israel USA. Africa Israel had a 50 percent interest in the recent purchase of the Apthorp apartment building on the Upper West Side for $426 million.

“And we are looking to bring our model in New York to downtown Buenos Aires, buying exclusive properties and upgrading them,” Mr. Rosen said. Africa Israel owns office and residential real estate and shopping malls, and has ventures in hotels, tourism, telecommunications and fashion.

In recent years the company has become a player with deep pockets not only in New York real estate, but also in Miami, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Phoenix and Myrtle Beach, S.C., where, Mr. Rosen said, the company is planning a Hard Rock music park to be completed in 2008.
16 2007-05-01 In general, fewer than 10 students a year at the business school are found guilty of cheating, and some years no accusations are brought to the judicial board, said Michael Hemmerich, associate dean for marketing and communications at the business school.

National surveys have suggested that cheating is widespread among graduate students. In a survey released last September by a Rutgers University professor, 56 percent of business graduate students admitted having cheated, compared with 54 percent in engineering, 48 percent in education and 45 percent in law school. More than 5,300 students at 54 universities were surveyed from 2002 to 2004.

“This is self-reported evidence of cheating, so it’s probably underestimated,” said Donald McCabe, a professor of management and global business at Rutgers who oversaw the survey.

“I would say at many business schools it is a part of the culture,” Dr. McCabe said. “You want to talk rationalizations? I could give you thousands of them: everybody else does it, it’s the teachers’ fault, you have to do it to get ahead.”

Many of the country’s leading business schools, including Duke’s, have been emphasizing honesty and ethical conduct, introducing new courses in business ethics and creating tough honor codes. Dr. McCabe said, however, that administrators at many of those schools did not appreciate the extent of cheating.

At Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism, an accusation surfaced in December that some students had cheated on an open-book, take-home exam in a course on journalistic ethics.

Officials said then that the matter would be referred to the journalism school’s disciplinary committee. Barbara Fasciani, a spokeswoman for the school, said yesterday that she could not comment on the outcome of the case, because disciplinary committee matters were confidential.

The exam was designed to be completed in 90 minutes, but students could gain access to the test by computer any time during a 30-hour period. At least one student who had taken the exam reportedly offered to tell at least one other student who had not yet taken it what the essay questions were.

“I can be fairly sure that the test will not be administered in the same way next year,” Ms. Fasciani said.

At Ohio University, officials have been investigating for many months a cheating scandal that began with an accusation that more than 20 mechanical engineering students had plagiarized parts of their master’s theses, some as long as 20 years ago.

More than 200 master’s theses and Ph.D. dissertations have now been examined, university officials said. So far, the university has revoked the master’s degree of a former student for plagiarism, and a committee has recommended that five students be dismissed and 12 others be ordered to rewrite their theses. More cases will be heard this spring.
17 2007-05-01 Ivica Racan, the former Croatian prime minister who rebuilt economic and trade ties with Europe after the civil wars of the 1990s, died Sunday in Zagreb, the Croatian capital. He was 63.

The Social Democratic Party, led by Mr. Racan since Croatia declared its independence in 1991, announced the death on its Web site. He learned he had cancer in January.

Mr. Racan, who was prime minister from 2000 to 2003, began rebuilding the nation’s international reputation after its role in the Balkan civil wars of the 1990s led it into political and economic isolation. His overhaul of the economy helped Croatia begin entry talks with the European Union in 2005. The country plans to join the 27-member bloc in 2009.

Mr. Racan was born in February 1944 in Ebersbach, Germany, where his mother was a captive in a Nazi work camp. She returned to what was then Yugoslavia after the end of World War II. Mr. Racan married three times and had two sons.

He led a six-party coalition government that took power in January 2000, replacing the 10-year rule of the Croatian Democratic Union and its autocratic president, Franjo Tudjman. He was the leader of the Communist Party when Croatia was part of the Yugoslav Federation.
18 2007-05-01 ATLANTA, April 30 (AP) — Delta Air Lines emerged from bankruptcy protection Monday after surviving a hostile takeover bid and cutting billions in costs in a 19-month overhaul.

The board will now turn its attention to picking a successor to its chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, and deciding whether to sell or spin off its regional feeder carrier, Comair.

Delta also unveiled plans for a new paint job for its planes, featuring the company’s red logo flying across a blue background on the tail of aircraft. Planes will get the new design as they come in for maintenance.

Delta entered Chapter 11 on Sept. 14, 2005, amid high fuel prices and the burdens of high labor and pension expenses. While in bankruptcy protection, the airline cut costs and jobs, overhauled its fleet and focused more on international service. The airline terminated its pilots’ defined-benefit pension plan.

The carrier also defeated a hostile takeover bid by US Airways, which withdrew its $9.8 billion offer after Delta’s unsecured creditors committee endorsed Delta’s reorganization plan in January.
19 2007-05-01 IT takes both a special mind-set and certain skills to build a successful company.

But left unchecked, the very things that helped make your enterprise a winner can depress your employees and actually harm your business.

That is the message from a Fortune Small Business interview with Marshall Goldsmith, author of one of this year's best business books, "What Got You Here Won't Get You There: How Successful People Become Even More Successful" (Hyperion $23.95).

Here are three things you could be doing wrong, according to Mr. Goldsmith, and what you can do about them:

Being too competitive. Your desire to prove yourself right can come at your employees' expense, and as a result, good people feel humiliated and eventually leave.

"Adding too much value." When someone comes to you with a solid initiative, instead of saying "that's great," you tend to say, "that is a great idea, but. ..." The problem with that, Mr. Goldsmith says, is that your contribution could make the idea 5 percent better, but decrease the employee's enthusiasm by 50 percent, "because now it is your idea," not hers, and she may not give its execution her all. If you feel compelled to add value, do it in a way that stokes the employee's enthusiasm.

Losing perspective. "Entrepreneurs kill themselves, literally," Mr. Goldsmith says. "They work themselves to death, they don't get physical exams, their health goes straight to hell. For what? You have to find balance."
20 2007-05-01 “Obviously, that’s very prime real estate,” Mr. Tollett said. “What I wanted to do was come through for him for a couple of shows to make it worth his while.”

Mr. Haagen, who is in his 60s and who rarely grants interviews, said in a brief encounter Saturday night that “I like to see people have a good time,” and that his commitment to the festival was “long range.”

For Mr. Haagen, Coachella has also come to represent an annual chance to entertain friends and business associates, who watch the proceedings from white folding chairs on a canopied terrace overlooking the main stage area. His family participates, too: one of Mr. Haagen’s sons, Andrew, is the event’s resident photographer, receiving greater access than press photographers and maintaining his own portrait studio amid the private artist encampment.

But several people who have conducted business with the festival’s organizers said the relationship between Mr. Haagen and the promoters has been a trying one. Mr. Haagen “usually has these guys tearing their hair out trying to appease him,” said Tim Vail, a veterinarian who owns an equine hospital nearby, and who rented some of his property to organizers for parking this year.

Coachella has been credited with reviving large-scale music festivals in America. Mr. Tollett has said the model for the event is the European festivals like Glastonbury (which is controlled by Michael Eavis, a farmer who runs both the land and the festival). But since such events often require big, unconventional sites, concert organizers may find themselves dealing more regularly with property owners who lack experience or interest in the live-entertainment business.

Some promoters are tempted to sidestep that hurdle. Earlier this year, organizers of the annual Bonnaroo music festival in Manchester, Tenn., purchased 500 acres of land from the farmer who owned the property that housed the event. Ashley Capps, one of the concert organizers, said they sought direct control of the land to install water and electrical lines — and to remove any doubts about the farm as a venue.

Mr. Capps said the producers’ relations with the landowner “was not peaches and cream.” Though he adds that “it never got terrible,” he said that “farmers who own large pieces of land tend to be very individualistic in their thinking.”

Mr. Haagen’s first encounter with accommodating a big rock concert was in 1993, when Goldenvoice helped arrange a performance on the polo grounds by Pearl Jam. Six years later, Mr. Tollett sought out Mr. Haagen again when he needed a locale for Coachella. But the first festival posted a loss, forcing Goldenvoice to the edge of financial ruin.

AEG Live, a bigger concert promoter, acquired the company in 2001 by absorbing its debt, which exceeded $1 million, according to executives involved in the deal. Goldenvoice had been unable to mount a festival in 2000, but returned to the polo fields with Coachella in 2001 and has every year since.

Mr. Haagen has earned a reputation as a hard-nosed deal-maker in the real estate world — and as a politically connected one. In years past, his family has contributed generously to the campaigns of local and statewide political candidates, and Mr. Haagen has become a regular, though modest, donor to the Republican Party.

He spent much of his career working at the commercial real estate company started by his father, a former welder and merchant marine who after World War II started buying up corner lots to be resold to oil companies and turned into service stations. But the Haagens ultimately made their reputation by building retail shopping centers in the inner city.

By the late 1990s, though, the company was laden with debt. An affiliate of the investment bank Lazard agreed to purchase a stake in the Haagens’ company for $235 million in 1997, and then bought the family out.

As alternative rock fans swarmed over his property this weekend, Mr. Haagen seemed to play the silent patron contentedly enough. On Saturday night, Mr. Haagen, wearing a white cowboy hat and a black Coachella T-shirt, held court on his private terrace, surrounded by his guests, palm trees and a pond filled with lily pads.

On Sunday night, during Rage Against the Machine’s festival-closing set, a couple of young fans from the V.I.P. section scaled the fence into Mr. Haagen’s domain. While they were quickly ejected, some of his panicked guests hurriedly made for the exits.
21 2007-05-01 That hero, one Meyer Landsman by name, is a homicide detective in the Federal District of Sitka, somewhere on the Alaskan panhandle. In the alternative universe that Mr. Chabon has imagined, Sitka is the temporary safe haven created for Jews in the wake of the Holocaust; in his telling, Israel collapsed in 1948, and refugees have flocked to this remote territory, creating, over the last few decades, a hermetic, self-sustaining world.

Sixty years have passed, however, and Sitka is now due to revert to American authority. The fate of its two million residents is uncertain. Many have elected to move abroad — some to “the camel lands,” some to places like Australia and Madagascar; others are waiting fatalistically in Sitka to see what will happen.

Landsman is more of a nebbish than your average, hard-boiled detective, but true to the noir tradition, he is an unbeliever, a man shorn of faith in luck, God and human nature. His beloved sister Naomi, an ace pilot, died in a freak airplane accident. And his marriage of 15 years to another cop named Bina has recently ended. He had persuaded Bina to have an abortion after troubling test results revealed that the child she was carrying might develop grave abnormalities; the doctors said the baby might also be fine, but it was impossible to know. Landsman, a perpetual pessimist, had elected against rolling the dice.

“Men tend to cry, in Landsman’s experience,” Mr. Chabon writes, “when they have been living for a long time with a sense of rightness and safety, and then they realize that all along, just under their boots, lay the abyss. That is part of the policeman’s job, to jerk back the pretty carpet that covers over the deep jagged hole in the floor.”

Since the collapse of his marriage, Landsman has been living in the seedy Hotel Zamenhof, where, one night, “somebody has put a bullet in the brain of the occupant of 208, a yid who was calling himself Emanuel Lasker.” One of the few clues in the room is a chessboard with a mystifying configuration of pieces.

Landsman’s investigation into Lasker’s death will plunge him into a re-evaluation of his own tortured familial history and his relationship with Bina, who, unexpectedly, has become his new supervisor at work. It will cause him to re-examine his feelings about police work and larger, more existential issues. And it will threaten to throw him into a spiral of suicidal despair.

Working with his half-Tlingit partner, Berko, Landsman soon discovers that Lasker is an alias for a troubled heroin addict named Mendel Shpilman, the only son of a powerful rabbi, known for his gangland ties. As a child and as a young man, Mendel was not only a chess genius, beating the best and brightest of his elders, but also a brilliant student, rumored to possess magical healing powers. There were even whispers that Mendel might be “the righteous man of this generation” — the Messiah, perhaps, arrived to redeem the world.

How did this “miracle kid” wind up a heroin addict, shot dead in a fleabag hotel? What made him disappear the day of his wedding, some two decades ago? Why has his once doting father disowned him? And why are Bina and her superiors pressing to shut down the investigation and declare Mendel’s death a cold case?

While Mr. Chabon makes the ultimate answer to these questions — which has something to do with the highest levels of the United States government, evangelical Christians and the building of the third Temple in Jerusalem — too far-fetched to be plausible, his account of Landsman’s detective work remains suspenseful and artfully done.

More important, Mr. Chabon has so thoroughly conjured the fictional world of Sitka — its history, culture, geography, its incestuous and byzantine political and sectarian divisions — that the reader comes to take its existence for granted. By the end of the book, we feel we know this chilly piece of northern real estate, where Yiddish is the language of choice, the same way we feel we have come to know Meyer Landsman — this “secular policeman” who has learned to sail “double-hulled against tragedy,” ever wary of “the hairline fissures, the little freaks of torque” that can topple a boat in the shallows.
22 2007-05-01 The basic elements of Minimalism — tonality, rhythmic regularity, repetition of brief melodic cells — are reasonably easy to summarize. Post-Minimalism is harder to pin down: Composers lumped under this untidy rubric vary widely in style. Just how widely was demonstrated in a program presented on Saturday night by the adventurous new-music ensemble Opus 21, based in Kalamazoo, Mich., at the Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater at Symphony Space.

The tone of the concert was engaging and informal, with most of the composers on hand to introduce their pieces. The clarinetist Bradley Wong referred to Steve Reich’s “New York Counterpoint” (1985) as this group’s version of early music. Mr. Wong provided an alert account of a piece filled with the rippling rhythms and bubbly melodies that denote Minimalism to most listeners.

At the opposite extreme was the Dutch composer Louis Andriessen’s “Klokken voor Haarlem” (“Bells for Haarlem”), from 2002, in its New York premiere. This piece opened with a mildly dissonant three-note theme on piano, celesta, percussion and synthesizer. Its tiny, incremental shifts were occasionally interrupted by busy outbursts that suggested the tolling of the hour.

Even more jarring was David Lang’s “Stick Figure” (2001), in which Mr. Wong and the cellist Alexa Muhly offered gentle melodic swells and pulsations persistently shattered by harsh explosions from three drummers. The pianist Yu-Lien The provided enigmatic counterpoint.

Several of the young composers commissioned to write works for this program described their initial encounters with Mr. Reich’s music as epiphanies. Bill Ryan explored additive process in “Rapid Assembly,” opening with a perky melodic kernel that grew more elaborate and jazzy with each pass.
23 2007-05-01 Depression is associated with an increased risk for diabetes in older adults, even in people who have no other risk factors for the disease, a new study reports.

Researchers studied 4,681 men and women over 65, following them over a 10-year period, after excluding anyone who already had diabetes at the start of the project. They used a well-validated questionnaire to measure symptoms of depression each year, and tested all participants at two- to four-year intervals for blood sugar. They also calculated body mass index and noted alcohol intake, smoking status and antidepressant use.

After controlling for these factors, they found that even a single report of high depressive symptoms was associated with an increase in the incidence of diabetes. Increases in symptoms over time and persistently high symptoms of depression were also associated with the disease. Over all, people with the highest scores on the depression questionnaire were roughly 50 percent more likely to develop diabetes than those with the lowest scores. Adjusting for race, sex, smoking status, alcohol intake and body mass index made no difference in the result.

Mercedes R. Carnethon, the lead author and an assistant professor of preventive medicine at Northwestern University, said there was no evidence one way or the other on whether treating depression could reduce the risk for diabetes. “People in our study who were on antidepressants didn’t have an elevated risk for diabetes,” she said. “But we don’t know if that’s because of the antidepressants” or for some other reason. The study appeared April 23 in The Archives of Internal Medicine.

Dr. Jonathan W. Stewart, a research psychiatrist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute who was not involved in the work, said that the conclusions “fit with what else we think we know,” but he was troubled by one aspect of the work.
24 2007-05-01 If lowering sodium intake reduces the risk of high blood pressure, and high blood pressure can lead to heart disease, does eating less salt improve the health of one’s heart?

It seems obvious that it would, but in a new study, researchers offer what they say is some of the first good evidence that it really does.

The study, which appears online in The British Medical Journal, looked at two groups of people more than a decade after they were asked to reduce their salt intake for up to 48 months. There were more than 3,000 participants, 30 to 54, all of whom had a condition that put them at special risk for high blood pressure.

The researchers, led by Nancy R. Cook of Brigham and Women’s Hospital, found that those who had significantly reduced their salt intake had a 25 percent lower risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Their risk of death from the disease was also cut, by as much as a fifth.

Earlier studies have found that less salt in a diet is associated with lower blood pressure, but the researchers said it had been harder to establish what that meant for heart disease.

The study pointed to other research showing that a lot of salt in the diet can cause cardiovascular problems on its own, apart from its role in high blood pressure.
25 2007-05-01 Airlines make most of their money on trans-Atlantic routes in first and business class. Coach is usually a drain on profits, which is why an all-business-class airline with an enticing fare structure can compete, even without the sort of scheduling frequency that major airlines offer.

“We’re not subsidizing cheapskates like me, who used to travel only in economy,” said Lawrence Hunt, the chief executive officer and a founder of Silverjet, a British-based airline that has been flying New York to London (actually Newark to London) for just over two months.

Silverjet flies a 767 with 100 all business-class seats. The average fare New York to London is “slightly over $2,000,” Mr. Hunt said.

On major carriers, the average fare on that route is around $5,500, which takes into account volume discounts negotiated by major customers. A major American investment bank, considered one of the highest-volume customers, pays around $3,000 round trip on American Airlines, Mr. Hunt says. Typical high-volume corporate discount rates are about $6,000, but small-business travelers and entrepreneurs who don’t book well in advance often end up paying the walk-up fare.

On Silverjet, the walk-up fare can go as high as $4,000 in peak-demand periods. But, Mr. Hunt said, “on some days you’ll be paying $1,700 round trip.”

Silverjet recently bought a second 767 aircraft. “I took the keys on Thursday,” Mr. Hunt said. It will be used for a second New York to London flight starting in July. The company expects to take delivery of a third aircraft in November and use it either for New York to London service, or to provide London service from another United States city, such as Los Angeles, Chicago or Miami.

Silverjet says it had a load factor — the percentage of seats full — of 59 percent in March. “That’s almost unprecedented for a carrier in its second month of operation,” Mr. Hunt said.

MaxJet flies between New York and London and Las Vegas and London and is about to resume its flights between Washington and London, which were suspended for the winter.

Average fares are about $2,000, Mr. Marks said. MaxJet says its business-class service is comparable to that on United States airlines. “We’re not trying to compete with the best of the best,” Mr. Marks said. “But we are showing that with a good product, people will pay more to get out of economy class.”

Eos, on the other hand, competes with the luxury service on top-level business and first-class airlines like British Airways and Virgin Atlantic on the trans-Atlantic route.

Eos flies 757s, which typically carry more than 200 passengers, outfitted with just 48 lie-flat seats. Its new schedule between New York and London offers three flights on most days, for a total of 32 flights a week.

If you wanted to fly Eos today and booked yesterday, the walk-up fare would have been $7,500 — still lower than most airlines. Booked weeks in advance, the fare is $3,200 and less.

Meanwhile, Eos also just introduced a new advertising campaign with a keyword that we’ll seldom hear applied ever again to air travel: “Uncrowded.”
26 2007-05-01 If lowering sodium intake reduces the risk of high blood pressure, and high blood pressure can lead to heart disease, does eating less salt improve the health of one's heart?     It seems obvious that it would, but in a new study, researchers offe...
27 2007-05-01 A United Nations exhibit on the Rwandan genocide that was dismantled three weeks ago after Turkey objected to a reference to the Armenian genocide was opened in revised form by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Where the original exhibit had an entry...
28 2007-05-01 The Security Council endorsed a resolution extending by six months the 10,000-member United Nations mission that helps enforce the 2005 peace accord that ended decades of civil war in southern Sudan. The measure expressed ''grave concern'' over th...
29 2007-05-01 WEISS--Paula, mother of Peter, mother-in-law of Cora, grandmother of Judy, Tamara and Danny, great-grandmother of Jules, Noah, Maria, Catherine and Simon, died April 29, age 104. She lived a courageous life, as a mater familias, a business woman, ...
30 2007-05-01 MAJOR PATENT RULING -- The Supreme Court, in its most significant patent ruling in years, made it more difficult to get a patent on new products that combine elements of existing inventions. [Page C1.]    SAFEGUARDING FOOD -- As Food and Drug Admi...
31 2007-05-02 I've never seen a tornado up close, and I'm quite sure I don't want to. But there was a tornado warning here in Arlington tonight, and the intense rain washed out the Yankees' game with the Texas Rangers. So the teams will play two tomorrow, start...
32 2007-05-02 Credit Suisse Group said Wednesday that first-quarter net profit rose 5 percent helped by excellent markets for trading stocks and bonds and more commissions from wealthy clients. Credit Suisse, Switzerland's second-largest bank, said net profit f...
33 2007-05-02 Segetis, a green chemistry company, has raised $15 million from Khosla Ventures. The Minneapolis-based Segetis is one of a number of outfits trying to displace petroleum in household products like countertops, bottles and other items with agricult...
34 2007-05-02 A $3 billion loan package secured by the NYSE Euronext has some industry observers speculating that the exchange is plotting to muscle in on Deutsche Börse's agreed $2.8 billion deal for the International Securities Exchange. The Financial Times ...
35 2007-05-02 Bockbuster, the No. 1 U.S. movie retail chain, said on Wednesday it had sold its British video game retailer, Game Station, to Game Group of Britain for $150 million. The move is part of Blockbuster's ongoing efforts to sell off non-core assets an...
36 2007-05-02 Rather than impose any visa restrictions, the British government has told Washington it would prefer if the Americans simply deported Britons who failed screening once they arrived at an airport in the United States, British officials said. The British also screen at their end, and share intelligence with the Americans.

But Washington feels strongly, Mr. Chertoff has said, that it has the right to build controls against terrorists from Britain who do not have a prior criminal record — precisely the kind of man Mr. Khyam was until he was arrested in early 2004 and put on trial for plotting to blow up targets like a major London nightclub and a popular suburban shopping mall.

For its part, the British government looks with dismay at the frequency with which Britons travel to their ancestral land of Pakistan — an estimated 400,000 trips a year — where a small minority, like Mr. Khyam, link up with extremist groups and acquire training in weapons and explosives.

Foreign office officials have said they have discussed measures with the Pakistani Embassy in London, which grants Pakistani passports to Britons of Pakistani descent, to consider tightening the rules for Pakistani travel documents.

In Washington, an expert on terrorism and Pakistan, Bruce Riedel, who served on the National Security Council under President Clinton and in the early Bush administration, and who recently retired after 30 years in the Central Intelligence Agency, said that Mr. Khyam was perfect material for Al Qaeda.

“He is the classic U.K.-Pakistani connection that Al Qaeda has focused on since 9/11,” said Mr. Riedel, who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “His U.K. passport gives him international mobility. His training at a camp run for Kashmiris by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency gives him expertise. Al Qaeda gives him direction.”

The trial that ended Monday with the conviction of Mr. Khyam and four other Muslim men on conspiracy charges did not establish whether Mr. Khyam or his colleagues belonged to a Qaeda cell.

But the head of counterterrorism at Scotland Yard, Peter Clarke, said after the verdict the investigations into the bomb plot had given “a new understanding of the Al Qaeda threat to Britain.”

At his sentencing, the judge, Sir Michael Astill, described Mr. Khyam as “the energy behind the conspiracy,” the man who attracted other young Muslims to the plan, and inspired them, and who knew how to shuttle from Britain to Pakistan for terrorism training.

From Mr. Khyam’s own testimony, as well as a cascade of official intelligence surveillance presented during the yearlong trial, a portrait of determination and ruthlessness emerged.

As a teenager, Omar became entranced by jihadist ideology. He moved on to the cause of Kashmir, and was then piqued by 9/11 and the Iraq war, things that inspired and angered other Britons with Pakistani roots. But he in the end turned to attacking Britain, where he was born and raised.

Asked on the witness stand his reaction to 9/11, Mr. Khyam did not disguise his delight.

“I was happy,” he recalled in his south England accent. “America was, and still is, the greatest enemy of Islam. I was happy that America had been hit because of what it represented against the Muslims, but obviously 3,000 people died, so there were mixed feelings.”

Mr. Khyam testified that his parents migrated to Britain from Pakistan in the 1970s, before his birth. He came from a family, he said, with a proud heritage of service, first in the British Army in Pakistan, then in the army of the newly independent Pakistan, and also in the intelligence services.

His parents were not particularly religious, he said, a pattern typical among Pakistani immigrants to Britain where the new generation, often turned off by what they see as the loose morals of binge drinking and broken marriages, has proven to be more devout than their elders.

At the age of 10, his father, a successful businessman with a textile factory in Karachi, left his mother and moved to Belgium, leaving behind Omar, the eldest, and two small children.

His mother’s English was poor. Quickly, Omar became the man of the household, organizing the finances, and bossing his siblings. Instead of enrolling in the local school where most of the students were South Asian, he attended a mostly white, government-run school, and led a middle-class British life.

He did relatively well in his final school exams and enrolled in college but, distracted by his larger cause, never followed through on his studies or sought steady employment.

By 1998, he had taken his first steps into the realm of radical Islam, when he was introduced to Al Muhajiroun, a group led in Britain by Omar Bakri Mohammed, in his neighborhood in West Sussex. The group indoctrinates followers in the virtues of an Islamic state and indoctrinates a strict code of personal behavior. It expects members to shun friends who do not practice strict Islamic mores.

On the political side, Mr. Khyam calmly told the court about how he watched bloody videotapes of Russian soldiers blowing up mosques in Chechnya, and of atrocities by the Serbs against Muslims in Bosnia, which were shown to members of Al Muhajiroun.

But he soon tired of Al Muhajiroun, he said, and yearned for something more than the group’s desire for an Islamic state in Britain, which he deemed to be “not realistic.”

He took his first trip to Pakistan as a vacation with his mother and his brothers in 1999, when he was just a teenager. There, he experienced firsthand what he had heard about at home: the cause of Kashmir, the border area claimed by both Pakistan and India. He met with a group, Al Badr Mujahedeen, that fought, he said, to free Kashmir from Indian control.

In early 2000, Mr. Khyam was back in Pakistan. He found a training camp for fighters being sent to Kashmir that was run, he said, by Inter-Services Intelligence.

According to his testimony, the American-led war in Afghanistan, and later Iraq, dramatically colored his views. Those wars, he said, were wars against Islam, and he hoped to join the fight.

“By this time I had a lot of contact with the I.S.I. because of my family,” he said, referring to the Pakistani intelligence service. He visited the headquarters of the agency in Islamabad, and was told that what the Americans wanted “is to stop anyone who calls for the return of an Islamic state or a caliphate.”

From 2002 on, Mr. Khyam said he shuttled between Britain and Pakistan, culminating in a trip in 2003 to a training camp in Malakand in the North-West Frontier Province with five of his fellow defendants, including his younger brother, Shujah, who was acquitted.

By late 2003, according to prosecution evidence, Mr. Khyam had decided from his trips to Pakistan to concentrate on a plot in Britain that would involve a fertilizer bomb.

Mr. Khyam, using some of the organizational skills he had honed as a young man at home, can be heard on surveillance tapes divvying up responsibilities for the plan.

Along the way, he found time to marry — in what he called a “religious marriage” — Saira, a Pakistani woman.

They finally married in a civil ceremony on March 25, 2004, and a few days later, Mr. Khyam was arrested by the police in a bedroom of a Holiday Inn in England while he was on his honeymoon with his wife.
37 2007-05-02 In addition to collecting $89,000 in contributions from Bracewell partners and employees, Mr. Giuliani has held a fund-raiser in Houston. The firm’s managing partner, Patrick C. Oxford, is a top-shelf Bush fund-raiser with a wealth of contacts within Republican money circles.

Most significantly, perhaps, the law firm is one of the higher-profile defenders of the oil, gas and energy industries, to which it provides legal help and extensive lobbying services in Washington. It is difficult to say just how much of Mr. Giuliani’s contributions from those industries stem from his affiliation with Bracewell, but employees of companies in those sectors, including several Bracewell clients, have contributed more than $400,000 to Mr. Giuliani’s campaign so far.

Allen Blakemore, a Republican political consultant based in Houston who is not working for any of the presidential candidates, said the Bracewell affiliation must be seen as an important part of Mr. Giuliani’s fund-raising success in Texas.

“That law firm has been engaged in Houston in the energy sector for a long time, and they’ve got a platinum client list,” Mr. Blakemore said. “I think it’s safe to say that this is a law firm that is incredibly well connected in the oil patch. Pat Oxford knows those connections and can connect the dots better than anyone else.”

Texas, in fact, trailed only New York and California in Mr. Giuliani’s first-quarter fund-raising, in which he collected $16.1 million over all. His campaign raised twice as much in Texas as that of Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who had been expected to do well there.

Mr. Oxford, who is chairman of Mr. Giuliani’s national campaign committee, said the Bracewell firm had no role in generating contributions from the energy industry. He said executives were giving because “Texas loves Rudy’s message.”

In public remarks, Mr. Giuliani has supported increased use of nuclear power, natural gas, Alaskan oil drilling and ethanol to reduce American reliance on foreign oil. He has also expressed support for cleaner technology in the use of coal. He has not taken a position on reducing power plant emissions, but aides have said a major statement on environmental issues is being prepared.

Scott Segal, a Bracewell & Giuliani partner and a leading energy industry spokesman, said the firm’s energy clients had kept energy affordable and spent billions to comply with environmental laws.

“We believe the work we do is constructive for the environment and our clients,” Mr. Segal said. “Experience shows that the best environmental policy is made when all sides come prepared and represented.”

But critics say the firm has been central to rolling back environmental regulations in the Bush years, when the firm’s lobbyists met with Vice President Dick Cheney.

“From clean air to mercury pollution to global warming policies,” said Gene Karpinski, president of the League of Conservation Voters, “Giuliani’s firm has been perhaps the most anti-environment voice in Washington, representing some of the biggest corporate polluters.”

The Giuliani campaign said in a statement that he did not engage in any energy lobbying and did not take policy cues from his law firm’s clients.

Mr. Giuliani’s consulting company, Giuliani Partners, has also represented energy clients, like the operators of the Indian Point nuclear plant in Westchester County and a joint venture that is seeking to build a large natural gas transfer facility nine miles offshore in Long Island Sound.

Lawyers seeking public office often field questions about their clients, and Mr. Giuliani, who has been affiliated with several firms over his 38-year legal career, survived such questioning in his campaigns for mayor. But his past firms did not have high-profile roles in shaping public policy on a contentious national issue.

Other presidential hopefuls have already sought to distance themselves from the Bush administration’s environmental record. Among them is Mr. McCain, who last week renewed his call for limits on emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases.

Founded in 1945 as Bracewell & Patterson, Mr. Giuliani’s law firm specializes in banking, corporate finance and energy matters. It now has nine offices, including two in Kazakhstan and one in Washington, where it has a professional staff of more than 40.

“They are probably the most influential voice on behalf of big-polluting industry in Washington, D.C.,” said Frank O’Donnell, president of Clean Air Watch, which regularly battles the firm’s clients. “It’s quite remarkable. They are without peer when it comes to communicating the industry position.”

Mr. Giuliani was introduced to the firm’s managing director, Mr. Oxford, by Roy W. Bailey, a former finance chairman of the Texas Republican Party who met Mr. Giuliani during his 2000 Senate campaign. Mr. Giuliani joined the firm in March 2005, and it opened its Manhattan office that year. Mr. Bailey is now the Giuliani campaign’s national finance chairman.

Bracewell has had numerous ties to the Bush White House. In addition to Mr. Oxford, who also raised money for Mr. Bush’s campaign for governor in Texas, another partner, Marc F. Racicot, a former Montana governor, was picked by Mr. Bush to lead the Republican National Committee from 2002 to 2003 and was chairman of his re-election campaign in 2004. Mr. Racicot left the firm in 2005.

Environmentalists say the firm has had considerable success in persuading the Bush administration to ease Clinton-era enforcement efforts against coal-fired plants and write policies favored by that sector over tougher alternatives.

In his third month in office, Mr. Bush reversed a campaign pledge to cap carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. The administration also adopted a slower timetable for reducing mercury emissions from power plants than had been recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency’s own staff.

Bush administration officials have argued that their policies are the best course to ensure an adequate supply of affordable power while making substantial improvements to the environment. Environmentalists have credited the administration with creating one regulation, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, that will reduce power plant emissions.

Several years ago, the Bracewell firm played a significant role in an effort to block the E.P.A. from continuing a series of lawsuits filed against coal-fired electric power plants under the Clinton administration. The suits sought to enforce a rarely used provision of the Clean Air Act that required plants to install pollution controls when they altered their facilities.

Bracewell lawyers and other industry representatives argued that the E.P.A. under President Bill Clinton had retroactively redefined routine maintenance as modifications to bring the regulation into play.

Bracewell and some of its biggest clients, including the Southern Company, formed a new lobbying group, the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, to fight for legislative and policy changes to kill the lawsuits. The council operates as an extension of Bracewell’s Washington office and is staffed by its partners and professionals. It also contracted with Haley Barbour, the former Republican National Committee chairman, as a lobbyist. (Mr. Barbour is now governor of Mississippi.)

During the debate in 2001, Mr. Barbour and Mr. Racicot met with Mr. Cheney and federal energy officials to suggest that the enforcement effort was misguided. An internal struggle ensued and several E.P.A. enforcement officials resigned, saying they feared that their regulatory role was being subsumed by energy industry concerns.

At one point, Christie Whitman, then the E.P.A. administrator, sent Mr. Cheney a memorandum arguing that the administration would “pay a terrible political price if we undercut or walk away from” the lawsuits.

Mr. Cheney’s task force ultimately called on the agency to review the rule, and a new regulation said utilities would have to add pollution-control devices only if construction projects were valued at more than 20 percent of the plant’s value.

Eliot Spitzer, then New York attorney general, was among many officials who took issue with the rule, later calling it “part of a Bush administration efforts to eviscerate the Clean Air Act.”

It was quickly challenged in court. Last month, the United States Supreme Court ruled against the government’s position. It remains unclear whether the administration will pursue the pending enforcement lawsuits that have been stalled for years.

Bracewell’s effectiveness in the regulatory arena has been enhanced by its hiring of experts who worked for the E.P.A. in policy-setting capacities. Last October, the firm hired Jeffrey R. Holmstead, a former E.P.A. assistant administrator who oversaw the writing of the struck-down regulation. Two other agency officials have also joined Bracewell in recent years.

“We are so pleased to welcome Jeff Holmstead to Bracewell,” Mr. Giuliani said in announcing the new executive last year. “Jeff’s familiarity with the compliance challenges facing the private sector will be a big asset to our firm.”
38 2007-05-02 The campaign of Representative Rick Renzi, Republican of Arizona, agreed to pay a $25,000 fine for underreporting contributions and expenses, the Federal Election Commission said. The Renzi campaign said that the mistake was unintentional. The agency also said that the Democratic National Committee agreed to pay an $82,000 fine for improperly reporting more than $1 million it spent in the 2004 presidential campaign.
39 2007-05-02 A court in Tashkent sentenced Umida Niyazova, a journalist and human rights worker, to seven years in prison. Amnesty International has called Ms. Niazova a prisoner of conscience. According to local reports, her lawyer was given only 30 minutes warning before the resumption of the trial, in which she was found guilty of smuggling and distributing illegal material. Four days earlier, the authorities had sent a well-known Uzbek doctor, Gulbahor Turayeva, who advocated for patients’ rights, to prison for six years. She was arrested in January when the police said she possessed several banned books.
40 2007-05-02 In that 1971 case, the Eighth Circuit denied a habeas corpus petition by two prisoners, holding that their rights had not been violated when the Iowa State Parole Board revoked their paroles without hearings. Judge Lay’s dissent was upheld by the Supreme Court, with Chief Justice Warren E. Burger writing that the “liberty” of a parolee “is valuable and must be seen as within the protection of the 14th Amendment.”

The Supreme Court also upheld a dissent by Judge Lay in a 1983 case, Jaycees v. McClure. The Jaycees, a nonprofit organization that encouraged young men to engage in civic activities, had challenged a Minnesota order that they accept women as members. A federal district court upheld the order, but the Eighth Circuit reversed that ruling. In his dissent, Judge Lay said excluding women was based on an outdated rationale that “relegated women to a status inferior to that of men.” A year later, the Supreme Court agreed.

In 1997, Judge Lay wrote the majority opinion in Mille Lacs Band of Chippewa Indians v. Minnesota, which upheld the tribe’s rights to hunt and fish on land in central Minnesota to which it had been granted treaty rights in 1837. The state appealed that decision, but the Supreme Court ruled that the Chippewa were entitled to harvest up to half the fish and game on the land.

Donald Pomeroy Lay was born in Princeton, Ill., on Aug. 24, 1926. He attended the United States Naval Academy in the mid-1940s, but his plans to serve in the military ended when he suffered a back injury while playing for the academy’s football team. He graduated from the University of Iowa in 1949 and received his law degree there two years later.

Judge Lay is survived by his wife of 57 years, Miriam; five daughters, Catherine Lay, Betsy Lay, Susan Lay, Cindy Elston and Debbie Ford; and 10 grandchildren.

Mr. Lay was a trial lawyer in Milwaukee and Omaha for two decades before he was appointed to the Eighth Circuit bench. At 39, he was the second youngest judge ever appointed to that bench. (William Howard Taft was 34 when he was appointed in 1892.)

Perhaps Judge Lay’s most influential opinion came in Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co., which stemmed from a 1997 class-action suit brought by women working at a company mine. The women said they had been subjected to obscenities, stalking and other forms of sexual harassment for more than 20 years.

In his decision, Judge Lay wrote: “It should be obvious that the callous pattern and practice of sexual harassment engaged in by Eveleth Mines inevitably destroyed the self-esteem of the working women exposed to it. The humiliation and degradation suffered by these women is irreparable.”

The ruling was hailed as precedent-setting in a book by Clara Bingham and Laura Leedy Gansler, “Class Action: The Story of Lois Jenson and the Landmark Case That Changed Sexual Harassment Law” (Doubleday, 2002).

“Jenson v. Eveleth did not eradicate sexual harassment in the workplace,” the authors said. “But it made corporate America take real note of it for the first time, and established once and for all that women who are subjected to a hostile work environment need never stand alone again.”
41 2007-05-02 CINCINNATI, May 1 (AP) — Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer products company, said Tuesday that its quarterly earnings rose 14 percent on higher sales of its health products and razors.

The company, which makes household and personal care products like Tide laundry detergent, Head & Shoulders shampoo and Gillette razors, raised its full-year earnings forecast on the strong quarterly sales.

Procter & Gamble, which is based in Cincinnati, said that income rose to $2.51 billion, or 74 cents a share, from $2.21 billion, or 63 cents a share, a year earlier.

Sales in the period, which ended March 31 and was the third quarter of the company’s fiscal year, rose 8 percent, to $18.69 billion from $17.25 billion, exceeding Wall Street’s forecast for $18.56 billion. Profit was in line with forecasts, but stock in the company, which rose 2 percent on Monday in anticipation of the report, fell $1.44, to $62.96 a share.

The company cited volume growth of more than 10 percent by established brands such as Tide, Head & Shoulders, Charmin toilet tissue, Olay skin care, and Prilosec OTC heartburn medicine. Growth in developing markets also was up more than 10 percent, the company said, noting that hair care product growth was strong in China, where sales are heading toward $1 billion.

“Strong results this quarter were driven by the growth of P&G’s leading brands, Gillette synergy benefits and continued cost discipline,” said the chief executive, A. G. Lafley.
42 2007-05-02 The Chicago march drew 150,000 people, the police said, below the nearly half-million of last year.

Martha Martinez, 27, who said she was a legal resident, marched in Denver against the raids and on behalf of a family who she said was afraid of being arrested if they participated.

“It’s not right to separate families, but that’s what has happened,” Ms. Martinez said, as her 6-year-old son held a sign reading, “I refuse to live in fear.”

Some organizers faulted the raids as lowering the turnout of illegal immigrants. Organizers nonetheless claimed success in drawing attention to immigrants’ concerns.

“We have already injected ourselves into the national immigration debate,” said Javier Rodriguez, a march organizer in Los Angeles.

Although sizable in some places, the demonstrations were for the most part peaceful. At an evening rally, however, the Los Angeles police scuffled with some protesters as they tried to disperse the crowd. The police said protesters threw rocks and bottles at officers, who fired rubber cartridges and used batons to push the crowd out of the street. Minor injuries such as cuts and bruises were suffered by several people in the crowd and by several police officers; one person was arrested.

William Bratton, the chief of the Los Angeles police, said the department would review the incident to determine if force was used appropriately.

The demonstrations seemed to underscore how much the protest movement has struggled in the last year. More than 500,000 people turned out here last year. This year, the police estimated that 25,000 attended the largest of three rallies.

In Denver, where 75,000 people participated last year, an estimated 10,000 demonstrated, organizers said. The police put the number at no more than 2,000.

Unlike the protest last year, nobody called for a “day without an immigrant.” No widespread business boycotts materialized. For the most part, students did not pour out of schools.

Last year, a bill in Congress proposed, among other measures, making it a felony to be in the United States illegally, providing a sharp and clearly defined rallying point that fueled protests. Just as that proposal fizzled, so did the protests, with subsequent rallies smaller and smaller as organizers turned to voter registration and lobbying.

“The political climate last year was passionate, energetic, dramatic,” said Armando Navarro, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Riverside, who helped organize marches here last year. “This year, it is one of uncertainty, doubt, fear, things that are not encouraging of participation and impede in many ways people from participating.”

Reflecting on the last year, Professor Navarro said: “We could not agree on what needed to be done next. Some moved on to the assumption we had to impact the November elections to get Democrats elected in Congress. So there was a major gap between the May 1 demonstration and the voter registration drives that summer and fall. But after November, there was nothing in motion.”

After the Democrats won Congress, some advocates of immigration rights expressed hope that they might find a way to make citizens out of some or all the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Many of those Democrats won election taking a hard line on immigrants, and as presidential election politics heat up, doubts are growing that an immigration bill will be passed this year.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which says illegal immigrants drain the economy and opposes their legalization as an amnesty, said the marches only made clear the need for more enforcement.

“May Day 2007 is likely to draw a small fraction of the participants who marched on behalf of amnesty for illegal aliens in 2006, but it is certain to serve as a reminder to law-abiding Americans that Congress and the Bush administration have still not taken the necessary steps to secure the nation’s borders or protect American workers,” the group said in a statement.

A group of counterdemonstrators made a similar point as they confronted the thousands of advocates of immigration rights outside the Arizona Capitol in Phoenix.

In Washington, several hundred people demonstrated at Republican and Democratic Party headquarters.

In New York, demonstrations were modest compared with some elsewhere. Thousands gathered on Union Square, and demonstrators at an interfaith service at the Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village taped leaves on a mural depicting a tree to symbolize families separated by deportation.

Jacqueline Sayago, 42, of Ridgewood, Queens, a janitor who said she emigrated illegally from Venezuela, said she feared deportation and having to find somewhere for her daughter, 8, who was born in the United States, to stay.

“I am scared one day they will separate us,” Ms. Sayago said. “I want everybody in America to know that I work, I work hard. I pay I.R.S. money. I’m doing everything right.”
43 2007-05-02 “I’m convinced that melamine can’t do it by itself,” said Richard Goldstein of Cornell University’s veterinary college. Toxicity trials, he said, were done with pure melamine, not manufacturing scrap, which could also contain cyanuric acid or other compounds.

Also, said Jack D. Henion, a retired professor of toxicology and veterinary medicine at Cornell, cats — the first animals whose deaths from pet food were noticed — are unusually sensitive to kidney and urinary problems.

Melamine is a simple organic molecule that can be extracted from oil or coal, and is used as a resin in making plastics. It is found in plates, countertops, cabinet facings, even children’s erasers.

It contains large amounts of nitrogen. For that reason, it has apparently been used as a fertilizer, though it would presumably be harmless because plants would take up only the free nitrogen.

But in China, ground-up scraps from plastic-making have been added to grain and byproducts, like the sticky glutens used to thicken soups or help bread rise. It is presumably done to fool buyers into thinking they are getting a more nutritious product, because crude tests for protein in grain do not test for protein molecules, but for nitrogen, which proteins also have in abundance.

“It’s blatant fraud in my view,” Dr. Henion said. “There’s no other good reason we know of to put melamine in.”

Some of those grain products have been sold to the United States for pet food. Last week, the drug agency said it would start requiring importers to provide proof of the safety of many more ingredients, including glutens and proteins of wheat, rice, corn, soy and mung bean.

Officials from the drug agency and the Agriculture Department estimated yesterday that up to three million young broiler chickens on farms in Indiana ate feed contaminated with pet food containing melamine or related compounds in February.

Most were slaughtered, sold and, presumably, eaten, said Kenneth Peterson, assistant administrator for field operations with the Food Safety and Inspection Service.

Even in those chickens, or in hogs on other farms, independent toxicologists and drug agency and agriculture department officials said, it was highly unlikely that the melamine could concentrate in amounts that could be harmful to humans.

It would be mixed with other feeds, and much of it would be metabolized by animals and excreted. And it is not stored in fat as, for example, pesticides are. Also, most humans are not strictly carnivores, as cats are, so they would get lower doses.

“The dilution levels are enormous,” David Acheson, the drug agency’s assistant commissioner for food protection said yesterday. “When you multiply it all together, we think the likelihood of human illness is very low.”

Two drug agency employees arrived this week in China, an agency official said yesterday.

But the May Day holiday, which lasts all week there, could slow progress, though the Chinese government had agreed to make an official available, said Walter M. Batts, the drug agency’s deputy director for international relations.
44 2007-05-02 Chiquita Brands International, the distributor of bananas, other fruits and salad mixes, posted a quarterly loss yesterday, hurt by higher costs, lower banana prices in Europe and a charge related to a decision to exit unprofitable farms in Chile.

The company said that the net loss for the first quarter was $3.4 million, or 8 cents a share, compared with a net income of $19.5 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier.

The latest results include a charge of $5 million, or 12 cents a share, related to the Chilean operations. Analysts, on average, had expected the company, which is based in Cincinnati, to post a loss of 4 cents a share.

First-quarter net sales increased 3 percent, to $1.2 billion. Net banana sales grew 8 percent, while net sales of Fresh Express salads and healthy snacks fell 4 percent.

Problems with lettuce availability, higher costs and consumer concerns about the safety of packaged salad products will affect net sales through the third quarter of 2007, the company said.

Chiquita also said that it would sell 12 refrigerated cargo ships for $227 million to an alliance of the shipping companies Eastwind Maritime and NYKLauritzenCool. The deal will allow Chiquita to lease back 11 of the ships for at least seven years, with an option for five more years, and the 12th ship for three years with an option for two more.
45 2007-05-02 Cracking down on video piracy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed into law yesterday a measure that increases penalties for unauthorized recordings of public performances to six months in prison, with criminal fines of up to $5,000. The penalties were formerly 15 days in jail, with fines of up to $250. Mr. Bloomberg also announced the start of a marketing campaign to discourage New Yorkers from buying pirated DVDs, which the Motion Picture Association of America estimates cost the city $903 million a year in lost earnings, according to a study released yesterday. The campaign, which includes a trailer-style spot showing very blurry footage from “Happy Feet” that has been rated F for Fake, is to be shown on broadcast and cable stations starting on Monday.
46 2007-05-02 Despite back-to-back public relations disasters — first an E. coli outbreak at its Taco Bell franchise, and then a widely publicized rat infestation at one of its restaurants in New York City — Yum Brands yesterday reported strong first-quarter earnings, as surging overseas sales and growth offset reduced business in the United States.

The restaurant chain, which operates KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, said that net income increased 14 percent in the first quarter, to $194 million, led by a 31 percent increase in operating profit in the China division and a 25 percent increase in other overseas markets.

In the United States, the story was different. Operating profit at the company’s domestic restaurants declined by 11 percent in the quarter as company officials battled to restore consumer confidence. At Taco Bell, where both the E. coli and rat incidents occurred, same-store sales declined by 11 percent.

The first problem surfaced in December, when customers at Taco Bell stores in Long Island and New Jersey reported falling ill from E. coli poisoning after eating at the chain. The illnesses spread to Pennsylvania and Delaware, and the Centers for Disease Control confirmed more than 70 cases, though state officials suspected far more.

Preliminary tests by Taco Bell traced the E. coli to green onions, which are used as a garnish on some dishes. But further testing discounted green onions, and federal investigators eventually determined that the cause of the outbreak was lettuce, which is used in about 80 percent of Taco Bell’s dishes.
47 2007-05-02 The readjustment is occurring just as signs are emerging that the office market is slowing down nationwide. Though rents continued to rise in the first quarter of this year, the average vacancy rate for 58 metropolitan markets across the country rose to 12.6 percent from 12.5 percent, the first increase for any quarter since 2004, according to Torto Wheaton Research, a division of CB Richard Ellis.

Raymond G. Torto, principal and chief strategist of Torto Wheaton, said the slowdown was a predictable reaction to the problems in the auto and housing markets. “We see this as a cyclical phenomenon,” he said, “not something that is long-lasting.”

Another research organization, Reis Inc., found that office occupancy rates continued to rise in many markets, but at a slower pace than before. “The engine of demand appears not to be running as smoothly as it did in 2005 and the first half of 2006,” said Lloyd Lynford, the chief executive of Reis. If this trend persists, “rent growth will moderate,” he said.

Even in the superhot Manhattan market, brokers say, demand for large spaces is slowing. “Anecdotally, demand is not what it was a year ago,” said Mitchell S. Steir, the chairman and chief executive of Studley, a brokerage house that represents tenants.

Cautioning that “a few months don’t represent a trend,” Mr. Steir said real estate was a cyclical business. “The key to success so far has been to be the high bidder on everything available,” he said. “At some point, that strategy stops working.”

Neither the possibility of a slowdown nor the warnings about lax underwriting standards have led anyone to predict an imminent catastrophe in commercial real estate. The default rate for commercial mortgage-backed securities remains quite low and is not expected to increase appreciably in the near future, said Zanda Lynn, a managing director at Fitch Ratings.

Standard & Poor’s said that in the first quarter of this year, the delinquency rate for such bonds fell to its lowest level since its delinquency index was created in 1999.

But many of the loans issued recently could result in problems down the road, the bond analysts said. As was the case in the overheated residential mortgage market, many loans for commercial transactions are interest-only for the first 10 years, with huge balloon payments at the end of the term. The agencies say lenders are not requiring landlords to set aside adequate reserves to cover taxes, insurance and other costs if things go wrong and are accepting projections for rent growth that may be too optimistic.

Fitch predicted a 15 percent increase in defaults of loans that are being written now.

Space in Manhattan that was leased a while back for an annual rent of $40 a square foot may reasonably be said to be worth $70 a square foot in today’s market, said Mr. Duca at Moody’s Investors Service. But he said some lenders were now claiming that space that was recently leased for $70 a square foot was actually worth $90 a square foot. “That’s how aggressive it is now,” he said. “We’re saying the lending environment doesn’t make any sense.”

Huge deals are being concluded with great haste, leaving little time to research the buildings thoroughly. “You do deals in such a quick manner, there’s a risk that you could miss something,” Ms. Lynn said.

In one spectacular example of a hastily concluded deal, Macklowe Properties, a Manhattan company, took only 10 business days to complete its $7.25 billion purchase of eight Midtown office buildings that had belonged to Equity Office Properties before Equity was sold to the Blackstone Group in what was then the largest leveraged buyout ever. The average annual rent for the buildings is $55 to $59 a square foot, but the deal was underwritten with projections of future rents of $100 a square foot or more.

While the agencies are just beginning to carry out their new credit-tightening standards, their warnings are already having repercussions in the bond market. Investors are demanding higher rates of return, making the bonds costlier for the dealers, said Rob Brennan, the global head of real estate financing for Credit Suisse. “The fact is that the marketplace forces the change immediately,” he said.

Last week, a new $4.2 billion commercial-mortgage-backed security offered by GE Capital had to be restructured after investors complained that the originators of several of the loans had relied too heavily on projected income increases from the buildings, according to Commercial Mortgage Alert, a weekly trade newsletter. Five loans totaling $226.7 million were removed from the offering, and the investment-grade portion of another loan was further trimmed by $50 million, the newsletter reported. Mr. Brennan said the proceeds from the bond could be reduced by as much as $8 million because the bonds with high yields sell for much less than the top-rated bonds.

Most of the loans removed from the offering were originated by Deutsche Bank, which also provided $6 billion in debt financing for the purchase by Macklowe Properties of nearly all the Manhattan portfolio of Equity Office Properties. Deutsche Bank declined a request for comment on the restructuring of the GE Capital bond.

Several investors said the new rating agency standards were welcome. J. Larry Duggins, an executive managing director of the Centerline Capital Group, a New York company that buys high-yield commercial-mortgage-backed securities, said that “a number of investors, including Centerline, have been saying, ‘Ratings agencies, you’re kind of letting us get out of control.’ ”

Investors in high-risk commercial real estate securities have to be extremely careful these days, Mr. Duggins said. “There is some room for rent growth, but it’s not astronomical,” he said. “We typically will not underwrite much rent growth at all over the life of the deal.”

Mr. Brennan, a securitization industry veteran, said the changes were necessary, even though they would result in higher costs to the investment banks. “We’re trading some short-term pain for long-term gain,” he said. “If we do this right, we’ll stop a level of excess from getting out of hand. We want to avoid the kind of train wreck that the subprime market experienced.”
48 2007-05-02 But where to start? The Small Business Administration Web site is an excellent place to obtain information easily. It provides everything from details on characteristics important to run a business to information on writing a business plan to links to local centers offering assistance to start-ups.

The site’s “getting ready” section runs through a series of questions intended to help aspiring business owners gauge whether they have the qualities needed for the job: Are you a self-starter? Can you get along with different types of people? Are you risk-tolerant? Flexible and self-disciplined?

Need someone to hold your hand? Score, short for Service Corps of Retired Executives, has a network of more than 10,000 volunteers, working and retired executives, offering free guidance on the Web, through their offices across the country and at workshops. Small Business Development Centers, a partner of the S.B.A., also provide guidance at centers across the country.

Gillian Murphy, director of the San Joaquin Delta College Small Business Development Center, said she quizzed her clients about their reasons for going into business on their own.

“I tell them ‘I know you have something in your heart that’s telling you you’re going to be incredibly successful. My job is to get in your head and balance your head with your heart,’ ” Ms. Murphy said.

To do that she has them create a basic business plan, including a financial statement.

“Understanding the industry is key,” she said. “If someone is going to start a floral shop and they do a projected profit-and-loss statement and I don’t see spikes in February and May, they have no idea what they’re doing.”

Eunice Green, who owns a health food store in Stockton, Calif., turned to the development center at San Joaquin Delta College when she thought about buying a second store. With the help of the center, she took information on the types of customers at her existing store and did what Ms. Murphy calls “economic gardening.” After applying the demographics at various distances from the store, she decided against opening a second store.

“It’s kind of intuitive, but the S.B.D.C. gave me so many great concrete tools,” said Ms. Green, owner of Green’s Nutrition.

A number of online resources have also grown up in recent years geared to providing small-business owners with a wide range of information. They include sites like Work.com, which has more than 1,700 how-to segments covering a multitude of issues confronting small businesses; E-venturing, run by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation; and About.com’s small business and entrepreneur sites. (The New York Times Company owns About.com.)

StartupNation, a Web site founded by Rich and Jeff Sloan, offers advice through video segments augmented by written information and provides forums and groups where entrepreneurs can share information.

Other sites, like Bplans, owned and operated by Palo Alto Software, publisher of Business Plan Pro, have taken a more focused approach. Bplans offers more than 100 free sample business plans (more can be purchased) and they offer advice and other planning tools. When it comes to sorting through financial information, CCH Business Owner’s Toolkit has templates to help examine financial issues as well as other model business documents, checklists and government forms.

Still, any business or financial plan is only as good as the information it is built on. Finding that information may seem like a daunting task, but there are many free resources to turn to. A good first stop is the Census Bureau, which has detailed information in many areas including population, income and economic indicators for business. If the breadth of the Census Bureau’s information seems overwhelming, check out CensusScope, an Internet site that breaks demographic information down into manageable segments.

Another source of free statistical information online is FedStats, a site that provides a range of information produced by the federal government. And don’t forget you can still do your research the old-fashioned way by visiting a public library where a librarian will be able to provide a range of information, including industry publications.

The Library of Congress has compiled The Entrepreneur’s Guide to Small Business Information, a listing of books and directories helpful in establishing and running a business.

Ms. Murphy, who has been counseling small-business aspirants since 1989, says careful planning is essential to creating a successful business. Knowing the product, the market and the costs while having enough capital will go a long way toward getting through lean times.

“People who fail to plan have really not given themselves an opportunity to succeed,” she said.
49 2007-05-02 For those of us born in the 1960s, it is a little unnerving to watch Lincoln Center, another child of the ’60s, being treated for the manifestations of advanced age. As part of the complex’s continuing reconstructive surgery, Alice Tully Hall — the penultimate Lincoln Center edifice to be completed when it opened in 1969 — is getting a complete overhaul in the next 18 months. To send it off into its Brünnhilde-like slumber, a gala concert called “Good Night Alice” was held on Monday night, showcasing most of the hall’s major functions and tenants over the last 38 years. It struck the perfect tone: half festive, half somnolent.

A televised gala of musical snippets hardly makes an artistic statement, and its point is to touch all the familiar bases and evoke warm, fuzzy memories in the audience primed by the open bar. Drinks were allowed into the auditorium — since there was no worry about cleanup — and the proceedings were punctuated by the clink of glasses. Following the model of the Academy Awards, this presentation was embellished with video montages, one documenting the construction of the hall, one with excerpts from films shown by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, one with a video animation of the renovated campus. The Juilliard Orchestra, led by David Robertson, accompanied the first two with music from “West Side Story” and Bernard Herrmann’s “Fahrenheit 451.” The animation was underlined with a piano solo by a slightly lethargic Philip Glass.

Mr. Robertson tried to take a stand for the new with Messiaen’s “Oiseaux Exotiques,” using the orchestra’s wind and percussion players and showcasing Eric Huebner, who has not been a Juilliard student for some time but who did a fine job with the intricate piano part. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, which inaugurated the hall in 1969 with its very first performances, got only a movement here, the opening of the Mendelssohn Octet, sounding rather bottom-heavy, since Ida Kavafian’s first violin was not penetrating enough to dominate the strong ensemble.

The program succeeded in highlighting new talent, presenting a Juilliard student named Saeka Matsuyama as a lyrical soloist in the last movement of Mozart’s Fifth Violin Concerto. Jazz was, of course, represented by Wynton Marsalis, lively as ever, playing Ray Noble’s “Cherokee.” Standing in for the originally scheduled Audra McDonald (absent because of the death of her father in an aviation accident), but by no means replacing her, Kelli O’Hara gave a rather pale account of Adam Guettel’s “Migratory V” and Bernstein’s “Somewhere.”

The most vivid segment in the evening’s long lullaby was the strident wake-up of Laurie Anderson, a rapid-fire sing-song screed called “Only an Expert” that skewered those who refuse to recognize problems like global warming or the Iraq war — an interesting choice for a roomful of patrons who had paid upward of $1,500 a ticket, and a national television audience.

Her tone and brightness were matched by the whistling, hissing showers of fireworks that erupted from the roof of Avery Fisher Hall after the concert was over.
50 2007-05-02 MURDOCH BIDS FOR DOW JONES Rupert Murdoch, the head of the News Corporation, has made an unsolicited $5 billion offer to buy Dow Jones & Company, the venerable publisher of The Wall Street Journal that he has long coveted. [Page A1.]    ABRUPT RES...
51 2007-05-02 A court in Tashkent sentenced Umida Niyazova, a journalist and human rights worker, to seven years in prison. Amnesty International has called Ms. Niazova a prisoner of conscience. According to local reports, her lawyer was given only 30 minutes w...
52 2007-05-02 Cracking down on video piracy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed into law yesterday a measure that increases penalties for unauthorized recordings of public performances to six months in prison, with criminal fines of up to $5,000. The penalties w...
53 2007-05-02 The New York Times is introducing an online section on small business this week that will feature several exclusive columns, along with news and resources for entrepreneurs, managers and people interested in starting a business and changing career...
54 2007-05-02 WEISS--Paula, mother of Peter, mother-in-law of Cora, grandmother of Judy, Tamara and Danny, great-grandmother of Jules, Noah, Maria, Catherine and Simon, died April 29, age 104. She lived a courageous life, as a mater familias, a business woman, ...
55 2007-05-03 New Century Financial, the biggest subprime mortgage company to declare bankruptcy, will close its home-lending unit and fire about 2,000 employees after failing to find a buyer. Chief Executive Brad Morrice informed employees of the failed search...
56 2007-05-03 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, on the Senate floor just a few minutes ago, proposed Oct. 11, 2007, as the "expiration date" for the Iraq war....
57 2007-05-03 Credit Suisse is moving Paul Raphael from London to Hong Kong to run its investment banking group in Asia, excluding Japan, the firm said in an internal memo. In London, Mr. Raphael was co-head of the European global markets solutions group. Mr. R...
58 2007-05-03 New shows in New York include "Coram Boy" and "American Fiesta."...
59 2007-05-03 Largest and southernmost in the Hawaiian chain, the Big Island of Hawaii is synonymous with stunning landscapes and luxurious retreats....
60 2007-05-03 I am currently traveling throughout SE Asia and would like to add Vietnam to my itinerary. However, Vietnam requires that American tourists obtain a visa through a local consulate prior to arrival. I'm not able to travel to a city that has a consu...
61 2007-05-03 In what Reuters describes as its "sternest warning to date" on the state of the hedge-fund business, the New York Federal Reserve said Wednesday that the funds could represent the biggest risk for a financial crisis since 1998, when the implosion ...
62 2007-05-03 In a shocking move, UBS said it would scrap its hedge fund, Dillon Read Capital Management, after losses at the unit contributed to a third straight decline in quarterly profit. "We concluded that the DRCM initiative did not meet our expectations,...
63 2007-05-03 The Jones Apparel Group, the owner of Barneys New York and Nine West, said Wednesday that it would close or sell some of its moderately priced apparel brands by year-end, a move that would help reduce its exposure to department stores. Jones, whic...
64 2007-05-03 As the Nasdaq Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange battle each other at home and abroad for new listings, China has become a key battleground, BusinessWeek notes. While the Nasdaq has scored firms like the search portal Baidu.com and the C...
65 2007-05-03 As cash-rich private equity firms continue to buy many of the largest public companies, there is a new focus on one question: Do these big buyouts create jobs or destroy them? The claim that private equity shops are enriching themselves on the bac...
66 2007-05-03 After several Web sites posted a secret code used to prevent piracy of high-definition movies, corporate lawyers demanded that the code be removed. Internet users responded by distributing it even more widely in what was characterized as an exerci...
67 2007-05-03 “We can no longer make the excuse that we need to wait for more science, or the excuse that we need to wait for more technologies and policy knowledge,” said Adil Najam, an author of one chapter and an associate professor of international negotiation at the Fletcher School at Tufts University. “To me the big message is that we now have both and we do not need to wait any longer.”

The report also made clear the risks of delay, noting that emissions of greenhouse gases have risen 70 percent since 1970 and could rise an additional 90 percent by 2030 if nothing is done.

Carbon dioxide is particularly important not only because so much is produced each year — about 25 billion tons — but because much of it persists in the atmosphere, building like unpaid credit card debt.

To stop the rise, report authors said, countries would need to expand adoption of existing policies that can cut emissions — like a fuel tax or the binding limits set by the Kyoto Protocol — while also increasing research seeking new energy options. This work would include pushing for advances in solar and nuclear power.

The meeting ended just after dawn today in Bangkok with several authors of the report saying that there had been relatively little last-minute fighting with government officials over details. China had resisted language that implied big cuts would have to be made in fast-growing developing countries, which will soon surpass rich countries as the dominant source of greenhouse gases.

According to several authors, the final version estimates that bringing global carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 to levels measured in 2000 would require a cost on released carbon dioxide of $50 to $100 a ton, roughly on a par — in terms of fossil fuel prices — of an additional 25 cents to 50 cents for a gallon of gasoline.

The report projects that this shift might cause a small blunting of global economic activity, resulting in an overall reduction of perhaps one-tenth of a percentage point per year through 2100 in the world’s total economic activity, the authors said.

Some of the experts and government officials involved in the final discussions said in telephone interviews and in e-mail messages that the costs could be substantially greater than that.

But a variety of participants, including some from the United States, said in interviews that it was hard to argue against such an investment, given the potential costs of inaction.

William Moomaw, a lead author of a chapter on energy options and a professor of international environmental policy at Tufts University, said that he saw evidence that big cuts could happen.

“Here in the early years of the 21st century, we’re looking for an energy revolution that’s as comprehensive as the one that occurred at the beginning of the 20th century when we went from gaslight and horse-drawn carriages to light bulbs and automobiles,” Dr. Moomaw said. “In 1905, only 3 percent of homes had electricity. Right now, 3 percent is about the same range as the amount of renewable energy we have today. None of us can predict the future any more than we could in 1905, but that suggests to me it may not be impossible to make that kind of revolution again.”
68 2007-05-03 One competitor is DeCode Genetics, a private company based in Reykjavik, Iceland, that has used the comprehensive health care records and known genealogy of the Icelandic population to track disease. Decode has dominated the gene-finding field for the last several years.

DecCode’s rivals are medical researchers based at universities in the United States and Europe. They have made a slower start because, without an Icelandic-type data set, they have had to wait for construction of the Hap Map, a survey of common genetic variations on the human genome in Africans, Asians and Europeans. These common variations, known as SNP’s or “snips,” are thought to be the genetic basis of the common diseases.

Both sides have been greatly helped by a technical development, the construction by companies such as Affymetrix and Illumina of instruments known as microarrays — chips that can now detect up to 500,000 snips. With the chips, the genomes of patients with a particular disease can be compared with those of healthy people, allowing snips that seem associated with the disease to be identified.

Last week, both DeCode and three academic consortia reported new diabetes genes. This week’s reports on heart disease come from DeCode and another academic consortium, led by Ruth McPherson of the University of Ottawa Heart Institute and Jonathan Cohen of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.

Dr. McPherson said it came as a “complete surprise” that that DeCode had submitted its report at the same time to the same journal, but that “at the end of the day we are very happy they came out with the same result.”

Both groups identified snips in a small region of Chromosome 9 (the human genome is packaged into 23 chromosome pairs) as being associated with higher risk of heart disease.

But as if to prove how much remains to be understood about human biology, the snips lie in a stretch of DNA that contains no gene or genetic element whose functional purpose is known. It is only on the basis of rigorous statistics that the two groups believe their snips must be causally associated with heart disease.

This means the researchers still have no idea of the mechanism by which the snips raise the risk of heart disease. When the mechanism comes to light, it may be possible to design drugs that interfere with it and avert the risk. For the moment, however, the practical use of the new finding is in diagnostic testing.

DeCode says it will use this and other heart-disease-related variants it has found as the basis for a test that gauges the inherited risk.

But Dr. McPherson said, “It would be unfortunate if snips using these tests were patented and physicians couldn’t use them without paying a royalty to DeCode.”

A test, Dr. McPherson said, would help address the big unanswered question in heart disease: which patients should receive which of the many interventions available. Risk is now assessed based on conventional factors like smoking, but if a patient turned out to have two copies of the genetic variant, his risk would be judged much higher than his physician may have estimated based on such factors.

The new heart disease risk snip is much less common in Africans and African-Americans, and seems not to be correlated with heart disease in these populations, the Ottawa-Dallas team reports.

The idea behind the Hap Map — that common genetic variants are associated with common diseases — assumes that natural selection is unlikely to weed out disease genes that act only late in life, well after the age of reproduction. But the heart-disease risk variant is so extraordinarily common that it may be present because it also confers some unknown benefit.

“It is clear that this variant must have some advantage, or it couldn’t be in 50 percent of the population, so I think it’s likely there has been some selection for it,” said Kari Stefansson, DeCode’s chief executive.

The variant lies at a site on chromosome 9 very close to one of the diabetes variants reported last week. At a news briefing last week, Francis Collins, the director of the National Human Genome Research Institute, commented on the coincidence that a single region of the genome could contain factors for both diabetes and heart disease. “I think this is a stunner. This is like the seat of the soul of the genome,” he said.

Other biologists suggested that the link hinted at an unsuspected common biology shared by the two diseases.

But Dr. Stefansson dismissed this idea emphatically, saying he had tested it in thousands of people with both diseases. “I can say with substantial authority that these markers are uncorrelated,” he said, meaning that the sites of the two disease variants lie close to each other only by coincidence.
69 2007-05-03 But General Caldwell said there may not be any Mr. Baghdadi.

“If that person even exists,” he said, the American military is not aware of anyone fitting his supposed description whose body “is going through any kind of testing or analysis at this point.”

The competing claims seemed to arise from repeated recoveries of the same body.

General Caldwell said that after Mr. Jubouri’s corpse was released to a tribesman on Wednesday for burial, it was seized again at an Iraqi-run checkpoint in Baghdad.

“They didn’t know exactly who he was,” he said. “They recognized he was on some kind of wanted list.”

He added: “That led to the ensuing report that they had in fact captured him, although he had been killed.”

The Iraqis then brought the body back to the Americans, who identified it for a second time.

General Caldwell said communication between Iraqi and American forces was being reviewed, but that Iraqi troops should be praised for their efforts.

“They were alert, they were attentive,” he said. “They were paying attention.”

Mr. Jubouri was involved in the movement of foreign fighters and money into Iraq from Syria, said General Caldwell, who described Mr. Jubouri’s death as “significant.” The general also said Mr. Jubouri was involved in hiding and moving Jill Carroll; she was held for two months before being released.

Detainees told American officials that Mr. Jubouri had personal custody of Mr. Fox, an American, and was the last one seen holding him before Mr. Fox was killed, according to General Caldwell. Mr. Fox, one of four men from the Chicago-based peace group Christian Peacemaker Teams working in Iraq, was found shot to death in Baghdad on March 10, 2006.

The two Germans were kidnapped in January 2006.

Mr. Jubouri was first captured by coalition forces in 2003 and then was released in 2004, after which he traveled to Syria, where he has family, General Caldwell said. He described Mr. Jubouri as a close associate of Mr. Masri.

General Caldwell said that Mr. Jubouri was killed while resisting detention at 1:42 a.m. on Tuesday, during coalition military strikes against 29 targets over three days. He said that in all, 95 militants were detained in the raids and 15 were killed.

The raid in which Mr. Jubouri was killed with four other people was conducted on four buildings in a town north of Baghdad and four miles west of the Taji air base. Six people were detained.

In April, American forces conducted 139 operations specifically aimed at Al Qaeda in Iraq, killing 87 and detaining 465, General Caldwell said.

The United States Embassy, meanwhile, said that a rocket or mortar attack on the Green Zone in central Baghdad on Wednesday killed four civilian contractors — two from India, one from the Philippines and one from Nepal.

Today, the repeated boom of another attack rocked the fortified area for the fourth night in a row. There were no reports of casualties.
70 2007-05-03 A highway ramp shut down by the collapse of an overpass near the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge will not have to be rebuilt from scratch and could reopen within 10 days, the governor said. The ramp connecting two Interstate highways was blocked Sunday when a burning tanker truck brought down the overpass. The governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, said the ramp connecting westbound Interstate 80 to southbound Interstate 880 could be fully open in as few as seven days and as many as 10. Investigators found that the steel girders holding up the lower ramp had warped but remained sound and could be straightened, said Bob Haus, a spokesman for the California Department of Transportation. The overpass connecting eastbound Interstate 80 to eastbound Interstate 580 was destroyed, however, and will have to be replaced.
71 2007-05-03 Credit Suisse said first-quarter profit rose 5 percent, helped by favorable markets for trading stocks and bonds and more commissions from wealthy clients. Profit was 2.7 billion Swiss francs ($2.23 billion), compared with 2.6 billion francs a year earlier. Overall revenue rose 6 percent, to 11.62 billion francs ($9.61 billion). The private banking arm benefited from healthy markets, with commissions and fees up 18 percent. Oswald J. Grübel, 63, is stepping down as chief executive tomorrow, and will be succeeded by Brady W. Dougan. Mr. Dougan, 47, is chief of Credit Suisse’s investment bank.
72 2007-05-03 To prosecutors, his seemingly normal demeanor before and after the crime is strong evidence that the assault was rational and premeditated.

To the defense, which did not contest the evidence presented yesterday and acknowledges that the police arrested the right man, Mr. Braunstein’s nonchalance was evidence of schizophrenia. What criminal in his right mind, defense lawyers suggested, would scatter his name, address, phone number and other clues like bread crumbs in his wake?

“He was very friendly,” Jose Ramirez, a rental agent at what was then called Storage U.S.A., in Long Island City, testified yesterday. “He was a real talkative person.”

“Were you able to understand him?” the prosecutor asked.

“Did it appear that he was able to understand you?”

Mr. Ramirez said he asked Mr. Braunstein about getting a book published. Mr. Braunstein told him that nonfiction sold better than fiction, and that The Village Voice (where Mr. Braunstein got his start) was a good place to nurture his writing career, Mr. Ramirez said.

On cross-examination, Mr. Braunstein’s lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, asked whether his client had given his true address, cellphone number and emergency contact. The rental agent said that he believed he had.

After the assault, the police found the victim’s Gucci fur coat, Louis Vuitton bag, driver’s license and résumé in Mr. Braunstein’s locker.

He also used his real name and Queens address to order a New York City firefighter’s turnout coat from Lloyd Beard, a firefighter in Baltimore, who testified that he had offered it for sale on eBay.

Mr. Braunstein’s winning bid was $129.79, placed under the Internet nickname “dr. groovy,” Mr. Beard testified.

Mr. Braunstein wore that turnout coat, prosecutors said, when he burst into his former co-worker’s apartment about 6 p.m. on Oct. 31, 2005. About three hours before, at 3:07 p.m., they said, he sent an e-mail message to Norma Piecyk, an administrative assistant at Xavier High School, with the subject line: “Last archival invoice for the foreseeable future.”

Prosecutors say Mr. Braunstein stripped the woman, tied her to her bed, groped her and left her apartment at daybreak, about 13 hours after he arrived. Later that morning, on Nov. 1, Ms. Piecyk testified, he arrived at Xavier, “the same as always,” to collect his paycheck.

“I gave him his envelope,” Ms. Piecyk said. “I wished him luck on his trip, and that was it.”

The prosecutor asked what trip she was referring to.

“Well,” Ms. Piecyk said softly, glancing at Mr. Braunstein, “he had told us he was going away to Paris.”

Mr. Braunstein did go away, but not to Paris. He was arrested six weeks later in Memphis. As a police officer approached him, prosecutors have said, Mr. Braunstein stabbed himself repeatedly in the neck.
73 2007-05-03 LOS ANGELES, May 2 (AP) — A federal judge signed off on a $1.53 billion jury verdict in favor of Alcatel-Lucent in a digital music patent dispute against Microsoft.

Judge Rudi M. Brewster of Federal District Court in San Diego concluded that Microsoft’s Windows Media Player software infringed on patents owned by Lucent Technologies, an American telecommunications equipment maker acquired last year by Alcatel of France.

The damages were awarded by a jury in February.

A Microsoft spokesman, Guy Esnouf, said the company would challenge the ruling during a June 20 hearing, citing a Supreme Court ruling earlier this week in favor of Microsoft in a patent lawsuit brought by AT&T. The company claimed computers running the Windows operating system infringed on AT&T technology for a digital speech coder system.

The high court found that patent law did not apply to software sent to foreign countries.

It also rejected AT&T’s contention that it was entitled to damages for every Windows-based computer manufactured outside the United States using the speech technology.

Mary Lou Ambrus, a spokeswoman for Alcatel-Lucent, said the company was pleased with Brewster’s ruling on its case.
74 2007-05-03 “Our plans in 2007 call for a substantial increase in the funding of business operations to build long-term growth and profitability,” Mr. Forsee said.

While the company pointed to a total increase in customers of 568,000 in the period, most of those were less-valuable prepaid customers, who tend to move among the carriers and spend less each month. Monthly wireless subscribers spent less during the quarter as well — an average of $59 a month, down from $60 in the fourth quarter. And like all major telecommunications companies, Sprint Nextel is experiencing defections from its wireline phone business.

Sprint Nextel also appears to be lagging further behind its two larger rivals, the Cingular unit of AT&T and Verizon Wireless, as it struggles to address service problems that it has experienced since Sprint acquired Nextel in 2005. AT&T recently reported a gain of 1.2 million wireless customers in the first quarter, while Verizon gained 1.7 million.

Sprint Nextel executives said yesterday that the company had 53.6 million wireless customers. AT&T ended the first quarter with 62.2 million, and Verizon, 60.7 million.

The report was released before the start of trading yesterday. Shares of Sprint Nextel rose 66 cents to close at $20.67.

Looking ahead, Sprint reiterated its forecast for 2007 revenue of $41 billion to $42 billion, and said it expected to gain monthly subscribers during the second quarter.

Some Wall Street analysts were skeptical about the company’s ability to achieve a meaningful increase in monthly subscribers anytime soon. An analyst with SurTerre Research, Todd Rethemeier, said the company’s marketing message had become muddled, focusing on the speed of the company’s data network while Verizon and Cingular were effectively focusing on the more important issue of wireless network quality.

“They missed out on where the core of the wireless customer was,” Mr. Rethemeier said. Catching up now, he said, is not going to be easy for the company.

Sprint Nextel was notably missing from a government contract, the biggest ever, awarded in March to its three rivals — AT&T, Verizon Communications and Qwest Communications. The 10-year contract is valued at about $20 billion, but could be worth as much as $48 billion for the three companies.

Sprint Nextel’s revenue from data services rose 44 percent to $1.2 billion. And the company added 200,000 customers to its Internet long-distance phone service, for a total of more than 1.7 million.

Sprint Nextel’s churn, the rate at which customers discontinued service, was 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter for its monthly wireless customers, the same as the fourth quarter but higher than the 2.1 percent reported during the first quarter last year.
75 2007-05-03 ELMONT, N.Y., May 2 — If betting on horses were the only reason people came to Belmont Park, no one would come. Bettors can gamble over the telephone now, or online. For the companionship of other such enthusiasts, there is Off-Track Betting.

There were not many who showed up to watch the first nine races of the season at this 102-year-old track on Wednesday afternoon. Many of those who did in the announced crowd of 4,933 said there was just something about thousands of pounds of horse moving fast that gets lost in digital translation via television, telephone and the Internet.

“I like to go down to the fence and feel the impact,” said John Sokolowski, an exterminator from Flushing who picked the 5-year-old gelding, Operation Red Dawn, to win in the first race. Mr. Sokolowski lost his bet, but he said he enjoyed the sight of his handsome chestnut pick kicking up the gray dirt as it cantered by afterward.

“You can feel them under your feet,” he said, “right through the ground.”

In the middle of this suburban hamlet, Belmont Park presents a palatial facade, with a grandstand that seats 33,000, encapsulating an earthy and informal place. The parking is cheap, $2 most days, though the bumpy road to the lot could cost you a broken axle. The security is relaxed: A casual visitor is able to walk unquestioned into the winner’s circle and stand within arm’s length of the contenders.

And like most valuable pieces of real estate in a state of down-at-the-heels stasis, the park is about to undergo a spate of modernizing that some here welcome and others view with alarm.

Due in part to a long and steady decline in attendance, and in part to what state auditors in 2004 called fiscal mismanagement, the New York Racing Association, a nonprofit agency that operates Belmont and the state’s two other thoroughbred racetracks, Aqueduct in Queens and Saratoga Springs, has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy since November.
76 2007-05-03 The N.C.A.A. released its third annual installment of academic progress data yesterday, penalizing few colleges but projecting many more penalties next year.

Most of the programs cited in the latest round of penalties have a low national profile. But that should change next year when an exception known as squad size adjustment, which was incorporated to help teams adapt to the new rules, will no longer be available to help stave off scholarship losses.

Without the squad size adjustment, 44 percent of men’s basketball teams, 40 percent of football teams and 35 percent of baseball teams would have posted scores low enough to have “possibly lost scholarships,” according to a news release by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. (The baseline number the N.C.A.A. uses for Academic Progress Rate is 925, which is approximately equal to a 60 percent graduation rate.)

The N.C.A.A. president, Myles Brand, said he was generally pleased with the data, which included improvements in baseball and football. But he added that the numbers in men’s basketball became worse; its 928 A.P.R. is the lowest of any sport.

“This year, to a large extent, this should be a warning to the presidents, athletic directors and coaches,” said Walter Harrison, the president of the University of Hartford and chairman of the committee on academic performance. “This is a good year to get a plan together and show improvement.”

Some of the colleges hit the hardest were those in Louisiana, which is still dealing with fallout from Hurricane Katrina, and historically black colleges and universities. N.C.A.A. officials said that they had set up a special fund, which has $1.6 million in it, to advise and support student-athletes at historically black colleges and universities. Hardship waivers have been available for the Louisiana colleges.
77 2007-05-03 “It’s ridiculous,” the general said, according to The Nation, a Thai newspaper. “I think Thais are in a confused condition. Some may not be able to separate what is good from what is bad. Perhaps we should ask a psychiatrist to help them.”

A government official, Deputy Social Development Minister Poldej Pinpratheep, took it all less seriously, calling both the golf presidency and the bid to buy the soccer club “a typical gag” of Mr. Thaksin’s. “It’s his style to make news.”

As he travels around the world, mostly in Asia, Mr. Thaksin plays the part of a relaxed, exceedingly wealthy retiree, grateful to be rid of the burdens of public service.

Most recently he appeared at the opening of a golf course outside Beijing where he followed the celebrated golfer Jack Nicklaus in taking the ceremonial inaugural tee shots.

Mr. Thaksin was in New York when the generals ousted him; although they have not barred him from returning, they have strongly discouraged him. Last week, Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said, “My message to him is: Don’t come back.”

On being awarded what will by necessity be an honorary presidency of the golf association, Mr. Thaksin repeated his assurance that he had “washed his hands of politics.”

But he is clearly not retired, having hired American lobbying and public relations firms to advance his interests and, apparently, to keep him in the news.

On Monday the government struck back, saying it was hiring an American public relations company on a three-month $600,000 contract to polish its own image. Mr. Surayud’s pace and unfocused style have led people to call him “a hermit who raises turtles.”

Even as its popularity wanes, the government faces a number of challenges as it tries to keep its promise of producing a new constitution and holding elections.

Opposition has been building on many fronts against the recently completed constitution. It is subject to approval in a referendum, and some commentators here are predicting that it will be voted down.

That would be taken as a vote of no confidence in the government and would send the country into further crisis, said Giles Ungpakorn, a pro-democracy campaigner.

“It would be a clear signal that people don’t approve of their handling of the political situation,” he said. “If they can’t even produce a constitution, and they certainly haven’t brought charges against Thaksin, then the question is, why did they stage a coup in the first place?”
78 2007-05-03 The federal Education Department announced yesterday that it was restoring some access to a database with personal information on millions of financial aid applicants.

The department restricted access last month to the database, the National Student Loan Data System, out of concern that student lenders or other marketers were improperly obtaining private information about potential borrowers. Loan companies, guarantors (the agencies that guarantee federal loans against default) and other entities were barred.

The department outlined a series of new security procedures yesterday in a letter sent to 35 guarantors. To get into the database, guarantors will have to provide the names of employees who will be given access, along with certification that the company will comply with access rules.

Other entities, like lenders and loan-service companies, will have to wait their turn to regain access.

Pam Eliadis, director of the department’s student loan database group, wrote that the database was “not to be used for the marketing of student loans or other products or services.” The database is meant to help determine eligibility for federal financial aid and to assist in loan collection.

Also yesterday, Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House education committee, asked the Federal Trade Commission to investigate marketing practices by student loan companies. Letters to students “are often intentionally designed to confuse or mislead,” Mr. Miller said, citing two examples: one from the College Debt Corporation and one from Education Loan Funding. He said the companies had used official-looking government logos.
79 2007-05-03 Even so, the G.A.O. found that the average audit of people with money offshore turned up twice as much in unpaid taxes — about $5,800 — than audits of money kept inside the United States.

The average assessment of unpaid taxes tripled to $17,500 for the limited number of audits that were allowed to run longer than three years, and it shot up to nearly $100,000 for the small number allowed to run four or five years.

The new report was requested by the Senate Finance Committee, where Democrats and Republicans alike are looking for more ways to crack down on people who move their profits overseas.

The I.R.S. has estimated that the government loses about $300 billion a year from companies and people who underreport incomes. While much of that so-called tax gap stems from people inside the country, often self-employed people or family-owned businesses, Democratic lawmakers contend that the government could be losing tens of billions of dollars a year from offshore tax evasion.

“Trillions of dollars flow out of the United States every year in both legitimate and illegitimate transactions,” said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.

“We’ve got to go after the offshore activity that abuses our tax system and thereby cheats the honest folks who pay their fair share.”

Tax analysts say it is almost impossible to know how much the government is losing from international tax evasion.

The I.R.S.’s estimates of money moved offshore are based on transfers that are reported by financial institutions like banks and investment firms that handle such transactions.

But those estimates leave out at least two potentially big pots of taxable income: transfers of money that are not reported to the government and overseas profits made by Americans on money that is already outside the country.

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, a professor of law at the University of Michigan who will testify at the Senate hearing on Thursday, estimated last year that the United States could be losing as much as $50 billion from international tax maneuvering.

Mr. Avi-Yonah based his estimate on calculations by the Boston Consulting Group that residents of the United States — individuals as well as corporations — are holding about $1.5 trillion outside the country. If that money produced a 10 percent return, he said, the United States might be failing to collect taxes on about $150 billion a year.

The new G.A.O. report focuses on the narrower issue of auditing people who move money out of the United States each year.

It reported that offshore audits routinely become bogged down by stalling tactics by taxpayers, difficulties in getting financial information from foreign institutions and the technical complexity of many offshore transactions.

As part of its inquiry, the G.A.O. examined 12 offshore tax audits. In one case, which the G.A.O. said typified the obstacles, the I.R.S. spent four years investigating a person with businesses in both the United States and an unnamed overseas tax haven.

The investigation included 20 summonses, 23 demands for documents, 5 missed appointments and 2 refusals by the person being investigated to supply information. After four years, the government still did not know how much money had been moved to the tax haven.

Audits can be pursued for more than three years, but agents have to meet tough requirements and their findings can be dismissed and the agents reprimanded if the unpaid taxes turn out to be smaller than expected.

“Revenue agents and managers told us that some developed cases are not opened for examinations because insufficient time remains under the statute,” the G.A.O. reported. Many case files that are prepared for an audit, it said, are instead “surveyed” and closed.

The three-year deadline creates an even bigger problem, the G.A.O. said, by making it even harder to recover money from previous years after auditors find that a person underreported income in the most recent year.

“A senior I.R.S. official told us that this is a particularly significant problem, because it is often in the first years of an offshore scheme where the taxpayers move the most money offshore and the most egregious tax evasion takes place,” the report said.
80 2007-05-03 You miss no opportunity to call on Israel to “take risks” to seek peace.

Israel took two such risks — withdrawing unilaterally from southern Lebanon in 2000, and from the Gaza Strip in 2005 — yet was rewarded by continued missile attacks from Gaza, terror strikes from the West Bank, and the cross-border kidnapping of its soldiers into Lebanon, the incident that precipitated last summer’s war.

Would any rational government continue to take risks to seek peace under such circumstances?

Your editorial rightly lauds Israel for its open examination of the decision-making behind the Lebanon war last summer.

Despite your contention, the record is clear on Israel’s diplomatic efforts when it has partners willing to engage in diplomacy rather than engaging in terrorism and seeking Israel’s destruction.

Israel does not use “brute force,” but like the United States and other sovereign nations, used its military to defend its people and land when attacked.
81 2007-05-03 “The market has moved significantly over the last six months, and our expectations have risen with it,” said Brett Gorvy, a co-head of postwar and contemporary art for Christie’s worldwide. “We have had to take a leap of faith in our belief that we have reached a new price threshold.”

Both Mr. Gorvy and Tobias Meyer, director of contemporary art for Sotheby’s worldwide, said they took into account recent private sales, in particular the much-publicized deals that the entertainment magnate and art collector David Geffen made six months ago. A gifted collector with a sure eye and deep pockets, Mr. Geffen sold several modern masterpieces, including paintings by de Kooning, Pollock and Jasper Johns, so rare that many of today’s richest hedge fund managers paid top prices, realizing that works of such stature would not be for sale again.

This same now-or-never psychology is driving the back-to-back auctions over the next two weeks. What distinguishes this spring from past seasons is how definitively tastes have changed. The spotlight is not on pricey Impressionist and modern paintings, as it has traditionally been, but on postwar and blue-chip contemporary art.

Sellers this season, betting on the market’s upward spiral, include seasoned collectors like David Rockefeller, the philanthropist and chairman emeritus of the Museum of Modern Art; Mr. Geffen; the advertising mogul Charles Saatchi; and the filmmaker Oliver Stone.

Sotheby’s has two staggering paintings. By far the most talked about is a seminal abstract canvas by Mark Rothko: “White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose),” a dreamy pink painting from 1950 that is considered a prime example of his abstract works. Its provenance is every bit as rare as the painting itself. The seller is Mr. Rockefeller, a prolific donor who, when he realized how much his Rothko was worth, decided to cash in on a rising market to use the money for other philanthropic projects.

Which name — Rothko or Rockefeller — carries more magic is anyone’s guess, but Sotheby’s is relentlessly marketing the painting. Top clients have received special white hardback catalogs. And super-rich collectors who were given private viewings of the painting were presented with special gift bags, compliments of Sotheby’s, that included catalogs of a 1998-99 traveling Rothko retrospective, during which the painting was on view at institutions like the National Gallery of Art in Washington.

Its $40 million estimate is nearly twice the previous auction record for a Rothko painting, $22.4 million paid at Christie’s in 2005. Its guarantee is more than that; experts familiar with the negotiations say Sotheby’s has promised Mr. Rockefeller $46 million, not to mention giving him a lion’s share of the buyer’s premium.

Mr. Rockefeller bought the painting in 1960 for less than $10,000.

“Nothing like this has come on the market,” Mr. Meyer said. Asked about the aggressive deals he has made with sellers this spring, he added: “This is the market with the biggest growth factor, so you have to be aggressive about it. Why not?”

The other star work in Sotheby’s sale on May 15 is “Study From Innocent X,” a 1962 painting by Francis Bacon. The first in his series based on Velázquez’s “Portrait of Pope Innocent X” (1650), a rich red canvas with a full-length version of one of Bacon’s signature contorted characters. It is estimated at $30 million, more than the record $27.5 million for a Bacon paid at Christie’s in London in February. Christie’s has its share of standouts, and it too has produced separate catalogs for some of its big-ticket items. Among the best is Warhol’s “Green Car Crash (Green Burning Car I),” from 1963. A rare example of the famous “Death and Disaster” series, it depicts a photo from a 1963 issue of Newsweek that showed a man whose car had crashed, impaling him on a telephone pole. Christie’s estimates it will bring in $25 million to $35 million, another record estimate.

Younger artists are conspicuously absent from the Sotheby’s and Christie’s sales; that market is now dominated by Phillips, de Pury & Company, the smaller Chelsea firm. But even its sale on May 17 is somewhat tamer than in years past, offering a smattering of mostly well-known names whose work has been seen on the walls of Chelsea galleries. (Michael McGinnis, head of Phillips’s contemporary-art department, said about 30 percent of the material in the auction is being sold by dealers.)

Dealer property can also be found in the Impressionist and modern sales; Christie’s auction on Wednesday has several works that have been on the market recently. But it also has a few paintings and watercolors with star potential, among them Signac’s “Arrière du Tub” (1888), named for a boat whose stern is in the foreground of the painting. It is expected to bring $6 million to $8 million.

Sotheby’s Impressionist and modern sale on Tuesday is bigger and more expensive, and it has fresher material. Highlights include a colorful 1915 painting by Lyonel Feininger; a group of Cézanne watercolors; and an important Giacometti sculpture being sold by Mr. Geffen.

Putting together the Impressionist and modern art sales hasn’t been easy this season, since no big estates came on the market, nor were any big restitution cases settled. For the most part collectors are holding on to their art.

“People still expect the market to keep rising,” said David Norman, Sotheby’s director for Impressionist and modern art worldwide. “Had they been fearful of a market decline, we would have seen a rush to sell. And this spring that didn’t happen.”
82 2007-05-03 The number is being enshrined in some creative ways. Keith Burgon, a 24-year-old musician in Goldens Bridge, N.Y., grabbed his acoustic guitar on Tuesday and improvised a melody while soulfully singing the code. He posted the song to YouTube, where it was played more than 45,000 times.

“I thought it was a source of comedy that they were trying so futilely to quell the spread of this number,” Mr. Burgon said. “The ironic thing is, because they tried to quiet it down it’s the most famous number on the Internet.”

During his work break on Tuesday, James Bertelson, an engineer in Vancouver, Wash., joined the movement and created a Web page featuring nothing but the number, obscured in an encrypted format that only insiders could appreciate. He then submitted his page to Digg, a news site where users vote on what is important. Despite its sparse offerings, his submission received nearly 5,000 votes and was propelled onto Digg’s main page.

“For most people this is about freedom of speech, and an industry that thinks that just because it has high-priced lawyers it has the final say,” Mr. Bertelson said.

Messages left for those lawyers and the trade organization they represent, the Advanced Access Content System Licensing Administrator, which controls the encryption system known as A.A.C.S., were not answered. In an e-mail message, a representative for the group said only that it “is looking into the matter and has no further comment at this time.”

The organization is backed by technology companies like I.B.M., Intel, Microsoft and Sony and movie studios like Disney and Warner Brothers, which is owned by Time Warner.

The secret code actually stopped being a secret in February, when a hacker ferreted it out of his movie-playing software and posted it on a Web bulletin board. From there it spread through the network of technology news sites and blogs.

Last month, lawyers for the trade group began sending out cease-and-desist letters, claiming that Web pages carrying the code violated its intellectual property rights under the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. One letter was sent to Google, which runs a blog network at blogspot.com.

The campaign to remove the number from circulation went largely unnoticed until news of the letters hit Digg. The 25-employee company in San Francisco, acting on the advice of its lawyers, removed posting submissions about the secret number from its database earlier this week, then explained the move to its readers on Tuesday afternoon.

The removals were seen by many Digg users as a capitulation to corporate interests and an assault on free speech. Some also said that the trade group that promotes the HD-DVD format, which uses A.A.C.S. protection, had advertised on a weekly Digg-related video podcast.

On Tuesday afternoon and into the evening, stories about or including the code swamped Digg’s main page, which the company says gets 16 million readers each month. At 9 p.m. West Coast time, the company surrendered to mob sentiment.

“You’d rather see Digg go down fighting than bow down to a bigger company,” wrote Kevin Rose, Digg’s founder, in a blog post. “We hear you, and effective immediately we won’t delete stories or comments containing the code and will deal with whatever the consequences might be.” If Digg loses, he wrote, “at least we died trying.”

Jay Adelson, Digg’s chief executive, said in an interview that the site was disregarding the advice of its lawyers. “We just decided that it is more important to stand by our users,” he said. Regarding the company’s exposure to lawsuits he said, “we are just going to prepare and do our best.”

The conflict spilled over to Wikipedia, where administrators had to restrict editing on some entries to keep contributors from repeatedly posting the code.

The episode recalls earlier acts of online rebellion against the encryption that protects media files from piracy. Some people believe that such systems unfairly limit their freedom to listen to music and watch movies on whatever devices they choose.

In 1999, hackers created a program called DeCSS that broke the software protecting standard DVDs and posted it on the hacker site 2600.com. The Motion Picture Association of America sued, and Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan, citing the 1998 digital copyright act, sided with the movie industry.

The DVD code disappeared from the 2600 site, but nevertheless resurfaced in playful haiku, on T-shirts and even in a movie in which the code scrolled across the screen like the introductory crawl in “Star Wars.”

In both cases, the users who joined the revolt and published the codes may be exposing themselves to legal risk. Chris Sprigman, an associate professor at the University of Virginia School of Law, said that under the digital copyright act, propagating even parts of techniques intended to circumvent copyright was illegal.

However, with thousands of Internet users now impudently breaking the law, Mr. Sprigman said that the entertainment and technology industries would have no realistic way to pursue a legal remedy. “It’s a gigantic can of worms they’ve opened, and now it will be awfully hard to do anything with lawsuits,” he said.
83 2007-05-03 But our friend who tried to time the market did much worse: over the two years, he invested $3,000 in the stock and ended up with only $2,000.

Even though the stock broke even, the investor lost money because of bad timing: most of his money was invested right before the market fell.

To calculate a meaningful measure of the investor’s return, it is necessary to weight the yearly returns by the dollars invested during that year.

When Mr. Dichev calculates the dollar-weighted returns on this stock according to his preferred method, our hypothetical investor’s average yearly return ends up being negative 26.8 percent, far below the zero return that the buy-and-hold investor would have received.

Some mutual fund families and reporting services currently report dollar-weighted returns for individual investors and funds. Mr. Dichev’s contribution is to apply this methodology to the stock market as a whole, weighting each month’s return by the amount of money invested in the market during that period.

An investor who bought a value-weighted portfolio of stocks in the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange in 1926 and held them until 2002 would have earned an average annual return of about 10 percent.

By contrast, an individual who bought in 1926 but moved his dollars in and out of the market in the same pattern as the average dollar invested in the market would have earned a return of only 8.6 percent a year.

For Nasdaq, the difference between buy-and-hold and dollar-weighted returns is even larger. An investor who bought the Nasdaq index in 1973 and sold in 2002 would have earned an average yearly return of 9.6 percent. But the typical investor in Nasdaq earned only 4.3 percent over this period. This is true not just in the United States — the same thing occurred in 18 of 19 international markets that Mr. Dichev examined.

It appears that taken as a whole, investors just aren’t very good at market timing. But why?

There’s an old adage on Wall Street: “Buy on the rumor, sell on the news.” Unfortunately, small investors do not seem to follow this rule. Terrance Odean, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has found that small individual investors tend to buy stocks when they are mentioned in the media: they buy on the news. The professional and institutional investors are happy to sell to retail investors in such periods.

A recent article in The Financial Analysts Journal by Thomas Arnold, John H. Earl Jr. and David S. North, all finance professors at the University of Richmond, called “Are Cover Stories Effective Contrarian Indicators?” offers an intriguing finding.

The professors look at how a company’s stock responds to a cover story in BusinessWeek, Fortune and Forbes. They find that positive stories follow periods of positive performance and negative stories follow periods of negative performance, which admittedly is not too surprising. More interesting, they also find that the appearance of a cover story tends to signal the end of the abnormal performance. Hence, individuals who trade on such “news” are not likely to do well.

This is not to say that articles in the financial press are not worth reading. Quite the contrary. They often provide insightful reporting and in-depth analysis. But by the time the articles have been researched, written and published, they are no longer news — the market price of the stock already reflects the company’s future prospects.

Taken together, this research offers yet more support for the time-tested investment strategy of buy and hold. Anything that you think is news is old hat to the professionals. Trying to outguess the market is a sucker’s game.
84 2007-05-03 For Richard F. Zannino, who became the chief executive of Dow Jones in February 2006, that could mean an exit package of more than $18.9 million at a $60 a share price.

Other executives might walk away with payouts worth several million dollars or more. L. Gordon Crovitz, The Wall Street Journal’s publisher, could be eligible for more than $7.2 million in severance, retirement benefits, stock and option payouts, based on the $60-a-share offer.

Paul E. Steiger, who will be The Wall Street Journal’s managing editor until the middle of this month, could be entitled to more than $5 million in various benefits. Mr. Steiger may not be eligible for change-in-control benefits if he leaves before a deal is reached down the road; he is required to retire from Dow Jones by the end of the year.

Based on Dow Jones’s ordinary severance policy, Mr. Zannino would be eligible for severance worth at least $4.6 million, including health care benefits for up to two years as well as outplacement and financial counseling. He also is entitled to retirement benefits worth $2.23 million, with a portion of that representing deferred pay. And assuming that his stock and options vest immediately, Mr. Zannino could walk away with $12.9 million more.

While Dow Jones executives may not be eligible for the enormous C.E.O. payouts often reported in the pages of The Journal, the prospect of a change-in-control agreement raises similar questions and could complicate any deal. Even if the action is legal, a move to provide additional change-in-control benefits could infuriate shareholders, who could try to block a deal.

But the situation at Dow Jones is unusual. At most companies, executives usually receive such benefits as an incentive for them to act in the interests of shareholders during a takeover, even if they could lose their jobs.

However, the Bancroft family controls roughly 60 percent of the voting shares through the company’s two-class ownership structure. That gives the company’s executives far less power to block any vote.

The Independent Association of Publishers’ Employees, a union that represents the Journal newsroom and other employees, issued a statement on Tuesday saying that “the staff, from top to bottom, opposes” the News Corporation bid.

Still, even rank-and-file employees have seen the value of their personal stockholdings rise sharply. On Monday, Dow Jones shares were trading at $36.33. Yesterday, they closed at $56 a share.
85 2007-05-03 Brookfield Asset Management said it would focus on its real estate holdings, which include the World Financial Center in Manhattan, by spinning off about $1 billion in infrastructure assets to shareholders. The assets, which will be held by a newl...
86 2007-05-03 To the Editor:     Re ''A Harsh, Healthy Verdict in Israel'' (editorial, May 2):...
87 2007-05-03 A former New York police officer pleaded guilty in Federal District Court yesterday to conspiring to rob drug dealers while she was still on the force, federal prosecutors said. The former officer, Kirsix De La Cruz, pleaded guilty to charges of c...
88 2007-05-03 BCE, the parent of Bell Canada, said first-quarter profit rose 4.6 percent, to 499 million Canadian dollars ($450 million) because of lower restructuring costs and an extraordinary gain. Poor performance in the wireless unit meant that Bell Canada...
89 2007-05-03 A JOURNAL UNDER MURDOCH? Rupert Murdoch usually gets what he wants, but he may need some of his trademark patience to convince the board of Dow Jones, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, to accept his $5 billion offer to buy the company. [Pa...
90 2007-05-03 The Shade Store, an online retailer of moderately priced window treatments, now has a showroom at the Conran Shop in Manhattan.      Samples of the company's entire line of shades, drapes and blinds will be available there, but only the more moder...
91 2007-05-04 Microsoft and Yahoo are in talks about a joint venture or some other form of cooperation, according to people briefed on the talks. The discussions are part of a continuing dialogue that the two companies have been holding for more than a year, bu...
92 2007-05-04 British music group EMI, home to Robbie Williams and Coldplay, said on Friday it had received a number of takeover approaches, following a report that private equity firm One Equity Partners had joined the list of suitors. "Further to recent specu...
93 2007-05-04 Federal authorities arrested a Credit Suisse investment banker on Thursday and charged him with illegally leaking confidential information on nine deals, including the $45 billion buyout of the Texas energy giant TXU. The junior investment banker,...
94 2007-05-04 UBS's announcement Thursday that it would shutter its hedge fund following losses at the unit was an embarrassment both for the bank and for John P. Costas, who gave up his post as chief executive of investment banking to run the hedge fund for th...
95 2007-05-04 A former partner in New York law firm Milberg Weiss & Bershad, accused by the government of paying illegal kickbacks to class-action clients, has asked a federal court in Los Angeles to dismiss the fraud charges against him. The motion could under...
96 2007-05-04 Interactive Brokers Group late Thursday priced its initial public offering at $30.01 per share, near the high end of the expected range, raising roughly $1.2 billion. Go to Article from MarketWatch »...
97 2007-05-04 Since their extradition from Britain in July, three London bankers – known as the NatWest three – have been living in a peculiar limbo, as they await trial in Houston his fall on charges stemming from the collapse of Enron. The New York Times ...
98 2007-05-04 Speaking to reporters at the close of the conference, the chairman of the climate-change panel, Rajendra K. Pachauri, said he hoped the report would spur governments to act.

“I don’t think you can ignore what the world is coming to understand as the implications of inaction,” he said.

The report also made clear the risks of delay, noting that emissions of greenhouse gases have risen 70 percent just since 1970, and could rise another 90 percent by 2030 if nothing is done.

Carbon dioxide is particularly important, not only because so much is produced each year — about 25 billion tons — but because much of it persists in the atmosphere, building like unpaid credit-card debt.

To stop the rise, the report’s authors said, countries would need to expand adoption of existing policies that can cut emissions — like a fuel tax or the binding limits set by the Kyoto Protocol — while also encouraging a shift to natural gas and other less-polluting fuels and stepping up the search for new large-scale energy options. This work would include pushing for advances in solar and nuclear power.

The meeting ended just after dawn today, with several authors of the report saying there had been relatively little last-minute fighting with government officials over details. Governments had the power to demand changes in some of the report’s language.

China, the United States and some European countries had been tussling over various sections. Countries whose economic prospects are tied to fossil fuels were eager to play down language calling for swift moves away from such energy sources.

United States officials also complained that the report did not adequately describe the need for major advances in energy technology, no matter what is achieved in the short term by a carbon tax or cap.

Some European officials and scientists pressed the authors to amplify suggestions that the costs of aggressive emissions cuts would be modest.

Bill Hare, a Greenpeace adviser and a co-author of the report, said he was pleased with the way the delegations worked together to seek a consensus.

“Nearly everything was constructive, as were China, India, Brazil, as were the Eurpoean countries,” he said. “So in spite of the fact that China had some quite worrying positions, they showed a great deal of flexibility and courage in terms of putting aside those concerns that they had in order to achieve a better outcome for the whole.”

The report estimates that to bring global carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 back down to levels measured in 2000 would cost about $50 to $100 for each ton of released carbon dioxide, roughly equivalent to a tax of 50 cents to $1.00 on a gallon of gasoline.

The report projects that this shift might cause a small blunting of global economic activity, resulting in an overall reduction of perhaps one tenth of a percentage point each year through 2100 in the world’s total economic output, the authors said.

Some of the experts and government officials involved in the final discussions said in interviews and e-mail messages that the costs could be substantially greater than those estimates, adding that the report used some very rosy assumptions.

The economic studies cited in the report, for example, assumed that a universal international policy would be adopted, that capital would flow immediately into developing and disseminating new, cleaner technology, and that consumers will not resist change, according to several experts and officials involved with the climate panel.

Other experts said the report underplayed the importance of an aggressively intensified research quest to make alternatives to coal and oil much cheaper.

Richard Richels, an author of the report and an economist at the Electric Power Research Institute, said a tax or cap on carbon dioxide emissions that was politically feasible would not be strict enough to propel research seeking big innovations.

“A carbon policy without an R. and D. policy is bankrupt,” he said.

In a telephone news conference today, one lead author of the climate report, Dennis Tirpak, said that sections of it did emphasize that point.

“We call attention to the fact that investments in R. and D. have gone down during the last few decades,” he said. “Ministers come together and they often say we’ve got to do more about R. and D., and they go home and they don’t do it.”

This is the third report this year from the climate panel, which was formed under the auspices of the United Nations in 1988 to brief nations periodically on the risks from human and natural changes in climate and on the options for limiting the danger.

In February, one team of experts concluded with near-certainty that most warming since 1950 has been driven by the rising concentrations in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.

A second working group reported last month that the warming trend was already measurably shifting weather, water and ecological patterns, and that hundreds of millions of people faced risks by mid-century ranging from lost water supplies to inundated coasts if the trends persist.

The latest report focuses on strategies and costs for cutting emissions of the warming gases.

William Moomaw, a lead author of a chapter on energy options and a professor of international environmental policy at Tufts University, said he sees evidence, both in the United States and overseas, that big cuts can happen.

He cited the actions by American states to require that utilities derive growing amounts of power from wind or other renewable sources, to rapid improvements in energy efficiency for new homes and large buildings, to Europe’s recent commitment to cutting emissions beyond existing targets, and to some promising statements from China about policy shifts.

“Here, in early years of the 21st century, we’re looking for an energy revolution that’s as comprehensive as the one that occurred at beginning of the 20th century, when we went from gaslight and horse-drawn carriages to light bulbs and automobiles,” Dr. Moomaw said. “In 1905, only 3 percent of homes had electricity. Right now, 3 percent is about the same range as the amount of renewable energy we have today. None of us can predict the future, any more than we could in 1905, but that suggests to me it may not be impossible to make that kind of revolution again.”

European officials have said the climate panel’s reports will be stressed when climate policy comes up at the next meeting of the Group of Eight industrialized powers, which takes place next month.

The panel’s report on emissions options is also expected to play a role in shaping the next round of talks seeking new binding emissions restrictions after those set under the Kyoto treaty end in 2012. Those talks are scheduled to take place in Bali in December.
99 2007-05-04 A springer spaniel that overturned his owner’s fishing boat in a Putnam County lake swam to shore and brought help to rescue him, fire officials said yesterday. The dog, named Bucky, was in a small boat on Lake Gilead with his owner, Al Lotrecchiano, 72, on Wednesday afternoon when the dog put his paw on the side of the boat, flipping it over about 400 yards offshore, officials said. Bucky swam to shore and ran to his lakeshore home, barking, said Darryl Johnson, the Carmel fire chief. About the same time, a neighbor called 911 after hearing Mr. Lotrecchiano’s cries for help; when rescuers responded, Mr. Lotrecchiano’s wife, Dimmy, told them that Bucky had returned without her husband, and the group returned to the lake, where they found Mr. Lotrecchiano. “Thank God the dog did what the dog did,” said Mr. Lotrecchiano, who was treated for hypothermia at a hospital.
100 2007-05-04 The recent investigation of Mr. Lopez-Guevara’s finances led to the arrest this week of two men who prosecutors say conspired with him to launder money.

The new case began in 2005 after state lawmakers revised Rockefeller-era drug laws that had been criticized as producing overly harsh sentences for low-level offenders. Mr. Lopez-Guevara was among the first to apply for a reduction to his term.

But his sentence for high-level felonies included more than just prison time: There was also the matter of a $3 million fine, Ms. Brennan said. None of the money had been paid at that point.

In a July 2005 filing opposing his petition for a reduced sentence, prosecutors said Mr. Lopez-Guevara had been visited in prison by Enrique Williams-Figueroa, a private consultant based in New York; Michael Hayden-Leason, a property developer based in Puerto Rico; and Peter Mubanda, described as a Merrill Lynch financial consultant.

Neither Mr. Mubanda nor Merrill Lynch was charged with any wrongdoing in the case. Mr. Mubanda, who worked as a stockbroker, left the company in 1999, said Mark Herr, a spokesman for Merrill Lynch.

“We’re talking about events that happened a long, long time ago,” Mr. Herr said, declining any additional comment.

Through a series of transactions, prosecutors wrote, Mr. Lopez-Guevara bought a home in Broward County, Fla., for $255,000. He made four real estate deals in Puerto Rico, including part of an ocean-front development called Villa Montanas, for a total of approximately $1.5 million. He also traded more than $1 million in shares of companies including Compaq Computer, Sun Microsystems, Philip Morris and Ethan Allen Interiors.

“Whatever happened,” Ms. Brennan said in the interview, “to that $3 million fine?”

In State Supreme Court in Manhattan in 2005, Justice Bruce Allen reduced Mr. Lopez-Guevara’s sentence to 25 years. The judge who had ordered his original sentence, Leslie Crocker Snyder, later cited the case as a deficiency in the reformed drug laws in an Op-Ed. article in The New York Times in 2006, after she had left the bench for private practice.

The two men arrested in the new case were charged in Federal District Court in Puerto Rico.

Mr. Williams-Figueroa, described by prosecutors as a middleman for Mr. Lopez-Guevara’s dealings who visited the prison more than 80 times, appeared at a hearing in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on Wednesday seeking his extradition to Puerto Rico, prosecutors said. No lawyer for him could be found in court documents.

Mr. Hayden-Leason, the developer, appeared in federal court in Puerto Rico yesterday but did not enter a plea, according to a spokeswoman for the United States attorney there. His lawyer, Francisco Revello, could not be reached.

As for Mr. Lopez-Guevara, no new charges were filed. Records from the Department of Correctional Services show he has a parole hearing set for August.

Since receiving his new sentence, a law enforcement official said, he has begun paying his $3 million fine. Every month, he transfers money from his prison commissary account in increments of about $5.
101 2007-05-04 These discoveries are a long-promised fruit of the $3 billion Human Genome Project, which was essentially completed in 2003. There have been two principal approaches to scanning the genome for disease genes, which are culminating in photo-finish results by the proponents of each method.

One competitor is DeCode Genetics, a private company based in Reykjavik, Iceland, that has used the comprehensive health care records and known genealogy of the Icelandic population to track disease. DeCode has dominated the gene-finding field for the last several years.

DeCode’s rivals are medical researchers based at universities in the United States and Europe. They have made a slower start because, without an Icelandic-type data set, they have had to wait for construction of the HapMap, a survey of common genetic variations on the human genome in Africans, Asians and Europeans. These common variations, known as SNPs or “snips,” are thought to be the genetic bases of the common diseases.

Both sides have been helped by a technical development, the construction by companies like Affymetrix and Illumina of instruments known as microarrays or chips that can now detect up to 500,000 snips. With the chips, the genomes of patients with a disease can be compared with those of healthy people, allowing snips that seem associated with the disease to be identified.

Last week both DeCode and three academic consortiums reported new diabetes genes. This week’s reports on heart disease come from DeCode and another academic consortium, led by Dr. Ruth McPherson of the University of Ottawa Heart Institute and Jonathan Cohen of the Southwestern Medical Center at the University of Texas in Dallas.

Dr. McPherson said that it came as a “complete surprise” that DeCode had submitted its report at the same time to the same journal, but that “at the end of the day we are very happy they came out with the same result.”

Both groups identified snips in a small region of Chromosome 9 (the human genome is packaged into 23 pairs) as being associated with higher risk of heart disease.

But as if to prove how much remains to be understood about human biology, the snips lie in a stretch of DNA that contains no gene or genetic element with known functional purpose. It is only on the basis of rigorous statistics that the two groups believe their snips must be causally associated with heart disease.

This means the researchers still have no idea of the mechanism by which the snips raise the risk of heart disease. When the mechanism comes to light, it may be possible to design drugs that interfere with it so as to avert the risk. For the moment, however, the practical use of the new finding is in diagnostic testing.

DeCode says it will use this and other heart disease-related variants it has found as the basis for a test that gauges the inherited risk.

But Dr. McPherson said, “It would be unfortunate if snips using these tests were patented and physicians couldn’t use them without paying a royalty to DeCode.”

A test would help address the big question in heart disease of for whom the many available interventions should be recommended, Dr. McPherson said. Risk is now assessed on conventional factors like smoking.

But Dr. Christopher O’Donnell, an expert on heart disease genetics at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, said it would be premature to recommend testing until the mechanism of the new variant was known. Figuring out the mechanism would be a major fruit of the new studies, which have produced “one of the few strongly replicated findings that has emerged from the field of heart attack and coronary heart disease,” Dr. O’Donnell said.

The new heart disease risk snip is much less common in Africans and African-Americans and seems not to be correlated with heart disease in these populations, the Ottawa-Dallas team reported.

The idea behind the HapMap, that common genetic variants are associated with common diseases, assumes that natural selection is unable to get rid of disease genes that act only late in life, well after the age of reproduction. But the heart disease risk variant is so extraordinarily common that it may confer some unknown benefit.

“It is clear that this variant must have some advantage or it couldn’t be in 50 percent of the population, so I think it’s likely there has been some selection for it,” said Dr. Kari Stefansson, DeCode’s chief executive.

The variant lies at a site on Chromosome 9 very close to one of the diabetes variants reported last week. At a news briefing last week, Dr. Francis S. Collins, the director of the National Human Genome Research Institute, commented on the coincidence that a single region of the genome could contain factors for both diabetes and heart disease.

“I think this is a stunner,” Dr. Collins said. “This is like the seat of the soul of the genome.”

Other biologists suggested the link hinted at an unsuspected common biology between the two diseases. But Dr. Stefansson dismissed this idea emphatically, saying he had tested it in thousands of people with both diseases. “I can say with substantial authority that these markers are uncorrelated,” he said, meaning that the two variants lie close to each other only by coincidence.
102 2007-05-04 LONDON, May 3 — After turning UBS’s investment bank into one of the elite on Wall Street, John P. Costas gave up the chief executive’s post to run a hedge fund for the company, sensing the opportunity to build another world-class business.

UBS, the big Swiss bank, said that it would close its hedge fund arm, Dillon Read Capital Management, after less than two years because of losses in the United States mortgage market. The losses contributed to a 7 percent drop in first-quarter profit, the third consecutive quarterly decline.

The decision to close Dillon Read is a big blow to Mr. Costas, who propelled a foreign bank into the upper echelons of Wall Street. He was then given control of Dillon Read to prevent his leaving to set up his own hedge fund. Instead, he took a small group of UBS bond and other fixed-income traders to the new venture, which combined proprietary trading on the bank’s own account with managing money for outside investors.

The potential did not pay off. Ultimately, Dillon Read became “too complex and expensive,” John Fraser, the chief executive of UBS’s asset management division, said in a statement on Thursday. It lost 150 million Swiss francs ($124 million) in the first quarter, largely because of losses in trading in United States mortgage securities.

“The Dillon Read Capital Management U-turn is clearly an embarrassment,” Matthew Clark and Vasco Moreno, analysts at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, wrote in a note sent to customers Thursday.
103 2007-05-04 WASHINGTON, May 3 — President Bush told Congressional leaders Thursday that he would veto any legislation that weakened federal policies or laws on abortion.

In a two-page letter sent to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Mr. Bush said his veto threat would apply to any measures that “allow taxpayer dollars to be used for the destruction of human life.”

Douglas Johnson, legislative director for National Right to Life, characterized the president’s message as “drawing a bright line.”

A statement from the group noted that many appropriations bills that Congress will take up include provisions to limit federal financing of abortion and that abortion rights groups have been urging Democratic leaders in Congress to change.

For example, a provision is under consideration for a foreign appropriations bill that would end a ban on discussing abortion in family planning clinics in developing nations.
104 2007-05-04 To keep in touch with their families in England, they use e-mail and Webcams, wishing their young children good night at 1 p.m. Texas time.

“It’s still difficult to believe this is happening,” Mr. Mulgrew said.

All three defendants carry the bricklike global positioning device. And all wear electronic monitoring tags around their ankles, visible when they cross their legs.

Mr. Darby’s anklet is often hidden under cowboy boots. He has bought two pairs since coming to Texas. He has filled his iPod with country and western tunes, and his bedside table is stacked with Texas history books.

“Might as well learn about the place while I’m here,” he said.

The three bankers are accused of conspiring in 2000 with Enron’s former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, and his deputy, Michael J.Kopper, to enrich themselves at the expense of their employer, National Westminster Bank, better known as NatWest and now a part of Royal Bank of Scotland.

The three men — whose extradition provoked street protests in London and an emergency session of Parliament — are fighting the charges. But having sold or mortgaged their homes to be freed on their combined $3 million in bonds, they say they will be financially ruined after paying legal fees.

“Even if they are acquitted, they’ll never get the time back and certainly not their reputations,” said David Gourevitch, a former Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer who is now a criminal defense lawyer in New York.

Still, the three men have hired some high-powered lawyers. Mr. Bermingham’s lawyer, Dan Cogdell, for example, persuaded jurors here that another Enron defendant, Sheila Kahanek, was not guilty in the Nigerian barge case. Mr. Darby’s lawyer, Dick DeGuerin, won an acquittal in the case of Robert A. Durst, the New York real estate scion who was accused of murdering a man in Galveston, Tex., and butchering the body.

The defendants and their lawyers said that they were handicapped in preparing a defense because most of the evidence and witnesses are overseas. Some legal experts, including Mr. Gourevitch, agreed.

“In cases like these, our legal system is definitely not defendant friendly,” he said. Federal prosecutors declined to comment on the case.

Their former employer is not helping. An e-mail statement from Royal Bank of Scotland said the company “is not fully aware of all the facts and evidence” in the case and “reserves the right to take legal action against the three at any time in the future.”

Royal Bank of Scotland, which earned an estimated $83 million from its dealings with Enron from 1994 to 2001, has already paid $20 million to settle a lawsuit related to Enron’s bankruptcy and is named in several other lawsuits.

A 2002 indictment accuses the three men of advising NatWest to sell its stake in a shady Enron shell company for far less than it was worth and then, with Mr. Fastow’s and Mr. Kopper’s assistance, buying that stake themselves. They then sold the stake for a profit of $7.3 million, money the Justice Department has not been able to recover, according to court documents. If convicted, the three men face as much as 35 years in prison.

None of the defendants would discuss the specifics of the case except to repeat their innocence and to say they had “liked and trusted” Mr. Fastow and Mr. Kopper. Both former Enron executives are expected to testify against the British bankers.

“Enron was a huge, important client. I mean, everyone wanted to bank Enron,” said Mr. Darby, who specialized in energy industry finance at NatWest.

Mr. Mulgrew and Mr. Bermingham specialized in structured finance. The three traveled extensively, courting clients that included BP, ConocoPhillips, the Royal Dutch Shell Group, Dynegy and the El Paso Corporation and financing their complicated deals. But none were as complicated as Enron’s.

Mr. Darby said he was in Houston every other month from 1997 to 2000, calling on energy executives, staying at the best hotels and dining at the best restaurants.

“I had a very one-dimensional view of the city,” he said.

That has changed now that he lives essentially as an illegal alien: his passport has been confiscated, and he has no visa and no Social Security number.

“Try renting an apartment, getting a phone line or cable television without a Social Security number,” he said.

The men’s Houston lawyers have had to make all their arrangements. Mr. Bermingham’s lawyer, Mr. Cogdell, let the three Britons stay in his home for three weeks while they looked for apartments that would accept electronically shackled tenants and shopped for clothes, computers and household essentials like pots and pans.

The three arrived in Houston with only their toothbrushes, fearing they would be immediately jailed.

“I only contacted Dan two days before we got here,” said Mr. Bermingham. “He and so many others, really, have been incredibly generous to us.”

Sympathetic strangers and former colleagues in Houston have offered transportation and legal help, invited them to dinner and given them tickets to the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo and to Texans and Astros games. Along with his cowboy boots, Mr. Darby wears Houston Astros baseball jerseys.

In his apartment, which is plastered with photos of his three children, Mr. Bermingham flicks the ashes of his cigarettes into an ashtray with the insignia of the Houston Texans football team. “Smoking keeps me sane,” he said.

Mr. Mulgrew’s situation is particularly difficult. His former wife has disappeared with his 3-year-old daughter, leaving behind his 11-year-old son, who is being cared for by Mr. Mulgrew’s friends and family. After trying for almost a year, Mr. Mulgrew last month got a British court to request the cooperation of Tunisia, where his former wife is believed to be, in finding his daughter.

“In this case, these guys have been punished before they’ve had their day in court,” Mr. Gourevitch, the criminal defense lawyer, said.
105 2007-05-04 “We can no longer make the excuse that we need to wait for more science, or the excuse that we need to wait for more technologies and policy knowledge,” said Adil Najam, an author of one chapter and an associate professor of international negotiation at the Fletcher School at Tufts University. “To me the big message is that we now have both and we do not need to wait any longer.”

The report also made clear the risks of delay, noting that emissions of greenhouse gases have risen 70 percent since 1970 and could rise an additional 90 percent by 2030 if nothing is done.

Carbon dioxide is particularly important not only because so much is produced each year — about 25 billion tons — but because much of it persists in the atmosphere, building like unpaid credit card debt.

To stop the rise, report authors said, countries would need to expand adoption of existing policies that can cut emissions — like a fuel tax or the binding limits set by the Kyoto Protocol — while also increasing research seeking new energy options. This work would include pushing for advances in solar and nuclear power.

The meeting ended just after dawn today in Bangkok with several authors of the report saying that there had been relatively little last-minute fighting with government officials over details. China had resisted language that implied big cuts would have to be made in fast-growing developing countries, which will soon surpass rich countries as the dominant source of greenhouse gases.

According to several authors, the final version estimates that bringing global carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 to levels measured in 2000 would require a cost on released carbon dioxide of $50 to $100 a ton, roughly on a par — in terms of fossil fuel prices — with an additional 50 cents to $1.00 for a gallon of gasoline.

The report projects that this shift might cause a small blunting of global economic activity, resulting in an overall reduction of perhaps one-tenth of a percentage point per year through 2100 in the world’s total economic activity, the authors said.

Some of the experts and government officials involved in the final discussions said in telephone interviews and in e-mail messages that the costs could be substantially greater than that.

But a variety of participants, including some from the United States, said in interviews that it was hard to argue against such an investment, given the potential costs of inaction.

William Moomaw, a lead author of a chapter on energy options and a professor of international environmental policy at Tufts University, said that he saw evidence that big cuts could happen.

“Here in the early years of the 21st century, we’re looking for an energy revolution that’s as comprehensive as the one that occurred at the beginning of the 20th century when we went from gaslight and horse-drawn carriages to light bulbs and automobiles,” Dr. Moomaw said. “In 1905, only 3 percent of homes had electricity. Right now, 3 percent is about the same range as the amount of renewable energy we have today. None of us can predict the future any more than we could in 1905, but that suggests to me it may not be impossible to make that kind of revolution again.”

This is the third report this year from the climate panel, which was formed under the auspices of the United Nations in 1988 to brief nations periodically on risks from human and natural changes in climate and options for limiting dangers.

In February, one team of experts concluded with near certainty that most warming since 1950 has been driven by the rising concentrations in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.

A second working group reported last month that the warming trend was already measurably shifting weather, water and ecological patterns, and that hundreds of millions of people faced risks by mid-century ranging from lost water supplies to inundated coasts should trends persist.

European officials have said the climate panel’s reports will be stressed when climate policy comes up at the next meeting of the Group of Eight industrialized powers, which takes place next month.

The panel’s report on emissions options is also expected to play a role in shaping the next round of talks seeking new binding emissions restrictions after those set under the Kyoto treaty end in 2012. Those talks are scheduled to take place in Bali in December.
106 2007-05-04 Also, officials fear that if millions of nervous citizens rush out to buy masks, that will create shortages for health care workers, who need them more.

“I would not like people to stockpile to the extent that they’d cut off the supply to hospital workers,” Dr. Bell said.

The federal government is still building a mask stockpile, as are many state and city health departments and private hospitals.

The guidelines released yesterday re-emphasized earlier suggestions that in a pandemic, people should shun crowds, avoid close contact with anyone at work or school, and stay home if they are sick, or anyone in their household is sick.

They should also wash their hands frequently, use hand sanitizers and cover their noses and mouths when coughing or sneezing.

Masks are most useful, said Dr. Julie Gerberding, director of the disease control centers, when placed on people who are already sick — to keep in droplets from their sneezes and coughs. They are also important for health care workers or family members tending anyone with flu, especially during potentially dangerous procedures like giving nebulizer treatment to an asthmatic child or suctioning a patient with a chronic breathing problem.

But, Dr. Bell said, “they do provide some protection, for example, during that unfortunate moment in the grocery store line when some little kid sneezes in your face.”

Masks come in two types. Surgical masks are the thin disposable or washable cloth or paper ones worn by surgeons and dentists, costing a few cents each. N-95 respirators are thicker fiber masks, often round or duck-billed in shape, worn by construction workers to keep out dust or paint, and by hospital nurses working with infectious patients. They are certified to keep out 95 percent of all particles and usually cost $1 or more.

Other countries’ pandemic plans rely more heavily on masks. The stockpile in the United States contains about 100 million N-95s and 52 million surgical masks, but France, with a population one-fifth that of the United States, has stockpiled 300 million N-95s and one billion surgical masks.

Dr. Didier Houssin, chief medical officer for flu at the Paris Hospital Center, said at an avian flu conference in February that his country’s emphasis was “not so much from medical reasons as from psychological and political reasons.”

Dr. Jeffrey Levi, executive director of Trust for America’s Health, a nonpartisan health advocacy group, said he would like to see the United States buy more masks and demand them in children’s sizes. The H5N1 flu has disproportionately killed children and teenagers, and N-95 masks, which must fit closely to work, are not made in small sizes.

But masks can become contaminated by sneezes and soggy on humid days, and it is unclear whether changing them carelessly is more dangerous than not wearing them. They also require a lot of “social engineering,” Dr. Bell said. If they are recommended only for the sick, for example, everyone may avoid them because it marks a person as infectious.
107 2007-05-04 A Credit Suisse investment banker was charged today in an insider trading scheme linked to acquisitions involving nine publicly traded United States companies that netted a co-conspirator more than $7 million.

The banker, Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, a 37-year-old Pakistani who worked for Credit Suisse’s Global Energy Group in New York, has been charged with one count of conspiracy and 25 counts of securities fraud, prosecutors said in a complaint.

The complaint says that between April 2006 and February 2007 Mr. Naseem tipped off a co-conspirator about acquisitions involving Northwestern Corporation, Energy Partners, Veritas DGC, Jacuzzi Brands, Trammell Crow, Hydril Company, Caremark Rx, John H. Harland Company, and TXU Corporation.

“Because many of the subject transactions were staffed by members of the Global Energy Group, Naseem had access to information about these transactions by virtue of his membership in the Global Energy Group,” the complaint said.

It said Mr. Naseem’s desk was also near a printer used for some of the nonenergy deals that he is accused of giving tip-offs about.

“Naseem regularly and repeatedly called a co-conspirator and provided him with material nonpublic information regarding the subject transactions,” according to the complaint, which referred to the co-conspirator as “CC-1.”

“CC-1 executed dozens of securities transactions, including trades in an offshore account, based on Credit Suisse Inside Information; CC-1 profited from his trading in each of the Subject Securities and earned total profits in excess of $7.5 million from the scheme,” it said.
108 2007-05-04 AMSTERDAM, May 3 — Royal Dutch Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, said Thursday that its first-quarter earnings rose 5.7 percent, despite falling oil prices and declining profit at its production and refining arms.

Net income rose to $7.28 billion, from $6.89 billion a year earlier, while sales fell 3.3 percent, to $73.5 billion.

The improvement in Shell’s results was mainly a result of the good performance of the stock market. The company’s corporate financing arm reported earnings of $801 million, up from $227 million last year.

Production of oil and equivalents fell 6.4 percent, to 3.5 million barrels a day, largely because of lower natural gas production.

“That’s just part of the normal business,” Peter R. Voser, chief financial officer, said in a conference call, adding that the company’s long-term production prospects were solid.

Shell’s drop in production was also partly attributed to a loss of 80,000 barrels of oil a day at its Nigerian operations in March, which were already partly shut down because of violent protests by rebel groups seeking a larger share of oil profits.
109 2007-05-04 The shareholder vote on an executive pay proposal at Verizon Communications is too close to call and must go to a recount, the company said after its annual meeting in Pittsburgh yesterday. The results of the recount will be available within two weeks, a company spokesman said.

If the proposal passes, it will give the company’s investors the right to an advisory vote on executive pay practices at Verizon. The Association of BellTel Retirees, a 100,000-member organization that has forced governance changes at Verizon in past years, put forward the pay proposal that is subject to the recount.

“Long-term shareowners believe that the owners of the company should be able to express their approval or disapproval of the board’s compensation package for the C.E.O. and the other senior executives,” said C. William Jones, president of the retirees’ association.

The association and other Verizon shareholders have expressed dismay in recent years over compensation received by Ivan G. Seidenberg, the company’s chief executive, contending that it was not adequately linked to performance.

Mr. Seidenberg received more than $20 million in compensation last year, an 11 percent increase from 2005, according to Equilar Inc., a compensation research firm in San Mateo, Calif. Verizon’s shares jumped 28 percent in 2006, but in previous years the shares languished even as Mr. Seidenberg’s pay rose.

Shareholders at more than a dozen major companies have voted on “say on pay” proposals at annual meetings this year, but none has won support from a majority. The vote at Merck came closest to passing, with 49.2 percent of shareholders supporting it. Advisory votes on executive pay are an annual event at public companies in Britain and Australia.
110 2007-05-04 Doctors reported yesterday that expectant mothers with epilepsy who took a commonly prescribed drug to control seizures were at increased risk of having a child with mental deficits.

Toddlers who had been exposed in the womb to the drug Depakote, from Abbott Laboratories, scored seven to eight points lower on I.Q. tests at age 2 than those whose mothers had been taking other epilepsy drugs while pregnant, the study found. They were twice as likely to score in the range associated with mental retardation, according to the authors, who presented the findings at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology in Boston.

Other researchers said the findings should be considered preliminary because I.Q. measures were less reliable in 2-year-olds than in older children; the study will continue, tracking children through age 6.

The report is consistent with several recent studies finding that Depakote is more likely than other so-called anticonvulsant drugs to increase the risk of mental deficits and other birth defects, like neural tube problems. An estimated 24 million American women have taken these drugs — which include Tegretol from Novartis, Lamictal from GlaxoSmithKline and Dilantin from Parke Davis — for an array of problems, including epilepsy, bipolar disorder and migraine headaches, according to an analysis by the Epilepsy Foundation.

“Depakote looks worse than the other drugs in all of these recent studies,” said Dr. Kimford J. Meador, a professor of neurology at the University of Florida and the lead author of the new study. “In all, it is compelling evidence that this drug should not be used as a first-line choice for treatment in pregnant women.”
111 2007-05-04 Logic would suggest that both sides can’t be right, at least in long run. Either Democrats should have the upper political hand by pushing for a withdrawal or Republicans by opposing it.

At this point both sides see good reason to appeal to their core voters. The Democrats are eager to harness the anti-war fervor on their left, while the Republicans are tapping into a deeply held view among some of their supporters that it would be disastrous to, in their view, surrender to the terrorists.

Still, the campaign attacks drive home the reality that the politics of the Iraq war remain highly complex and unsettled.

Polls show a very conflicted public when it comes to the war. Recent surveys have shown strong support for a timeline for withdrawal and dissatisfaction with President Bush. But the public remains anxious for the troops. A New York Times/CBS News poll showed that even those who want a timetable for pulling out were inclined to support giving the Pentagon the war money once President Bush had delivered his veto.

Of course there are important demographic and geographic variables at work. Senate Democrats are pushing the war argument hard against Ms. Collins, whose state has demonstrated an anti-war bent, as well as in Minnesota, where Senator Norm Coleman is running for re-election, and against Senator John Sununu in New Hampshire, where anti-war Democrats knocked off two incumbent House members last year.

But Democrats promise they won’t restrict their anti-war message to north of the Mason-Dixon line. They say that by the fall of 2008 it could work against such lawmakers as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader and a chief defender of the president’s policy.

“Let me tell you,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the chairman of the Democratic campaign effort in the Senate, “we have found that people in the Deep South don’t like this war.”

Republicans are naturally highlighting the votes for a timeline by Democrats in conservative Southern locales such as Representative Heath Shuler of North Carolina. But they are testing the message elsewhere in districts in Wisconsin, California and Arizona, hoping to soften up freshmen Democrats who knocked off Republicans or picked up open Republican seats.

The National Republican Senatorial Committee, which has to contend with the more dynamic landscape of statewide races, is being a little more nuanced. Instead of hitting Democrats directly on their votes for the war spending bill, the group challenged senators on the question of where they stood on the suggestion by Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, that the war lost. Republicans posted a round of web ads trying to tie Mr. Reid’s comment to Senators Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, Tom Harkin of Iowa and Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia.

“Our goal with these ads was not so much the issue of Iraq, but the extreme position the leadership was taking,” said Rebecca Fisher, communications director for the Republican group. “Certainly as their leadership and their party continues to take extreme positions, we are going to hold them accountable on this.”

It is hard to imagine that the war will hold up as wedge issue for both parties. By next year, the politics of the conflict should be much clearer even as it becomes more intertwined with the presidential race. But for now both parties are trying to take advantage of the most divisive issue of the moment.
112 2007-05-04 And police officials in eastern China said on Thursday that they had detained the general manager of one of the two Chinese companies accused of selling contaminated wheat gluten to pet-food suppliers in the United States.

Investigators from the United States Food and Drug Administration are visiting China now, trying to determine how and why melamine contaminated the wheat gluten and other ingredients that were sold to some of the world’s largest pet food makers.

“Sampling and examination are under way,” a spokesman for the Chinese regulators told the Xinhua news agency today. “We will announce the results as soon as the investigation is completed.”

By late in the day, however, the report of the nationwide inspections was being carried only in the English language versions of Xinhua and state-run newspapers like the People’s Daily and China Daily — not in the Chinese-language versions.

A spokesman from the state inspection office was not available for comment today. Most government offices were closed for the holiday period.

According to Xinhua, the inspections being carried out by the agency are looking for traces of melamine and aminopterin, a chemical sometimes used as a rat poison that was mentioned in the early going as a possible cause of the deaths of some pets. But regulators have never been able to confirm that aminopterin was present in contaminated pet food.

While wheat gluten has been a major locus of concern in the United States, the Chinese government said nothing today about testing corn or rice protein; those ingredients, too, have been identified as being contaminated with melamine and have been linked to illness in pets in the United States and South Africa.

Of course, the search for melamine in China could be an enormous undertaking, because animal feed producers have admitted in interviews here that they have been cheating customers for years by mixing melamine into animal feed.

Because melamine is high in nitrogen content, its presence artificially inflates the results of protein tests, even though it has no nutritional value. Buyers who depend on the tests get the mistaken impression that they are buying high-grade food or feed, when in fact their shipments are partly filled out with melamine, a cheap industrial chemical.

In recent weeks, several melamine traders, animal feed producers and chemical companies have said the practice of mixing melamine into food and feed additives is widespread in China. It is inserted in everything from baking flour and corn meal to fish feed, they say, and artificial coloring is also used to disguise one protein additive mixture as another.

Two Chinese companies were apparently the sources of all the melamine-tainted protein that found its way into pet food ingredients in the United States, and they are both located in eastern China, not far from the vast wheat-growing areas that are also centers for the production of melamine.

Both of the companies — Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development and Binzhou Futian Biology Technology — had recently won contracts to supply pet-food ingredients to American and South African buyers.
113 2007-05-04 Negotiators for the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Union's telecommunications ministers agreed to a compromise that could limit mobile phone roaming charges for 450 million European consumers by the end of the summer...
114 2007-05-04 President Bush told Congressional leaders Thursday that he would veto any legislation that weakened federal policies or laws on abortion.     In a two-page letter sent to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid,...
115 2007-05-04 NORWAY'S RULES -- Norway invests its $300 billion nest egg, built from profits from oil exports, to advance an ambitious ethics code. And that has meant pulling investments out of Wal-Mart and companies like Boeing and Lockheed Martin for what it ...
116 2007-05-04 Doctors reported yesterday that expectant mothers with epilepsy who took a commonly prescribed drug to control seizures were at increased risk of having a child with mental deficits.     Toddlers who had been exposed in the womb to the drug Depako...
117 2007-05-04 The Supreme Court of Canada rejected an appeal from Wal-Mart Canada over efforts to unionize another store in Quebec. As is always the case, the high court offered no reasons for its decision. The court's move appears to open the way for the autom...
118 2007-05-04 Wal-Mart Stores, which used to closely guard information about its employee's pay, disclosed for the first time its annual contributions to workers' retirement accounts, profit sharing program and stock purchase plan.   MICHAEL BARBARO...
119 2007-05-05 The government, whose spending on AIDS drugs has skyrocketed as more patients have needed costly, patented medicines, overrode the patent held by the pharmaceutical company Merck on the antiretroviral drug efavirenz. The cost of Merck’s drugs has been $580 annually per patient. Brazil said the company had offered a 30 percent discount, but the government opted instead to buy the generic version from India for less than $170. For years, Brazil has considered exercising its rights under international trade rules to make or import generic versions of patented AIDS drugs, but has until now backed away, fearing trade retaliation from the United States. For more than a decade, Brazil has provided universal free access to drug treatment for people with AIDS. Almost one in four patients in Brazil are now taking efavirenz. With the new price, Brazil estimates that it will save $237 million on efavirenz by 2012 when the patent expires. Thailand, which also has an ambitious AIDS treatment program, overrode Merck’s patent on the same drug in November.
120 2007-05-05 The Transportation Security Administration is trying to find a computer hard drive with Social Security numbers and bank and payroll information for 100,000 employee records. The agency said it realized on Thursday that the drive was missing from a controlled area at its headquarters. “It is unclear at this stage whether the device is still within headquarters or was stolen,” a statement said. The agency asked the F.B.I. and the Secret Service to investigate, the statement said. The drive had information on employees who worked for the Homeland Security agency from January 2002 to August 2005.
121 2007-05-05 A new prosecutor has reopened the investigation into the unsolved killings of nine women in New Bedford in the 1980s. Investigators dug up the driveway and the patio at the former house of a onetime suspect. The backhoe, shovels and dogs began digging at the house where the former suspect, Kenneth Ponte, lived, neighbors said. District Attorney Samuel Sutter of Bristol promised to reopen the case in his election campaign last fall.
122 2007-05-05 Indeed, this is a land that already suffers many of the symptoms of the oil curse, even before a drop of oil has been pumped.

With its tiny economy, weak government institutions, widespread poverty and crippling corruption, Cambodia seems as ill-suited as any country to absorb the oil wealth widely expected come its way.

Its people remain traumatized by the mass killings by the Khmer Rouge from 1975 to 1979, when 1.7 million people died, and by the decades of civil war, brutality and poverty that have followed. Now, 28 years after the ouster of the Khmer Rouge, Cambodia is fitfully approaching the start of a trial of a handful of surviving leaders that could bring some belated healing.

Coming together, the impending trial and the approaching flow of oil mark a transition in Cambodia from its still-raw past to a suddenly more challenging future.

“I do believe this is Cambodia’s last best chance to take its place in the world and the region,” Mr. Mussomeli said. “If not, they’re going to be a basket case into the next century.”

Cambodia has six potential fields in the Gulf of Thailand, more than 100 miles off Sihanoukville, as well as several other fields in areas that are disputed by Thailand.

Onshore, mining companies have found deposits of a variety of minerals, primarily bauxite and gold, that could add to the country’s riches.

The rush of foreign countries whose oil companies have staked claims includes China, which controls one of the six potential fields in the gulf. China has become Cambodia’s biggest commercial investor, its biggest aid donor and its hungriest consumer of raw materials, pushing ahead with major hydropower and road-building projects.

In early 2005, in the first of the six Gulf of Thailand fields to be explored, Chevron said it had found oil in four out of five wells. Two more rounds of exploratory drilling have followed.

A company spokeswoman, Nicole Hodgson, said in late April that those results were being analyzed and would be announced later this year. She declined to estimate the size of the field.

If used wisely — as Prime Minister Hun Sen promises it will be — oil wealth could be the salvation of this country of 14 million, where 35 percent of the population lives on less than 50 cents a day.

Over all, it could dwarf a small-scale economic recovery that reached 10 percent growth last year, based mostly on garment manufacturing and tourism, as well as construction and agriculture.

Money from oil could help build clinics and schools and roads and irrigation canals and bring electricity to the 82 percent of Cambodians who now live without it.

Or it could be sucked up by a small, powerful elite that already devours most of the wealth and bring on the symptoms of the oil curse: a breakdown in government services, economic stability and social order.

“We will try our best to make sure that the oil income is a blessing, not a curse,” Mr. Hun Sen said. “These revenues will be directed to productive investment and poverty reduction.”

But he has made other promises, like vowing to crack down on illegal logging and corruption, that did not seem to have been backed with muscle. Vast stands of timber and deposits of gold and precious gems have disappeared with little benefit to the people.

Government buildings have been sold for profit. The tourist concession at the country’s most famous killing field has been leased to a Japanese company. Ticket fees from the national symbol, the Angkor temples, mostly go into private hands.

Transparency International, a private monitoring agency based in Berlin, recently ranked Cambodia 151st out of 163 countries in its annual report on perceptions of corruption.

To avoid the worst consequences of sudden wealth, it seems, Cambodia must change its ways. But the men in power may not be prepared to resist the temptations that have overwhelmed some other oil-rich nations.

“If we look at the past, it’s not too good,” said Sok Hach, president of the Economic Institute of Cambodia, a private research group. “I still hope those people in charge can change. But if things don’t change, I’m really afraid Cambodia will collapse.”

Looking into the future, Ian Gary, an oil and mining expert with the aid group Oxfam America, said “the nut of the problem” was something that was already the case in Cambodia: “an influx of money going straight into the hands of the central government, where there are few checks or balances.”

An oil-rich government, happy at its trough and free of the need to collect taxes, may ignore its constituents. Economic disparities could lead to social unrest, political instability and violence.

“The record is extremely poor,” Mr. Gary said. “We’ve seen over time that there are greater incidences of civil war and conflicts in oil-rich states, that development indicators are low, and there is often negative growth.”

Even with the best of will, small economies may not be prepared to absorb the windfall, said Purnima Rajapakse, deputy head of mission in Cambodia for the Asian Development Bank.

An economy centered on oil may cause other industries — like garments in Cambodia — to wither, adding to joblessness and poverty.

There are signs that Cambodia may already be turning down the wrong path, some experts said. Transparency is crucial to the proper management of oil money, and the government has so far released little information.

Mr. Sok Hach said he was frustrated by his inability to get more facts and figures about the oil finds for his economic analyses. “The oil will start in two or three years; it’s tomorrow,” he said, “and the government does not want to release anything.”
123 2007-05-05 For both companies, the proposed mergers confront current problems. For Thomson, one of the most aggressive and innovative media companies but one with very little public profile, acquiring Reuters would greatly increase its competitive position against the current leader in the market, Bloomberg. Reuters would lift Thomson’s share of that market to 34 percent from 11 percent, compared with Bloomberg’s 33 percent, according to Inside Market Data, a research firm.

Currently, Reuters is No. 2 in financial data, after Bloomberg, and Thomson Financial is No. 3. They are competitors, but they tend to cater to different customers, analysts said. Thomson customers tend to be institutional investors, while Reuters customers are more often brokers and bankers who sell securities.

Bloomberg, estimates Inside Market Data, garners 88 percent of its $4.7 billion in revenue from selling financial data. Reuters gets about 60 percent of its revenue from financial data, according to Inside Market Data.

In the moves on Dow Jones and Reuters, personality as well as business opportunity plays a role. The approach to Reuters is the first big strategic initiative by David K. R. Thomson, the company’s chairman, since the death of his father, Kenneth R. Thomson, last year. The younger Mr. Thomson has long been involved in the Thomson corporate business, but his father’s death also gave him control of the family fortune, which is Canada’s largest.

Mr. Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, has long coveted Dow Jones and its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, whose conservative editorials are so often in sync with Mr. Murdoch’s political views.

But Mr. Murdoch insisted that his $60-a-share offer for Dow Jones, which was 50 percent higher than the company’s shares were trading at the start of the week, was a calculated business decision, based on the potential for strengthening and extending the reach of the Dow Jones properties including Barron’s, MarketWatch and its news service.

In an interview last Tuesday on the Fox News Channel, which is part of News Corporation, Mr. Murdoch said: “Both online and offline, there’s a great deal to be done here. It’s got great journalists, it’s got great management, but it’s got rather confined capital. It’s got to be part of a larger organization to be taken further.”

News Corporation dwarfs Dow Jones, with revenue of more than $25 billion in yearly sales, and properties including satellite and network television in the United States, Europe and Asia; book publishing; newspapers; a movie studio; and the popular Web site MySpace.com.

The trustee for the Bancroft family, which has controlled Dow Jones since 1902, said this week that members representing slightly more than 50 percent of the voting shares would oppose the current proposal. A Thomson-Reuters combination, analysts say, would be a step in consolidating the global market for specialized financial data used by professional investors and traders.

Reuters, a 156-year-old news agency, now gets most of its $4.7 billion in annual revenue from its financial services business, including real-time stock, bond and commodity price data, analytics and trading technology. In a brief statement from its London headquarters yesterday, the company said it had received a “preliminary approach” that “may or may not lead to an offer being made for Reuters.”

The statement did not identify the suitor, but the overture came from Thomson, according to two people close to the talks, who did not want to be identified because they were not authorized to speak for Reuters.

In Toronto, a Thomson spokesman, Jason Stewart, said the company does not “comment on rumors and speculation.”

Reuters stock jumped 26 percent, to £6.23 a share, the largest single-day move since the company’s initial public offering 23 years ago, valuing the company at £7.8 billion ($15.7 billion).

In Reuters, Thomson would also gain a global news service. A Thomson-Reuters deal might also create a problem for Dow Jones, since Thomson is now one of the largest distributors of the Dow Jones news service.

Thomson, with revenue of about $6.6 billion last year, sells subscription-based information services in fields like law, pharmaceuticals and tax and accounting, as well as financial information.

Reuters was founded in 1851 by Paul Julius Reuter, who used pigeons to send news of the Crimean War across Europe. Reuters has long since passed from any relationship with the family of its founder, but it does have a special instrument called a “founders share” to prevent takeovers. The special share is held by the Reuters Founders Share Company, which was created in 1984 when the company went public.

Before that, a trust held similar powers, going back to 1941 to ensure Reuters’ independence from the British government during the Second World War. The members of the founders share company, an international board, can in theory block a takeover but only if they determine that the journalistic independence of Reuters would be threatened by a change of ownership.

At a time when the digital disruption of the Internet is challenging all traditional media companies, these kind of pricey takeovers are risky. If successful, the buying companies face a decision, noted Roger McNamee, a managing director at Elevation Partners, a private equity firm that bought a stake last year in Forbes, the financial magazine publisher and Web site.

“They will have a choice of harvesting a great brand or trying to transform it to adopt to the Web and new business models,” Mr. McNamee said.
124 2007-05-05 Another possibility might be a broader partnership involving the companies’ Internet properties, rather than an acquisition, this person said, adding that there had been no recent acceleration in the talks.

A Yahoo spokeswoman said the company did not discuss “rumors and speculation.”

An outright acquisition by Microsoft might meet resistance among Yahoo executives who see the company’s single focus on the Internet as one of its strengths. They could be wary of becoming part of Microsoft, a much larger company whose No. 1 business remains software.

At the same time, several analysts said on Friday that a combination of the two companies’ online businesses would present a potentially powerful counterweight to Google’s dominance of the online search and advertising market.

A combination of the two companies’ Internet efforts would create a very strong competitor against Google, said Ellen Siminoff, a former Yahoo executive who is now chief executive of Efficient Frontier, a search marketing firm.

In addition to putting its advertisers and share of the search business under one roof, each company would bring a tremendous amount of data about user behavior that, if combined, would “produce phenomenal results for advertisers,” Ms. Siminoff said.

But she said that any combination would present daunting integration challenges. “The companies have fairly different cultures,” Ms. Siminoff said, “and part of what has given Yahoo so much strength has been its independent spirit.”

Other analysts said a deal with Yahoo could revitalize Microsoft’s troubled online initiatives. In a note to investors, Anthony Noto, a Goldman Sachs analyst, said that to succeed, Microsoft needed to be able to offer advertisers a significant share of all search queries.

“Microsoft’s efforts to build search-query share have largely failed,” he said, “and the magnitude of scale gains that is required is too large to be achieved organically.”

In recent years, Google has increased its share of all the searches conducted online. Yahoo’s share has held steady over the last year, while Microsoft’s has slipped, despite heavy investments to improve its search technology. As of March, Google accounted for 54 percent of all online searches in the United States, compared with Yahoo’s 22 percent and Microsoft’s 10 percent, according to Nielsen/NetRatings.

Of every $100 spent in online advertising in the United States in 2006, Google took in $25, while Yahoo got $18 and Microsoft received less than $7, according to eMarketer, a research firm. And Google is expected to capture 32 percent of online ad dollars this year, eMarketer said.

Both Yahoo and Microsoft were interested in buying DoubleClick, the online advertising services company, before Google swooped in last month with a winning $3.1 billion bid. The deal is expected to strengthen Google’s online dominance, and Microsoft has asked federal regulators to examine it on antitrust grounds.

Yahoo and Microsoft each own rival Internet portals that cater to users with an array of services, ranging from news and entertainment to e-mail and instant messaging. Yet the two companies have a long history of partnerships. Most notably, Yahoo provided search and advertising services to Microsoft until last year, when the software giant deployed its own search service.

Next week, Microsoft is being host to an annual two-day conference for online advertisers in Seattle at which Yahoo’s chief executive, Terry S. Semel, is scheduled to appear on stage with Joanne K. Bradford, the Microsoft vice president overseeing advertising sales. Mr. Semel appeared at the event two years ago, and his appearance this year has been scheduled for some weeks.

Despite continued skepticism on Wall Street, Yahoo executives in recent months have sounded increasingly confident about the company’s prospects. They have said repeatedly that a new advertising system, called Project Panama, has been performing well since its rollout in February and will begin to bolster Yahoo’s bottom line this year.

Yahoo has also made significant moves to expand its online advertising business beyond its own vast array of Web sites. On Monday, it acquired Right Media, an advertising marketplace used by about 1,000 online publishers to sell advertising space in real time. It has signed deals to sell graphical ads on sites like eBay, Comcast and a consortium of publishers representing more than 260 newspapers.

If Microsoft were to pursue an acquisition, Yahoo would be no small target; it has a market capitalization of about $42 billion. A deal for Yahoo would be the largest ever attempted by Microsoft, whose market capitalization is about $292 billion.

In an interview at a breakfast event last year, Mr. Semel, a former film industry executive, swatted down the idea that Yahoo had considered an outright sale to Microsoft. Instead, he said they had tossed around the notion of Microsoft’s buying a stake in Yahoo’s search business — a transaction that he rejected, comparing it to an amputation.

Online advertising, from its start, has been about serving the right ad to the right person at the right time. But targeted advertising — as the industry calls it — is accomplished using many methods, and Google and Yahoo have different approaches.

Google built its empire by serving ads to consumers related to what they were searching for in Google or what they were reading about on sites in Google’s AdSense network.

But at Yahoo, demographics and past behavior matter. Yahoo has built numerous sites over the years that require user registration. That data as well as past Web searches informs the selection of ads that Yahoo shows to each Web user. (Yahoo also uses current search and contextual information, like Google, and has been upgrading its systems to use that information better with Project Panama.)

Microsoft’s approach to advertising has been more in line with Yahoo’s than with Google’s. Microsoft’s MSN AdCenter is an advanced analytical system that studies consumer behavior and demographics to match ads to users.

Microsoft’s technology is superior to Yahoo’s, said Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst with Forrester Research, but Yahoo has a stronger community of Web surfers on its site.

“Microsoft and Yahoo complement each other,” Ms. VanBoskirk said. “Microsoft has better technology. They have innovation. And Yahoo has the customers’ data, the social media and the community.”
125 2007-05-05 Still, when it comes to paying amateur producers, YouTube is more follower than leader. Other online video services, including Revver and Metacafe, already pay some independent video producers who post content on their sites.

“We do it to provide incentives for great content on our site,” said Allyson Campa, vice president for marketing at Metacafe. In the six months that the program has been up, the company has handed out about $500,000 to its video producers, Ms. Campa said. Twenty-one of them have earned more than $5,000 each, and nine have earned more than $10,000, she added.

Metacafe pays producers $5 for every thousand views of a video clip, but only after the clip has been seen at least 20,000 times.

Revver, which has been inserting video ads at the end of video clips for about 18 months, passes on to content creators half of the revenue generated by those ads.

Despite its much larger audience, it is unclear whether YouTube will end up paying directors larger sums. The company declined to discuss how it would split ad revenue with content creators.

But some of the amateurs stand to earn sums larger than those earned by the more than 1,000 professional video producers and companies that have signed distribution agreements with YouTube. On the page listing the most viewed YouTube partners for the week, a clip from Lonelygirl15 ranked second only to an NBA.com clip on Friday and ahead of clips from other YouTube content partners like CBS or the NHL.

YouTube plans to open the program to more content creators over time. The start of the program has been expected since a YouTube founder, Chad Hurley, said at the World Economic Forum in January that the company would eventually share revenue with some of its most popular amateur content producers.

English soccer’s Premier League and the Bourne Company, a music publisher, sued YouTube yesterday for copyright infringement, the second such legal challenge to the popular video site in two months.

The lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in New York charges that YouTube deliberately encourages vast copyright infringement to attract attention and bolster traffic.
126 2007-05-05 The Yankees and the Boston Red Sox extended their rivalry all the way to Asia in November, when the Red Sox beat the Yankees in their bid to sign the star Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka. Next March, Japanese baseball fans could experience the rivalry up close.

As reported by The New York Post yesterday, Major League Baseball is in preliminary negotiations with several teams, including the Yankees and the Red Sox, about playing exhibition games in China next March and opening the regular season in Japan, according to several individuals briefed on the negotiations.

Although other teams are involved, baseball would prefer the Yankees and the Red Sox, who have the league’s most contentious rivalry and would conceivably feature four Japanese players, to open the season in Asia. The Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Diego Padres are believed to be two other choices.

“We are talking to a number of different clubs about a number of different possibilities,” Patrick Courtney, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said in a telephone interview.

Courtney said that the plans were in the preliminary stages and he did not want to comment further.

Baseball has opened the season outside North America before, most recently in 2004 in Japan when the Yankees played the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. But the possibility of the Yankees and the Red Sox playing regular-season games in Japan is complicated because home games between these teams are so valuable. M.L.B. would have to sufficiently compensate each team for money lost on attendance and concessions. Two regular-season games would probably be scheduled to prevent one team from losing home-field advantage.
127 2007-05-05 And it is why, as state legislatures, Congress and presidential candidates of all stripes debate the growing problem of Americans without health insurance, the struggles of small businesses — which employ about 40 percent of the nation’s work force — are likely to become a central issue. Small-business employees are one of the fastest-growing segments of the nation’s 44 million uninsured; they now represent at least 20 percent of the total, according to federal census data. And even modest-size employers like Varney’s that say they remain committed to providing benefits find themselves wondering how long they can continue.

The challenges make small business a particularly tricky piece of the nation’s health care puzzle, a problem compounded by the state-by-state jigsaw nature of insurance regulation.

“There are 50 sets of state rules,” said David Fear, an insurance agent in Sacramento, who is president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, an agents’ trade group.

With the rising cost of insurance, even the nation’s biggest employers are struggling to cover their workers. But large companies at least wield some influence with insurance underwriters and providers of care, and are usually solvent enough to insure themselves as an alternative to the insurance market. Either way, they can spread their health costs over a pool of employees large enough that any one worker’s medical bills do not make big financial waves.

But small employers cannot exercise those economies of scale. And because they typically are not rich enough to insure themselves, they are almost wholly dependent on insurance companies to provide health benefits. In the many states that do not closely regulate health coverage, small businesses have little bargaining power with the insurers.

In a small workplace, as a result, if an employee or a covered dependent becomes seriously ill, or if someone has even a routine medical need like maternity care, the entire group may pay the price through steeply higher insurance rates.

“Almost any kind of situation where one employee has a serious health condition almost makes the group uninsurable, because of cost,” said the governor of Kansas, Kathleen Sebelius, a member of a group studying health care issues for the National Governors Association. “Affordable coverage for small-business owners and self-employed individuals is probably the biggest challenge that we have in Kansas and most states.”

Ms. Sebelius, a Democrat, is currently at work on a bipartisan proposal with the state’s Republican insurance commissioner that would insulate small groups by having the state provide backup insurance for the most expensive medical cases.

“If the insurer was guaranteed never to have to pay out over $100,000, for example, it could be a much more stable situation,” she said.

But that only applies a patch to a bigger wound. In Massachusetts, which has embarked on a widely watched effort to make health insurance mandatory, the state plans to address the small-business issue by combining 800,000 small employers and 50,000 individuals into a single pool as a way to even out costs and increase their bargaining power.

Over the years, small employers around the country, often led by chambers of commerce, have occasionally sought to band into regional groupings. But the efforts often led nowhere — especially because insurers tend to assume that many young, healthy workers will opt out, leaving them saddled with older, sicker enrollees.

That is a big reason Massachusetts will require the young and healthy to join the pool, or pay into a state insurance fund if they choose not to buy coverage for themselves.

The insurance rules already in place in some states do provide various buffers for small businesses. Nine states, for example, prohibit insurers from considering the health status of workers when setting rates for small groups. Those include Connecticut, New York, New Jersey and Maryland.

A number of states also limit the size of yearly rate increases. Rates in California, for example, typically can rise no more than 10 percent.

But in many other states it is essentially every mom-and-pop for itself. Kansas allows rate increases of up to 25 percent a year. Ohio permits 40 percent. In Arizona the annual jump can be 60 percent or more. And for Pennsylvania, Virginia, Hawaii and the District of Columbia, there are no ceilings at all.

When the rates can leap with each new employee illness, the only recourse may be shopping for another insurer. That is what Varney’s did in 2005.

The bookstore, popular with students at Kansas State University, switched its coverage to Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas after the previous insurer said it would raise Varney’s premium by 17 percent. The reason was that another employee, a 59-year-old woman who was a longtime Varney’s bookkeeper, died of stomach cancer the previous year.

Varney’s former carrier, Trustmark Insurance, based in Lake Forest, Ill., declined to discuss the case’s specifics. A Trustmark spokesman would say only that the bookstore had fared no worse over the years than the typical small employer.

“Over time, it appears that their aggregate rate increase was less than the national trend,” said the spokesman, Patton Hollow.

Blue Cross currently charges Varney’s about $16,500 a month. The Levins pay 80 percent of that, asking their employees to pick up the rest. A typical share, for an employee and spouse, requires a monthly paycheck deduction of about $115.

Even in states that impose government caps on rate increases, those protections may not cover all contingencies.

Despite the 40 percent ceiling in Ohio, for instance, United Healthcare early this year levied an increase of more than 100 percent on the premiums of CBG Biotech, a 26-employee hospital supplies maker in Macedonia, near Akron. The insurer argued that the high increase was justified because CBG had violated its contract.

Ohio permits insurers to solicit advance medical information from employees. One CBG worker had failed to disclose his wife’s multiple illnesses — including cirrhosis, gout and an ulcer — when he signed up for coverage, according to a letter from United that became part of a court record.

When United learned of the omission after the woman was admitted to a hospital, where she died, “they decided to punish the entire company,” said CBG’s chairman, Gerald W. Camiener.

United raised CBG’s total premium for the duration of the contract to $18,000 a month, from $8,800, he said, and demanded $118,000 in back payments.

CBG sought a federal injunction against the increase. In February, Judge Ann Aldrich of the United States District Court in Cleveland denied the CBG request, saying that United Healthcare’s actions were permissible under its contract and “very likely legal, but also very far from laudable.”

Mr. Camiener, in an e-mail message, lamented that ruling. “In the past, the policy of health insurers was to disqualify the employee when wrong information was furnished to them,” he wrote.

“Now,” he continued, “the insurers will be coming to the employer and demanding exorbitant sums of money with the threat that the entire group will be cut off forthwith, even in the middle of a policy year.” Mr. Camiener changed his company’s health coverage to Aetna, paying about $15,400 a month in premiums, and he complained to senior executives at United.

Kenneth A. Burdick, United Healthcare’s president, said in an interview that his company had now decided to drop its demand for back payments from CBG and would no longer seek retroactive rate increases in such cases. He also said that because misrepresentation by employees was rare, with only a dozen or so cases a year among thousands of business groups, senior United Healthcare officials would now review the facts in each case.

Back in Kansas, meanwhile, Varney’s owners say they are doing what they can to keep their health premiums in check.

Mr. Levin, 46, says he has been a fitness enthusiast since he had a heart attack in 2002. He says he has stopped smoking (“except for one cigar a year”) and has improved his diet, supplementing it with fish oil pills.

And Varney’s has made gym memberships a free perk for all employees. “Our managers can even use a trainer two to three times a week at our expense,” he said.

All that may help the Varney’s work force stay healthy. But so far, he said, Blue Cross has declined to reward the effort with any additional break on insurance premiums.

Graham Bailey, a Blue Cross spokesman, said that if the fitness efforts actually resulted in lower medical expenses, that could eventually reduce Varney’s premiums.

For now, though, there is little the company can do.

“Since we’re family-owned, we have the latitude and commitment to make sure our employees and their families are provided access to health coverage,” Mr. Levin said. “My brother and I worry, though, that over time it will keep getting more and more expensive and be out of reach.”
128 2007-05-05 Harold A. Linstone, emeritus professor of systems science at Portland State University and longtime editor in chief of Technological Forecasting and Social Change, said Dr. Hoos was in many ways the intellectual conscience in the field of technology assessment.

“She basically pointed out that in a lot of complex social and technical systems, a reliance on these systems analysis approaches couldn’t always do the job,” Dr. Linstone said. “She would not accept the superficial answers or phony arguments.”

Dr. Hoos also questioned the usefulness of systems analysis when evaluating public policy. Her 1972 book, “Systems Analysis in Public Policy: A Critique,” cast a critical eye on the prevailing methods for evaluating education, waste management and health care.

“These technical-think-tank types were riding high,” and Dr. Hoos “wasn’t averse to pointing out that the king was naked,” said Louis Feldner, an engineer who worked with her on several technical committees over the years. “And she was respected for it.”

Ida Simone Russakoff was born on Oct. 9, 1912, in Skowhegan, Me., the middle of seven children. Her parents were immigrants from Russia, her father a jeweler.

She graduated from Radcliffe in 1933. While studying for her master’s degree, which she received from Harvard in 1942, she founded Jewish Vocational Services in Boston, to help Jewish women who were working in the city’s garment district find better jobs.

In 1942, she married Sidney S. Hoos, an economist. The couple later moved to Berkeley, where Mr. Hoos taught in the agricultural economics department at the University of California.

Ida Hoos began to pursue her Ph.D. there and became interested in the effects of automation and technology on workers. She received her doctorate in 1959, and her dissertation was published in 1961 as “Automation in the Office.” Another book, “Retraining the Work Force,” was published in 1967.

Dr. Hoos remained at the University of California as a research sociologist, first at its Institute of Industrial Relations, then at the Space Sciences Laboratory. At the laboratory, where she was the lone social scientist, she expressed concern over the effect of satellite surveillance on individual privacy.

She retired from the university in 1982. Over the years, she also served on committees at the National Science Foundation, the National Academy of Sciences, NASA and the Department of Energy.

In addition to her daughter Judith, of Boston, she is survived by another daughter, Phyllis Daniels of Goldendale, Wash.; a brother, Philip Russakoff of Skowhegan; three granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.

Dr. Hoos was largely unfazed by being a woman in what was seen as a man’s field. In an unpublished memoir, she wrote of serving in the 1980s on a high-level committee at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment. The committee had a preponderance of aerospace industrialists.

“I was the only woman,” she wrote, “and thoroughly used to the Happy Hour salutation of ‘Hey fellas — oh, excuse me, Ida!’ ”

On Jan. 1, 1984, Dr. Hoos was called by National Public Radio and asked for her thoughts on George Orwell’s predictions of universal surveillance, now that the year had actually arrived.

“On that subject,” she later recalled, “I could only say that thanks to the dramatic developments in information technology, we had already been here a long time.”
129 2007-05-05 LOUISVILLE, Ky., May 4 — The 20 horses set to run in Saturday’s Kentucky Derby were tested for the performance-enhancing drug erythropoietin Wednesday, the first surprise prerace test in the Derby’s history.

Lisa Underwood, executive director of the Kentucky Horse Racing Authority, said there were no rumors or suspicions about any member of the Derby field. In fact, she said, postrace testing for erythropoietin, or EPO, had been conducted on the winner and up to four random horses since September 2006.

“And no samples have come back positive,” Underwood said.

Underwood said horse-racing authorities here were simply taking advantage of another tool in their effort to ensure a level playing field. EPO, or Epogen by its brand, is believed to increase the number of red blood cells by allowing more oxygen to enter the muscles, reducing fatigue. Human athletes have been known to use the drug.

Since 2005, Derby horses have been under 24-hour surveillance from the time they arrive here. Jefferson County sheriff’s deputies have taken up posts on the backside of Churchill Downs along with private guards hired by the track. They are supplemented by an independent team of investigators from the Thoroughbred Racing Protective Bureau and the Kentucky Horse Racing Authority.

Each of the Derby starters also undergoes a prerace blood test to detect alkalizing agents, which is evidence of what is known as a milkshake, a concoction of baking soda, sugar and electrolytes that helps a horse ward off fatigue.
130 2007-05-05 Putting aside the question of what an environmentally renewable cushion might be (it reupholsters itself?), I have to question whether there are any genuine benefits from paying more to be eco-chic. Consider the designer hemp dress I saw recently for $185.

Hemp is a fiber that grows naturally and prolifically and it needs little by way of pesticides (although it is not yet a commercial crop in the United States, because of its association with its psychoactive cousin marijuana). I would happily buy a dress made from an environmentally low-impact fiber like hemp — just don’t try to sell it to me for $185.

I felt the same sticker-shock when I got the March issue of Domino, the upscale shelter magazine, which featured the supermodel Shalom Harlow on the cover, along with the headline, “125 seriously cute eco-makeover ideas for every room.” I stopped reading after learning that paint with fewer volatile organic compounds would set me back about $80 a gallon, or a davenport made with pesticide-free wool padding and water-based glue would cost about $1,700.

Then again, I’m not a chemist. Maybe it does benefit the earth to pay a steep green premium for these products, because by doing so you are supporting alternative means of manufacturing. But when you see $245 for Levi’s “eco 501” jeans — or even $7.99 for a quart of Mrs. Meyer’s all-purpose cleaner, which is “made with natural essential oils” and is “biodegradable and phosphate-free” — you have to wonder where your money is going.

At least, I wonder. Call me old-fashioned, but since when does environmentally friendly have to mean financially excessive? I grant you, there’s nothing sexy about the motto “reduce, reuse, recycle,” but it’s probably better for the planet and almost certainly better for your household budget to think of consuming less, not more — especially if you’re spending your money just because it feels good, looks good or carries the right set of adjectives.

IT’S not that I’m opposed to some of the efforts to make many of the things we need more environmentally sustainable. But I find myself more inspired by a coalition like the Compact, a nationwide network of people who have resolved to stop buying anything new (with the exception of some personal items), and instead to purchase used goods or refurbish what they already own.

If you are going to invest extra money in a greener lifestyle, there are plenty of ways to do so that don’t necessarily involve going to the mall.

In the name of greater energy efficiency, my husband and I are replacing some old windows, we try to drive as little as possible and right now we are testing one of these energy-efficient compact fluorescent bulbs in a lamp in our bedroom.

These are small steps, but just as spending more for organic foods seems like a good investment, I think paying extra for new windows or higher-priced light bulbs keeps us moving in the right direction. They lack the glam factor of a designer hemp frock, but there you go.
131 2007-05-05 Her latest disc, issued in January, featured Romantic war horses: Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E minor and Bruch’s Concerto No. 1, recorded with Riccardo Chailly and the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra. On April 19 Ms. Jansen made her Philadelphia Orchestra debut with the Bruch piece. A repeat performance confirmed her knack for reinvigorating familiar repertory with her lithe, energetic, seemingly spontaneous playing.

Tonight Ms. Jansen is to play the Mendelssohn concerto with the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra in her first appearance in the Isaac Stern Auditorium at Carnegie Hall. The concert is a high point in a season that has already seen her debuts with orchestras in Washington, Dallas and Detroit. Still ahead is Ms. Jansen’s Tanglewood debut in August — by which time she will have played in Tel Aviv, Berlin, Vienna and Tokyo, to name only a few of the stops on her summer itinerary. Further down the road is her New York Philharmonic debut in early October.

No wonder Skype has come in handy. Asked how she copes with the demands of her schedule, Ms. Jansen smiled broadly. “I’m actually very, very happy with it,” she said. “I love music, and I love playing with all these different great, inspiring people. When I’m home, sometimes I think, ‘Oh, it would be nice to have a few days to spend here.’ But then when I’m going to the next place, that feeling is gone.”

Home is Soest, the small Dutch town where Ms. Jansen was born, near Utrecht, where she founded a December chamber music festival that attracts top players. She comes from a musical family: her father is a keyboardist, her mother a singer and choir director, and two older brothers are also musicians. Ms. Jansen took up the violin at 6, played her first concert at 10 and made her Royal Concertgebouw debut in 1997.

International engagements soon followed. Her London debut in 2002, with Vladimir Ashkenazy and the Philharmonia Orchestra, led to a ringing endorsement from the conductor, as well as more high-profile bookings.

Ms. Jansen’s growing reputation attracted the attention of Decca’s Dutch office, which urged the label to sign her. Her first disc for the label, an eponymous 2003 collection of familiar showpieces, sold well in Europe but flew under the radar here. For her second record, Ms. Jansen suggested the lively, transparent chamber reduction of “The Four Seasons” that she had played around the Netherlands.

The success of that project might have given Ms. Jansen leverage to attempt something more outré, but she was keen to record the Mendelssohn and Bruch works, which she had played since the start of her career. The disc did include one rarity, Bruch’s Romance in F for viola and orchestra. Decca also issued a chamber-ensemble rendition of the Allegro from Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto in D minor exclusively through iTunes, as an incentive to keep her digital fan base loyal.

Chris Roberts, the chairman of Universal Classics Group, which includes Decca, estimated that sales of the Mendelssohn disc have been evenly split between discs and downloads. “The follow-up was never going to have the same level of appeal, although it did very well,” he said. “But our intention was, we had sort of a splash; now let’s build the career.”

For her next release, due in September, Ms. Jansen has just recorded Bach’s Partita No. 2 and arrangements of the Inventions and Sinfonias. “I think that will be the best of both worlds: the singular focus on her and repertoire that will be appealing across a wide spectrum,” Mr. Roberts said.

One thing is clear: Ms. Jansen will have something to say about the packaging, as she did with the Mendelssohn release. “I did very much want the new CD to have calmer, more natural photos, and they agreed with me,” she said. “It’s a bit more grown-up, maybe. I’ve changed as a person, and the photos should reflect that.”
132 2007-05-05 Nonetheless, I embrace the changing dog demographics. They present a welcome opportunity to bury old stereotypes and restore small dogs to their rightful place in canine history. Although popularity usually attracts commercial breeders who mass produce poor-quality dogs, I would hope that buyers would deal only with responsible breeders trying to produce healthy, defect-free dogs.

A major boost in this effort has come from a recent article in the journal Science written by a team of scientists saying that a tiny bit of DNA that suppresses the “insulin-like growth factor 1” gene is responsible for smallness in dogs. (In fact, the gene is involved in determining body size across many, if not all, mammalian species, but that’s a different story.) This single variation is ancient enough to support the theory, to which I have long subscribed, that the earliest division among dogs was between large ones and small ones.

The finding appears to counter theories that size in dogs is the product of complex biological processes involving multiple genes. It also appears to undermine the popular notion that the dog, especially the toy dog, is a juvenilized, or “neotenous,” derivative of the wolf, reduced in size, diminished in physical and mental capacity.

Instead, it looks as if early in the dog’s history — about 15,000 years ago — humans captured through breeding a particular variation in the code for a single gene that produced small dogs that retained essential dog behaviors and characteristics.

Early humans desired small dogs not because they ate less or were more easily handled or transported but because they were useful, and so they probably traded for them, thereby spreading the genetic variation. Small dogs have proved their mettle throughout history, turning mills and spits; pursuing game into its den; destroying rats by the bucketful, thereby contributing to public health; serving as foot warmers; and standing guard over home and hearth, just as the big dog patrolled the yard.

And, of course, they have been pure companions, like the ancient Chinese sleeve dogs. By the late 19th century, the wealthy sought to breed ever smaller, softer and more doll-like dogs. Expensive, difficult to breed and maintain because of their size, often freakish in appearance, dressed in human clothes, “married” and entertained, they were one of the commodities Thorstein Veblen had in mind when he coined the phrase “objects of conspicuous consumption.”

As if another species, these little companion creatures became known as “women’s pets,” compared with “men’s dogs” — working terriers, hounds, sporting dogs, Great Danes and other large breeds. It is that stigma I would hope to dispel.

Dog breeds still suffer the whims of fashion, but many people are opting for small dogs because they live in crowded cities, and because they want a pet they can carry on a plane. They also want an energetic, active dog.

As long as they are free of debilitating genetic defects, small dogs retain the spirit and behavior of, well, the dog. They retrieve, fight, bite, run, hunt and play within their physical and psychological abilities.

Not all will end up as a narcotics detection dog, like Midge, a six-pound Chihuahua and rat terrier mix in Geauga County, Ohio. But all will surprise. Even a Yorkie can learn to catch a (small) Frisbee!
133 2007-05-05 “Americans will eat enough hot dogs at major league ballparks this year to stretch from R.F.K. Stadium in Washington, D.C., to AT&T Park in San Francisco,” the council claims.

Shea Stadium ranks No. 1 among major league ballparks who responded to a questionnaire from the National Hog Dog and Sausage Council, with annual consumption of more than 1.5 million hot dogs. (Yankee Stadium sells about 30,000 a game but did not answer the survey.) According to Aramark, most of Shea’s dogs are sold by 48 vendors who roam the stands, as opposed to concessionaires who sell from fixed locations. The average vendor sells 150 a game, and 10,000 to 12,000 a season. Working for commissions ranging from 13 percent to 16 percent depending on seniority, they can make $150 to $200 a game, and as much as $30,000 a season.

I met a sampling of my fellow vendors as we wended through the bowels of the stadium. Along with several minimum-age 18-year-olds from the Bronx and Queens, they included a school principal, an accountant, a day trader, a bus driver and Bobby Lee, a 48-year-old retired firefighter who now lives in Kansas City, Mo., but still commutes to Shea to work baseball games. “I’ve been doing this since 1974 because I just love the Mets,” Bobby explained.

At noon, I reported to the so-called money room on the stadium’s field level. It featured a row of teller windows where I exchanged a $50 bill for a roll of quarters and a stack of $5 bills. Tom Morely provided me with a black apron, a black cap, a greenish-yellowish T-shirt with “VENDOR” on the back, and a plastic button marked “4.75,” signifying the price of a hot dog, sans dollar sign.

I proceeded to a bustling commissary redolent with the aroma of freshly popped popcorn. In lieu of formal training, Tom paired me with Arnold Henriquez, 27, a recent graduate of York College of the City University of New York. Arnold had been at it for 10 years and had sold enough hot dogs the previous season to qualify as the Mets’ designated vendor at the 2006 All-Star game in Pittsburgh.

We hurried to the back of the commissary where a porter was loading each steel bin with a can of lighted Sterno, 30 hot dogs, 30 plastic packaged buns, 30 foil wraps, 30 paper napkins, packets of mustard and ketchup and a long metal fork. Arnold patiently tutored me in the proper food handling “barrier” technique. I was supposed to grab a foil wrap with one hand and grab the fork with the other, use the fork to split open a bun and place it in the wrap, and then spear a hot dog and place it inside the bun.

“The thing that’s going to be challenging is separating the buns without touching them with your bare hands,” Arnold said.

In fact, bun-splitting proved to be only one of many unexpected challenges for me. Hot-dog vendors must balance their bins on the tops of their caps when they parade through the stands. My fully loaded bin weighed 40 pounds, but it felt heavier than Sisyphus’s rock. With each step, I feared that I was going to trip and fall, igniting a Sterno-fueled trial by fire in which I perished amid sizzling meat, flaming dough and melting plastic.

To my chagrin, most of the Mets fans in the field boxes to which I was assigned recognized that I was a rookie vendor, and took a kind of amused pity on me. My first customer was Steve Plotnicki, a food industry blogger with a nameplate on his box. I mentioned that my day job was writing. “Fantastic,” he replied. “This is like ordering a hot dog from Hemingway.”

Moments later, a fellow sitting a few rows behind Mr. Plotnicki gave me my first tip, a crisp dollar bill. “I like the way you handle those buns,” he said, grinning.

As I hoisted the bin back on top of my cap, I heard cries for hot dogs from customers on every side. I all but abandoned proper barrier technique in a frantic effort to supply the surging demand. I got my second tip, a whopping $5, from a stockbroker named Joel Klein. By the top of the third inning, I had only two hot dogs left. As this happened to be “Kids Day” at Shea, I gave them away to a pair of 11-year-old boys.

I retreated to the commissary for a refill, only to find that Arnold was on his third bin, and Bobby Lee had sold 150 sticks of cotton candy. “Move it,” Bobby hollered. “You’re getting paid by the piece, not by the hour.”

By the time I returned to the stands carrying a second bin, my arms and legs felt like rubber hot dogs, and my hastily affected Queens accent had become a mournful wheeze. Worse, the Mets were losing to the Nationals, and I hadn’t managed to see a single pitch. Nine hot dogs later, I decided to turn in my bin and watch the game.

At the bottom of the seventh, I went to the money room for the inevitable accounting. Arnold the All-Star had sold 180 hot dogs, netting more than $136, not including tips. I had moved a measly 39 hot dogs, losing $29.75 because of giveaways. “I can send you to a minor league park in Brooklyn,” Tom Morely said, exhaling a puff of cigarette smoke, “or I can just fire you.”

I reckoned I deserved the latter, and we shook hands on it. Then I slunk away, back to the No. 7. As the train pulled into Grand Central, I reached into my jacket pocket and found a solitary fork-shredded bun.
134 2007-05-05 Here’s one way 130/30 could work: The manager borrows shares he doesn’t own, and sells them, using the proceeds to buy stocks he believes are undervalued.

He hopes to make money in two ways: The stocks he buys go up in price and, if the stocks shorted go down in value, he makes money there as well. That happens because when it comes time to return the shares he borrowed, he can replace them with shares that cost less, profiting from the difference.

As always, success in this strategy will occur only if the manager knows what to buy and sell and when.

TOO HOT? Bloomberg Markets reports that hedge funds have been reducing their stakes in alternative-energy companies, a sign that the market segment may be overheated.

The Citadel Investment Group and D. E. Shaw & Company are among the firms that cut their holdings in solar-power equipment makers and ethanol producers in the fourth quarter, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Daniel Hauck and Michael Tsang write.

The move comes at a time when alternative-energy stocks are extremely hot.

“A group of 184 alternative-energy stocks jumped 56 percent this year through March 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,” the reporters write. “The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index lost 0.9 percent” during that time.

10 FOR 10 “What do a dental equipment maker, a natural foods distributor and a manufacturer of water valves have in common,” Smart Money asks. They are 3 of the 10 stocks that the magazine believes are the ones to own for the next decade.

As James B. Stewart points out in the cover article, the stocks fit into four themes: health, wireless technology, global growth and clean water.

While the case for the first three is self-evident, Mr. Stewart writes, “though it hasn’t gotten as much attention as global warming, fresh water looms as one of the planet’s major challenges.”

“In the U.S. alone,” he continues, “hundreds of billions of dollars are likely to be spent on water infrastructure over the next decade.”

To identify the 10 stocks to buy, the magazine looked for companies worth $300 million to $2 billion in market value that had “a low price-to-sales ratio relative to their peers,” and had expanded sales by at least 10 percent a year over the last five years. That produced a list of 150 companies from which it selected the final 10.

FINAL TAKE If you don’t know what to do with that $75 million burning a hole in your pocket, Eamon Lynch in Golf Magazine Living offers a suggestion: You could buy a 20,000-square-foot home on 60 acres in Bridgehampton, N.Y. The 10-bedroom home has 14 gardens, and its own nine-hole golf course that comes complete with pro shop. PAUL B. BROWN
135 2007-05-05 Re “Spying on Americans” (editorial, May 2), about the proposed update to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act:

This legislation, submitted in response to Congressional request, seeks to find a bipartisan way forward to protect American lives from the plots of terrorists, while at the same time protecting the rights and privacies afforded to Americans.

We are seeking to update FISA to make it technology-neutral — to update it to reflect communications upgrades since the law first passed in 1978, and to allow the United States intelligence community to protect the nation even as technology continues to advance.

Because technology has changed but the law has not, this statute — meant to protect against domestic abuses — instead protects potential foreign terrorists. We are significantly burdened in capturing overseas communications of foreign terrorists planning to conduct attacks inside the United States.

FISA frequently requires judicial authorization to collect the communications of foreign individuals outside the United States. This clogs the FISA process with matters that have nothing to do with protecting privacy rights of United States citizens and legal immigrants inside the United States, which was the original impetus behind FISA.

Our job in the intelligence community is to make the country as safe as possible by providing the highest quality intelligence available. The proposed legislation achieves this while protecting the rights and privacies of our citizens.
136 2007-05-05 Bridge is not known for its poignant stories. But one with a happy ending — and a new beginning — concerns Samantha Eisenstein, daughter of the New York bridge expert Glenn Eisenstein. In 1999, while a senior at Brandeis University, Samantha was found to have Ewing’s sarcoma, an aggressive form of bone cancer that required immediate chemotherapy. Two years later, it was discovered that the chemotherapy had given her leukemia. Luckily a bone marrow donor was found in St. Louis, and that operation was a complete success.

Glenn met the donor, who had originally requested anonymity, and his family during the Spring Nationals in St. Louis last March. And today in St. Thomas Samantha marries Adam Watson of Boston, with the donor attending.

Glenn was the declarer in the diagrammed deal during the Open Pairs at a regional in Marco Island, Fla., in 1996, when his partner, Jack Schwenke of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., became the oldest person to win 10,000 master points, two days before his 80th birthday.

After South opened one spade, West might have made a weak jump overcall of three hearts. When he settled for two hearts, North might have responded two no-trump, but he chose to pass. South balanced with a takeout double, when many would have preferred to bid three spades. Then North caught up by jumping to three no-trump. (Two hearts doubled would probably have gone down two, plus only 300.) South retreated to four spades.

If South had passed out three no-trump, and East had led a heart, North could have won 12 tricks (plus 690) but probably would have taken 11 (plus 660).
137 2007-05-05 There is a sense of breathless anticipation before some concerts at Carnegie Hall, with people seeking and selling tickets amid the multilingual crowds milling outside. Evgeny Kissin, the Russian pianist, lived up to that excitement at his Carnegie appearance on Thursday night, but mostly after the scheduled program — when he played a marathon 12 encores.

The highlight of the first half of the evening was Beethoven’s Thirty-Two Variations on an Original Theme in C minor, a brilliant tour de force of crystalline clarity and Apollonian strength. But much of the pre-encore part of the concert was frustratingly unremarkable, with a soulless, detached rendition of Schubert’s Sonata in E flat (D. 568) and a pleasant but unmemorable performance of Brahms’s Six Pieces for Piano (Op. 118).

It wasn’t until a poetic, colorful interpretation of Chopin’s Andante Spianato and Grand Polonaise Brillante (Op. 22), which concluded the program, that Mr. Kissin seemed to relent and rip off his mask.

It was with Chopin that Mr. Kissin shot to fame at age 12, and it’s still his calling card. At 35, he looks eerily similar to pictures of himself at that legendary 1984 concert in Moscow, tilting his shock of wild, dark hair back in the same manner.

And there was Chopin, of course, in the encores, including three yearningly expressive waltzes. As the night went on, the majestic Isaac Stern Auditorium acquired a strangely living-room-like ambience, with people slouched over seats and in the aisles, some couples with their arms around each other. Mr. Kissin also softened, relaxing his zombie-like bow and allowing his stern expression to mellow into a smile.

There was also plenty for the audience, some seated onstage, to smile about, from a magical interpretation of Liszt’s “Liebestraum” No. 3 to a breathtaking (and gasp-inducing) rendition of Vladimir Horowitz’s “Carmen” variations.
138 2007-05-05 The Yankees and the Boston Red Sox extended their rivalry all the way to Asia in November, when the Red Sox beat the Yankees in their bid to sign the star Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka. Next March, Japanese baseball fans could experience the ...
139 2007-05-05 To the Editor:     Re ''Spying on Americans'' (editorial, May 2), about the proposed update to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act:      This legislation, submitted in response to Congressional request, seeks to find a bipartisan way forward...
140 2007-05-05 The German metal and engineering industry averted a potentially damaging strike by agreeing to the largest wage increase in years, another indication of the health of the largest European economy. The agreement, struck after 19 hours of negotiatio...
141 2007-05-05 The government, whose spending on AIDS drugs has skyrocketed as more patients have needed costly, patented medicines, overrode the patent held by the pharmaceutical company Merck on the antiretroviral drug efavirenz. The cost of Merck's drugs has ...
142 2007-05-06 Willie Bloomquist, Seattle’s third baseman, explained how he was tricked into thinking that Wang had misfired on some pitches because they were zooming right down the middle. They looked appetizing. But by the time Bloomquist swung, he said, the pitches had veered out of the strike zone. He grounded out in all three at-bats.

“He threw a great game, basically with one pitch,” Bloomquist said. “He shut us down with it.”

Richie Sexson, the designated hitter, who was also 0 for 3, gushed about how Wang’s sinker starts in one spot and ends up in a much different place.

Ichiro Suzuki said that he did not know how dominant Wang had been until the seventh. That is when Suzuki approached his teammate Kenji Johjima and asked him, “Is this a perfect game?” Johjima told Suzuki it was. Suzuki opened the seventh with a twisting shot to left-center field, but Hideki Matsui snagged it in front of the warning track.

“I was kind of hoping that I would be the one to get the hit,” said Suzuki, who was also hitless in three at-bats against Wang.

Suzuki chuckled at the notion that hitting Wang’s sinker is like hitting a bowling ball, and said that he did not know how heavy a bowling ball was. But Suzuki eventually acknowledged that hitting one of Wang’s sinkers that are out of the strike zone does feel like hitting a heavier ball.

In describing what it was like to hit against Wang, Suzuki did not focus on the sinker, but rather on another one of the pitcher’s attributes — his calm exterior.

“He’s a quiet guy,” Suzuki said. “He’s the kind of guy who burns inside. As an opponent, he’s a tough guy to face.” Then Suzuki paused before adding, “But I like him.”

Unlike Suzuki, Broussard did not need to quiz teammates to know that Wang was pushing for perfection.

“After four, you don’t think about it,” Broussard said. “In the sixth, you start realizing he’s got a shot at doing this.”

With one out in the eighth, Wang still had a shot. The concern about Wang’s torn middle fingernail was long gone. All Wang needed was five outs to become the first Yankee since David Cone in 1999 to pitch a perfect game. All Wang had to do was continue throwing his sinker.

But after Wang got ahead of Broussard with a first-pitch fastball, catcher Jorge Posada called for a changeup. Wang, who is at his best when he keeps his pitches down, hung the changeup and Broussard hit it over the right-field fence.

“It was the first off-speed pitch I’d seen all day,” Broussard said.

Broussard sounded relieved to have broken up Wang’s perfect game. He said Wang was deceptive, with a methodical motion in which he hesitates when he lifts his glove over his head.

“You wait and you wait and then it’s on you,” Broussard said.

Manager Joe Torre said that “pressure doesn’t seem to bother” Wang and called him as “even-tempered as any pitcher I’ve ever seen.”

Torre said it would have been nice if Wang had pitched a no-hitter, in part because it would have been interesting to see how he would have celebrated.

“He might have jogged off the mound,” Torre said.
143 2007-05-06 Dow Jones & Company said yesterday that the New York state attorney general and federal securities regulators were investigating unusual trading in its stock and options before it announced a takeover bid by the News Corporation last week.

Dow Jones, which runs a financial newswire service and publishes The Wall Street Journal, said Tuesday that it had received a $5 billion bid from the News Corporation, after CNBC reported the bid that morning.

A Dow Jones spokesman said the company had received a subpoena from the attorney general and an inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission.

A spokesman for the News Corporation said his company had received similar documents.

Leading up to the announcement, a surge in volume in Dow Jones’s June and September call options, which allow investors to buy shares at a specific price and time, suggested to some analysts that some investors knew an offer was in the works.

On Monday, 3,464 call options were traded betting that the company’s share price would reach $45 or above by September, said Michael Schwartz, chief options strategist at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. the same day, he said, 641 call options were traded betting that the price would hit $40 or above by June.

Typical daily volume in Dow Jones call options was about 85 contracts in March.

The News Corporation offered to buy Dow Jones for $60 a share as long as two weeks ago, Dow Jones said Tuesday.
144 2007-05-06 “I didn’t even think in my senior year of high school that I would play college ball, let alone come to the N.F.L.,” Thigpen said. “It’s all been a dream come true.”

In the end, Coastal Carolina Coach David Bennett said the position change might have been the best thing to happen to Thigpen — and Coastal Carolina.

A highly regarded coach at Division II Catawba, Bennett was chosen by Coastal, a college of about 6,700 undergraduates only a stone’s throw from Myrtle Beach, S.C., to build a football program from the ground up.

“When you’re starting from scratch, you’re not going to get the guy that everyone wants,” Bennett said. “I thank the Lord that Tyler was moved to wingback because we wouldn’t have had a chance to recruit him otherwise.”

Coastal was the only team to offer Thigpen a chance to play quarterback, making his decision easy.

Like baking a pie from scratch, things were messy at first.

Bennett spread the 13 scholarships he had across 17 players, then relied on walk-ons to fill out his first team. There were no games the first season. Only practice. Lots and lots of practice.

“If it would rain, we’d practice on the tennis courts,” Thigpen said. “Sometimes we’d practice on the band’s practice field, which was full of anthills and not much else. You had nothing to look forward to. The only thing we had to look forward to on the weekend was watching other colleges play football.”

The games began in 2003, and Thigpen did not throw a touchdown pass until the ninth game. He averaged about 1,100 yards passing a year his first three seasons and did not complete more than 50 percent of his passes until his junior year.

“That’s because we had to run the ball all the time to keep the dadgum clock moving,” Bennett said.

The Chanticleers surprisingly won 16 games in their first two seasons, and their quarterback was living it up.

“I just looked at me as a college student at the beach, playing football,” Thigpen said. “I didn’t really take anything too seriously.”

Sadly, Thigpen’s world had to crumble before changes could be made.

He grew up in a close-knit family, with a tough-but-loving mother, Harriet Thigpen, watching over the clan.

“When I would get into wrestling matches as a kid, she was the one I was always wrestling, not my dad,” Thigpen said.

Harriett died of ovarian cancer in May 2004, as Tyler was looking ahead to his third season.

“That was definitely tough on me,” he said. “It gives you a reality check.”

Bennett said: “When his mother passed away, you could see a difference in him. He got more serious about his football and his academics. It was neat to watch it unfold.”

With a new focus and determination, Thigpen blossomed. He completed 54 percent of his passes his junior season, and Bennett hired Thigpen’s high school coach as the co-offensive coordinator before his senior season.

That is when the coach sat the quarterback down for a chat.

“He told me that if I really took this year seriously, I had a chance to go to the N.F.L.,” Thigpen said.

Thigpen threw for 3,296 yards and 29 touchdowns with only 11 interceptions, and rushed for another 780 yards and 5 scores. He was named the Big South Conference player of the year after not even making all-conference his first three seasons.

“It all came together,” Bennett said. “Kind of like a nice little ending to a story.”

Turns out, that was only the beginning.

At a workout in front of N.F.L. scouts, Thigpen showcased his mobility and arm strength — standing flat-footed, he threw a pass 67 yards.

The Vikings took notice. They drafted him with the 217th pick in the 255-pick draft, and Thigpen will probably compete with Drew Henson for the No. 3 job.

“I’m not going to say he’s explosive, but he has an explosive arm,” Vikings Coach Brad Childress said. “I like him as well as anybody. They haven’t played football a long time down there, but he can throw the football and he can move around and create plays with his feet as well.”

It will be an interesting competition between Henson — the one-time boy wonder from Michigan who left college to sign a multimillion-dollar baseball deal with the Yankees — and the unknown Thigpen.

“He’s a good old country boy,” Bennett said of Thigpen. “I don’t know what the future holds for him, but I know he’s got the talent. Y’all will love him up there.”
145 2007-05-06 HARARE, Zimbabwe, May 5 (Reuters) — Two Zimbabwean human rights lawyers have been detained in what appears to be a widening campaign against the opposition, a rights group said Saturday.

An official with the group, the Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition, said Alec Muchadehama and Andrew Makoni were arrested Friday in Harare.

Mr. Muchadehama and Mr. Makoni are members of the group Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights.

They were part of a team of lawyers that represented the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, and dozens of other Movement for Democratic Change officials after they were arrested in March and severely beaten. The government said the officials had defied a ban on rallies.

Police press officers were not immediately available for comment.

The government of President Robert G. Mugabe has threatened to react strongly against opposition forces he has accused of trying to overthrow his government.

Mr. Mugabe, 83, has been in power since white rule ended in 1980 and has been endorsed by his ZANU-PF party to run again for president in elections next year, which the opposition says it may boycott.
146 2007-05-06 The first two editions of Professor Tribe’s influential treatise on constitutional law, in 1978 and 1988, endorsed the collective rights view. The latest, published in 2000, sets out his current interpretation.

Several other leading liberal constitutional scholars, notably Akhil Reed Amar at Yale and Sanford Levinson at the University of Texas, are in broad agreement favoring an individual rights interpretation. Their work has in a remarkably short time upended the conventional understanding of the Second Amendment, and it set the stage for the Parker decision.

The earlier consensus, the law professors said in interviews, reflected received wisdom and political preferences rather than a serious consideration of the amendment’s text, history and place in the structure of the Constitution. “The standard liberal position,” Professor Levinson said, “is that the Second Amendment is basically just read out of the Constitution.”

The Second Amendment says, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” (Some transcriptions of the amendment omit the last comma.)

If only as a matter of consistency, Professor Levinson continued, liberals who favor expansive interpretations of other amendments in the Bill of Rights, like those protecting free speech and the rights of criminal defendants, should also embrace a broad reading of the Second Amendment. And just as the First Amendment’s protection of the right to free speech is not absolute, the professors say, the Second Amendment’s protection of the right to keep and bear arms may be limited by the government, though only for good reason.

The individual rights view is far from universally accepted. “The overwhelming weight of scholarly opinion supports the near-unanimous view of the federal courts that the constitutional right to be armed is linked to an organized militia,” said Dennis A. Henigan, director of the legal action project of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “The exceptions attract attention precisely because they are so rare and unexpected.”

Scholars who agree with gun opponents and support the collective rights view say the professors on the other side may have been motivated more by a desire to be provocative than by simple intellectual honesty.

“Contrarian positions get play,” Carl T. Bogus, a law professor at Roger Williams University, wrote in a 2000 study of Second Amendment scholarship. “Liberal professors supporting gun control draw yawns.”

If the full United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit does not step in and reverse the 2-to-1 panel decision striking down a law that forbids residents to keep handguns in their homes, the question of the meaning of the Second Amendment is almost certainly headed to the Supreme Court. The answer there is far from certain.

That too is a change. In 1992, Warren E. Burger, a former chief justice of the United States appointed by President Richard M. Nixon, expressed the prevailing view.

“The Second Amendment doesn’t guarantee the right to have firearms at all,” Mr. Burger said in a speech. In a 1991 interview, Mr. Burger called the individual rights view “one of the greatest pieces of fraud — I repeat the word ‘fraud’ — on the American public by special interest groups that I have ever seen in my lifetime.”

Even as he spoke, though, the ground was shifting underneath him. In 1989, in what most authorities say was the beginning of the modern era of mainstream Second Amendment scholarship, Professor Levinson published an article in The Yale Law Journal called “The Embarrassing Second Amendment.”

“The Levinson piece was very much a turning point,” said Mr. Henigan of the Brady Center. “He was a well-respected scholar, and he was associated with a liberal point of view politically.”

In an interview, Professor Levinson described himself as “an A.C.L.U.-type who has not ever even thought of owning a gun.”

Robert A. Levy, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a libertarian group that supports gun rights, and a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the Parker case, said four factors accounted for the success of the suit. The first, Mr. Levy said, was “the shift in scholarship toward an individual rights view, particularly from liberals.”

He also cited empirical research questioning whether gun control laws cut down on crime; a 2001 decision from the federal appeals court in New Orleans that embraced the individual rights view even as it allowed a gun prosecution to go forward; and the Bush administration’s reversal of a longstanding Justice Department position under administrations of both political parties favoring the collective rights view.

Filing suit in the District of Columbia was a conscious decision, too, Mr. Levy said. The gun law there is one of the most restrictive in the nation, and questions about the applicability of the Second Amendment to state laws were avoided because the district is governed by federal law.

“We wanted to proceed very much like the N.A.A.C.P.,” Mr. Levy said, referring to that group’s methodical litigation strategy intended to do away with segregated schools.

Professor Bogus, a supporter of the collective rights view, said the Parker decision represented a milestone in that strategy. “This is the story of an enormously successful and dogged campaign to change the conventional view of the right to bear arms,” he said.

The text of the amendment is not a model of clarity, and arguments over its meaning tend to be concerned with whether the first part of the sentence limits the second. The history of its drafting and contemporary meaning provide support for both sides as well.

The Supreme Court has not decided a Second Amendment case since 1939. That ruling was, as Judge Stephen Reinhardt, a liberal judge on the federal appeals court in San Francisco acknowledged in 2002, “somewhat cryptic,” again allowing both sides to argue that Supreme Court precedent aided their interpretation of the amendment.

Still, nine federal appeals courts around the nation have adopted the collective rights view, opposing the notion that the amendment protects individual gun rights. The only exceptions are the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, and the District of Columbia Circuit. The Second Circuit, in New York, has not addressed the question.

Linda Singer, the District of Columbia’s attorney general, said the debate over the meaning of the amendment was not only an academic one.

“It’s truly a life-or-death question for us,” she said. “It’s not theoretical. We all remember very well when D.C. had the highest murder rate in the country, and we won’t go back there.”

The decision in Parker has been stayed while the full appeals court decides whether to rehear the case.

Should the case reach the Supreme Court, Professor Tribe said, “there’s a really quite decent chance that it will be affirmed.”
147 2007-05-06 But anthropologists and philematologists (people who study kissing) say the harsh reactions to Mr. Ahmadinejad’s and Mr. Gere’s kisses underline a certain cultural and political mystery about the seemingly simple act of kissing.

Kissing in public (private kissing exists in a different universe of discourse, and for the most part will remain there for the duration of this discussion) is quite often a public statement, they say: Witness the use of the public kiss in the lore of organized crime (to mean soon dead). Or in the political world, the moment in the 2000 campaign when Al Gore passionately kissed his wife, Tipper, (to signify his Alpha-Maleness). Or the mostly forgotten but once infamous kiss Hillary Rodham Clinton planted on the cheek of Yasir Arafat’s wife (signifying many things, not least of which that she would spend a good deal of time repairing relations with Jewish voters).

Vaughn M. Bryant Jr., an anthropologist at Texas A&M University, said that contrary to the lyrics of “As Time Goes By,”a kiss is almost never just a kiss. It is a language with a grammar all is own, which is as strict as the syntax of international diplomacy, he said.

“When people kiss, there are all kinds of hidden rules in play,” he said. “Where they are; who they are to each other; what the relationship between the sexes is in a country; all that gets considered.”

Robert Albro, a professor of anthropology at George Washington University, in Washington, D.C., who specializes in the role that culture plays in international relations, said Mr. Gere’s faux pas was an example of a cultural “border clash” that is increasingly common in the era of globalization.

To plant a kiss on the face of an Indian woman in public, he said, would be seen by conservative Indians as a trespass on “the cultural space” of their country.

“Women, in particular conspicuous women such as the actress, bear the burden of cultural identity in many parts of the world,” he said. “They are like the social skin of society itself.”

Kissing is more or less universal. People in all but a few, tiny cultures do it. And wherever people kiss, they practice the same categories of kissing that the Romans first identified: the “basium,” for the standard romantic kiss; the “osculum,” for the friendship kiss; and the “savium,” the most passionate kind, sometimes referred to as a French kiss. (Mr. Ahmadinejad’s was a classic osculum. Mr. Gere’s was probably an osculum playfully masquerading as a basium that, unfortunately for Mr. Gere, may have looked a little too much like a savium on TV.)

Monkeys do not kiss. Apes do, but usually only on the arm or the chest, to show respect. “Except among the bonobos, there is nothing like sexual kissing among the apes,” said Frans B. M. de Waal, a professor of primate behavior at Emory University. “Apes do not practice foreplay.”

The earliest written record of humans’ kissing appears in Vedic Sanskrit texts — in India — from around 1500 B.C., where certain passages refer to lovers “setting mouth to mouth,” according to Mr. Bryant.

There is debate among scientists over whether the kiss is an innately human practice, or one that we fortuitously acquired along the way. Some trace it to the mother who made the first mouth-to-mouth transfer of pre-chewed food to her child; others to prettier biological Eureka-moments. But in general it is agreed that people kiss in private mainly because it is nice.

So what does it mean when people, especially public people like the president of Iran or the world’s second most famous Buddhist, commit kisses in public places?

In the case of Mr. Ahmadinejad, according to press reports, his respectful kissing of his teacher’s hand was a gesture of conciliation with Iranian school teachers, who as a group have recently complained of low wages.

In Mr. Gere’s case, no one seems to know much more than the obvious. They were on national TV, promoting AIDS awareness together. She was pretty. He was Richard Gere. The results are on YouTube.

Robin Hicks, a cultural anthropologist at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., said that when the kissing involves people of different ethnicities — especially a Western man and a local woman, as in the case of Mr. Gere’s kiss in India — the cultural sensitivity of conservative-minded people is often greatly heightened.

“Frankly, I was shocked at his behavior,” Ms. Hicks said. ”He’s been to India so many times. He should have known better.” Mr. Gere, a practicing Buddhist and supporter of the Tibetan cause, visits India frequently to meet with the Dalai Lama.

“On the other and,” she added, “I guess this is one way for cultural anthropologists to get jobs.”
148 2007-05-06 A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the use of walls in the history of warfare misstated the length of time the Berlin Wall lasted. It fell after 28 years, not 18, having stood from Aug. 1961 to Nov. 1989.
149 2007-05-06 Buoyed by reports of possible mergers and acquisitions, stocks surged last week, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to another record close on Friday.

Last week, Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation offered to buy Dow Jones, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, for $5 billion, and the Thomson Corporation of Canada made a takeover approach to the Reuters Group. In addition, there were reports on Friday of talks between Microsoft and Yahoo about a business partnership — some said even a merger. And earlier in the week, Cablevision’s board said it had accepted a buyout offer from the Dolan family, the company’s founders — subject to approval by shareholders, excluding the Dolans, officers and executives of the company.

These prospective business deals and others drove up a broad range of stocks. For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 143.68 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 13,264.62. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 11.55 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 1,505.62. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 14.94 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 2,572.15.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.64 percent from 4.67 percent the previous week.
150 2007-05-06 “I think what people are increasingly looking for, whether in the for-profit or nonprofit sector, is how you harness the vitality and promise of capitalism in a way that’s more fair to everyone,” said Juliana Eades, the president of the New Hampshire Community Loan Fund, a nonprofit mortgage lender that has begun dabbling in other types of financing.

The result is a small but budding practice — what some label the fourth sector — composed of organizations driven by both social purpose and financial promise that fall somewhere between traditional companies and charities. The term “fourth sector” derives from the fact that participants are creating hybrid organizations distinct from those operating in the government, business and nonprofit sectors. But because the types of participants vary widely and much of the activity is nascent, no single name for what is occurring has gained broad use.

“There’s a big movement out there that is not yet recognized as a movement,” said R. Todd Johnson, a lawyer in San Francisco who is working to create an online wiki to engage in the give and take of information for what he calls “for-benefit corporations,” another name for fourth-sector activities.

Consumers, employees, managers and — perhaps most important — investors are driving the phenomenon.

“Young M.B.A. students are not satisfied with going to work for a normal corporation because they are passionate to do good in the world and do it in business,” Mr. Johnson said. “People of faith want exactly the same thing, and there is a whole generation of people who’ve become extraordinarily wealthy as a result of the technological revolution and are now asking themselves if they can create change in the world.”

Those desires are reflected in the growth of so-called sustainable enterprise programs at the nation’s most prestigious business schools, in the corporate marketing campaigns that emphasize social benefits instead of mere sex appeal, and a blossoming of new investment vehicles like Good Capital, Investors’ Circle, Underdog Ventures and the Social Venture Network.

STILL, whatever participants call it, the fourth sector faces challenges. Current legal and tax structures draw strict lines between for-profits and nonprofits, and fiduciary obligations prevent asset managers from making investments with any aim other than maximizing profit. The social benefits that fourth-sector firms seek to unlock are not easily quantified and often take decades, not quarters, to attain.

“You run into fundamental problems in trying to grow good because neither for-profit nor nonprofit is set up to do what new entrepreneurs and others are trying to do — namely, harness the power of private enterprise to create social benefit,” said Jay Coen Gilbert, co-founder of B Lab, a start-up organization based in Philadelphia that will develop what he calls “B corporations,” which engage in fourth-sector pursuits.

Even so, some mainstream companies say it makes sense to give the emerging fourth sector serious consideration. Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, has a four-member research team that assesses the environmental, social and management performance of companies in the same way that more traditional colleagues analyze financial performance.

Goldman’s efforts grew out of a report it produced in 2003 for the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative. It was asked to come up with ways to measure corporate response to issues ranging from gas emissions to employee health and safety practices and to determine how they related to the companies’ financial performance.

To the firm’s surprise, investors began asking for the report, which it had regarded as a one-time project, and requesting more of them. So far, Goldman has produced similar reports on the media, mining, steel and food and beverage industries. Each week, it sends out an e-mail message on sustainable investing to about 400 contacts at 80 institutions worldwide.

“Integrating factors such as environmental impact and corporate governance is an increasingly critical part of investment research,” said Marc Fox, a research analyst at Goldman. “What began as a niche market of socially responsible investors has expanded to mainstream institutions such as pension funds and insurance companies who seek long-term investment performance.”

In 1993, Mr. Coen Gilbert was a founder of And 1, a $200-million footwear company based in Paoli, Pa., committed to enriching its employees’ work lives while using its profits to support youth development and educational programs.

Long before the Internet era, And 1 provided a gym, yoga classes and other perks to its employees. It also required suppliers to avoid engaging in sweatshop labor practices and hired an independent auditor to monitor compliance. It contributed 5 percent of its profits to charity, and gave money “even when there weren’t any profits,” Mr. Coen Gilbert said.

And 1 was privately held and thus faced none of the pressure to produce quarterly returns that confront public companies, yet it struggled to maintain socially minded programs as it grew. Another privately held company bought And 1 in 2005 and ended the employee wellness programs and charitable activities.

“Under our corporate documents, we had a single fiduciary responsibility, to maximize return for shareholders, and that’s how we made the decision to sell the company,” Mr. Coen Gilbert says.

Legions of companies that have sought to occupy the middle ground between nonprofit and for-profit have bowed to pressure to sell to conglomerates, including Ben & Jerry’s (sold to Unilever) and the Body Shop (now owned by L’Oréal). Others, most notably Patagonia, have simply refused to sell or to go public.

Similar companies today are evolving in a different environment. Investors, customers and consumers are developing a more holistic approach and focusing on the longer term, attitudes that support changes in the way business is done.

Companies themselves are beginning to understand that what appears to be an expense today may in fact produce lucrative long-term benefits, either by reducing costs or resulting in products and services that can be sold. And investors are increasingly rewarding companies for such actions.

“There are many motivations for this,” said Abby Joseph Cohen, Goldman Sachs’s influential chief United States portfolio strategist. “Companies are taking a broader view that allows them to see that a cost today may reduce future liabilities, and the reduction of those future liabilities in turn has a positive impact on their cost of capital.”

Among major investors, perceptions of profit and value are changing, too. For instance, the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the $162 billion pension fund, has taken a hard look at insurance companies. It decided that companies in the industry were not paying enough attention to climate change and thus were a riskier investment than in the past, according to Jack Ehnes, the chief executive of the fund.

“In the past, we’ve created this dichotomy between financial and social, and investors have been ridiculed for placing too much emphasis on social factors,” Mr. Ehnes said. “Maybe that bright line test is really phony and in fact there has to be a commingling of these factors in investment analysis. If you’re really going to be thinking long term about a company’s profitability, you’ll need a better tool kit for your analysis.”

The pension fund holds stakes in wind farms, solar panel manufacturers and developers of low-income housing in its alternative-investments portfolio, and it has assigned a team to assess the impact of factors like environmental stewardship on risk and financial performance across its portfolio.

Funds like the teachers’ pension fund are big clients of Wall Street firms, as are many of the wealthy individuals who are looking for opportunities in the fourth sector. By and large, however, investors like those are not looking to invest in companies like the Farmers Diner in Quechee, Vt. — which tend to be extremely risky, no matter how well intentioned they may be.

“Companies like us have no conventional road map to follow in building our businesses and thus are greeted with a lot of skepticism,” said Tod Murphy, who founded the diner nine years ago.

Farmers Diner is aiming to build a new food sourcing and distribution model. About 65 percent of its budget for food ingredients is spent within 70 miles of the restaurant, and it tries to educate local farmers about new business practices. The goal is to create a network of four restaurants served by a central kitchen that draws most of its ingredients from the local market.

Making the model work has been difficult, though. The diner’s original location, in Barre, Vt., was too small to generate the revenue needed to cover expenses. Banks would not back the venture, and Mr. Murphy’s angel investor, a money manager named Cathy Berry, eventually was tapped out.

The diner closed for a year, reopening in a much larger space in Quechee. Mr. Murphy says that it is on track to have more than $1 million in revenue this year, and that another person has promised to make an investment if the diner can demonstrate consistent profitability.

For her part, Ms. Berry remains enthusiastic about enterprises like the diner; she is on the board of Investors’ Circle, one of many organizations working to link investors to hybrid companies.

“What we are constantly coming up against is our tax laws and our culture,” Ms. Berry said. “The whole fabric of society wants us to make money on one side and do good with it on the other. What we’re saying is: What if we did both things at once?”

She and others argue that current laws, tax structures and definitions of fiduciary responsibility encourage companies to shift costs onto society. “We have created cheap food by investing in huge agricultural conglomerates — but is it really cheap?” she asks. “No. Look at the pesticides those businesses use and then look at the cleanup costs to society. Look at the health costs.”

Ms. Berry, Mr. Murphy and others like them want tax breaks to offer incentives that compensate businesses for absorbing the social costs of their activities.

“We want social responsibility to be completely embedded in everything we do, not something that occurs as a sort of sideline,” said Heerad Sabeti, co-founder of TransForms, a company started in 2005 in Raleigh, N.C., that makes removable wall decorations. “It has to be an integral part of our business.”

Mr. Sabeti says he is tired of advisers who tell him to run TransForms as a purely commercial venture and to simply direct a portion of its profits after the fact to a foundation for distribution to good causes. “What good does that do if I’m using plastic for my packaging and helping to contribute to job losses by manufacturing in China?” he asks.

Mr. Sabeti and his wife, Maja Palej, the chief executive, chose to manufacture their products in the United States rather than in China, despite the higher labor costs, to support jobs here. They also hired a nonprofit group that offers training, education and employment to disabled people to handle packaging.

TransForms, with revenues of almost $2 million, has financially succeeded, its owners say, in part because it landed a steady client: Bed Bath & Beyond, the housewares company. Thanks to that relationship and new ones with QVC and Target Online, TransForms has not needed outside investors. But Mr. Sabeti knows that he needs such backing to gain credibility, and he is hoping to attract one or two angel investors to supply $1 million or more in capital.

HE worries, however, that bringing in investors will force him to compromise his commitment to his principles. “I don’t know that as a for-benefit company, you’re going to spin off the kind of returns venture capital demands, or that you’d want to,” he said.

That’s the reason fourth-sector financiers are so important to the growing movement; they’re willing to invest patient capital that supports businesses that produce both profit and social benefits. For instance, the New Hampshire Community Loan Fund, a 23-year-old nonprofit organization that was one of the first to develop resident-owned mobile home parks, has branched out into a form of venture capital.

In many ways, the loan fund operates under even greater fiduciary constraints than mainstream investment managers. Nonprofits are risk-averse, given their role as stewards of charitable donations, and their tax-exempt status limits what they can do in operating a business.

So, in 2002, when the loan fund wanted to keep alive Bortech, a tiny machine-tools company in Keene, N.H., to preserve jobs, it used an investment structure that combined aspects of equity without giving the fund outright ownership of Bortech. When a founder wanted to sell the company, the loan fund provided a local buyer with a $500,000, 10-year loan at 9 percent interest; the buyer agreed that the fund would also be paid a percentage of Bortech’s revenues for the next five years.

“Our goal in making this investment was to keep the company from leaving the region, and if we structured the deal to give us a piece of the equity, all we would really be doing was delaying the inevitable because it would have to be sold if we were to realize that value,” says John Hamilton, who oversees the loan fund’s venture financing.

To foster socially minded business practices, the fund also gave the company’s new owner, Leo White, revenue-sharing rebates for reducing Bortech’s environmental impact or for broadly engaging employees in its business.

Today, the loan fund’s investment has been replaced by bank financing, Mr. White’s business has thrived, and Bortech now has 14 employees, twice the number it had when the loan fund first jumped in. The loan fund itself is tapping a source of capital that many fourth-sector participants would like to see become more available to hybrid businesses — so-called program-related investment.

Most common program-related investments, or P.R.I.’s, are low-interest loans that foundations provide to nonprofits. The Ford Foundation, which helped pioneer the concept in the late 1960s, has some $170 million in assets sunk into program-related investments in 99 nonprofit groups, including the loan fund.

Ford’s average loan is $2 million, far larger than its average grant, and such investments help nonprofits establish a credit and repayment history that can help them get bank financing in the future.

Investors and others are pushing to expand the use of such loans, perhaps through changes to the tax code that would make them available to businesses as well as nonprofits. Foundations, however, would likely be wary of extending the reach of P.R.I.’s, because they can be risky. For instance, many of the roughly 15 percent of P.R.I.’s that the Ford Foundation has written off went to for-profit businesses run by nonprofits rather than for the operation of the nonprofits, the foundation says.

DESPITE the potential pitfalls, business relationships between for-profit and nonprofit players are increasing. Mr. Drasher, Altrushare’s founder, has even commissioned a study of the phenomenon because he was surprised by how many nonprofits have a piece of for-profit businesses.

During a 20-year career as a trader on Wall Street, he grew to appreciate the power that capital markets had to foster and build emerging markets around the world. “I really did see what this industry has done for regional emerging markets, which have become a legitimate and desirable asset class, and I started asking myself, ‘Why aren’t we doing the same thing for our own emerging markets, our underserved communities?’ ” Mr. Drasher said.

Many pension funds invest in low-income housing development and other types of real estate in poor neighborhoods, “but communities are about more than real estate,” he said. “You’re not going to change people’s lives by giving them low-income housing alone,” he added. “They need job opportunities and education.”

Altrushare has created a mentoring and jobs program with the New York Institute of Finance for college students. The goal is to put each student in the program into a paid internship at a Wall Street firm.

Could Altrushare or any other budding hybrid become another G.E.? Perhaps the better question is whether G.E. and other corporate titans could themselves become hybrids.

Shortly after Jeffrey R. Immelt took the helm at G.E., he traveled around the world talking to customers, who asked for energy-efficient technologies, says Peter O’Toole, a G.E. spokesman.

Mr. Immelt committed $1 billion toward research and development that would reduce the environmental impact of its products — leading to the unveiling in 2005 of Ecomagination, a unit that sells products like the GE90-115B aircraft engine.

“Each year, a fleet of 16 twin-engine aircraft powered by GE90-115B engines will emit 141,000 fewer tons of greenhouse gas emissions than if it used the competing airframe requiring four engines,” the division’s Web site says. “That equals the carbon dioxide absorbed by 35,000 acres of forest, an area twice the size of Manhattan.” Ecomagination products make up more than 7 percent of G.E.’s sales and are expected to produce $20 billion by 2010.

But G.E. also promotes the engine’s ability to help the customer’s bottom line by increasing fuel efficiency. “This wasn’t something we did to make ourselves feel good,” Mr. O’Toole says. “It has a real business rationale.”
151 2007-05-06 In a state as densely populated and developed as New Jersey, even a small victory for preserving open land is worth celebrating. A unanimous appeals court ruling last week gave conservationists exactly that by saying that owners enrolled in the state’s farmland preservation program must allow the state to buy the land even it does not exactly match a developer’s offer.

The case involved a 141-acre farm in southern New Jersey’s Gloucester County that was enrolled in a preservation program in 1997. Under terms of the 8-year agreement, the owners became eligible for soil and water conservation grants.

They were also obliged to give the state an opportunity to buy the land at a price similar to that offered by a developer. The farm received more than $25,000 for an irrigation system.

In 2003, a builder offered $2.88 million for 120 acres of the land in order to build 72 houses. The state offered $2.28 million or the fair market value, whatever would be greater, but the owner tried to hold out for the builder’s higher price.

In its ruling, the court said the state would not be required to match the developer’s price as long as its offer was “substantially similar.” A lower court will have to decide whether in fact it was.

For the future, the ruling gives the state the ability to buy tracts of farmland at fair market value, even if cannot match a developer’s above-market offer. That should prevent at least a few of the remaining New Jersey farms from going the way of the bulldozer.
152 2007-05-06 Though the state receives about 120 complaints a year about coyotes, it is very unusual for one to attack a human. The only other recorded case in New Jersey was in 1999, when a coyote in Boonton bit a woman on the hand, said Tony McBride, a principal biologist with the State Division of Fish and Wildlife.

But with the population of once rare animals like coyotes, black bears, deer and wild turkeys on the rise, residents of the most densely populated state in the nation are increasingly brushing up against wildlife, biologists say.

“You’ll hear people say we’ve moved into these animals’ neighborhoods and therefore we should leave them alone or respect them,” said Larry S. Katz, the chairman of the Animal Science Department at Rutgers University. “It isn’t that we’ve moved into their neighborhood, it’s that we’ve created more neighborhoods for them. We’ve increased the habitat for certain species with our suburban development.”

Animals once confined to rural pockets are thriving on the perks of suburbia, like garbage, pet food, nursery plants and protection from hunters, not to mention tidbits slipped to them by people, Dr. Katz said.

Gerard P. Scharfenberger, the mayor of Middletown, said that like many others in the sprawling township of 68,000, he had no idea coyotes lived there.

“Its everybody’s childhood fear,” he said. “It’s almost like a nursery rhyme come to life. It’s the storybook.”

In fact, about 3,000 coyotes live in the state, Mr. McBride said, and their numbers are growing. They migrated from the West through Canada and were first sighted in New Jersey in 1939 in Lambertville, he said. Between 100 and 200 are killed each fall during hunting season, he said.

There is widespread belief in Middletown that the federal government introduced coyotes to control deer on the 11,000-acre Naval Weapons Station Earle, which stretches from the Leonardo section here to Colts Neck. But an Earle spokesman, Patrick L. Fisher, said there was no record of such an event.

Other forest denizens are not so elusive. White-tailed deer, nearly eliminated in New Jersey by 1900 because of deforestation and commercial hunting, now number about 175,000 statewide.

About 20,000 deer a year are killed in the state in vehicle collisions, said Joseph B. Paulin, a wildlife researcher for Rutgers Cooperative Extension who studies human and wildlife interaction. Hunters kill about 60,000 deer a year, but the population still grows, he said.

People seem increasingly concerned about black bears. In 1995, 285 bear complaints were reported. By 2003, the number rose to more than 3,000, Mr. Paulin said.

There have been only two bear hunts since 1970, largely because of public opposition. Instead, wildlife officials are trying to teach people how to avoid bears by keeping garbage and food away and by using rubber bullets and pyrotechnics to scare them off, said Larry Herrighty, the chief of the state’s Bureau of Wildlife Management.

In March, wildlife officials shot and killed a 532-pound male bear in Stillwater after it repeatedly tried to break into a garage looking for food.

Even wild turkeys, which were reintroduced to New Jersey in 1977 and now number about 23,000, have been generating ire. In the spring, young males seeking mates sometimes perform what is called a “crazy jake dance” and attack cars, Mr. Herrighty said.

As of last week, the coyote that bit Liam Sadler had not been caught. State officials set four snares on the property but removed them after a week, Mr. McBride said. Middletown police officers were patrolling the area every night and still setting traps, Mr. Scharfenberger said.

Nancy Moorzitz, who lives a few blocks from the Palludan property in the Presidential Path neighborhood, where two coyotes were spotted loping through the streets on the night of the attack, said she now carries her car panic alarm button while walking her Labradoodle puppy at night.

Her neighbor Teri Sparacia no longer lets her grandchildren out in the yard alone.

Still, Ms. Sparacia said, “I grew up in Brooklyn and I said I was never afraid to walk those streets, so I’m not going to let a coyote keep me in the house.”
153 2007-05-06 WORK is expected to begin this month on demolishing three enormous chicken coops and a former egg-processing plant here to make way for a domestic animal sanctuary.

By midsummer, the 43-acre site should be cleared of the buildings that a decade ago operated as an egg farm, said Susan Linker, chief executive officer of Our Companions, an animal welfare group based in Bloomfield that plans to build and operate the sanctuary to care for and find permanent homes for domestic animals that would otherwise be euthanized.

Two 36,000-square-foot coops at the site are the largest buildings in town, First Selectman Ralph Fletcher said. The third coop is 18,000 square feet.

To begin work on the sanctuary, the animal welfare group raised about $300,000 and broke ground on the project last year, Ms. Linker said. An anonymous donor is providing much of the demolition services and moved his equipment to the site last week, she said.

A second round of fund-raising, which aims to raise $600,000 in a year, began this month and will go toward building a 1,300-square-foot cottage to provide temporary housing for rescued dogs and cats awaiting adoption, Ms. Linker said. Construction is expected to begin in the middle of 2008.
154 2007-05-06 Dr. Emily Flora Gregory, the daughter of Rona H. Gregory of Cambridge, Mass., and the late Joel W. Gregory, who lived in Montreal, is to be married today on Cape Cod to Daniel Jacob Hopkins, a son of Dr. Alice S. Prince of Larchmont, N.Y., and the late Dr. B Smith Hopkins III. Rabbi Barbara Penzner officiated at the vacation home of the bridegroom’s mother in Orleans, Mass.

The bride and bridegroom met at Harvard, from which they graduated magna cum laude and where he received a master’s degree in political science.

The bride, 28, is an intern in pediatrics at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. She received a medical degree last year from McGill University in Montreal.

Her mother is a legal counsel in the Boston office of the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Her father was a professor of demography at the University of Montreal.

The bridegroom, 29, is a doctoral candidate in political science at Harvard.

His mother, a pediatrician, is a professor of pediatrics and pharmacology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia. His father was a surgeon and the acting medical director at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York.
155 2007-05-06 Emily Anne Lasner and Nicholas David Brod were married last evening at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington. Dr. Rodney Mariner, a rabbi, officiated.

The bride and bridegroom met at Yale, from which they received M.B.A. degrees.

The bride, 30, is a management consultant for museums and nonprofit organizations. Until 2003, she was the exhibitions manager at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. She graduated from the University of Michigan.

She is the daughter of Edith and Richard Lasner of Chevy Chase, Md. Her father retired as the assistant general counsel at the Government National Mortgage Association, known as Ginnie Mae, in Washington. Her mother teaches dyslexic children in Chevy Chase.

The bridegroom, 34, is a management trainee in Melbourne, Australia, with Vestas Wind Systems, a Danish manufacturer of wind turbines for renewable energy. He graduated from the University of Exeter in England.

He is the son of Kitty and Michael Brod of London. His father is a partner in Brod Wight Architects in London, for which the bridegroom’s mother is the office manager.
156 2007-05-06 Alyssa Anne Qualls and John Patrick McCormick were married yesterday at the First Unitarian Church of Providence in Rhode Island. The Rev. Charles F. Flagg performed the ceremony.

The bride, 35, is keeping her name. She is a partner in the litigation department at Kirkland & Ellis, the Chicago law firm. Until September she was an assistant United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, in Brooklyn. She graduated from Brown and received her law degree from the University of Virginia.

She is the daughter of Jane R. Qualls and Dr. C. Brandon Qualls of Providence. Her father is a clinical assistant professor of psychiatry and human behavior at Brown and a psychiatrist with Psychiatric Physician Consultants of Rhode Island, both in Providence.

The bridegroom, 41, is a professor of political science at the University of Chicago. He graduated from Queens College and received a Ph.D. in political science from the University of Chicago. In 1994 and 1995, he was a Fulbright scholar in Bremen, Germany.

He is the son of Bernice T. McCormick and John M. McCormick of Middle Village, Queens. His mother is a coat-check attendant at Alberto, a restaurant in Forest Hills, Queens. His father retired as the chief inspector of the Customs Service at Kennedy International Airport.
157 2007-05-06 “Young, Gifted, and Not Getting Into Harvard,” by Michael Winerip (Parenting, April 29), resonated with me, as I have just completed the college admissions process with my high school senior.

It is my observation that many parents in this area (Fairfield County) place more importance on participation in AP classes, grade point averages, SAT results and class rank than the actual person that the child has become.

Character clearly has taken a back seat to a shot at admission into a prestigious college. Much of this has to do with the bragging rights of the proud parents who are living vicariously through the over-scheduled and over-burdened student.

While it is easy to get pulled into this viciously competitive whirlwind, I always remind myself that the people I admire the most, Mother Teresa, Pope John Paul II and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., all had a great positive impact on the world without the benefit of a Harvard or even a Boston College education. Clearly, one can be a successful human being who contributes to the world without a degree from a top college, but it is doubtful that this can be attained without character.

Looking back, it seems I had little to offer. The daughter of an assistant teacher and a construction worker, I thought the fact that I played a varsity sport and worked 20 hours a week at a local pharmacy was synonymous with admission. At this point, I did not know the type of student depicted in “Young, Gifted, and Not Getting Into Harvard” existed.
158 2007-05-06 On Dec. 12, 1948, The New York Times published an article about crowds “in holiday mood” blocking traffic in an old Connecticut village of stately colonial homes. Nearing completion on Ponus Ridge in New Canaan, Conn., was the ultramodern, all-glass house of the flamboyant modernist architect Philip Johnson. Nothing like it had been seen in these conservative, well-heeled parts.

Actually, nothing like it had been seen anywhere, for Johnson’s private architectural folly was one of the 20th century’s most innovative modern buildings. Few people have ever been inside the 1,728-square-foot glass-and-steel residential structure until recently. Following a limited number of preview tours that started in April, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which was given the house by Johnson in 1986, will celebrate the official opening of the 47-acre estate to the public with a gala picnic on June 23.

Johnson lived on and off in the house until he died in 2005, though it was more of a weekend retreat than a permanent home. The walls are of quarter-inch-thick glass sheets, some as long as 18 feet, that allow visitors to look right through the building and across the woods and a pond below. Inside the house the refracted light casts shadows and exposes intricate design details, while the all-glass walls take a landscape view that may seem merely lovely and raise it to dizzying heights.

Most people know of the Glass House only through reproductions in art and architecture books. But these images do not do the building justice. It is larger, more comfortable and cozier than you might expect, with the furniture arranged in such a way as to break the space down into discrete dining, lounge and sleeping areas on either side of a rather ingeniously designed brown brick cylindrical column containing a bathroom (with dark leather tiles on the ceiling) on one side and a fireplace on the reverse.

The furnishings are original. In the lounge area at the center of the house are two Barcelona chairs and a leather daybed designed by the German Bauhaus architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Johnson’s lifelong friend and mentor. To one side of the lounge area is a modular kitchen, and to the other is a row of low walnut cabinets concealing a bed — there are no blinds or curtains.

Some visitors may feel as if they are on a stage, thrilled and a bit scared by the house’s openness and exposure. But it is so quiet inside, and the woodland setting so private, that fears and inhibitions soon fade away. You begin to forget you are in a glass house.
159 2007-05-06 This approach to learning, played out in an intense and extended school calendar, has paid off in ways that change perceptions and possibilities. In the Connecticut Mastery Test in 2006, Amistad’s student body — 98 percent black or Hispanic, with many children enduring difficult home circumstances — performed better than the state average in reading and math, near the level of Greenwich and twice that of the district average.

The boy’s visit with Mr. Johnson, however, dealt with another side of the academy, one that must deal, even in such a positive setting, with the city’s heartbreak. So, despite being the disciplinarian, the dean bared his own soul as a way of reaching the boy’s, and of persuading him to change his ways.

William Johnson, 31, was not always the authority figure who has earned two master’s degrees. Billy was a son of The Hill, the New Haven neighborhood: impoverished, violent, gang-run, crack-filled. He described this to the troubled student in his office, and admitted that he understood the lure of the street — “because in a neighborhood like that, your friends are your family, and it’s hard to deny them. Good or bad, you’re always around them.”

He told the boy that as a child, he could have gone either way. As it was, sports lured him. The attention of his mother, a teacher, guided him. The return of his estranged father strengthened him. Even so, he knows what it means to be ostracized. He endured the derision: “College boy” and “You talk like you’re white.”

In conversations with students, Mr. Johnson is driven by his memory of a few inspiring New Haven teachers who encouraged him and taught him an elusive lesson — that actions today have consequences tomorrow.

That is now his job, and in the case of the man-child sitting across from him, there was much he could have said. He could have mentioned how lucky the student was to have been chosen in the public lottery that determines who gets into Amistad, and taught by teachers (including himself, because he also conducts classes) who don’t mind spending longer hours than their unionized counterparts in traditional public schools.

The boy would not have been impressed that Amistad’s parent organization, the nonprofit Achievement First, now runs several New York City schools and will begin working with Bridgeport children for the first time in September. Nor would he have been captivated by the intense political circumstance: legislators are being lobbied to increase state support for charter schools — which receive about 70 percent of the funds per student that traditional schools get, and must rely heavily on donations — though, as Amistad shows, success requires much more than money.

In meeting with the student, Mr. Johnson kept to his point. Yes, he knew how he felt. No, failure was not an option. And, swayed by Mr. Johnson’s personal story, he promised to give up his unsavory activities. He has so far kept that promise, and is working harder in school. The dean says: “For him to be doing O.K. is magnificent, because of the odds he faces.”

But then at Amistad, where the dismantling of the urban stereotype takes place daily, magnificence is the expectation.
160 2007-05-06 At sunset on a clear June evening, Andrea Fariello steered his small boat to a chosen location two miles from shore. By day Fariello — tall, with rough, sun-stained skin, an unkempt beard and a few blackened teeth from years of smoking — tends his bar along the main strip of Marina di Pisciotta, a sleepy village about 70 miles south of Italy’s Amalfi coast. At night he is one of Marina di Pisciotta’s anchovy fishermen. What sets him apart from the other anchovy fishermen along the Mediterranean coast is that he is among the few who still use the menaica, a net dating to the ancient Romans.

After World War II, most anchovy fishermen retired the menaica (pronounced ma-NIGH-ica) for the cianciola — a closed net that catches more fish, faster. In theory the modern nets are more efficient, but in practice they have significantly lowered the anchovy population and, in a sense, affected the flavor of the fish themselves. With the cianciola (pronounced chan-CHO-la), anchovies of all sizes are pulled from the water and slowly suffocate. Those caught in the menaica struggle and bleed after becoming trapped in the net’s mesh. To detach them, fishermen twist off their heads. It is believed that this immediate bleeding improves the anchovy’s flavor and texture. With anchovies caught in modern nets, it may be hours before a factory worker removes their heads for salting. In that time, the blood can make the flesh taste stale. Or, as Harold McGee, the food scientist and author of “On Food and Cooking,” explained: “The iron in the hemoglobin reacts with fats and oils, producing stale, rancid flavor notes. Fish oils are especially vulnerable to this.” Thanks to the immediate loss of blood, the flesh of the menaica anchovy is pink and firm and tastes like a fine cured meat, which is why it costs up to five times the price of other salted anchovies and is considered the prosciutto di Parma of the sea.

To the residents of Marina di Pisciotta, the benefits of the menaica — sustainable fishing and better-tasting anchovies — far outweigh working harder for smaller catches. “The menaica is a philosophy,” explained Antonio Martuscelli, Fariello’s brother-in-law.

Once at sea, Fariello stopped the motor to help his three comrades cast the menaica, a single wall of netting with floats along the top and weights along the bottom. It can stretch up to 600 yards and fall 20 feet into the water. Net in place, the men waited for the anchovies to feed. They ate, too: a chunk of bread, tomatoes and a round of mozzarella, chased down with sugary bottled espresso and cigarettes. After dinner, they dressed quietly in fishing overalls, rubber boots and yellow slickers. The only visible lights glimmered from shore, where people were dining on last night’s catch.

As the fish ascend to feed on algae, they bump into the netting. The diameter of the menaica’s mesh allows young anchovies to swim through, catching the larger anchovies at the gill. While one fisherman reeled in the net, two others stood on either side to release each fish. The blood ran into the ocean through small holes along the deck; the waves sent ocean water back up through the holes, cleaning the fish.
161 2007-05-06 The best thing racing fans can do is give up any hope for the Triple Crown, the extremely high standard that leaves people so disappointed every springtime. It may well be that the current 3-year-olds are too overbred, too fragile, to win three races in five weeks. Maybe that is why it feels harder to commit this time around.

Still, the inner romantic returns every spring, when Kentucky is briefly the center of the universe. It certainly seemed that way yesterday, with Queen Elizabeth II attending her first Derby, one more lady in the crowd with a colorful hat.

The whole noisy, expensive party finally makes sense when the horses come on the track and people sing “My Old Kentucky Home.”

The horses are the pure talent, the ones taking the most risk. The jockeys are a significant variable, while the owners are usually more interesting for the ways they made their fortunes than for any role with their horses. But the trainers stand around the hay and the manure and the mud at the barns and speak for the animals.

Street Sense’s trainer, Carl Nafzger, has been a Derby legend of sorts since 1990, when he was seen on national television narrating the trip by Unbridled for the benefit of the 92-year-old owner, Frances Genter, whose vision was impaired.

“He’s taking the lead. He’s gonna win. He’s gonna win. He’s gonna win,” Nafzger shouted at the owner. “He’s a winner! He’s a winner! He’s a winner, Mrs. Genter! You’ve won the Kentucky Derby, Mrs. Genter! I love you.”

Mrs. Genter has since died. Yesterday Nafzger said he did not profess the same sentiments to Street Sense’s owner, the 83-year-old James Tafel.

“He knows how I feel,” Nafzger said of the owner who has kept him from fading into retirement.

Unbridled was running 12th in a field of 15 in 1990, and now Nafzger is a double winner, with another horse who came from far behind.

“Calvin has a clock in his head,” Nafzger explained, saying he was not worried when Street Sense fell so far behind.

Is this romp up the inside enough to put Street Sense in the company of Charismatic, who made people commit emotionally in 1999, after he won the first two legs of the Triple Crown? People cared about Charismatic partly because of his close resemblance to his great-grandfather, a giant red stallion by the name of Secretariat.

“The same expression, the same ears, the same little crest in the neck, the same muscles,” said D. Wayne Lukas, his trainer, in comparing Charismatic to Secretariat.

Instead of Triple Crown glory, there was the horrifying scene of Chris Antley leaping off Charismatic just past the finish line of the Belmont, controlling the horse until veterinarians could attend to his fractured left front leg.

Modern medical treatment saved Charismatic — but Antley died of his excesses, in California, a few years later.

Then Funny Cide won the first two legs in 2003 but did not have, as many had suspected, the muscle to pull off the Belmont, finishing third on a sloppy track. At least Funny Cide, a gelding, is still running, since he has no value in the breeding shed. He finished third in the Kings Point Handicap last Sunday.

“People criticize me for that,” his trainer, Barclay Tagg, tersely noted last week while prepping Nobiz Like Shobiz, who finished 10th yesterday.

Smarty Jones also captured the fans by winning the Derby and the Preakness in 2004. Everything was going right in early June as crowds of fans clustered at his stable at Belmont.

The trainer, John Servis, even allowed a group of nuns, in habit, to get up close to Smarty Jones. The next thing you knew, whoosh, Smarty was nipped by Birdstone in the Belmont, but his fans still insist he was worth all the love.

The horses seem to be breaking down faster and faster. In 2005, Giacomo won the Derby, but then not much else. Afleet Alex won the Preakness after nearly breaking down, then he won the Belmont, but six weeks later he was found to have a hairline fracture in his left front cannon bone.

Last year it was Barbaro, winning the Derby but faltering in the Preakness, euthanized in January. Yesterday, Street Sense did not capture the tacky $1 million Barbaro Bonus being offered by a fast-food conglomerate for beating Barbaro’s margin of six and a half lengths. We can only hope the gimmick vanishes before next year.

For now, it is springtime in Kentucky, where legends seem to be created once a year.
162 2007-05-06 Approximately 40 starting pitchers joined new teams last off-season. Some have begun their new careers impressively. Marquis has been the most effective. Far more have not performed as if they will be competing for the Cy Young awards. Jeff Weaver has stood out in that group.

Unlike Marquis, Weaver pitched in the postseason last year, winning one game in each series for the Cardinals, including the World Series finale. Weaver, however, lost his first five starts for Seattle, allowing 41 hits and 29 runs in 17 innings for a 15.35 earned run average.

Like the Cubs, the Milwaukee Brewers have done well with their signing of a former St. Louis pitcher. Jeff Suppan has started the season with a 4-2 record and a 2.55 E.R.A.

His four-year, $42 million contract seemed a bit steep for a pitcher with a 106-101 career record, but Suppan, a 32-year-old right-hander, has helped pitch the Brewers into first place in the N.L. Central.

The Cubs can’t say the same about Marquis and Ted Lilly, another free agent (four years, $40 million). Marquis and Lilly (2-2, 2.82) have helped the Cubs build one of the most effective pitching staffs in the league, but that hasn’t translated to progress in the team’s won-lost record.

On the other hand, how bad would the Cubs be if they didn’t have Marquis and Lilly?

The Kansas City Royals are so bad, not even an effective Gil Meche can drag them out of the division place to which they have become accustomed. Meche, however, has made a surprisingly impressive start for his five-year, $55 million contract with a 3-1 record and 2.23 E.R.A. for the last-place Royals.

Barry Zito gained the biggest contract as a free-agent pitcher, seven years and $126 million, but he hasn’t been the best pitcher. He has a 2-3 record and a 3.52 E.R.A. for San Francisco.

Plenty of pitchers on new teams have been worse. More than a dozen starters besides Weaver have E.R.A.’s higher than 6.00 for their new teams.

The group includes Mark Redman, Atlanta, 0-4, 10.62; Adam Eaton, Philadelphia, 3-2, 8.18; Jason Schmidt, Dodgers, 1-2, 7.36; Jaret Wright, Baltimore, 0-3, 6.97; Randy Johnson, Arizona, 0-2, 6.50. Schmidt and Wright are on the disabled list.

Left with an almost brand-new rotation, St. Louis is struggling. Kip Wells, signed as a free agent, has a 1-6 record with a 6.59 E.R.A., and Adam Wainwright, who was the team’s World Series closer, is 2-2 with a 5.60 E.R.A. as a starter.

But Braden Looper, who was the Mets’ closer two years ago, has a 3-2 record and 2.84 E.R.A.

Some teams have inserted rookies into their rotations but with no success. Mike Pelfrey of the Mets has a 0-3 record and a 6.75 E.R.A. John Danks of the White Sox has a 0-4 record and a 5.02 E.R.A.

Daisuke Matsuzaka, Boston’s $103 million man, is a major league rookie despite his experience in Japan, and in spite of his dominant pitching in Japan he has demonstrated that in this country he is human. He has a winning record, 3-2, but he also has a 5.45 E.R.A.

The worst free-agent signing of the off-season might belong to the Yankees. Well, Marty Miller doesn’t belong to the Yankees anymore. They fired him last week as their strength and conditioning coach as one pitcher after another sustained a disabling hamstring injury.

The Yankees hired Miller, a major league baseball novice, from a country club in Palm Beach, Fla., replacing Jeff Mangold, who had held the job for nine years.

What’s worse, the Yankees gave Miller a new and fancy title: director of performance enhancement. With that frilly nouveau designation, Miller didn’t have a chance.

General Manager Brian Cashman will very likely never make a more costly decision than he did in violating the adage “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”

Pitching for Pittsburgh in 2004, the left-hander Oliver Pérez was fourth in the National League in strikeouts and first in strikeouts per nine innings, edging Randy Johnson, 10.97 to 10.62. Five weeks into this season for the Mets, Pérez is fifth in strikeouts (tied with five others) and again leads in strikeouts per nine innings (11.2).

But there is an even more intriguing aspect to Pérez’s performance. In 2004 he had a very good three-to-one strikeout-to-walk ratio. This season, even though he walked seven in his second start, he has a 3.6-to-1 ratio. He walked no one in three other starts and three in his last game.

His ratio was eighth best in the N.L. entering the weekend.

The season is barely a month old, and Ryan Langerhans is playing for his third team. Langerhans, a 27-year-old outfielder, began the season with Atlanta, was traded to Oakland last Sunday, played for the Athletics in Boston on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, then was traded to Washington and played for the Nationals on Friday in Chicago.

Last season four players each played for three teams: Cody Ross for the Dodgers, Reds and Marlins; Matt Stairs, Royals, Rangers, Tigers; Phil Nevin, Rangers, Cubs, Twins; and Jason Johnson, Indians, Red Sox, Reds.

When Jarrod Saltalamacchia assumed his position behind the plate at the start of Atlanta’s game with Philadelphia last Wednesday night, he made history. He had, Elias Sports Bureau reported, the longest last name in major league history: 14 letters, count ’em.

Previously the longest name was 13 letters, shared by many. One of the most recent sharers was Todd Hollandsworth. Another was John Van Benschoten.

Saltalamacchia is a 22-year-old catcher who was in his fifth minor league season when the Braves summoned him last week. His older brother, Justin, 26, was a minor league infielder whom the Braves signed around the time they drafted Jarrod in the first round of the 2003 draft.

But Justin’s baseball career ended about a year later when the Braves released him, leaving Jarrod to get the 14-letter record.

Look at the Brewers Now

After 12 successive losing seasons, the Milwaukee Brewers finished the 2005 season with a .500 record. But their enjoyment was short-lived. Last season they reverted to losing, finishing with a 75-87 record. It was depressing at the time, but time has altered the perception of the disappointing season. So has a fast start to this season. The Brewers have the biggest division lead in the National League.

“I look at our club now and last year and I say I wonder how we won 75 games,” General Manager Doug Melvin said. “Three of our infielders played less than 100 games, and we lost Sheets and Ohka, who missed half a season. Now I look at it and say we were pretty fortunate that we won 75 games last year.”

The Brewers have second baseman Rickie Weeks and shortstop J. J. Hardy back in the lineup, but third baseman Corey Koskie is still recovering from a concussion he sustained last July. Craig Counsell and Tony Graffanino have split time at third.

“We don’t have any superstars,” Melvin said, “but we feel we can be average at every position instead of having a few superstars and below-average players at other positions.”

Hardy and Prince Fielder are the offensive leaders but with modest numbers. They went into their game last night with seven home runs each, while Fielder had 23 runs batted in and Hardy 22.

On the pitching front, the Brewers have three starters with sub-3.00 earned run averages: Jeff Suppan, Claudio Vargas and Chris Capuano. All three are a testament to Melvin’s ability to evaluate players.

Capuano and Vargas came from Arizona in trades three years apart, and Melvin signed Suppan as a free agent. Dave Bush, another starter, also came in a trade. So did Francisco Cordero, the team’s closer.

Most of the key position players, on the other hand, are homegrown: Hardy, Fielder, Weeks and outfielders Geoff Jenkins, Bill Hall and Corey Hart.

Cautious after last year’s experience, Melvin noted that the Brewers had a good first month, “but we have a long way to go.”

He added: “We’ve played fairly good baseball, mostly in our division. We have the National League East teams coming up.”

“I don’t see many clubs that are dominant,” he said, speaking of the league generally, “but I don’t see many clubs that are pushovers either. I don’t know if revenue sharing has helped do that or managing players has done it, but I don’t think there are any bad teams or great teams.”
163 2007-05-06 Extreme grilling . . . good-humored ice-cream trucks . . . fresh-baked fashion . . . mochi . . . bed, barn and beyond....
164 2007-05-06 Jason Marquis pitched so poorly last September that he won none of his five starts, lost four of them, compiled a 7.25 earned run average, didn't appear in the St. Louis Cardinals' first playoff series against San Diego and was left off the roster...
165 2007-05-06 Buoyed by reports of possible mergers and acquisitions, stocks surged last week, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to another record close on Friday.     Last week, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation offered to buy Dow Jones, the publisher o...
166 2007-05-06 Jim Luttrell of The Times highlights some critical moments of the race.    Curlin, the second favorite, drew the dangerous No. 2 post and was bumped early as the pack made its move for the rail. Hard Spun, breaking from the No. 8 post, was unimped...
167 2007-05-06 To the Editor:     ''Young, Gifted, and Not Getting Into Harvard,'' by Michael Winerip (Parenting, April 29), resonated with me, as I have just completed the college admissions process with my high school senior....
168 2007-05-06 It's been eaten by Japanese noblemen for centuries; it contains phytins, which are thought to prevent cancer; and it's said to be impervious to the Heimlich maneuver. We're talking about the magic of mochi, a chewy dough made from pounding glutino...
169 2007-05-06 On Dec. 12, 1948, The New York Times published an article about crowds ''in holiday mood'' blocking traffic in an old Connecticut village of stately colonial homes. Nearing completion on Ponus Ridge in New Canaan was the ultramodern, all-glass hou...
170 2007-05-06 A weekend away is supposed to be relaxing. We took the guesswork out of dining -- and dressing -- in three summer destinations. Getting a Saturday-night reservation in high season is up to you....
171 2007-05-06 Lisa Sanders's emotional response to her patient's emergency is a common experience to all primary-care physicians (Diagnosis, April 22). Every time one of my patients develops a life-threatening medical problem, my natural inclination is to blame...
172 2007-05-06 Chien-Ming Wang's audition for the Yankees took place in a gymnasium in Taiwan seven years ago. It rained that day, so Wang's workout was moved indoors. Wang threw for about a half-hour before he was offered a $1.9 million signing bonus. He accept...
173 2007-05-06 Days after news reports revealed that the county's 9/11 memorial, ''The Rising,'' had left out one resident, the family of another county victim came forward.     The victim, Mary Teresa Caulfield, 58, a resident of Eastchester and an executive as...
174 2007-05-06 Dr. Emily Flora Gregory, the daughter of Rona H. Gregory of Cambridge, Mass., and the late Joel W. Gregory, who lived in Montreal, is to be married today on Cape Cod to Daniel Jacob Hopkins, a son of Dr. Alice S. Prince of Larchmont, N.Y., and the...
175 2007-05-06 County health officials issued a warning last week after a rabid cat was found near 757 Armonk Road in Mount Kisco. The cat was described as white with a black tail, a black mark on one ear and a black patch on its back. Anyone who had had contact...
176 2007-05-06 WEISS--Lawrence S., born in New York City, November 7, 1921, son of Alexander and Bess Weiss has passed to a better place May 3, 2007 after a brief but difficult illness. Loving, devoted husband, father, and grandfather, he was admired, loved and ...
177 2007-05-06 Innovative design and delicious food meet at Proef, Marije Vogelzang's design studios/restaurants in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. Weekend visitors can participate in her oddball creations, such as salads whose ingredients were grown in the dark. Vogel...
178 2007-05-07 Perhaps in advance of the just-announced Assembly oversight hearing at which they will be appearing tomorrow, officials at the Empire State Development Corporation issued a press release today announcing the consolidation of some of its many, many...
179 2007-05-07 The revelation - dropped by Christopher Hitchens in an interview with New York magazine - that Karl Rove is an atheist has enabled the Bush administration to, at long last, deliver on its 2000 campaign promise to "change the tone" in Washington. E...
180 2007-05-07 Can you hedge a hedge fund? An investment currently being marketed to the rich is trying in essence to do just that, and the approach is bound to be offered to the rest of us soon, The New York Times reports. Often referred to as 130/30, the strat...
181 2007-05-07 Are hedge fund managers fees getting too rich for investors' blood? While managers of these regulated investment pools are getting richer - they took home an estimated $14 billion last year - there are grumblings among some investors that their re...
182 2007-05-07 KPMG has quit as auditor of the bankrupt subprime lender New Century Financial, which has hired forensic accountants to investigate how the company valued its stake in mortgage-backed bonds. KPMG notified New Century last week that its client-audi...
183 2007-05-07 A takeover battle for the EMI Group, the British music company, may be in the offing, but Warner Music, which has been interested in EMI for years, will not be among the bidders. The Financial Times reported that three private equity firms in the ...
184 2007-05-07 In this lesson students will conduct a close reading of the Second Amendment to the Constitution and engage in a "fishbowl" discussion about how best to interpret the text as well as write a letter to the editor expressing their views....
185 2007-05-07 Hong Kong television broadcasts and newspapers were full of lurid accounts today of pigs staggering around with blood pouring from their bodies in Gaoyao and neighboring Yunfu, both in Guangdong Province. The Apple Daily newspaper said that as many as 80 percent of the pigs in the area had died, that panicky farmers were selling ailing animals at deep discounts and that pig carcasses were floating in a river.

The reports in Hong Kong said the disease began killing pigs after the Chinese New Year celebrations in February, and is now spreading. But state-controlled news outlets in China have reported almost nothing about the pig deaths, and very little about the wheat gluten problem.

A man answering the phone at the city government offices in Gaoyao, 140 miles northwest of Hong Kong, confirmed late this afternoon that pigs were dying there. He declined to give his name.

Dr. Kwok Ka-ki, a surgeon who represents the medical profession in Hong Kong’s legislature, said that the Chinese government should share all pig-death information with the Chinese public and with the city of Hong Kong, which Britain returned to Chinese control in 1997.

“They definitely need to tell the public, but also people in the city, as to the extent of the outbreak, how is the disease being controlled and the impact on public health,” he said. “It would help a lot to relieve the worry, and it would help the rest of China to fight the disease.”

There have been no reports of people becoming ill from the disease. But the SARS experience has left Hong Kong with lasting jitters about mysterious diseases in mainland China.

Medical experts said that the extent of the bleeding from the pigs, including reports of bloody skin lesions, did not sound like the usual symptoms of bird flu, but added that the pig deaths nonetheless needed to be investigated.

Two spokeswomen for the Hong Kong Food and Environmental Hygiene Department said that the Guangdong authorities had told the department only that no live pigs were being shipped from the Yunfu and Gaoyao area to Hong Kong.

A spokesman for the Hong Kong Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department said that there were no signs of suspicious deaths among Hong Kong’s pigs, and referred questions about pigs in Guangdong to the food department.

Both departments said last week, in written responses to questions, that they were not testing wheat gluten imported from the mainland for the presence of melamine scrap, a residue from the manufacture of a chemical used in plastics production. The presence of melamine scrap in pet food has been linked to the deaths of as many as 4,000 cats and dogs in the United States, and prompted the culling of chickens that ate contaminated feed.

Hong Kong officials expressed surprise today when they were told that the official Xinhua news agency mentioned a month ago that the mainland had begun nationwide testing of wheat gluten for melamine. Animal-feed dealers in northeastern China said late last month that the two main destinations for feed mixed with melamine had been the Yangtze delta region near Shanghai and the Pearl River delta region near Hong Kong.

China has allowed American regulators to visit the country and begin investigating the wheat gluten problem, after initially declining to issue them visas.
186 2007-05-07 Victories are worth 2 points; the Spanish have 29 points and Victory Challenge has 24. But Desafio does not have a soft opponent remaining, and Victory’s employees have grown accustomed to living on the brink.

But they are wary of favoritism. Michel Bonnefous, chief executive of America’s Cup Management, or A.C.M., has already said that the popular success of the event was directly linked to the success of the Spanish team.

“Of course, we have some conspiracy theories that someone could throw a race to let the Spanish in,” said Hugo Stenbeck, the 28-year-old head of the Swedish syndicate. “It will be very, very advantageous for A.C.M. to have the Spanish for TV ratings, just for the over all, even for the spectators and public arriving to the port here.

“But if I smell something unsportsmanlike, we’re going to crack down on them. We’ve already got a plan for it. If they have anything up their sleeve, we’re watching. That’s just not the way it should be.”

Victory was uncertain about challenging for this Cup after taking a crash course the last time in Auckland, New Zealand, and finishing fifth. Its campaign was rocked when Stenbeck, a Swedish media mogul, died of a heart attack in Paris in May 2002, shortly before the racing began.

But Stenbeck’s American son Hugo, only 23 at the time, left his studies at New York University and took over the team. He then launched another campaign in 2005, convinced that the Cup returning to Europe for the first time in 156 years would be a guarantee of sponsorship interest.

“I would say I was a bit naïve,” said Hugo Stenbeck, who grew up on Long Island. His mother, Merrill MacLeod, who died last year, was American.

By October 2005, with future funding in doubt, Stenbeck and the team’s administrators called a meeting at the team’s still-unfinished base in Valencia. He gave the staff three months’ notice in compliance with Spanish law. Meanwhile, staff members were being reassured privately by the skipper Magnus Holmberg and others that the money would eventually come.

“We had our ups and downs, but I think that builds the character of the guys on the boat,” Stenbeck said. “Basically I think we had three questions in the meeting. Everybody else went straight back to work.”

Although two sailors eventually jumped ship, including Sten Mohr, who is now BMW Oracle’s backup helmsman, there were no other significant defections.

By March 2006, the financial outlook had brightened. The real reprieve came in June, when the energy drink manufacturer Red Bull signed on as primary sponsor. Since then, the team has had the means to follow the Cup defender Alinghi’s lead and train in Dubai over the winter. But there was no longer enough time to build two new boats, which has become a prerequisite to Cup success.

Of the top five teams in the standings here, Victory Challenge is the only one-boat program. Victory’s crew did not get to sail in its only new boat until Feb. 10, little more than two months before the start of the challenger series, known as the Vuitton Cup.

Launching that late was a big, if calculated, risk. But the team preferred to give its lead designer, Mani Frers, and the builders more time to get the one boat right than to have more time with a potentially flawed product. Frers, who designed two boats at Jan Stenbeck’s request for the last Cup, used the existing boats cleverly this time to test new masts and sails while the hull of the new boat was still a work in progress.

Frers’s boat is not the only yacht worthy of attention on Victory’s base. Sophie is a polished, gorgeous 90-foot replica of the yacht Endeavor. It was one of Jan Stenbeck’s prized possessions, and Hugo Stenbeck now watches the races from it in Valencia. “I think he’s with us,” Hugo said of his father. “I think maybe half the guys on the team knew him personally. He’s a big part of their life, as with me. He’s still present in a sense.”
187 2007-05-07 LONDON, May 6 (AP) — Manchester United won its first English Premier League title since 2003 on Sunday — without kicking a ball. It clinched the title because Chelsea tied at Arsenal, 1-1.

United, which beat Manchester City on Saturday, 1-0, has 88 points. Chelsea is second with 81 points and two games left. The two play each other Wednesday at Chelsea.

United has won the English title nine times since the Premier League was formed in 1992, all under Manager Alex Ferguson. He took over the club in 1986. United has also won seven other English titles.

Chelsea had been trying to win its third consecutive league title. The last club to do that was Manchester United (1999-2001).
188 2007-05-07 Seattle Mariners relief pitcher Julio Mateo was arraigned yesterday on a misdemeanor assault charge after he was arrested and charged with striking his wife in a Manhattan hotel.

Bail was set at $3,000, which he posted, said Edison Alban, a spokesman for the Manhattan district attorney’s office.

The police said that Mateo struck his wife early Saturday morning and that she needed five stitches to her mouth. He was charged with third-degree assault.

Mateo failed to show up for the Mariners’ game with the Yankees on Saturday afternoon, and the team said yesterday that it had suspended him for 10 days for an unexcused absence. If the suspension stands, it will cost Mateo $54,645 of his $1 million salary this year.

“I spoke with him yesterday morning on the phone, but beyond that, I’ve had no contact with him,” Mariners Manager Mike Hargrove said yesterday.

Michael Weiner, the players union general counsel, said that the union would examine the matter today.
189 2007-05-07 In addition to single games — which come free of commercials or timeouts, and which feature league announcers — fans can download an entire series for $13, or all playoff games for $80. The average game length is a little under two hours.

For the moment, users cannot search the clips for, say, every Steve Nash assist, but that is coming. According to Steve Hellmuth, a senior vice president with the N.B.A., league employees are breaking down game films and logging events within each team’s possession.

For instance, if San Antonio’s Tim Duncan pulls down a rebound and then dunks, N.B.A. employees would tag the video with those two events; in the future, viewers searching for Duncan’s rebounds or dunks could quickly find that sequence.

There are about 500 such highlights in each game, and because only humans can log these events, the tagging process is labor intensive. Mr. Hellmuth said the league has about 40,000 games on tape in its archive, mostly from 1990 and later, and about 3,800 have been logged. Those games are already being used by coaches to scout other teams, as well as league executives who review the calls of game officials.

“We’re getting slowly to our older games, but we’ll be focused 100 percent on that this summer,” Mr. Hellmuth said. It will take about eight years before all 40,000 games are digitized and logged. Mr. Hellmuth declined to discuss the cost of the project. “We view this as a mission we have to execute for the fans,” he said. “The revenue side of it comes second.”

According to Ken Kerschbaumer, editorial director of the Sports Video Group, an industry trade group, the N.B.A.’s efforts are “a bit ahead of the curve,” compared with those of other leagues. “But other leagues, colleges — everybody’s looking at digitizing their archives.”

Mr. Kerschbaumer said no one has proved how valuable those archives can be, so sports organizations cannot tell whether online sales of their clips will merely help defray costs or turn into a significant source of income. “But it could bring in some good revenues,” he said.

Although the idea of searching for specific instances of a player’s career and compiling one’s own highlight reel sounds enticing, consumers are unlikely to do so, according to Scott Bailey, general manager and vice president of Turner Sports New Media, which produces the official Web sites for Nascar and the P.G.A. Tour, among others.

Mr. Bailey said that in 2001, his company experimented with an approach where Internet users could create highlight reels from archived auto racing footage.

“You could search all the night races on a short track that Jeff Gordon crashed in, or won in a final lap, which sounds great, right? Consumers didn’t want it,” Mr. Bailey said. “The larger opportunity here is in the things you’d see at the DVD store where someone has packaged a series of dramatic moments for you.”

This summer, Mr. Bailey said that Nascar.com would release many more videos for downloads, like compilations of races a particular driver has won.

Like other organizations, the National Hockey League is struggling with how to quickly digitize and index its mountain of archival footage, which dates back to the 1920s. Patti Fallick, group vice president of NHL Productions, which maintains the league’s video archive, said the league must carefully choose the people who index that footage.

Ms. Fallick said those who log the events from a game must also evaluate the best plays, and only those with deep hockey knowledge can make such judgments.

Other leagues are finding low-cost sports experts from a familiar talent pool: college students. “We pay them $15 an hour,” said Bob Bowman, the chief executive of Major League Baseball Advanced Media, the league’s online subsidiary. “It’s not a multimillion dollar project,” he added, “but nor is it a $100,000 project.”

Mr. Bowman said that MLB.com will later this year introduce a video search product so users can search through hundreds of games to find highlights from specific players. Users will likely be able to download those clips free, he said.

“The cost of the technology to do this keeps coming down, but we don’t really have a choice,” Mr. Bowman said. “We don’t know how a standard game from 1963 will drive revenue, but we have to have it.”

The National Football League will roll out a new version of its Web site this summer, with a heavy emphasis on video, said Brian Rolapp the league’s vice president of media strategy. Mr. Rolapp said the league is weighing how much historical footage it could offer for downloading, and which clips would be supported by advertisers, versus those that would be available for purchase.

Mr. Rolapp agreed that it is costly to digitize the league’s old games and highlight reels, but thanks to the proliferation of high-speed Internet connections and video-sharing sites, that footage has become valuable.

“People have talked about this for a long time,” he said. “But the difference now is that it’s really worth doing because you’ve seen business models develop to warrant the investment.”
190 2007-05-07 Suze Orman, the telegenic personal finance guru, offers myriad ways for fans to soak up her wisdom — on her QVC show, her CNBC show, her Web site and in her best-selling books.

Now there is one claim she can no longer make: that the credit-score kit with her name and face on it can actually improve the creditworthiness of the person who buys it.

Under a proposed settlement of a class action lawsuit against the Fair Isaac Corporation and Equifax, which sell products to consumers who want to gauge how fondly lenders will view them, there are new limits on the assertions these products can make about their ability to raise people’s credit profiles.

Ms. Orman sells “Suze Orman’s Fico Kit” on both her Web site and one run by Fair Isaac. Although she was not a defendant in the lawsuit, her kit was among 156 products that came under fire as potentially violating the Credit Repair Organizations Act, a law designed to control fly-by-night credit-repair agencies.

Under a settlement that the plaintiffs reached with Fair Isaac and Equifax, none of the credit products can be advertised in various ways, such as pairing the words “improving,” “enhancing,” “boosting” or “raising” with words like “tips,” “suggestions” or “advice.”

Two law firms, Pope, McGlamry, Kilpatrick, Morrison & Norwood of Atlanta and Battle, Fleenor, Green, Winn & Clemmer of Birmingham, Ala., filed suit against Fair Isaac and Equifax, its partner on the www.myFICO.com Web site.
191 2007-05-07 BID FOR DOW JONES CRITICIZED -- Members of the Ottaway family, which owns a minority stake in Dow Jones & Company, released scathing statements yesterday saying that a takeover by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation would ruin Dow Jones and its crow...
192 2007-05-07 McCARTHY--Jane Aufsesser Lisberger, 84, writer, artist, philanthropist, died May 1 in Exeter, NH. Survived by her children Steve, Lin, and Jody Lisberger, and Emily Vitale, and sister Betty Sonneborn....
193 2007-05-08 Holy cow. I just got this e-mail from Apple's iTunes store: "Dear David Pogue, "Our records indicate that the iTunes Store Gift you received in January 2007 from Gary has not been redeemed. "Perhaps you misplaced the Gift e-mail or our e-mail was ...
194 2007-05-08 The SEC has no proof a Hong Kong couple had inside information on Rupert Murdoch's bid for Dow Jones, but that did not stop it from freezing their profits....
195 2007-05-08 Well, that was fast. Less than a week after Dow Jones confirmed receiving a $5 billion takeover bid from News Corporation, a Hong Kong couple stands accused of insider trading in Dow Jones shares before the approach was made public. In a civil com...
196 2007-05-08 The world's exchanges cannot seem to buy each other fast enough. The latest example of the global consolidation is last week's $2.8 billion offer by Deutsche Borse of Germany for the International Securities Exchange, a New York-based options exch...
197 2007-05-08 Tour the Hyder family's labyrinthine 10-bedroom, 11-bathroom second home in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico....
198 2007-05-08 The four-time Academy Award nominee Marsha Mason will star when Playwrights Horizons presents the world premiere of "A Feminine Ending" next fall.

Written by Sarah Treem and directed by Blair Brown, the play deals with the impact on an aspiring young composer's life of a summons home from her mother (Ms. Mason), who is facing a marital crisis.

Previews begin in October at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater on Theater Row.
199 2007-05-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
200 2007-05-08 A cheap and easy critical approach to a crime documentary is to look at the opening scene. Try this at home: If a program opens on a rough, hot city block with torn chain link and kids hanging out, the film is probably going to have a bleeding heart. In its long and loving look, misty as a bobby-soxer’s gaze at James Dean, we get the picture. These are the neglected toughs who might be rehabilitated by the gentle hand of a social worker or a Brown-educated filmmaker.

Rarely the curtain opens on something else. A documentary, like tonight’s “Frontline” on PBS, “When Kids Get Life,” begins with a crime scene. The first sound in the mix is a siren; the first voices belong to police officers. Shots of stains, spills and rigor mortis follow. You can almost hear the officious D.A.: “Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, this was a heinous crime. Show no mercy.”

O.K., so there’s a reason that drawing conclusions from the first scene is cheap: It can be misleading. In spite of its opening, “When Kids Get Life” turns out to be no more prosecutorial than the usual PBS fare. Soon after the tour of the gruesome crime scene — a Colorado house in which a couple, the mother and stepfather of the 15-year-old murderer, have been butchered — the program swings by the prison in which Jacob Ind, now 29, is serving a life sentence without parole.

Mr. Ind, who was a kind-faced teenager, is now puffy-looking — hardly a lean jerk shouting “Oz”-style jive about his innocence and prison politics. He’s confused. In a long interview his brother, a therapist, says he and Jacob were sexually tortured by the stepfather and that Jacob was singled out for contempt by their mother.

Four equally sorry young lifers appear, men whose crimes seem to be profoundly mitigated. Each one, it should be said, is a small masterpiece of pity and outrage, and you can hardly believe any of them is behind bars. Two have no more appeals. Two had lawyers evidently so inept as to embarrass the whole profession. One, with highly connected and rich parents, says he didn’t do anything but help clean up after a murder; it seems another kid implicated him to save his own hide. The point clearly is that teenagers don’t ever deserve life without parole.

In the individual cases, however, who knows who’s telling the truth? The filmmaker, Ofra Bikel, clearly believes the guys. And so does the viewer. It’s not that the filmmaker is so persuasive, it’s that there is almost no one else to rely on.
201 2007-05-08 However Ms. Ishida, the spokeswoman, said the plant carried a small wooden placard that read “Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.”

The seemingly small gesture could take on larger symbolic significance in Japan’s rocky relations with its neighbors, where memories of the Imperial military’s wartime march through Asia remain raw. Mr. Abe has recently made progress in improving ties with Beijing and Seoul, one of the few major successes so far of his eight-month-old administration.

It is unclear if the action will hurt those efforts or be seen as a compromise that satisfies Japan’s neighbors because he did not actually visit the shrine.

At the regular Tuesday briefing of China’s Foreign Ministry in Beijing, a spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, deflected initial questions about Mr. Abe’s gesture before offering a muted response. Ms. Jiang never criticized Mr. Abe’s offering, a possible signal that the gesture would not damage relations between the two Asian giants. Instead, she noted the improved relations between the countries and urged Japan to adhere to a mutual consensus on removing political obstacles in the relationship.

“The Yasukuni Shrine issue is an important and sensitive political issue in China-Japan relations," Ms. Jiang said at the news briefing, which was later reported by Xinhua, China's official news agency. "We hope Japan strictly abides by the consensus.”

Junichiro Koizumi, the previous prime minister, outraged many in Asia by making annual visits. They won him support from Japanese veterans groups and other conservatives, who viewed them as displays of respect for Japan’s war dead.

Mr. Abe, who has pushed a conservative political agenda, has yet to make clear whether he will visit Yasukuni as prime minister, a move that would almost certainly anger China and South Korea. So far, Mr. Abe has tried to walk a thin line between appealing to his domestic conservative base and improving relations with Asian neighbors, with whom Japan has robust economic ties. One of his first moves after taking office in September was a trip to Beijing and Seoul that was widely credited with building good will.

The plant was offered during an annual spring ceremony at the shrine that was held April 21-23, shortly after a visit here by China’s prime minister, Wen Jiabao, that was hailed as further mending of relations between the two Asian powers. The visit was the first in nearly seven years by a Chinese leader; China’s top leaders had refused to come because of Mr. Koizumi’s trips to the shrine.

Ms. Ishida, the shrine spokeswoman, said the last prime minister to make that type of offering was Yasuhiro Nakasone, in 1985. Prime Minister Nakasone also visited the shrine, angering Asian neighbors. Ms. Ishida said the shrine only allows high-ranking politicians and leaders of veterans and bereaved family groups to make such offerings.

Reuters reported that Japan’s foreign minister, Taro Aso, told reporters he thought the gesture would have little impact on Sino-Japanese ties, which have improved markedly since Mr. Abe took office.
202 2007-05-08 A former Morgan Stanley compliance officer and her husband are expected to plead guilty this week to charges stemming from an insider-trading case that prosecutors say was part of the largest such scheme on Wall Street since the 1980s.

Federal prosecutors said in March that Randi E. Collotta, a lawyer and compliance officer at Morgan Stanley, tipped off her husband, Christopher K. Collotta, and a Florida broker, Marc R. Jurman, about deals, including the acquisition of Argosy Gaming by Penn National Gaming.

“The government anticipates that both defendants will be ready to enter guilty pleas on May 10, 2007,” an assistant United States attorney, Andrew L. Fish, said in a letter to a Manhattan federal judge that was posted by the court on the case docket.

The charges were part of an insider-trading crackdown against employees at Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns. In all, 13 people were charged in separate schemes that authorities said stretched over five years and yielded more than $15 million in illegal profits.

“Randi Collotta is prepared to address the charges in court,” said her lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker, declining to comment further.

Christopher Collotta’s lawyer, Brian T. Rafferty, of Dornbush Schaeffer Strongin & Venaglia, declined to comment. Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, also declined to comment.
203 2007-05-08 By imposing surcharges on the sale of crude oil, the Iraqi regime skimmed about $228 million from its oil exports.

A report released in 2004 by an investigator at the Central Intelligence Agency listed five American companies that bought oil through the program: the Coastal Corporation, a subsidiary of El Paso; Chevron; Texaco; BayOil, and Mobil, now part of Exxon Mobil. The companies have denied any wrongdoing and said they were cooperating with the investigations.

As part of the deal under negotiation, Chevron, which now owns Texaco, is not expected to admit to violating the U.N. sanctions. But Chevron is expected to acknowledge that it should have been aware that illegal kickbacks were being paid to Iraq on the oil, the investigators said.

The fine is connected to the payment of about $20 million in surcharges on tens of millions of barrels of Iraqi oil bought by Chevron from 2000 to 2002, investigators said.

These payments were made by small oil traders that sold oil to Chevron. But records found by United Nations, American and Italian officials showed that they were financed by Chevron.

The negotiations, which might take several weeks to conclude, follow an agreement reached in February by El Paso, the largest operator of American natural gas pipelines, to pay the United States government $7.73 million to settle allegations that it was involved in illegal payments under the oil-for-food program.

The settlement discussions are a result of months of work by a joint task force of the United States attorneys of the Southern District of New York and the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, with help from Italian authorities. Kent Robertson, a spokesman for Chevron, said “regarding the oil-for-food program generally, Chevron purchased Iraqi crude oil principally for use in its U.S. refineries and the United Nations approved the initial sale of all cargos ultimately purchased by Chevron.”

He said Chevron has cooperated with inquiries into the program “and we will continue to do so.”

The United States attorney’s office and the office of the New York district attorney both declined to comment.

Thus far, only former United Nations officials, individual traders and relatively small oil companies have come under scrutiny in the United States.

According to the Volcker report, surcharges on Iraqi oil exports were introduced in August 2000 by the Iraqi state oil company, the State Oil Marketing Organization. At the time, Condoleezza Rice, now secretary of state, was a member of Chevron’s board and led its public policy committee, which oversaw areas of potential political concerns for the company.

Ms. Rice resigned from Chevron’s board on Jan. 16, 2001, after being named national security advisor by President Bush.

According to Chevron’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings, the public policy committee met three times in the course of 2000. Chevron declined to comment about the private deliberations of its board.

On Jan. 26, 2001, Patricia Woertz, then president of Chevron Products, stated in an internal communication that “the payment of such a surcharge is prohibited by U.N. sanctions against Iraq,” according to documents provided by Chevron to the Volcker committee.

In any transaction involving Iraqi oil, Ms. Woertz wrote that the company should consider the “identity, experience and reputation of the selling company,” as well as “any deviation of the proposed pricing basis or margin for the transaction from historical practice.”

According to American and Italian investigators, however, a list of Iraqi oil transactions from June 2000 to December 2002, which Chevron provided to the Volcker committee, showed that the premium Chevron was paying to third parties went up after August 2000, when the illegal surcharges began — and continued to be paid even after Ms. Woertz’s warnings.

The company also did not carry out Ms. Woertz’s demand for what amounted to a credibility check on companies that sold Iraqi crude to Chevron. Chevron bought tens of millions of barrels of Iraqi oil from companies that included previously unknown players with no record in the oil business, investigators say.

One such company was Erdem Holding, which sold Chevron 13 million barrels of oil, according to Chevron’s list. This company was owned by Zeynel Abidin Erdem, a Turkish businessman who sat on the board of the Turkish-Iraqi Business Council.

On Feb. 15, 2001, about two weeks after Ms. Woertz’s internal memo was sent, Chevron bought 1.8 million barrels from Erdem, the Turkish company, at “OSP plus 36 cents.” OSP stands for the official selling price approved by the United Nations for Iraqi oil.

On other occasions, the extra payment went as high as 49.5 cents a barrel, according to the Chevron list.

In sworn statements last year to an Italian prosecutor, an Italian businessman, Fabrizio Loioli, said he sold Iraqi oil to many companies, including Chevron, and all were aware of the Iraqi request for payment of a surcharge. “In fact, each final beneficiary involved used to add this amount to the official price to disguise it as a premium to be paid to the intermediary,” Mr. Loioli said in his statement. “In reality, they were perfectly aware that only a part of that would go to the intermediary, while the remaining part was to be paid to the Iraqis.”

Italy’s financial investigators, the Guardia di Finanza, found specific evidence that Mr. Loioli’s company, Betoil, paid surcharges to the Iraqis for oil bought by Chevron. The documents, seized in Betoil’s offices, indicate that $45,000 was sent to a secret Iraqi account in Jordan as payment for surcharges on oil loaded by the tanker Overseas Ann on behalf of Chevron on March 13, 2002.

Mr. Loioli was convicted in the United Arab Emirates for fraud and is currently under investigation in Greece and Italy, according to an Italian investigator who spoke on condition of anonymity because the case is still active.

Investigators in Milan found evidence that Mr. Loioli brokered the sale of some 155 million barrels of Iraqi crude and, directly or indirectly, paid $4.5 million in surcharges. In the case of Chevron, Mr. Loioli said in his deposition that he dealt with an official in the company’s London office, Michael Dugdale, who handled the purchase of Iraqi oil.

An internal Chevron e-mail message found by United States investigators suggests that Mr. Dugdale informed the company that the premium to Mr. Loioli had the illegal Iraqi surcharge embedded in it, according to a person close to the investigation.

Mr. Dugdale left Chevron in the fall of 2005. In a telephone interview from London, he confirmed dealing with the Italian intermediary, but denied knowingly paying surcharges to the Iraqis or trying to negotiate any discount on them. “Every deal I did was approved by senior management,” Mr. Dugdale said, adding he had informed them about his negotiations with Mr. Loioli.
204 2007-05-08 It seems that outrageously high government subsidies aren’t enough to satisfy the private plans that participate in Medicare. Some of these Medicare Advantage plans have been caught using hard-sell tactics to pressure elderly Americans into signing up for policies that may leave them worse off than they would be with traditional Medicare coverage. The unscrupulous sales pressure is one more argument for removing the subsidies that are the only crutch allowing many of these plans to survive.

The abusive sales tactics are particularly egregious among the private fee-for-service plans. These plans receive the highest subsidies and do the least to earn them among the array of private offerings available for Medicare recipients. Yet these plans are the fastest-growing type of private Medicare coverage, thanks to subsidies that average 19 percent above the cost of traditional Medicare and to aggressive marketing.

As Robert Pear reported in The Times yesterday, state officials are investigating a range of sales abuses. In Georgia, two insurance agents were arrested and accused of signing up unwilling consumers; one beneficiary said her signature was forged by a door-to-door salesman. In North Carolina, the insurance commissioner is investigating complaints that agents switched residents of an assisted-living facility from traditional Medicare into private plans without their permission. At least five other states are investigating complaints about sales tactics.

Defenders of the private fee-for-service plans argue that they often provide better benefits or charge beneficiaries less than traditional Medicare does, a feat they are able to accomplish thanks to their huge subsidies. That is often true, but not always. As Mr. Pear reported, some beneficiaries have found that their doctors won’t accept patients enrolled in private fee-for-service plans. Others have been shocked to be hit with much higher co-payments than under traditional Medicare — as much as $100 a day for the first 20 days in a skilled nursing facility for which no co-payment would have been charged under traditional Medicare.

Congress needs to demand rigorous policing of the Medicare Advantage program to ensure that such abuses do not continue. And it should eliminate these lavish subsidies, which are draining the Medicare trust fund and imposing unfair costs on beneficiaries in the traditional Medicare program.
205 2007-05-08 For Johnson & Johnson, the near-term financial impact is likely to be slight — a reduction of 2 or 3 cents a share in earnings this year, said the chief financial officer, Dominic J. Caruso.

That projection is based partly on lost overseas sales, which Glenn Reicin, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, had forecast to be $125 million this year. Mr. Caruso said it also included the estimated costs of handling devices returned by distributors and hospitals.

The bigger concern for Wall Street will be the potential effect on Johnson & Johnson’s long-term position in the lucrative stent market, which it shares with Boston Scientific in the United States. Several new drug-eluting stents are poised to reach the domestic market, which could turn Johnson & Johnson’s drug-coated Cypher, the pioneering drug-coated stent, into an also ran.

“To retain any market share, they need a new platform fast,” said Bruce Nudell, who follows the device companies for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

Stents are tiny mesh cylinders that are inserted in blood vessels to keep them propped open after plaque has been pushed aside. Drug coatings are placed on coronary stents to combat the tendency of arteries irritated by the stent to reclog with scar tissue in and around the device.

CoStar releases paclitaxel, the same drug as Taxus. But the two stents have different designs. CoStar releases the drug from a polymer in wells drilled in the metal struts of the stent, while the Taxus releases the drug from a layer of polymer on the stent’s surface.

Johnson & Johnson executives said that the CoStar trial failed because the design did not deliver an effective dose of paclitaxel, not because of any harm to the patients by the stent.

Boston Scientific executives said yesterday that based on their experiments with CoStar, they believed that Conor might have met its goal of delivering a similar amount of paclitaxel. But the CoStar design, they conjectured, delivered most of the drug many weeks after implantation when it was less useful in fighting the irritation of the artery.

Johnson & Johnson officers said in a conference call that the company would focus on using the more potent drug it delivers on the Cypher, a compound called sirolimus, in CoStar’s unique stent design.

Dr. Campbell D. K. Rogers, chief technology officer of Cordis, Johnson & Johnson’s stent-making subsidiary, said that the preliminary tests combining the CoStar design with sirolimus had produced “promising and extremely exciting data.”

Dr. Rogers said that in addition to halting sales of CoStar, the company was suspending a clinical trial called Genesis that Conor had begun for its Symbio stent, which delivers two drugs — paclitaxel and pimecrolimus, a chemical relative of sirolimus.

Dr. Rogers said Cordis expected to have its first tests of CoStar with sirolimus in humans early next year, which would mean that such a device would be unlikely to be approved in the United States before 2010 at the earliest.

The delay could be even longer if the Food and Drug Administration accepts recommendations that it require at least two years of follow-up data on patients who receive stents. That data would shed light on whether the design is prone to clots forming inside the stent long after it is implanted — a rare but potentially deadly problem that has been associated with both Taxus and Cypher.

Johnson & Johnson officials said that the comparison with Taxus was disappointing but that the potential of the CoStar design to work with other drugs — or combinations of drugs in different wells — had been the major reason the company acquired Conor.
206 2007-05-08 Massachusetts has sued the federal government, accusing energy regulators of failing to tighten standards that could reduce heat-trapping gases and eliminate the need for major new power plants. The suit, filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, challenged the government’s March 7 decision not to strengthen efficiency requirements for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems. Massachusetts also brought the case that led the Supreme Court to rule on April 2 that environmental officials have the power to regulate greenhouse gas emissions.
207 2007-05-08 “Isabella was this amazing bright light in a world of increasingly corporate culture,” said Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor, who hired Ms. Blow in the early 1980s to work as her assistant at British Vogue.

Ms. Blow became renowned for her sartorial daring. On a given day at the office, Ms. Wintour said, Ms. Blow might turn up dressed as a Greek goddess, Joan of Arc or an Indian maharani. During the ready-to-wear shows in New York, Milan and Paris, she might change clothes as often as seven times a day. She delighted in flouting convention and personal comfort, appearing in one-legged trouser suits, outfits of chain mail or a Japanese designer’s version of a burqa.

“She was aristocratic, in the old bohemian sense of anything is possible, yet she could talk about fashion with complete rigor in terms of silhouette, shape and historical context,” said Mr. Greig, the editor of Tatler. “She was an academic with a punk rocker’s anarchic sense.”

Isabella Delves Broughton was born in 1958 to Helen Shore and Sir Evelyn Delves Broughton. She was educated at the Heathfield School and a secretarial academy and, briefly in the late 1970s, at Columbia University.

She held jobs variously as a clerk at a scone shop, a housemaid, a fashion assistant, the fashion director at The Sunday Times’s Style magazine and a consultant for DuPont Lycra, Lacoste and Swarovski crystals. With her husband, the art dealer Detmar Blow, she was a major promoter of new British art.

Ms. Blow descended from a family with a 34,000-acre estate, a 14th-century castle in Cheshire and a Latin motto whose translation she seems to have absorbed in her blood: “Nothing Happens by Being Mute.”

When gambling debts forced Ms. Blow’s grandfather, Sir Jock Delves Broughton, to part with his estates in the 1920s, he immigrated to Kenya and joined the Happy Valley set of alcoholic, aristocratic semi-exiles. There he was accused of the shooting death of the handsome and philandering Lord Erroll. Although tried and acquitted, he killed himself soon after the trial.

Tragedy and depression were recurrent themes in Ms. Blow’s life, friends and colleagues said. She was hospitalized last year with serious injuries resulting from what the press described as a fall. To her friends, Ms. Blow described the episode forthrightly, saying she had leaped onto a busy highway from an overpass.

“Thoughts of suicide were a big part of her existence and her persona,” said the designer Zac Posen. But so was her ambition “to better people’s lives by exposing them to creativity,” he said.

This was by no means an ambition whose expression Ms. Blow reserved for the style cognoscenti. “I have a vivid memory of Isabella on the moors at Hilles,” said Hamish Bowles, the European editor at large at Vogue, referring to an Arts & Crafts house in Gloucestershire, England, designed in 1913 by the architect grandfather of Ms. Blow’s husband.

For a meeting with the family’s land manager there, Ms. Blow selected from her closet a pair of violet satin, high-heeled Manolo Blahniks, a coat made from brilliantly colored opaque plastic bags, and a Stephen Jones hat of cock feathers curled to resemble question marks.

“In static, the coat just hung down in limp folds,” Mr. Bowles said. As its wearer moved, however, the bags inflated, as if some gorgeous, alien apparition had landed in a muddy field.

Mr. Bowles said: “This was for a meeting with a man on a tractor. She thought it was absolutely appropriate and picturesque, and that it would catch the breeze on the hills to spectacular effect.”
208 2007-05-08 ROME, May 7 (AP) — The Italian cyclist Ivan Basso, the winner of the prestigious Giro d’Italia, has admitted involvement in a Spanish doping scandal and is cooperating with sports authorities.

Basso asked to talk with the antidoping prosecutor for Italy’s Olympic committee. During their meeting, he “widely acknowledged his responsibilities” in connection with Operation Puerto, the Spanish investigation, and offered his “full cooperation,” the committee said.

Basso’s lawyer, Massimo Martelli, said Basso spoke about “methods with which this activity was carried out.”

Basso’s name had turned up on a list of cyclists who were suspected of having contact with a Spanish doctor accused of running a blood-doping clinic in Madrid. Martelli said that he could not disclose the details of what Basso told the antidoping prosecutor because the transcript was sealed.

Martelli said Basso had told him: “The moment has come for me to assume my responsibilities. I only hope that I will be understood.” Martelli added that Basso would “plan his future around the fight against doping.”

Basso, 29, was charged by the Italian Olympic committee’s doping commission with using or attempting to use a banned substance after sports authorities reopened an investigation into his role in Operation Puerto.
209 2007-05-08 Furthermore, the Labor Party, which sits in the coalition, is holding primaries for the party leadership in late May, and several contenders have already stated their intention to taking the party out of the coalition if Mr. Olmert remains in office.

Still, there is no consensus on who, or what, should come next. Mr. Netanyahu has come out as a favorite for the prime minister’s job in recent opinion polls. For that reason, Mr. Beilin has argued that new elections are not necessary, and that change can come about through parliamentary procedures instead. According to the polls, at least two-thirds of the public would like to see Mr. Olmert go.

In northern Gaza on Monday, Israeli Air Force planes fired on a car that army officials said was laden with explosives and on its way to launch rockets into Israel. The Islamic Jihad group, which has claimed responsibility for several rocket attacks in recent days, said two of its members escaped from the car before it was hit. Hospital officials in Gaza said one passer-by was wounded in the Israeli strike.

According to an Israeli Army spokesman, 14 rockets have been fired at Israel from Gaza since Friday. One rocket hit a house next to a kindergarten in the Israeli border town of Sderot on Monday morning, but caused no injuries.

The eclectic nature of the opposition to Mr. Olmert could be seen at a protest camp set up by two students near the prime minister’s residence in Jerusalem. Zichri Weiner, 27, and Itai Harari, 28, walked here from Tel Aviv, pitched their tents on the sidewalk and called on the Israeli public to join them in their demand for Mr. Olmert to resign.

Other than a trickle of random passers-by, visitors have included the Labor lawmaker and primary contender Ophir Pines-Paz; the Likud mayor of Sderot, Eli Moyal; and groups of boys going home from religious schools, whose buses have stopped here.

Mr. Weiner said it was shortsighted to worry about who, or what, would come next were Mr. Olmert to resign. “Our goal is much bigger,” Mr. Weiner said. “We are about giving the public its confidence back, and redefining the relationship between the elected and those who elect them.”
210 2007-05-08 The oldest human remains from Australia, about 45,000 years in age, have quite thin or gracile bones, whereas fossils from 20,000 years ago are robust. The new findings suggest that the difference must stem from some internal process like adaptation to climatic change, and not to interbreeding with the archaic species Homo erectus, as some have suggested.

The new genetic analysis also undercuts the theory that the dingo, a dog that appeared in Australia 4,000 years ago, arrived with a new wave of settlers. Dr. Kisivild suggested that the dingo could have been an item of trade. But Richard G. Klein, a paleoanthropologist at Stanford University, said new immigrants were more likely to have introduced the dog, even though they were too few to have left a genetic trace.

Dr. Kisivild’s team has also been able to estimate, by counting mutations in DNA, the duration of the emigrants’ journey from India, an early point of settlement outside Africa, to the lost continent of Sahul that then included New Guinea and Australia.

The journey would have taken less than 5,200 years, the geneticists calculate, as a growing population gradually spread along the coastlines of southeastern Asia. The emigrants would have had to cross open sea only at the final stage of their journey.

The genetic estimates for the duration of the journey are “intriguing, but not compelling,” Dr. Klein said. “I think we need lots more archaeological evidence to resolve the question of how long it took modern humans to spread from Africa to Australia or anywhere else.”

The oldest inhabitants of New Guinea, who speak languages of the Papuan family, would have changed under the evolutionary forces of selection and genetic drift. Still, modern Papuan speakers may offer “a pretty good idea of what our ancestors might have looked like coming out of Africa 2,000 generations ago,” said Peter Forster of Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, an author of the new report.

Dr. Klein, however, said that aboriginal Australians and Papuans differed in appearance from that expected for the earliest fossil remains in Australia and that their morphology had to have emerged later.

“I don’t think genetics implies that aboriginal Australians and Papuans resemble the original modern African emigrants more closely than anyone else,” he said.
211 2007-05-08 Heart attacks and chronic heart disease both increase sharply during flu season, according to a large new study based on autopsy reports in St. Petersburg, Russia.

The researchers studied 34,892 reports from 1993 to 2000, comprising 11,892 deaths from acute heart attacks and 23,000 from chronic heart disease.

In each year, they found, the peak number of deaths for both conditions coincided with the height of the influenza epidemic. The rate for heart attacks was 30 percent greater than at other times, and for heart disease it was 10 percent greater. The pattern was similar for those over 50 and over 70, and for men and women.

The study appeared online April 17 in The European Heart Journal. That it used autopsy results in determining cause of death is a significant strength; death certificates, which are often the main source of data in such studies, tend to be less accurate.

“Our study indicates that flu triggers heart disease,” said Dr. Mohammed Madjid, the lead author and an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston. “And we recommend that every patient at risk for heart disease get a flu vaccine. We estimate that influenza vaccine can prevent up to 90,000 fatal heart attacks each year in the United States.”

Fewer than 3 percent of the study population had been vaccinated or used statin drugs, which minimizes the potential for bias due to medical treatment. The authors acknowledge, however, that they did not have person-specific data on medications and other coronary disease risk factors.
212 2007-05-08 Doctors have long said that an aspirin a day can help ward off heart attacks. But what about Alzheimer’s?

The claim that aspirin can prevent the disease stems from the notion that Alzheimer’s is caused by inflammation that disrupts proteins in the brain. It’s believed that aspirin, and possibly other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, may reduce or head off that process.

One recent analysis of previous studies found that people who took a low dose of aspirin every day for several years reduced their risk of developing Alzheimer’s by 13 percent. Another study in 2003 in The European Journal of Clinical Pharmacology found a similarly beneficial effect for aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

But more recent, randomized studies have called those findings into question. One of the most prominent followed more than 6,000 older women for nearly a decade and found that those who regularly took 100 milligrams of aspirin did no better on cognitive tests, over time, than those who were given a placebo.

Regular aspirin use can also cause side effects, like stomach bleeding and ulcers. As a result, most scientists say daily doses of aspirin should not be recommended for anything other than heart disease prevention.

Regular aspirin use may lower the risk of Alzheimer’s.
213 2007-05-08 It has taken Roberts four years to screen 1,200 retired players, probably save a few lives and by his own admission barely scratch the surface in football’s increasingly thorny struggle against cardiovascular disease.

“It’s a big universe out there, about 18,000 players,” he said, admitting that most don’t respond to union-dispensed invitations to show up for free screening.

So vast is the roll call of retirees that Roberts, reached late last week at his home in Little Silver, N.J., hadn’t even heard about the latest statistical blows against the life expectancy of the N.F.L. player.

It was understandable that the obituaries, shoehorned into the newspaper late last month, would somehow elude most people. Johnny Perkins, who died at 54 on April 25 in Fort Worth of complications after heart surgery, and Kevin Mitchell, who died in his sleep at 36 five days later in Ashburn, Va., of what a preliminary autopsy called a massive heart attack, were not stars.

They were not household names, like Reggie White, the Hall of Fame defensive lineman whose death, at 43, of cardiac arrhythmia in 2004 sent shock waves through the sport.

Nor did Perkins and Mitchell fit the profile of the player who succumbs too soon, the 300-plus-pound lineman, said by a 2006 Scripps Howard News Service study to be more than twice as likely to die before his 50th birthday than teammates unburdened by bulk.

Those are deaths that at least make medical sense to the general public, even when the deceased is an active player, a Thomas Herrion, the San Francisco 49ers’ 310-pound guard who collapsed and died after an exhibition game in August 2005.

But Perkins was a wide receiver who played for the Giants from 1977 to 1983. Mitchell was a linebacker who played for the 49ers, the New Orleans Saints and the Washington Redskins, as recently as 2003.

A year ago this month, Dan Ross, 49, a former standout tight end with the Cincinnati Bengals, returned from a jog in Atkinson, N.H., collapsed and died of a heart attack. His obituary in The Boston Globe quoted his brother, who said that Ross was in such good shape that he believed he was still capable of playing in the N.F.L.

As Roberts explained, there are no simple answers when dealing with genetics and with an often-silent killer like cardiovascular disease — especially in a violent, clandestine world like football.

How does Roberts, for example, factor the impact of supplements and steroid use into the long-term study he is conducting in conjunction with the Mayo Clinic? He can’t, really. He can only generate the hard data that links former players to high rates of hypertension, high cholesterol and blood pressure, all precursors to heart disease and stroke.

Perhaps more significantly, anecdotal evidence culled from his screenings have made him suspect that bigger, bloated players have increased the rate of debilitating injuries and that that, too, increases the rate of eventual heart disease.

“I totally agree with Archie, and I have numbers to support it,” said Kevin Guskiewicz, director of the Center for the Study of Retired Athletes at the University of North Carolina.

He rattled off findings from his own study of 2,700 retired football players suggesting links between osteoarthritis of the lower extremities and hypertension and coronary disease at rates higher than those in the general population.

“What happens is that the retired athlete can’t exercise because of the injuries he’s sustained and the pain he is in, and that leads to higher weight, depression, bad eating habits, high blood pressure and so on,” Guskiewicz said.

He has a name for this syndrome, the Snowball Effect. Which, one could argue, puts cardiovascular disease into the same category as the neurological discussion that became the rage of Super Bowl week last winter.

Roberts said the N.F.L. had its own cardiovascular committee to monitor active players. Roger Goodell, the commissioner, said last week that the league would make neuropsychological baseline tests mandatory for the 2007 season, and would require that all team medical personnel attend a meeting on concussions next month. A good step, but what is needed more is a grand summit for all concerned parties, a serious forum to discuss the impact of the burgeoning N.F.L. body and the snowball of early death.

In the meantime, Archie Roberts is planning for his next trip at the end of the month, to Atlanta, where maybe a time bomb can be defused, a life can be saved.
214 2007-05-08 To the Editor:     Re ''Coal's Energy Potential Is an Engineering Challenge Now'' (May 1): Your article highlights a fundamental error in the way we have approached energy policy. The economic model that we use focuses inordinately on the direct c...
215 2007-05-08 ALCOA MAKES BID FOR RIVAL Alcoa made an unsolicited $27 billion offer for a rival, Alcan of Canada, which would propel it to the top spot in the aluminum industry, a position it surrendered just months ago. The announcement came after unsuccessful...
216 2007-05-08 The long ago quarterback and retired heart surgeon was 58 when he discovered how much he knew about human frailty, just not his own.     ''The doctor wasn't following the advice he gave about exercising, eating well, doing what you need to do,'' A...
217 2007-05-08 Photo of Queen Elizabeth II at White House for white-tie dinner with Pres Bush...
218 2007-05-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
219 2007-05-09 Claiming credit for a hit on a mafia version of Bonnie and Clyde....
220 2007-05-09 Robin Toner's Web-only column today looks at the question of whether the G.O.P. is ready for more flexibility on the issue....
221 2007-05-09 A lack of price competition drives up drug costs...
222 2007-05-09 The story behind the firing of two Dow Chemical executives for allegedly being "involved in unauthorized discussions with third parties about the potential acquisition of the company" became even more bizarre – and clouded – as the two men sue...
223 2007-05-09 VMware, EMC's fast-growing virtualization software unit, plans to offer 10 percent of its stock in an initial public offering. But a report from The 451 Group asks: If VMware's newly enriched founders should leave the company, will the juggernaut ...
224 2007-05-09 The share price of Countrywide Financial, the largest mortgage lender in the nation, jumped Tuesday on renewed speculation of a buyout. The stock climbed $2.77, or 7.2 percent, to $41.28 after rising as high as $42.19. "We don't know where the rum...
225 2007-05-09 A former Credit Suisse banker charged with masterminding a $7.5 million insider trading ring will be released on $1 million bail Wednesday after a federal magistrate judge questioned the strength of the government's case. At a hearing Tuesday in F...
226 2007-05-09 An activist hedge fund, Schultze Asset Management, vowed Tuesday to press Movie Gallery to take steps to increase shareholder value. Schultze is the largest shareholder in the movie rental chain, with nearly 4.8 million shares or 14.4 percent of t...
227 2007-05-09 But now, Beijing is facing difficult choices: the possibility of puncturing a frenzied market and risking toppling it at a time when investors are more keen than ever to invest in equities; or doing nothing and allowing the index to possibly race up another 1,000 points.

The gains are remarkable because this is a market that was essentially buried and dead two years ago, when the Shanghai Composite was hovering around 1,200. The country’s other major stock barometer in Shenzhen was even more depressed.

But for the past 18 months or so, Chinese stock prices have been soaring, exciting a nation of thrifty savers with few good places to put their money to work to plow it into stocks.

Analysts say the market has also been buoyed by new regulations, rising corporate profits and a softening real estate market in 2006, which made stocks an attractive alternative.

And now, the country is being swept up by an investing mania. People are waiting in long lines outside of banks and brokerage houses to open new accounts; and they’re crowding into small rooms to spend the day watching large stock monitors.

The investors are no longer mostly retirees either. They are college students who say they are taking out loans to invest in hot stocks, or they are homeowners who say they have sold an apartment to buy shares of China Mobile or Sinopec.

Some publicly-listed companies are even raising money from the stock market, only to plow it back into stocks in the hope of earning an even better return.

Mr. Green at Standard Chartered says price-to-earnings ratio — a key measure of the value of a stock — is extremely high in Shanghai.

The government is worried about prices getting so inflated that they trigger a wave of wild selling in this herd-like atmosphere.

But the government could take moderate steps to slow down the pace of growth.

“The risks of Beijing intervening between now and 5,000 is high,” Mr. Green says. “The question is when.”

There have already been ample warnings from government officials — warnings about “blind optimism” in the market, about overzealous buying and about a frenzy that could be creating a stock market bubble.

With so much money rushing into the market, regulators are also warning about a rise in stock scams, deceptive mutual fund practices and insider trading.

But with most boats being lifted by this huge tide of money flowing into stocks, few investors seem to care about what stocks they are buying, and few seem to be pulling out of the market.

Perhaps the biggest test came last February 27, when share prices plummeted 8.8 percent in a single day in Shanghai, the biggest single-day drop in a decade, and a drop that helped trigger a massive global sell-off that rocked Europe and the United States.

But since then, investors have not just climbed back into the market, they have rushed back into the market, pushing the Shanghai Composite Index past 3,000 once again in March, and now, just over two months later, all the way up to 4,000.

Share prices in Hong Kong have also been buoyed by huge initial public offerings of Chinese companies. The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong closed at 20,844.78 today, just below its record high.
228 2007-05-09 To win the Cézannes, Sotheby’s had given Mr. Eskenazi a guarantee — an undisclosed minimum sum promised to a seller regardless of the outcome of the sale — that experts in the field estimated at $18.4 million. And while the other three sold, one went just at its low estimate and the others for less.

Mr. Eskenazi’s Cézannes weren’t the only watercolors by the artist for sale last night. “Group of Bathers,” a watercolor from about 1900 from the artist’s famous series, was estimated at $900,000 to $1.2 million. It was bought by a telephone bidder for $1.6 million.

One of the biggest surprises of the evening was “Jesuits III” (1915). The richly colored canvas by Feininger, in which clerics crowd around a prostitute, brought $23.2 million, after an estimate of $7 million to $9 million. The seller was George Lindeman, a Florida collector, who also consigned “White Sound,” a brightly colored 1908 Kandinsky painting in which several faceless figures are posed in front of what appears to be a white cloud. Estimated at $6 million to $8 million, it brought only $5.4 million from a telephone bidder.

Sculpture has been all the rage recently, and last night Sotheby’s had a particularly important Giacometti: “Man Walking in the Morning Sun,” conceived in 1948-49 and cast in an edition of six in 1950. Estimated at $4 million to $6 million, it sold to William Acquavella, the Manhattan dealer, for $7.4 million. The seller was David Geffen, the entertainment mogul.

The sale included 15 Picassos from various periods and various media. One of the earliest was “Head of a Harlequin,” a 1905 painting from the artist’s Rose Period series of eight portraits of anonymous adolescent boys. Estimated at $14 million to $18 million, it sold to an anonymous telephone bidder for $15.1 million.

“Harlequin Family,” a gouache-and-ink executed five years later, was being sold by heirs of Joan Whitney Payson, the art collector, philanthropist and former owner of the New York Mets, who died in 1975. Estimated at $6 million to $8 million, it brought $9.8 million from an active unidentified telephone bidder.

“The Lovers,” a 1932 painting, shows Picasso kneeling beside a naked, sleeping Marie-Thérèse Walter, his mistress at the time. Estimated at $10 million to $15 million, it was sold to a telephone bidder for $14.6 million. It had last been for sale at Christie’s in New York seven years ago, when it fetched $6.3 million.

Léger’s “Factories,” from 1918, shortly after the end of World War I, was expected to sell for $5 million to $7 million. Six bidders wanted the painting, which went to the same telephone bidder who bought “Harlequin Family.” This time the price was $14.3 million.

With Russian buyers making a splash in the art market over the last few years, it was no surprise to find artists like the Russian-born Chagall being heavily promoted. Last night his “Grand Circus,” an oil and gouache on canvas from 1956, was sold to the same telephone buyer who bought the Léger and the Picassos. This time he paid $13.7 million, more than its high estimate of $12 million. Works that failed to sell — including two paintings by Modigliani and a sculpture by Henry Moore — had either been on the market too recently, were overpriced or simply of lesser quality.

Dealers leaving the sale seemed to have expected the strong results. “Judging from what we’ve seen in private sales, we all expected it would go well,” said James Roundell, a London dealer. “It didn’t disappoint. There sure were some fabulous prices.”
229 2007-05-09 Mr. Lewis was arrested in the parking lot shortly after the resulting fracas, and on Tuesday he was charged with second-degree attempted murder and criminal possession of a weapon.

The plan the state announced last fall would reshape the network of suburban and rural courts, known as justice courts, which handle two million cases each year, including criminal matters, small civil lawsuits and traffic violations.

There have not been any shootings in the courtrooms in recent years, but the state plan entails the allocation of money for metal detectors and a comprehensive security review of every justice court. (The village court in Sloatsburg has yet to be evaluated.)

The village of Sloatsburg, in the foothills of the Ramapo Mountains about 40 miles northwest of New York City, appropriated $145,000 in March for an elaborate security system for its municipal complex, which includes the village court. The system is to include video cameras and emergency buttons for employees to alert the Ramapo Police Department.

The local plan also calls for metal detectors for the court, and the mayor, Carl S. Wright, said the village would apply for the new state money.

Sloatsburg is unusual in New York in having an armed court officer; fewer than half of the justice courts have them, state officials said. The Sloatsburg court officer, Frank Circelli, was lauded as a hero for disarming Mr. Lewis and disabling his .22-caliber rifle on Monday. “His actions probably saved a number of people from being shot,” Mayor Wright said.

In recent months, local judges and county law enforcement officials in Rockland County have pressed for tighter security in the justice courts. Michael E. Bongiorno, the county district attorney, testified last winter before the State Assembly and Senate, which looked into the courts after a series of articles in The New York Times examined a raft of problems.

“Anyone can walk into a justice court in most areas of the state with a gun, a knife or weapon, and there would be no one to stop them,” Mr. Bongiorno said in a phone interview on Tuesday.

The Sloatsburg courtroom shooting stemmed from previous court cases between Mr. Lewis and the woman, Sara Bannout, said Louis Valvo, the chief assistant district attorney in Rockland.

Detective Sgt. John Lynch of the Ramapo police said that in an earlier case, Ms. Bannout had accused Mr. Lewis, a driver for a fuel company, of “forcible touching.” That case, handled by a justice court in nearby Orange County, was sealed, and Sergeant Lynch said he did not know the outcome. Mr. Lewis was in court on Monday to recoup his legal expenses from the case.

Moments before he fired, Mr. Lewis was overheard saying he should have shot the woman two years ago, according to the felony complaint read during his arraignment on Tuesday. “We have information from the defendant that his intention was to shoot that young lady and kill her in the courtroom,” Sergeant Lynch said.

After he fired at Ms. Bannout, Mr. Lewis was aiming at her lawyer when he was disarmed, but retained a piece of the weapon that he pointed at a local officer, who fired at him.

Sergeant Lynch said Mr. Lewis told detectives later that he wanted the police officer to kill him.

As part of its plan to improve the justice courts, the state has appointed supervising judges, and Charles Apotheker, acting Supreme Court judge in Rockland, was placed in charge of five counties in the Hudson Valley, including Rockland. On recent visits to the local courts, Mr. Apotheker said, he was struck by the number of judges who said they did not need metal detectors.

“I would imagine that after this experience, I’m not going to get that response anymore,” he said. “The truth is, it can happen anywhere.”
230 2007-05-09 An appeals court freed a well-known human rights defender, Umida Niyazova, after she read out a damning confession that also impugned Human Rights Watch, the independent New York-based group she worked for. Ms. Niyazova, an independent Uzbek journalist who worked as a translator for the group, was convicted of distributing Islamic extremist propaganda and sentenced to seven years in prison last week after a two-day trial that was condemned by the European Union and the United States. Standing in a cage in the courtroom yesterday, she pleaded guilty and said: “I sincerely regret the crimes I have committed unintentionally. I’m deeply disappointed in some people and international organizations I have worked with.” Pointing at Andrea Berg, who heads the Human Rights Watch office in the country, Ms. Niyazova continued: “And our work, Andrea, was biased and harmed my people.” Ms. Berg sat stony-faced, and afterward was crying and refused to comment.
231 2007-05-09 First, they say, the Iranian government has grown increasingly suspicious of academic institutions as possible driving forces behind efforts to change the government in Iran. The Wilson center does not take partisan positions, but its Web site lists a number of conferences that Ms. Esfandiari helped organize. They include one about the future of the reform movement in Iran and another about its nuclear program. Around Washington, she is known as the go-to Iran expert.

Ramin Jahanbegloo, a Canadian-Iranian academic arrested in Iran last year, was accused of aiding the enemy by speaking at similar conferences. He was released in August after confessing that foreign agents might have exploited his expertise.

Second, the academics say, Ms. Esfandiari might be a pawn in the increasingly nasty rivalry that has erupted in the fractious Iranian government between supporters of the hard-line president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and the more moderate former president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.

A Rafsanjani ally, Mohammad Moussavian, was arrested on April 30 and accused of aiding the enemy. Ms. Esfandiari is known for being close to Faizah Hashemi, Mr. Rafsanjani’s daughter, also a politician.

Evin prison has a history of treating prisoners poorly, including foreigners. A Canadian-Iranian photographer was beaten to death there in July 2003; a judicial inquiry later claimed that she had died from injuries sustained in a fall.

Lee H. Hamilton, the director of the Wilson Center and a former congressman, wrote to Mr. Ahmadinejad in February asking that Ms. Esfandiari be allowed to leave Iran. He did not receive a reply.

Ms. Esfandiari’s ordeal began on Dec. 30, when she was en route to the airport to return to Washington, according to the Wilson Center. Three masked gunmen waylaid her taxi and stole her luggage, including her Iranian and American passports.

The Intelligence Ministry is notorious for staging such crimes.

When Ms. Esfandiari went to replace her passport, she was sent to the ministry for interrogation, the Wilson center’s statement said. Ms. Esfandiari said that most questions focused on her work and that the answers were public information. The center said she refused to make any false statements about its work.

A few days ago, Ms. Esfandiari received another call from the ministry suggesting she “cooperate,” a euphemism for confessing. She demurred and was summoned once again, but this time she was put in a car and whisked to prison.
232 2007-05-09 The dueling lawsuits present two possible situations: Were the two men rogue agents trying to put Dow Chemical in play? Or were they two executives disliked by Mr. Liveris, who acted impetuously to rid himself of them?

The answer will likely turn on the testimony of one of Wall Street’s most powerful executives: James Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, who told Mr. Liveris that the two men had held unauthorized talks, according to the lawsuits, one of which identified Mr. Dimon by name.

According to Dow Chemical’s lawsuit, the company relied solely on Mr. Dimon’s comments to Mr. Liveris in firing the two men and publicly disclosing the reasons. A Dow Chemical spokesman yesterday acknowledged that the firings were “based solely on a single source” who had “impeccable credentials.”

But JPMorgan’s involvement raises questions. As a longtime adviser to Dow Chemical, it had motive to try to prove its loyalty to the company’s management. Yet the firm had also been working with an unidentified Middle Eastern client that was interested in making a bid for Dow Chemical, according to Dow Chemical’s lawsuit.

At the heart of the mystery is a rendezvous outside London worthy of a cold war spy novel. At the Compleat Angler, a luxury hotel overlooking the Thames, the two Dow Chemical officials met with two senior executives of JPMorgan Chase in early February, according to people who attended the meeting.

In addition to Mr. Kreinberg and Mr. Reinhard, the meeting was attended by William Winter, the co-head of investment banking of JPMorgan, and Ian Hannam, a managing director of JPMorgan Cazenove who was the point man on the discussions. The meeting was organized by Terrance J. Ruane, a consultant to Dow Chemical who had helped lead the company’s deal making in Oman.

JPMorgan declined to comment on the meeting. Reached on his mobile phone this week, Mr. Ruane said: “I can’t confirm or deny anything. I shouldn’t be on the phone with you.”

According to people close to Mr. Kreinberg and Mr. Reinhard, they met with Mr. Ruane to discuss gas prices in Oman, not knowing that the executives from JPMorgan would be joining them. Mr. Winter and Mr. Hannam showed up at the meeting and began badgering them with a series of questions about how receptive Dow Chemical’s board would be to a takeover proposal, the people close to the two former Dow officials said.

The men, according to the people close to them, said they were not authorized to talk with them and that the company would probably not be interested in such a proposal. They say the meeting lasted no more than about 10 minutes.

People close to Dow Chemical and JPMorgan suggest otherwise, contending that the men scheduled the meeting and that they laid out their plan to buy the company.

People close to either side spoke only on the condition that they not be identified because of the litigation.

Mr. Reinhard said in a statement, “I have and will continue to categorically deny that I have been part of any secret effort to take over or acquire Dow Chemical.”

Mr. Kreinberg said, “We believe our complaint sets out solid and substantial claims for profound reputational injury caused by the malicious and irresponsible conduct of Andrew Liveris and the Dow Chemical Company.”

Weeks after the February meeting, news reports began surfacing in London about a takeover bid for Dow Chemical; the reports jolted the company’s shares higher. The news sent Mr. Liveris into an irate panic, according to people close to him. He began calling investment bankers and private equity executives, including Mr. Dimon, to find out if they were working on anything. Mr. Dimon told him that the bank had been peddling the company and promised to stop.

But the takeover talk would not die. On April 8, The Sunday Express reported that Dow Chemical was in talks on a buyout. Mr. Liveris issued a statement the next day denying that the company was in talks with anyone.

That night, Mr. Dimon flew to Midland, Mich., where Dow Chemical is based, to have dinner on the second floor of the Midland Country Club, known as the Dow Club, with Mr. Liveris. At dinner, Mr. Dimon suggested that his bank had been secretly working with executives at Dow.

The next day, Mr. Dimon called Mr. Liveris to point specifically to Mr. Kreinberg and Mr. Reinhard. Mr. Kreinberg’s lawsuit, however, contends that Mr. Dimon “advised Liveris that no one from Dow expressed any design or authority to buy or sell the company in whole or in part.”

“To the contrary, J.P. Morgan was told by the Dow employees that they were without any such authority,” the lawsuit says. “Dimon suggested that the parties’ interaction was not atypical from exchanges commonly held among industry businessmen. He asked Liveris to inform the Dow board of his report, and cautioned that Liveris should not jump to conclusions or take any action in the absence of careful thought and investigation.”

Dow Chemical’s version is different, suggesting that Mr. Dimon provided “irrefutable evidence” that it acted on.

After receiving the information from Mr. Dimon, Mr. Liveris brought the issue to the board and asked them for permission to fire the two men.

That night, Mr. Reinhard, who had missed the board meeting for a previously scheduled commitment, boarded a private Dow Chemical plane in New York to fly to Midland. Also on that flight was Martin Lipton, the longtime adviser to corporations on deals and management changes who is Dow Chemical’s outside lawyer.

Mr. Reinhard thought he was going to the continuation of the company’s board meeting.
233 2007-05-09 The report was released in advance of a hearing scheduled for tomorrow, during which an F.D.A. advisory panel will consider whether the drugs are overused.

The medicines — Aranesp and Epogen, from Amgen; and Procrit, from Johnson & Johnson — are among the world’s top-selling drugs, with combined sales of $10 billion last year. In this country, they represent the single biggest drug expense for Medicare and are given to about a million patients each year to treat anemia caused by kidney disease or cancer chemotherapy.

Dr. Len Lichtenfeld, the deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, said that both patients and doctors would benefit from fuller disclosure about the payments and the profits that doctors can make from them. “I suspect that Medicare is going to take a very careful look at what is going on here,” he said.

Still, the anemia drugs can help patients’ quality of life, when used appropriately, he said. “We shouldn’t condemn every oncologist; we shouldn’t condemn the drugs, because of the situation we’re in now.”

Federal laws bar drug companies from paying doctors to prescribe medicines that are given in pill form and purchased by patients from pharmacies. But companies can rebate part of the price that doctors pay for drugs, like the anemia medicines, which they dispense in their offices as part of treatment. The anemia drugs are injected or given intravenously in physicians’ offices or dialysis centers. Doctors receive the rebates after they buy the drugs from the companies. But they also receive reimbursement from Medicare or private insurers for the drugs, often at a markup over the doctors’ purchase price.

Medicare has changed its payment structure since 2003 to reduce the markup, but private insurers still often pay more. Combined with those insurance reimbursements, the rebates enable many doctors to profit substantially on the medicines they buy and then give to patients.

The rebates are related to the amount of drugs that doctors buy, and physicians that agree to use one company’s drugs exclusively typically receive higher rebates.

Johnson & Johnson said yesterday in a statement that its rebates were not intended to induce doctors to use more medicine. Instead, the rebates “reflect intense competition” in the market for the drugs, the company said.

Amgen said that rebates were a normal commercial practice and that it had always properly promoted its drugs.

“Amgen is dedicated to patient safety,” said David Polk, a spokesman. “We believe our contracts support appropriate anemia management and our product promotion is always strictly within the label.”

Both companies’ stocks fell yesterday after release of the F.D.A. report. Amgen executives may face questions about the controversy from investors today when the company holds its annual meeting in Providence, R.I.

Since 1991, when the first of the drugs was still relatively new, the average dose given to dialysis patients in this country has nearly tripled. About 50 percent of dialysis patients now receive enough of the drugs to raise their red blood cell counts above the level considered risky by the F.D.A.

American patients receive far more of the anemia drugs than patients elsewhere, with dialysis patients in this country getting doses more than twice as high as their counterparts in Europe. Cancer care shows a similar pattern. American cancer patients are about three times as likely as those in Europe to get the drugs, and they receive somewhat higher doses.

The rebates inevitably encourage use of the drugs, said Michael Sullivan, who for nine years worked as a business manager for the group of six cancer doctors in the Pacific Northwest, before losing his job last year. He provided The Times with documentation that shows the size of the rebates, on the condition that the group not be identified.

“Personally, I think rebates should go away,” said Mr. Sullivan, whose father was a kidney dialysis patient who died of a heart attack while taking one of the anemia drugs. “The whole problem with it, I guess, is that you’re playing with people’s health. It’s not the same as buying widgets.”

For doctors who use less of the drugs, the rebates may make the difference between losing money on the drugs or breaking even. Mr. Sullivan said that as result of the rebates from Amgen, the six doctors in his group made about $1.8 million in net profit on the drugs they prescribed.

Unlike most drugs, the anemia medicines do not come in fixed doses. Therefore, doctors have great flexibility to increase dosing — and profits. Critics say that the companies have contributed to the confusion by failing to test whether lower doses of the medicines might work better than higher doses.

“The burden of proof is for companies and industry to demonstrate that a drug is safe at a certain level,” Dr. Ajay Singh, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School. Dr. Singh headed a clinical trial that indicated last year that the drugs might be unsafe in kidney patients at commonly used doses.

Known generically as epoetin and darbepoetin, and often referred to simply as EPO, the drugs are genetically engineered versions of a human protein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells and increase the body’s ability to carry oxygen.

Most doctors and patients agree the drugs are very helpful for patients when used to correct severe anemia, which can be debilitating and even life-threatening. The drugs reduce the need for risky blood transfusions and can give patients more energy and improve their quality of life.

“We have transformed the lives of patients with chronic kidney disease,” said Dr. Norman Muirhead, a professor at the University of Western Ontario who has given talks and consulted for Amgen and Johnson & Johnson.

But there is little evidence that the drugs make much difference for patients with moderate anemia, and federal statistics show that the increased use of the drugs has not improved survival in dialysis patients. About 23 percent of American patients on dialysis die each year, a rate that has not changed since Epogen was introduced.

Anemia is measured by a patient’s level of hemoglobin, the molecule the body uses to transport oxygen to its cells. Healthy people have around 14 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter of blood. Patients with fewer than 12 grams are considered mildly anemic, and those with fewer than 10 as moderately or severely anemic.

The labels on the drugs, as currently approved by the F.D.A., encourage doctors to aim for a hemoglobin level of 10 to 12. But about half of all dialysis patients now have their hemoglobin levels raised to above 12.

Critics of the drugs say their increased use has been driven by profit. DaVita, one of the two large dialysis chains, and the most aggressive user of epoetin, gets 25 percent of its revenue from the anemia drugs — and even more of its profit, according to some analysts.

Dr. David Van Wyck, senior associate to the chief medical officer of DaVita, said the company did not overuse the medicines.

Doctors determine how much to use, Dr. Van Wyck said. “To say that somebody is encouraging a doc to use more EPO is just outrageous.”

Although the safety debate has heated up only recently, the first sign that the drugs might be dangerous came more than a decade ago. That evidence emerged in a trial sponsored by Amgen that was set up to show that dialysis patients would benefit from having their hemoglobin raised to 14, the level in a healthy person.

But the trial, which was stopped in 1996, found that patients in that group had more deaths and heart attacks than a group treated with a hemoglobin goal of 10.

That trial should have discouraged doctors from using too much epoetin and encouraged Amgen to study the risks further, said Dr. Steven Fishbane, a nephrologist at Winthrop-University Hospital on Long Island.

Instead, use of epoetin continued to soar. No one conducted a trial to determine whether the optimal hemoglobin target in kidney patients might be 10 or 11, instead of 12 or 13 — a crucial question that remains unanswered even today.

Dr. Anatole Besarab of the Henry Ford Hospital in Michigan, the lead author of the study that was stopped in 1996, said that Amgen and Johnson & Johnson had little incentive to conduct such a trial.

Dr. Robert M. Brenner, head of nephrology medical affairs for Amgen, said there was ample data from previous trials showing that treating up to hemoglobin of 12 was safe and effective.

Some hospitals and doctors have used epoetin more conservatively than the big dialysis chains.

Dr. Ronald A. Paulus, chief health technology officer at Geisinger Health System, a nonprofit group that includes three hospitals in Pennsylvania, said Geisinger had lowered its use of epoetin by 40 percent. Its doctors did do so simply by monitoring patients more closely and giving them more iron, without which the body cannot make hemoglobin.

Dr. N. D. Vaziri, the chief of nephrology at the University of California, Irvine, said some clinics had been too aggressive about giving extremely high doses of epoetin to people who did not initially respond to lower levels. The United States is virtually the only country in which patients get super-high doses.

“You create a toxicity situation,” said Dr. Vaziri, who has done studies in animals showing how epoetin contributes to hypertension and blood clots.

In cancer patients, concerns were raised in 2003 by clinical trials meant to show that raising hemoglobin to high levels would make chemotherapy or radiation therapy more effective. Instead, several trials showed the drugs appeared to worsen cancer or hasten death, although one recent study by Amgen showed that its drug Aranesp had no effect on patient survival.

The conflicting studies are among the issues the F.D.A. advisory committee is expected to discuss tomorrow. Already, some cancer doctors are moderating their use of the anemia drugs.

Dr. Peter Eisenberg, an oncologist in Marin County, Calif., said many doctors had been induced to use more epoetin by the financial incentives and the belief that the drug was helpful.

“The deal was so good,” he said. “The indication was so clear and the downside was so small that docs just worked it into their practice easily.

“Now it’s much scarier than that,” he said. “We could really be doing harm.”
234 2007-05-09 Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected earnings of 59 cents a share, on average.

Shares in Lazard fell 55 cents, or 1 percent, to $53.55 on the New York Stock Exchange.

Lazard’s vice chairman, Steven J. Golub, said that his firm’s results should be measured on an annual basis instead of a quarterly one because of the unpredictability of deal closings. Investment banks generally earn their advisory fees when a transaction is completed.

Mr. Golub said that many of the deals the firm had worked on had yet to close. Lazard is advising Barclays in its 67 billion euro ($91 billion) bid for ABN Amro and TXU in its $45 billion leveraged buyout by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Texas Pacific Group.

“Our backlog seems to be weighted toward the second half of the year,” Mr. Golub said in an interview yesterday.

Unlike larger rivals like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which draw much of their profit from proprietary trading and alternative investments, Lazard prides itself on its relatively simple business model. Financial advisory work accounted for about 63 percent of its total revenue in the last year.

Because of its heavy reliance on advisory work, Lazard is seen as a bellwether for deal making. Mr. Golub said that he expected the two-year-old merger boom to continue, citing the confidence of chief executives in pulling off mergers, low interest rates and strong liquidity in the capital markets.

Revenue from Lazard’s restructuring advising business fell 29 percent, to $9.62 million. The firm recently finished its work in the bankruptcy case of Adelphia Communications, and it has begun advising the subprime mortgage lender New Century Financial on its restructuring.

But growth in Lazard’s asset management business proved a bright spot in the firm’s earnings report. The bank reported $124.85 billion in assets under management, the most ever for the firm, and it earned $130.6 million in management fees, a 26 percent rise over the last year. Lazard reported $11.6 billion in net inflows of assets for the quarter.

Mr. Golub said the firm would continue to seek new areas for growth, especially abroad. Lazard reported yesterday that its revenue from financial advisory fees over the last 12 months was split almost evenly between North America and Europe, accounting for 50 percent and 48 percent, respectively.

Two of Lazard’s biggest pending deals are rooted in Europe. In addition to advising Barclays, Lazard is also working with Acciona Energía, a Spanish conglomerate that, with Enel, is acquiring Endesa, Spain’s largest electric utility, for $59.1 billion.
235 2007-05-09 Entering the penultimate round of races in the opening phase of the Louis Vuitton Cup, which will determine who will challenge the America’s Cup champion Alinghi in June, the Spanish team needed to win to clinch the last available semifinal slot or have the Swedish entry Victory Challenge lose to Emirates Team New Zealand. Though the Kiwis and their helmsman, Dean Barker, got off to a horrid start and trailed at the top mark Tuesday, the Swedes were unable to hold the lead and lost by 34 seconds.

“It’s hard to pick up a semifinal spot getting some help off somebody else, but we’ll take it,” Wachowicz said.

It is still unclear who will finish on top of the round-robin standings and thereby earn the right to choose their semifinal opponent. Team New Zealand and BMW Oracle are scheduled to settle that on Wednesday, which, if the weather continues to cooperate, will be the last day of the round-robin phase.

But the semifinalists are now all accounted for: BMW Oracle, Team New Zealand, Luna Rossa Challenge of Italy and Desafio Español. All are two-boat programs with financing that ranges from extraordinary (BMW Oracle) to satisfactory (Desafio Español). All have international casts and afterguards, which is the way the Cup has evolved since the end of nationality or residence requirements. Only the Spanish qualify as newcomers after assembling and rethinking their campaign in the wake of the decision to stage the Cup in Valencia.

There have been three previous Spanish challenges for the Cup, but this is the first two-boat campaign and by far the most serious, even if Desafio will be a heavy underdog when the semifinals begin on May 14.

“Look at Oracle, they’ve got seven or eight years in this; look at Prada, they’ve got 12 years or so; it’s the same with Team New Zealand,” Wachowicz said of the other semifinalists. “The way you win in this sport is consistency, having the infrastructure available to you to go on and on and develop the tools you need to win. So I think everybody is pretty happy about what we’ve been able to accomplish in two and a half years.”

Wachowicz, 36, was born in Hawaii and raised in the Bay Area. John Cutler, Desafio’s tactician and technical director, is a New Zealander. But the team did have a slim majority of Spaniards on board on Tuesday, with 9 of the 17 crew members coming from the host nation.

Spain is the host because the Cup’s defender, Alinghi, is based in landlocked Switzerland. But Desafio has seized the marketing and sailing opportunity, amassing 29 points to Victory’s 26 with just one race remaining.

There were three pivotal moments in the round robin for the Spanish team. First, it upset BMW Oracle at the end of the first stage. Then it defeated +39 Challenge, one of the Italian syndicates, by a second. Finally, it benefited from a jury’s decision to annul its loss to Mascalzone Latino-Capitalia in the second round robin, after Mascalzone was penalized for illegally altering the configuration of its backstay.

Wachowicz was a backup navigator for Oracle during the last America’s Cup challenger series in New Zealand. Because of his San Franciso connections, he had hoped to remain with the team, which represents the city’s Golden Gate Yacht Club. But Oracle declined to renew his contract in the early phases of this challenge. Cutler, who had sailed with him on Oracle, hired Wachowicz as he was about to sign with the French challenger Areva.

Wachowicz was in high demand for someone who did not get serious about competitive sailing until 1997. At Harvard, where he graduated with a degree in molecular biology in 1993, his sport was track, and he said he spent a year in Madrid attempting to make it as a professional hurdler before deciding to return to California, and to a job as a scientist with Kyron Laboratories.

But his competitive instincts still ran deep. The son of a career naval officer, Wachowicz worked his way into sailing with help from the accomplished off-shore racer Robert Flowerman and Mark Rudiger, one of the world’s top navigators. With its emphasis on technological savvy, the position of navigator is a more accessible post than most to those who did not grow up racing. Wachowicz resigned from his laboratory job in 1999.

“I had to take a crack at it,” he said.

On Tuesday — beer, cellphone and grin in place — he expressed no regrets about his latest career path. His wife, Lauren, was in Valencia to enjoy it with him. A Navy lieutenant, she recently finished a tour of duty in Iraq as a helicopter pilot.

“She was there for 192 days,” Wachowicz said, pausing. “And six hours. So that was tough to be here with her there. I think we spent 26 days in the last year together.”

After the Cup ends, they plan to move to Boston. But at least through the semifinals, Wachowicz still has work to do in Spain and in Spanish, which he now speaks well enough to act as an onboard translator and an onshore interview subject for the increasingly curious Spanish news media.

“There’s a huge sense of nationalism,” Wachowicz said. “For sure, the Valencians don’t understand the fine art of match racing, and I don’t think they care. I think they just want to see their home team do well, and to be able to deliver that to them is pretty sweet.”
236 2007-05-09 White House officials and Congressional Republican leaders expressed immediate reservations, suggesting that it was essentially an effort to pay for the war in short installments.

“It is unconscionable to think that they want to fund a war 60 days at a time,” said Representative Adam H. Putnam, Republican of Florida and chairman of the House Republican Conference.

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, said the short-term financing strategy was misguided.

“We think it’s bad management,” he told reporters on Tuesday. “It’s kind of a start-and-stop measure. It denies commanders and forces the kind of predictability they need to be able to plan effectively.”

The initial spending bill would total $42.8 billion. Of that, $30 billion would be for combat operations and $12.8 billion more would be for new combat equipment, training of Afghan forces, domestic security, health care improvements for active-duty forces and veterans, Gulf Coast recovery, military base realignment and flu preparedness.

Responding to Republican complaints that the $124 billion measure vetoed by the president last week was stuffed with unnecessary spending, Mr. Obey said he was putting together a separate measure with emergency agricultural aid and other spending of more than $4 billion.

Mr. Obey said that measure would provide money for farmers in disaster areas and struggling salmon fishermen along the Pacific Coast, and he practically dared Mr. Bush to object to aid that will be popular in parts of rural America.

“I think it is going to be very hard for the president to explain why he has declared counties disaster areas and why he doesn’t support legislative action to keep those farmers from being driven off the farm and out of business,” Mr. Obey said.

Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, said he expected the House to vote on the Iraq portion of the spending bill on Thursday, followed by the farm measure on Friday.

The legislative plan was presented to House Democrats on Tuesday afternoon. Officials said the initial reaction was receptive, though some antiwar Democrats who had opposed any new war spending maintained their opposition. One Democrat who has opposed limits on spending, Representative Jim Marshall of Georgia, raised no immediate concerns, they said.

The new legislative approach is being taken as a retired Army general is criticizing the administration’s war policy in advertisements that focus on more than a dozen Republican members of Congress. The retired general, John Batiste, the commander of the First Infantry Division from August 2002 to June 2005, appears in a television commercial to go on the air Wednesday under the sponsorship of Votevets.org, a group of veterans opposing the war.

The ad opens with video of the president vowing to listen to his commanders.

“You did not listen, Mr. President,” General Batiste says in the advertisement. “You continue to pursue the failed strategy that is breaking our great Army and Marine Corps.”

Mr. Obey said he would continue to negotiate with administration officials over a compromise plan, but said Democrats had to simultaneously move ahead with their own bill. At a news conference on Tuesday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California was asked why Democrats were moving forward alone, risking another veto.

“I didn’t commit to any compromise,” Ms. Pelosi said, adding: “I said we had a responsibility to the American people to try to find our common ground. Where we didn’t find our common ground, we would stand our ground.”
237 2007-05-09 A former Credit Suisse banker charged with masterminding a $7.5 million insider trading ring will be released on $1 million bail today, after a federal magistrate judge questioned the strength of the government’s case.

At a hearing yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, Judge James C. Francis IV said that he did not think that Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem would flee to his native Pakistan, given the conditions his lawyer had proposed for bail.

Mr. Naseem, 37, was arrested at work last week and charged with leaking information to an unnamed official at a Pakistani financial institution about nine deals, including the $45 billion leveraged buyout of TXU, the largest ever. Credit Suisse was an adviser on all nine deals.

Mr. Naseem is also facing a civil lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In a 90-minute hearing yesterday, Joshua Klein, the assistant United States attorney prosecuting the case, and Marc L. Mukasey, Mr. Naseem’s lawyer, sparred over the merits of the charges. Mr. Klein said that the government’s case remained “extraordinarily strong.”

But Mr. Mukasey said that he would call a former head of investment banking at Faysal Bank in Pakistan to testify on Mr. Naseem’s behalf. Mr. Mukasey said that Ajaz Rahim, who had identified himself as the focus of the S.E.C.’s investigation, would testify that he made a trade in TXU’s options after speaking with an analyst in London, and not because of information from Mr. Naseem.
238 2007-05-09 ALBANY, May 8 — After sitting on the fence for months, Gov. Eliot Spitzer said on Tuesday that he had decided to endorse Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, his fellow New York Democrat, for president.

While Democrats close to Mr. Spitzer say he made the endorsement willingly, they also say it came in spite of some resentment in the Spitzer camp over Mrs. Clinton’s lack of assistance during the governor’s budget battles this winter. These Democrats say the governor was keenly aware that she did not help him when he was sparring with 1199 United Healthcare Workers East and some other Democratic interest groups.

Mr. Spitzer did not push for her help — that is not his style — and other leading New York Democratic officials did not stand by his side either; Representative Charles B. Rangel even chided him for being too aggressive as he pushed for Medicaid and health care reforms.

Still, it was only Mrs. Clinton who was seeking his endorsement this year, and Mr. Spitzer’s backing could tamp down concerns about any drift of Democratic support toward the candidacy of her main rival, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois.

“Those of us who have worked with Hillary over the years, and seen her intellect and her capacity to accomplish, understand what a superb president she would be,” the governor said in a brief telephone interview. “She has a grasp of the issues, and a capacity to make the hard, tough decisions that we desperately need in a president.”
239 2007-05-09 Richard Dicker, a director of Human Rights Watch, said having Serbia in the chair “risks undercutting the credibility of the council itself and certainly suggests abandoning the people who were victims of the genocide.”

“Something is very wrong with this picture,” he said.

Human Rights Watch is one of several groups that have sent letters to the foreign ministers who will represent their countries at the council’s session on Friday, when San Marino steps down and Serbia takes its turn in the chair for six months.

Carla Del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of the Yugoslavia war crimes tribunal, who has unceasingly called for the arrest of General Mladic and Mr. Karadzic, also circulated a protest letter saying Serbia was unfit for the post after violating the Genocide Convention and ignoring several United Nations Security Council resolutions calling for the men’s arrest.

“When I think about the victims of genocide committed by Mladic and Karadzic, I find it rather embarrassing,” Mrs. Del Ponte said in her recent letter to the council members. Both fugitives “are in Serbia,” her letter said.

Although Serbia’s failure to arrest the men has long been an obstacle to starting talks on its entering the European Union, some European governments have favored a more flexible attitude, arguing that Europe is better off supporting the moderates in Belgrade and enlisting their cooperation in resolving the status of its southern province, Kosovo, which expects to become independent soon.

But this task was further complicated Tuesday when a radical nationalist was elected as the new speaker of the Serbian Parliament.

Members of the Council of Europe remained silent about Serbia’s impending presidency. In London, Paris and Berlin, government spokesmen said their governments would not oppose Serbia’s assuming the chair, seeing it as an opportunity for Belgrade to demonstrate a commitment to the rule of law.

“No country has challenged Serbia’s right to be chairman,” said Matjaz Gruden, a spokesman for the council in Strasbourg. He said that when Serbia joined in 2003, it made commitments, including the extradition of fugitives from international justice. “It’s clear there is still a problem,” he said. “It’s not off the table.”

Human rights advocates have called for concrete actions like boycotting meetings, disqualifying Serbia from holding the chair or suspending it until it hands over the fugitives. Human rights lawyers said that when Russia, also a council member, was accused of human rights violations in Chechnya it was not suspended, but its representatives were temporarily stripped of their voting rights as a symbolic gesture.

“There is a lot of hypocrisy in European governments about this,” said Patrick Baudouin, an official of the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues, based in Paris. “They are accepting the unacceptable. This official silence discredits the council and makes it complicit with Serbia flouting the norms.”

The Council of Europe, which is separate from the European Union, was founded in 1949 to promote democracy and protect human rights and the rule of law in Europe. It has a staff of 2,100 and a budget of about $370 million.

LJUBLJANA, Slovenia, May 8 — Serbia’s Parliament elected an ally of the late President Slobodan Milosevic as its speaker on Tuesday, prompting fears among European Union officials that the country might revert to its nationalist past.

Tomislav Nikolic, the leader of the ultranationalist Radical Party, was elected at the end of a 15-hour session with support from the party of the conservative prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica.

Mr. Nikolic’s appointment raised speculation about a possible deal between the Serbian Democratic Party of Mr. Kostunica and the Radicals to form a new government, an agreement that advocates of closer ties between Serbia and the West fear could ruin such prospects. But Mr. Nikolic said Tuesday that his party would not join in such a coalition.

Radical Party members are widely regarded as the ideological heirs of Mr. Milosevic, who died in 2006 while on trial on war crimes charges. The party calls for the unification of all Serbs in the Balkans in one country, opposes cooperation with the war crimes tribunal in The Hague and has threatened a renewed conflict over Kosovo if the province declares independence.

Mr. Nikolic’s party won the largest number of votes in parliamentary elections on Jan. 21 but failed to win a majority. Since then Mr. Kostunica has been negotiating to form a coalition with the pro-Western Democratic Party of President Boris Tadic.
240 2007-05-09 The events on Tuesday at the Stormont Parliament building — once an emblem of Protestant hegemony in Northern Ireland — ended direct rule from London, which was reinstated in October 2002, after the Belfast authority was suspended in a dispute over allegations of espionage by the Irish Republican Army.

The proceedings were dominated by two parties — the republicans of Sinn Fein, seeking a united Ireland, and the Democratic Unionist Party, which wants continued union with Britain — that were once bitter adversaries. Mr. Paisley and Mr. McGuinness reiterated their commitment to their divergent visions of Ireland’s future.

The agreement to share power, struck in late March, followed years of negotiations in which the I.R.A., affiliated with Sinn Fein, abandoned its armed struggle and said it would embrace politics. Mr. Paisley dropped his refusal to share power with his republican foes.

Peter Hain, the Northern Ireland minister for Britain, said the deal to restore local government “is going to stick” because “these are the two most polarized forces in Northern Ireland’s politics, they have done the deal.”

In 30 years of violence known as the Troubles, more than 3,700 people died in sectarian fighting and conflict with the British Army in Northern Ireland that sometimes spilled into England in bomb attacks. Since cease-fires in the 1990s, successive British governments have struggled to cement the peace, enshrined in the 1998 Good Friday agreement.

“It’s a day that no one thought ever to see, Ian Paisley of the Democratic Unionist Party in government with Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein,” said Sydney Elliott, a professor of politics at Queen’s University here. “They have a big program of work ahead. A lot of things were neglected over the years of the conflict. There is a lot of pent-up energy here in society to make things work.”

Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and his Irish counterpart, Bertie Ahern, attended the ceremony, each pursuing political goals. Mr. Blair is expected to announce this week that he will step down in June or early July and is seeking to build a legacy of achievement.

“Look back, and we see centuries marked by conflict, hardship, even hatred among the people of these islands,” he said in a speech beside Mr. Paisley, Mr. McGuinness and Mr. Ahern. “Look forward, and we see the chance to shake off those heavy chains of history.”

Mr. Ahern hailed Mr. Blair as the driving force behind the Northern Ireland peace effort and declared: “We cannot undo our sad and turbulent past. And none of us can forget the many victims of the Troubles. But we can, and are, shaping our future in a new and better way.”

Mr. Ahern is seeking a third term in Irish elections on May 24; Sinn Fein is challenging his party.

The combination of Mr. Paisley as first minister with Mr. McGuinness as his deputy offered a once unthinkable constellation of personalities. Mr. Paisley long accused Mr. McGuinness of being an I.R.A. “terrorist” and acquired the nickname “Dr. No” for his rejection of the Good Friday agreement and cooperation with his adversaries.

The deal between Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist Party followed elections in March that enabled each to say it had a mandate to strike a deal.

In chance conversations on the streets of Belfast, Protestants seemed to have more misgivings than did Catholics.

Joan McCoubrey, 70, a Catholic retiree who lost a brother in 1971, early in the conflict, said, “I don’t want my grandchildren to go through what I went through.”

Isabelle Fagan, 81, said, “We have all suffered, and I think it will work out.”

But Deborah Harbinson, 48, a Protestant homemaker, had doubts. “There are still a lot of problems left to be tackled,” she said. “There’s still hidden violence and division and few job opportunities.”

The United States played an important role at various stages in the Northern Ireland negotiations. President Clinton made three visits to Northern Ireland, and President Bush came here in 2003. In 2005, however, Mr. Bush and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, snubbed Mr. Adams when he visited Washington to show their distaste at the killing of Robert McCartney, a Northern Ireland Catholic, by a group including I.R.A. members.

“Northern Ireland has shown the world that peace is possible, even in the face of tragic history,” Senator Kennedy said in a statement after he attended the ceremony as part of an American delegation.
241 2007-05-09 “Momentum remains very strong,” said John T. Chambers, Cisco’s chairman and chief executive, in a conference call with analysts. “Although competition remains robust, we believe we are gaining share from all our competitors.”

He said Cisco was benefiting from continued demand for network bandwidth to handle video transmissions.

Quarterly revenue increased 21 percent, to $8.87 billion from $7.32 billion a year ago, beating the $8.76 billion in revenue expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

But that is less than the 27 percent revenue growth Cisco reported in the second quarter, when the company had revenue of $8.44 billion, up from $6.63 billion the year before.

Cisco offered a forecast of only 15 to 16 percent revenue growth for the fourth quarter.

Among the slower areas for Cisco was the enterprise business in the United States, where growth has fallen to the mid-single digits, down from 20 percent in the first quarter.

Mark Sue, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said that despite the few pockets of weakness, the quarter was a strong one, with good growth in most segments.

“They’re a balanced company,” he said. “Over all they are executing very well. There will be times when some sectors outperform others.”

Cisco executives said developing countries were creating a growing opportunity, accounting for more than a third of Cisco’s sales during the quarter. “It is very possible we can maintain 35 percent to 45 percent growth in the emerging markets,” Mr. Chambers told analysts.

Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., reported gross margins of about 64.5 percent during the third quarter, and executives expect that to remain flat in the fourth quarter.

Cisco executives said gross margins had been reduced by the acquisition of Scientific Atlanta, a maker of cable equipment, which competes in a market with typically lower margins.
242 2007-05-09 In “The Little Dog Has His Day” (Op-Ed, May 5), Mark Derr says that a friend, the owner of a large dog, told him that her next dog would be small. He continues: “My friend looked shocked to hear me, of all people, say: ‘Excellent. Just go to a reputable breeder.’ ”

I was shocked, too. He should, of course, have said: “Excellent. Just go to your local shelter, where you can find an adult dog who is already as big as it’s going to get. And don’t forget that toy dogs are also available through breed rescue.”

Mr. Derr may be an expert on the history of dogs in America, but it’s their future here that worries me.
243 2007-05-09 The country’s watchdog for quality control released a statement on its Web site late Tuesday saying officials at the two companies were also detained for their roles in shipping tainted goods that may have contributed to one of the largest pet food recalls in American history.

“The two companies illegally added melamine” to wheat gluten and rice protein, the government said, “in a bid to meet the contractual demand for the amount of protein in the products.”

The revelations from chemical producers help address uncertainties about the presence of cyanuric acid. For instance, it has not been clear whether it is a derivative or a byproduct when melamine is broken down in the animals, or whether the cyanuric acid was separately placed in the feed.

In China, chemical producers say it is common knowledge in the chemical and agriculture industry that for years feed producers in China have quietly and secretly used cyanuric acid to cheat buyers of animal feed.

“Cyanuric acid scrap can be added to animal feed,” said Yu Luwei, general manager of the Juancheng Ouya Chemical Company in Shandong Province. “I sell it to fish meal manufacturers and fish farmers. It can also be added to feed for other animals.”

Yang Fei, who works in the sales department of the Shouguang Weidong Chemical Company in Shandong Province, echoed that view: “I’ve heard that people add cyanuric acid and melamine to animal feed to boost the protein level.”

The Food and Drug Administration in the United States said Tuesday that farmed fish had been fed meal contaminated with melamine and other contaminants but that the level was probably too low to harm anyone who ate the fish. Moreover, the feed was mislabeled as wheat gluten, when in fact it was wheat flour spiked with melamine and other nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein-rich than it was, officials said.

Two of the Chinese chemical makers say that cyanuric acid is used because it is even cheaper than melamine and high in nitrogen, enabling feed producers to artificially increase protein readings which are often measured by nitrogen levels of the feed. The chemical makers say they also produce a chemical which is a combination of melamine and cyanuric acid, and that feed producers have often sought to purchase scrap material from this product.

Competition among animal feed producers here is intense. But the practice of using cyanuric acid may now provide clues as to why the pet food in the United States became poisonous.

Scientists had difficulty pinpointing the precise cause of the deaths, for neither melamine nor cyanuric acid are thought to be particularly toxic by themselves. But scientists studying the pet food deaths say the combination of the two chemicals, mixed together with perhaps some other related compounds, may have created a toxic punch that formed crystals in the kidneys of pets and led to kidney failure.

“I’m convinced melamine can’t do it by itself,” said Richard Goldstein, an assistant professor at the Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine. “I think it’s this melamine with other compounds that is toxic.”

On May 1, scientists at the University of Guelph in Canada said they had made a chemical discovery that may explain the pet deaths.

In a laboratory, they found that melamine and cyanuric acid may react with one another to form crystals that could impair kidney function. The crystals they formed in the lab were similar to those discovered in afflicted pets, they said.

In the United States, some contaminated pet food and protein meal recently found its way into hog and chicken feed, which led the government to ask farms to quarantine and slaughter some animals as precaution.

But on Monday, a joint assessment by scientists working for the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture Department and several other federal agencies said there was a very low risk of danger to humans who consume meat from animals that were accidentally fed melamine-tainted feed.

The scientists said the dilution was a major factor in lowering the risk. The government also said that both chickens and hogs fed the melamine-tainted feed appear to be healthy.

In pets that apparently consumed a higher concentration of melamine, however, a result was often kidney failure.

The General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine in China said an investigation named two animal feed companies previously under suspicion: the Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company and the Binzhou Futian Biology Technology Company.

China essentially acknowledged Tuesday that the two companies had cheated pet food companies by adding a fake protein to the feed to make pet food suppliers think that they were purchasing higher-protein feed when in fact they were getting lower-protein feed.

China also said that a nationwide survey did not uncover other companies using melamine in feed products. Chemical producers of cyanuric acid, however, say the practice for them may be different.

“The substance is nontoxic — it’s legal to add it to animal feed,” Mr. Yu at Juancheng Ouya Chemical said of cyanuric acid. “The practice has been around for many years. I often sell it to animal feed makers.”
244 2007-05-09 Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, made a remarkable statement last week. He praised Israel for conducting an inquiry into last year’s war with Hezbollah — an inquiry that accused Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of “serious failure in exercising judgment, responsibility and prudence.”

Mr. Nasrallah was quoted by the BBC as saying Israelis “study their defeat in order to learn from it,” in contrast with the Arab regimes that “do not probe, do not ask, do not form inquiry commissions ... as if nothing has happened.”

One has to be impressed by his honesty, but he did not take it all the way, since the Arab leader who most needs to be probed is Mr. Nasrallah himself. He started the war with Israel, which was a disaster for both sides. If there were an honest Arab League Inquiry Commission into the war, here is what it would say about him:

On July 12, 2006, Hezbollah fighters directed by Mr. Nasrallah abducted two Israeli soldiers and killed eight others in an unprovoked attack across the Lebanon-Israel border, on the pretext of seeking a prisoner exchange. This triggered a war that killed about 1,200 Lebanese and 160 Israelis. After interviewing all relevant parties, the Arab League Commission finds Mr. Nasrallah guilty of a serious failure of judgment, responsibility and prudence — for the following reasons.

1. Mr. Nasrallah demonstrated a total failure to anticipate Israel’s response to his raid. He assumed Israel would carry out the same limited retaliation it had with previous raids. Wrong. He failed to take into account the changed circumstances in Israel. The kidnapping of an Israeli soldier in Gaza a few weeks earlier, plus the fact that a new chief of staff of the Israeli Army, a new prime minister and a new defense minister had just taken office and all felt they were being tested, triggered an enormous Israeli response. Some 1,200 Lebanese died because of this gross error in judgment.

2. In unilaterally launching a war against Israel, without a vote of the Lebanese cabinet — of which Hezbollah is a member — the militia did grievous harm to Lebanon’s fragile democracy and democratization in the Arab world. All the fears that if you let an Islamist party into government it will not respect the rules of the game were fulfilled by Hezbollah.

3. Iran and Syria gave Hezbollah its rockets for their own deterrence. Hezbollah was their long arm to pressure Israel into political compromises and to threaten Israel if it attacked Iran or Syria. By launching all these rockets prematurely, without strategic purpose, Hezbollah has diminished its capability and Syria’s and Iran’s. The commission can’t find a single strategic gain from Mr. Nasrallah’s actions.
245 2007-05-09 PAYING DOCTORS TO GIVE DRUGS -- Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, two of the world's largest drug companies, are paying hundreds of millions of dollars to doctors every year in return for giving their patients anemia medicines, which regulators now say...
246 2007-05-09 NISSENBAUM--Regina, 81, of Pembroke Pines, FL formerly of Queens on May 8, 2007. Survived by two daughters; Miriam Hyman and Dalia Diamond, a son Jacob Nissenbaum, a sister Clara Feldman, and three granddaughters: Monique, Alexandra and Hallie. Ca...
247 2007-05-09 LAZARD, THE INVESTMENT bank, said that its first-quarter profit increased 5 percent from the quarter a year ago, helped by gains in its asset management business.    MICHAEL de la MERCED...
248 2007-05-09 To the Editor:      In ''The Little Dog Has His Day'' (Op-Ed, May 5), Mark Derr says that a friend, the owner of a large dog, told him that her next dog would be small. He continues: ''My friend looked shocked to hear me, of all people, say: 'Exce...
249 2007-05-10 Why did Overstock.com change its disclosure? It won't say, but it did denounce me for asking....
250 2007-05-10 We've begin to think they might want to add a few words to the traditional wedding vow: " 'Til death - or insider trading charges - do us part." On Thursday, federal authorities arrested yet another husband-and-wife team on charges of illegally tr...
251 2007-05-10 A former Morgan Stanley compliance lawyer and her husband pleaded guilty to insider trading in federal court Thursday, the latest pleas in a wide-ranging investigation that has touched employees at some of Wall Street's top firms. At a hearing in ...
252 2007-05-10 The speed with which the Securities and Exchange Commission identified and took action against alleged insider trading in Dow Jones stock this week was "a phenomenal achievement," Harvey Pitt, the S.E.C.'s former chairman, declared in an interview...
253 2007-05-10 New shows in New York include "Deuce" and "God's Ear."...
254 2007-05-10 By MARJORIE CONNELLY What should happen to records set by athletes proven to have used steroids? Most Americans say such a record should be purged from the books, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. Fifty-five percent said the reco...
255 2007-05-10 Giving "inspirational" a good name, Matt Ruskin's vibrant and soulful documentary "The Hip Hop Project" sets its universal message to an inner-city beat. Named for the New York City youth program founded in 1999 by Chris Rolle, known as Kazi, a Bahamian orphan forced to grow up on the streets of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, the movie follows his efforts to encourage at-risk teenagers to express themselves in verse rather than violence.

Lured by the prospect of recording a hip-hop album, the youngsters experience four years of instruction in self-esteem, self-discipline and the importance of education, a curriculum Mr. Rolle likes to call "the principles of living." With humor and empathy, the movie observes their evolution from rough-and-ready rhymers to serious musicians learning to rap about more than fast cars and loose women. A charismatic young man known as Cannon raps about watching his mother die of multiple sclerosis, while the resourceful Princess channels the memory of her abortion into lyrics as raw as the feelings that inspired them.

One especially revelatory segment shadows Mr. Rolle as he attempts to reconcile with the mother who abandoned him. As they struggle to communicate across a chasm of long-held resentment, the importance of Mr. Rolle's work requires no further illumination.

"The Hip Hop Project" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has strong language and controversial themes.

Directed and edited by Matt Ruskin; director of photography, Ari Issler; produced by Scott K. Rosenberg; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 90 minutes.
256 2007-05-10 Even as its stock is riding high off the success of the iPod and anticipation of the iPhone, Apple will face some restive shareholders at its annual meeting Thursday, TheStreet.com reported. Labor unions who own Apple shares through pension funds,...
257 2007-05-10 ABN Amro, the Dutch bank at the center of one of the biggest bidding wars in history, said Thursday that its chief financial officer, Hugh Scott-Barrett, would resign in August. News of Mr. Scott-Barrett's departure came as ABN is trying to fend o...
258 2007-05-10 In an era of skyrocketing pay for chief executives and growing shareholder angst about it, a handful of C.E.O.s are opting to draw a $1 paycheck or none at all. Seven C.E.O.s in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index were paid $1 or less in 2006, i...
259 2007-05-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
260 2007-05-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
261 2007-05-10 Microsoft said Wednesday that it would take a small equity stake in CareerBuilder, a popular job recruitment site operated by Tribune, Gannett and McClatchy. The deal deepens an existing partnership in a lucrative category of online classified adv...
262 2007-05-10 The area of New York City where officials this week found industrial chemicals in the drinking water has had problems with contamination by the same chemicals for several years.

Annual reports of drinking water quality by the New York City Department of Environmental Protection show that the chemical — commonly used by dry cleaners and auto repair shops — that is causing the contamination this week has been detected sporadically in the water in that same general area of the city every year since at least 2003.

Unlike the rest of New York City, which gets drinking water from upstate reservoirs 100 or more miles away, a 5.5 mile section of southeastern Queens, where the contamination has been found, is served by a system of wells that the city took over in 1996.

Officials do not believe the wells were the source of the contaminated water found this week. An analysis of the chemical content of the water indicated that it came from a reservoir, not from a well, officials said.

However, many of the wells are known to be contaminated and are no longer being used. The city plans to build a new treatment plant for the area but construction is not scheduled to begin before 2009.
263 2007-05-10 “We finally got to vote for what we believed in,” said Representative James McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, a sponsor of the withdrawal plan.

The bill approved by the House tonight would provide about $30 billion to the Pentagon for the next two months. It requires the president to report by July 13 on how the Iraqi government is performing in building its military and moving toward achieving political unity in the battered country. Congress would then vote a second time on whether to give the administration the remainder of the money — about $50 billion —- to maintain operations in Iraq through Sept. 30 or to restrict that money to deployment.

“No more,” said Mr. Hoyer, who backed the plan. “No more blank checks.”

Republicans derided the Democratic approach as war on the installment plan, and they and Mr. Bush said the two-stage spending plan was unworkable. Congressional leaders say the new proposal will never reach the president’s desk because the Senate, where negotiations with the Bush administration are proceeding, is likely to take a different approach. Lawmakers say they hope to a final measure to the White House by the end of the month.

Mr. Bush, who on Tuesday received a blunt assessment from Republican moderates about rising voter unrest over Iraq, acknowledged the public’s impatience with the war. But he said he cannot allow political considerations such as “the latest opinion poll, or how we can get our members elected” to drive his thinking.

“My message to the members of Congress is, whatever your beliefs may be, let’s make sure our troops get funded, and let’s make sure politicians don’t tell our commanders how to conduct operations,” the president said.

Though Republicans voted solidly with the president, many made clear the administration had until September — the deadline for a progress report from Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander in Iraq — to prove its war strategy is working. While it was Republican moderates who took their complaints directly to the president this week, others in the party expressed similar misgivings today.

“There is a significant undercurrent that is looking for a reasonable way forward in Iraq,” said Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a conservative Republican of Nebraska, adding that the war is a leading concern for his constituents. “People are very conflicted in their hearts.”

Several Republicans are considering bipartisan legislation aimed at changing the war’s course. Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine and Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee have introduced separate proposals aimed at bringing a gradual end to the war.

“We are troubled by the current policy,” Ms. Snowe said today. “The White House needs to hear it.”

While the White House had not opposed setting general goals for progress in Iraq, they had previously resisted any attempt to tie war spending or troop withdrawal plans to the benchmarks.

Today, Democrats welcomed the president’s new willingness to authorize negotiations on benchmarks but said any failure by Iraq to meet specified goals must result in penalties or they would be meaningless.

“There is a recognition that things are not going well,” Mr. Reid said about the president’s new position. “The only person who doesn’t believe there needs to be a change is the president.”

The Senate hopes to consider its version of the war spending measure sometime next week, and Democrats have not made public many of their ideas. Lawmakers and senior administration officials say the most likely course is that the Senate would approve a new measure that drops the withdrawal date that Mr. Bush objected to in vetoing the initial legislation but retains other restrictions, while providing the president the ability to waive them. The White House has not been receptive in the past to proposals for such waivers.

Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior White House official disputed the notion that Mr. Bush’s agreement to consider signing a bill with specific benchmarks for the Iraqis to meet was tied to Republican complaints that more pressure be brought to bear on the Iraqi government to make faster progress toward political reconciliation.

“We’ve said all along there’s going to be a compromise,” he said.

The official said the president understood that if General Petraeus delivered a bad assessment of conditions in Iraq in September it would make it hard for some Republicans to continue supporting the war. For all of the administration’s complaints about the Democratic approach, officials concede that the lawmakers efforts to impose a timetable for American withdrawal have helped emphasize the president’s point to the Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq that American patience is wearing thin and Iraq needs to act more urgently toward political reconciliation.

Some lawmakers said they have not only lost patience with the war in Iraq, but with the continuing legislative and political conflict in Congress as the two parties maneuver over the war.

“The Republicans should not be saying the Democrats don’t support the troops, nor should the Democrats be calling Republicans warmongers,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri and one of the 11 moderates who met with the president on Tuesday at the White House. “Politics have taken over and our soldiers deserve better.”
264 2007-05-10 Slightly elevated levels of an industrial chemical have been found in the water supply of as many as 64,000 Queens residents, prompting officials to recommend the use of bottled water for drinking and cooking until the source is determined.

Investigators believe the chemical, tetrachloroethylene, may be seeping into the water from a business, like a dry cleaner or an auto repair shop.

The chemical, also called perchloroethylene or perc, is commonly used as dry-cleaning fluid and as a degreasing agent for machines.

Testing showed concentrations of the chemical as high as 13 parts per billion, according to Anne Canty, deputy commissioner of the city’s Department of Environmental Protection. A commonly accepted standard of safety for the chemical is about 5 parts per billion.

The city’s Department of Health said there is no reason to believe that short-term exposure to slightly elevated levels will cause long-term health damage.

The city is distributing fliers to the affected residents, primarily those in the St. Albans, Cambria Heights and Hollis neighborhoods. According to the city, the affected area is bordered by Linden Boulevard, Cross Island Parkway, Farmers Boulevard and Hempstead Avenue to Jamaica Avenue. Tests from the rest of the city show no elevated levels of the chemical.

The contamination was first detected on May 4, in a water sample collected on May 1, during routine monthly testing, the environmental agency said yesterday.
265 2007-05-10 Shares of the mining companies BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto Group soared amid speculation about possible takeover bids. Chris Lynch, president of BHP’s carbon steel unit, neither confirmed nor denied speculation that the resources company would make an offer for Rio Tinto. “We’ve obviously looked at a lot of different things,” he said. Mr. Lynch was responding to speculation that BHP, which is based in Melbourne, Australia, could buy Rio Tinto after the market seized on an analyst’s report this week. A Rio Tinto spokesman, Nick Cobban, said the company “is not aware of any approach by BHP Billiton.” Stock in Rio Tinto traded as high as 4,000 pence ($79.71) a share in London before closing up 10.7 percent, to 3,660 pence.
266 2007-05-10 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — The fierce rivalry between the chip makers Intel and Advanced Micro Devices is ratcheting up as both companies claim superiority in technology used for notebook computers.

On Wednesday, Intel introduced an upgrade to its popular Centrino chip set for notebook computers that it says is far more energy-efficient, uses a faster processor and features much improved graphics.

The new chip set, which Intel called Santa Rosa while it was under development, also supports a new version of Wi-Fi that executives say can be five times as fast as the current version and can communicate over twice the distance.

Last week, A.M.D. held its own news conference here to show new features of its Turion notebook processor and a branding campaign with the theme Better by Design. Among other things, the new A.M.D. notebook technology offers improved graphics — which executives say stems from the company’s acquisition of the graphics developer ATI last year — and longer battery life. This month, A.M.D. is expected to announce further improvements to its notebooks that will be introduced at the end of the year.

Intel’s original Centrino chip set, introduced for notebook computers four years ago, helped popularize wireless communications. While the company has upgraded Centrino nearly every year since, it considers the latest version a vast leap in performance.
267 2007-05-10 The deeply divisive issue has surfaced in Italy, Spain, Britain and the United States, where in the 2004 presidential election, several bishops said that Senator John Kerry, the Democratic candidate and a Catholic, who supports abortion rights, should not receive communion.

According to church law, those who play a material role in an abortion should not receive the sacrament of holy communion. In effect, they have automatically excommunicated themselves from sharing in communion. (Much rarer, and more complicated, is an active declaration by the church of excommunication.)

Inside the church, that automatic excommunication is understood to apply to women who undergo abortions and medical personnel who perform or assist in them. But there is a debate inside the church over whether that also applies to politicians who support abortion laws.

Father Lombardi’s initial clarifying statement said the pope had intended to refer to current Vatican policy, as expressed in a document on the Eucharist that Benedict issued in December. In that document, Benedict said that certain values, including protecting human life from conception to natural death, were “not negotiable” and that Catholic politicians had a “grave responsibility” to promote such laws.

On Wednesday afternoon, Benedict, who is 80 years old, arrived here in São Paulo, the largest city in South America, for the start of a four-day trip, his first as pope to Latin America, where nearly half the world’s Catholics live. Under chilly gray clouds, his chartered Boeing 777 landed here after a 12-hour flight from Rome.

He was greeted by President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who is weathering his own abortion maelstrom.

The controversy began Monday, when Mr. da Silva gave an interview to Roman Catholic radio stations in which he said he was of two minds on abortion. Though personally opposed, he said, as president he believes that “the state cannot abdicate from caring for this as a public health question, because to do so would lead to the death of many young women in this country.”

Except in very limited and specific circumstances, abortion is against the law in Brazil, which has more Roman Catholics than any other country. Nevertheless, estimates of the number of illegal abortions performed annually here, in clandestine clinics known in Brazilian slang as “angel factories,” run between one million and two million.

But the minister of health, José Gomes Temporão, suggested in March that legislation calling for prison sentences of up to three years for women convicted of having illegal abortions should perhaps be altered. He called for a national referendum, which led to attacks from pulpits across the country and to a protest march on Tuesday in Brasília, the capital.

And on Tuesday, after the president’s initial remarks, Dr. Temporão described abortion as “a theme that should be treated delicately,” and complained that “some sectors of the church have made declarations that are very aggressive and quite distant from the teachings of Jesus.”

That drew a caustic rejoinder from a spokesman for the National Conference of Brazilian Bishops. Dr. Temporão’s job is to be “the minister of health, and not of death,” said the spokesman, Bishop Angélico Sândalo Bernardino.

But the minister of women’s affairs, Nilcéa Freire, weighed in to support her colleague. “I think it is important that the church or religious or fundamentalist groups not act as censors of a discussion that society needs to have,” she said.

The Brazilian church’s senior cleric, Cardinal Geraldo Majella Agnelo, also condemned government policies on reproductive health, which have won praise from international public health groups. He singled out sexual education and condom-distribution programs, which have helped cut AIDS transmission rates.

“This is inducing everyone into promiscuity,” Cardinal Majella, who is the departing president of the National Conference of Brazilian Bishops, said in an interview with the Portuguese-language service of the BBC. “This is not respect for life or for real love. It’s like turning man into an animal.”

President da Silva is scheduled to meet here with the pope on Thursday. The president’s press spokesman, Marcelo Baumbach, said that while abortion was not on the government’s agenda, whether the matter is broached “is going to depend on the dynamic of their private conversation.”

For Mr. da Silva, a 61-year-old former labor leader, abortion has been an extremely sensitive issue.

He is the second youngest of seven children of a poor peasant family, has eight other half-brothers and sisters, according to local press accounts, and had to drop out of school at the age of 12 to go to work to help support his family.

Later, as a factory worker here, he fathered a daughter out of wedlock.

When he first ran for president in 1989 as candidate of the left-wing Workers’ Party, the mother of the girl went on television to say that he had encouraged her to have an abortion, an accusation that is thought to have contributed to his defeat in the runoff vote that year.

“No one is in favor of abortion,” Mr. da Silva said Tuesday, as the controversy was intensifying. “But the question is: should a woman be imprisoned? Should she die? It’s necessary to look at the woman as a human being.”
268 2007-05-10 Roberto de Jesús Guerra Pérez, a correspondent of the Miami-based PayoLibre and Nueva Prensa Cubana Web sites and for Radio Martí, a United Stated-financed anti-Castro outlet, was released after spending nearly two years in prison on a charge of “disturbing the peace” for taking part in an anti-government protest, the pro-democracy coalition known as the Assembly to Promote Civil Society said in a statement. Twenty dissidents have been freed since President Fidel Castro handed over power to his brother, Raúl, nine months ago, according to the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation.
269 2007-05-10 The campaign’s approach would be a sharp departure from the traditional route to the Republican nomination in the last 20 years, in which Republicans have highlighted their antiabortion views.

Mr. Giuliani hinted at what aides said would be his uncompromising position on abortion rights yesterday in Huntsville, Ala., where he was besieged with questions about abortion and his donations to Planned Parenthood. “Ultimately, there has to be a right to choose,” he said.

Asked if Republicans would accept that, he said, “I guess we are going to find out.”

Mr. Giuliani acknowledged that his stance on abortion alone might disqualify him with some voters, but he said, “I am at peace with that.”

His aides said that in focusing on the Feb. 5 and Florida primaries, they were not writing off Iowa, New Hampshire or South Carolina, acknowledging the historic importance of those states and arguing that Mr. Giuliani could do well in South Carolina and New Hampshire. But they said the events of the past week had reinforced the notion that later states were more promising for a moderate Republican, particularly one who was a political celebrity with a big campaign bank account.

Along those lines, campaign aides said they were still debating whether Mr. Giuliani would participate in a nonbinding straw poll of Iowa Republicans. That huge Republican gathering this summer is a critical early test for anyone taking part in the caucuses next January.

At the same time, Republicans in New Hampshire said yesterday that Mr. Giuliani had been a notably infrequent visitor there, causing annoyance among party activists and speculation that he has given up on the state.

Giuliani advisers, describing their strategy in what has emerged as one of the most challenging weeks of his campaign, said Republican primary voters would forgive their concerns about him on abortion and other social issues if they concluded that his positions on those issues would actually appeal to Democratic voters and thus make him the strongest Republican presidential candidate in 2008.

From that perspective, Mr. Giuliani benefits from the fact that his major opponents, Senator John McCain of Arizona and Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, are also viewed by Republicans as flawed in some respects. It was revealed yesterday, for instance, that Mr. Romney’s wife had also donated to Planned Parenthood.

“We have so many candidates out there — and there is no one emerging candidate — that electability is clearly an issue, and people are judging that,” said Saul Anuzis, the Michigan Republican Party chairman. “There is a pretty big fear with respect to a President Hillary Clinton and even Barack Obama. And people saying we want to make sure we can beat them.”

Mr. Giuliani’s aides argued that Republican voters had been aware of his support for abortion rights before last Thursday’s debate. And they argued that abortion and other social issues were not as decisive for Republican primary voters in this election, providing Mr. Giuliani with an opportunity to break from a 30-year tradition and run as a Republican nominee who supports abortion rights.

His aides said polling had found a relatively small number of voters who would base their vote solely on abortion. They argued that Mr. Giuliani’s appeal was based on what many Americans see as a tough leadership style that helped turn New York City around in the 1990s, and carry it through the attacks of Sept. 11.

“Conventional wisdom says he can’t” win the nomination, said Mike DuHaime, Mr. Giuliani’s campaign manager, who then played down the significance of the discordance between Mr. Giuliani and much of his party on abortion and other social issues. “But we believe that based on his record in New York City, based on his leadership when America was tested on Sept. 11, that he can.”

The risks for Mr. Giuliani are clearly high. Polling continues to show abortion is a major concern of Republican primary voters. In a New York Times/CBS News poll in March, 41 percent of Republicans thought abortions should be prohibited, compared with 23 percent of Americans in general; in addition, 53 percent of Republicans said they wanted a Republican presidential nominee who would make abortions more difficult to get.

The first President Bush supported abortion rights early in his political career. He opposed abortion rights after he ran for vice president, with Ronald Reagan, and when he was elected president in 1988. Mr. Romney also moved from supporting abortion rights to opposing them as he approached the 2008 presidential election.

Some conservative Republicans said abortion alone was a major hurdle for Mr. Giuliani.

“I think it’s a big problem for him,” said Phyllis Schlafly, a longtime opponent of abortion. “The Republican Party has been pro-life in its platform ever since 1976, the first platform after Roe, and I think most of the Republicans understand they can’t afford to lose the pro-life constituency.”

Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, the conservative magazine, said, “You can’t win as a pro-choicer who is going to deliberately set on challenging the party’s orthodoxy on the issue.”

“It doesn’t have to take him down,” Mr. Lowry said of Mr. Giuliani and the abortion issue, “but if he continues to mishandle it, it’s going to be a real problem for him. One of the big ironies for him is he doesn’t care about abortion.”
270 2007-05-10 BERLIN, May 9 — The European Commission is abandoning plans to build a satellite navigation system in partnership with private industry after the consortium chosen for the project became mired in disputes about financing, jobs and management structure, officials said on Wednesday.

The commission, which is expected to announce its decision on Thursday, is most likely to propose instead that the 7 billion euro ($9.5 billion) project, known as Galileo, be wholly financed by the public sector.

Galileo was meant to challenge the global positioning system — the system that provides directions to drivers — and eventually to be a central component of European military and security arrangements. It has already cost the European Union 1.2 billion euros, even though none of the crucial deadlines for managing the project have been met.

Jacques Barrot, the European Union’s transportation commissioner, had given the eight-company private consortium leading the project until Thursday to resolve their differences after warning in March that Galileo was in jeopardy. Michele Cercone, a spokesman for Mr. Barrot, said Wednesday that there was no chance the deadline would be met.

Galileo, envisioned as a system of pinpointing locations with unprecedented accuracy using 30 satellites, was scheduled to be operating by early 2011.
271 2007-05-10 The golfer Joe Ogilvie added, “This is the caddies’ major championship for a day.”

On the eve of the Players Championship, which has a $9 million purse, the caddies played for several thousand dollars and a year of bragging rights. Whichever caddie could hit a tee shot closest to the pin would come away with cash that was stuffed in the jar by the players. (A portion of the money also went to charity.)

Other than caddies like Steve Williams, who carries the bag for Tiger Woods, most of them exist in anonymity. They are lifelines for their players and sometimes play the role of psychologist, but they often remain in the background of the golfers they serve.

On Wednesday at the Stadium Course, the caddies finally stood out. The scoreboards listed their names and how close to the pin their shots ended up. Shots on the green were given the exact distance from the cup, while shots into the lake were shamed with the word “water” next to the caddie’s name.

Several hundred fans made a half circle around the tee box as a steady rain fell. The veteran golfer Jeff Sluman spoke to the crowd as his caddie, Al Mellan, took aim at the green. Twenty-one of the first 32 caddies had already knocked tee shots into the water.

“It hasn’t been an impressive group, but this guy is really good,” Sluman said.

Mellan took an ugly lash at the ball, sending it skipping across the pond like a rock. It bounded along, lost its momentum, and disappeared into the depths.

“You weren’t the only one,” someone in the crowd said to Mellan.

There were caddies who were 15-handicaps and caddies who played to scratch. Some caddies hit the ball squarely, others hit crooked shots that never had a chance.

Fluff Cowan, Jim Furyk’s caddie and Woods’s former caddie, found the water. Williams, Woods’s current caddie, found the green, 38 feet 3 inches from the hole.

Every shot was greeted as if it came from a Tour player — good shots were applauded and poor ones received snickers and moans.

For many in the gallery, the joy came in seeing the players in a different light. When Sluman’s playing partner, the rookie Anthony Kim, had trouble stuffing money into the jar, Sluman began to needle Kim, too.

“You putting $20 in and taking $40 out, or what?” Sluman said loud enough for the crowd to hear.

When it was time for Kim’s caddie, Ron Levin, to hit a tee shot, Kim told the crowd to make some noise. It did, and Levin hit an 8-iron to 17 feet.

Throughout the day, there were strange and funny moments. Since Bubba Watson is a left-handed golfer and his caddie, Ted Scott, is right-handed, Woods offered Scott the use of his 8-iron.

Scott stood on the tee with the 8-iron belonging to the best golfer in the world, gripped it a little too tight, and hit his tee shot to the right and into the water.

When Dudley Hart prepared to watch his caddie, Craig Cimarolli, take aim at the green he slid three pennies into the jar first.

“I have confidence in you,” Hart said before deciding to add several bills to the pot.

Cimarolli responded by snap-hooking a drive into the lake left of the green.

Mark Sherwood, the caddie for Fredrik Jacobson, led for much of the contest after hitting an 8-iron a little low on the clubface. The ball somehow landed on the green, rolled up the swale, and settled 9 feet 3 inches from the cup.

Sherwood, a 3-handicap, said he did not know what he would do if he won the loot, but he was happy to have a chance.

“You know what they say,” he said of his less-than-perfect shot. “Hit it thin to win.”

He did not hit it thin enough, though, as Ray Farnell, Greg Owen’s caddie, left his shot 5 feet 3 inches from the hole and walked away with a watch, a plaque and a decent chunk of spending money.
272 2007-05-10 LOS ANGELES, May 9 (AP) — The DirecTV Group, the nation’s largest satellite TV operator, said Wednesday that its first-quarter profit rose 43 percent from the period a year ago as more subscribers signed on for high-profit offerings and fewer canceled their service.

Still, shares slipped as the earnings missed Wall Street expectations and analysts expressed concerns about increased competition from telecommunications companies like Verizon Communications.

Net income climbed to $336.4 million, or 27 cents a share, in the three months that ended March 31, from $235.2 million, or 17 cents a share, a year ago.

Revenue climbed 15 percent, to $3.91 billion, from $3.39 billion last year.

Analysts were expecting a profit of 30 cents a share on sales of $3.90 billion, according to a Thomson Financial poll.

The company, based in El Segundo, Calif., said its average monthly revenue per subscriber in the United States rose to $73.40, from $69.75 a year ago, and the churn rate, a measure of customer defections, declined to 1.44 percent, from 1.45 percent in the previous period.

Net subscriber additions for the American business totaled 235,000 in the latest quarter, compared with 255,000 a year ago, bringing its total subscriptions to 16.19 million — a 5 percent increase over the period last year.

After-tax returns from customers who add high-definition or digital video recording services are two to three times those from customers with standard service, DirecTV’s chief financial officer, Michael W. Palkovic, told analysts in a conference call.
273 2007-05-10 Between now and the time that Roger Clemens joins their roster, the Yankees will search for a disability policy to insure him against a season-ending injury. It is not certain they will get one, or that it will be affordable.

“It’s up to our risk-management department to consider it,” said Brian Cashman, who has witnessed the sharp rise in disability insurance rates during his 10-year tenure as the team’s general manager.

Randy Hendricks, Clemens’s agent, said in an e-mail message that “not nearly as many players or contracts are insured as they used to be” because of high premiums and exclusions from coverage.

Individual teams pay for insurance; there is no leaguewide policy.

If Clemens sustains an injury that prevents him from pitching at some point after he joins the major league roster at the end of the month, he will collect all of his guaranteed pro-rated salary, about $18 million. That salary will not be in effect when he is pitching in the minors.

Cashman said that he did not anticipate that Clemens’s history of groin and hamstring injuries would be regarded as pre-existing conditions that would be excluded from coverage.
274 2007-05-10 “I was pushed,” he said.

Mr. Graves said he had taken at least three stands on cases that may have alienated officials in Washington, adding, “I guess to them I wasn’t a team player or something.”

Two of those cases involved the civil rights division, which has been a focus of Congressional investigators because of accusations that it has become more partisan in the Bush administration, pushing Republican causes. In one case, Mr. Graves said, the civil rights division had wanted him to sue the State of Missouri for what federal officials thought was its failure to purge voter registration roles of people who had died, changed addresses or left the state.

Mr. Graves said he believed the suit would not succeed because local governments are responsible for registration records. After his refusal to sign off, the lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, then the acting chief in the civil rights division in Washington. The department named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s interim successor.

The administration saw such lawsuits as a way to combat voter fraud. But Democrats have said the lawsuits were politically motivated because poor and elderly voters were more likely to be taken off registration rolls.

The lawsuit was dismissed when a federal judge concluded that the state could not enforce the purging of local voter registration rolls.

Mr. Graves said he might also have alienated officials in Washington by giving Claire McCaskill, a Democrat who has since been elected to the United States Senate from Missouri, a letter in 2004 saying there had been insufficient evidence to file charges in a case from the 1990s that involved her office manager. Last year, Ms. McCaskill unseated Jim Talent, a Republican.

Mr. Graves said that in retrospect, he might have been seen as too independent and unwilling to push causes important to the Republican Party unless he felt action was merited by his reading of the law.

“As a prosecutor, I was always fiercely independent,” he said. “I just called balls and strikes.”

The contact from Mr. Bond’s office concerned an accusation that Mr. Graves had a conflict of interest because his wife and his brother-in-law had been awarded a no-bid contract by the administration of Gov. Matt Blunt, a Republican. Shana Marchio, a spokesman for Mr. Bond, said the senator had not been aware that the former staff member had contacted a Bush administration official “to determine whether they would be replacing U.S. attorneys” and to say “there might be an interest in doing something different in this position for the second term.”

Ms. Marchio said the call was motivated by the contract accusation, and was not based on Mr. Bond’s interest in moving against voter fraud.

The Senate Judiciary Committee, which is investigating whether politics motivated the eight dismissals, has invited Mr. Schlozman to testify at a hearing next week.
275 2007-05-10 WASHINGTON, May 9 (AP) — Amaranth Advisors, a hedge fund that collapsed last fall and lost some $6 billion, has agreed to pay more than $716,000 to settle charges of violating securities rules, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Wednesday.

The S.E.C. said that Amaranth violated the rules by improperly covering its short positions, or bets that prices will fall, in stocks of several companies involved in offerings. Amaranth, which was based in Greenwich, Conn., also was censured under the agreement; the firm neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.

Amaranth is paying a $150,000 civil fine and $566,819 in restitution and interest.

The stocks involved, according to the S.E.C., were the Coeur D’Alene Mines Corporation, the Catapult Communications Corporation, the Cleco Corporation, MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. and the American Superconductor Corporation.

The hedge fund’s chief executive, Nicholas M. Maounis, noted in a letter to investors Wednesday that the settlement was unrelated to Amaranth’s failed natural gas investment that precipitated its collapse in September. Fund investors will not bear any of the cost of Amaranth’s payments under the accord, Mr. Maounis said.

Amaranth bet wrongly on natural gas prices and lost billions in September as it sold assets at a loss.
276 2007-05-10 As the United States attorney scandal grows, so does the number of prosecutors who seem to have been pushed out for partisan political reasons. Another highly suspicious case has emerged in the appointment of Bradley Schlozman, a controversial elections lawyer, to replace a respected United States attorney in Missouri. From the facts available, it looks like a main reason for installing Mr. Schlozman was to help Republicans win a pivotal Missouri Senate race.

Jim Talent, the Republican incumbent, was facing a strong challenge from Claire McCaskill last year when the United States attorney, Todd Graves, resigned suddenly. Mr. Graves suspects that he may have been pushed out in part because he refused to support a baseless lawsuit against the state of Missouri that could have led to voters’ being wrongly removed from the rolls.

Mr. Graves was replaced by Mr. Schlozman, a high-level Justice Department lawyer who had made his name in the Bush administration by helping to turn the department away from its historic commitment to protecting the voting rights of minorities. Mr. Schlozman was one of the political appointees who approved Tom DeLay’s Texas redistricting plan and Georgia’s voter ID law, over the objection of career lawyers on the staff, who insisted that both violated the Voting Rights Act. McClatchy Newspapers reported that Mr. Schlozman also has been accused of hiring Justice Department lawyers based on their political party.

Mr. Schlozman injected the United States attorney’s office directly into the Talent-McCaskill race. Days before the election, he announced indictments of four people who were registering voters for the liberal group Acorn on charges of submitting false registration forms. The Republicans turned the indictments into an issue in the campaign, although Ms. McCaskill won the election anyway. Congress should investigate whether the indictments violated Justice Department guidelines, which say that election crime investigations should not be conducted right before an election, because they can themselves become a campaign issue.

Mr. Schlozman’s short stint in Missouri — he left after about a year — appears to be another case of the Bush administration’s politicizing federal prosecutors’ offices. Mr. Graves was reportedly on a list to be fired, and clues are emerging about why. He said this week that when he interviewed for the job, he was asked to name one attribute that describes him. “I said independent,” he said. “Apparently, that was the wrong attribute.”

The Senate Judiciary Committee has asked to question Mr. Schlozman, and it should also question Mr. Graves. But Karl Rove and the former White House counsel Harriet Miers, who appear to have been deeply involved in the United States attorney firings, are likely to know the most about what happened, and should be made to testify as well.
277 2007-05-10 State officials said at least 20 levees had been topped or breached since the drenching weekend thunderstorms across the Plains States that also devastated Greensburg, Kan., and contributed to 13 deaths.

No injuries or deaths had been reported from the Missouri floods, officials said.

“It’s a major flood,” Suzanne Fortin, a meteorologist with the Weather Service in Pleasant Hill, said Wednesday. “It won’t be a record breaker, but it will be in the top three.”

Lt. John Hotz of the Missouri State Highway Patrol said troopers were working 24-hour shifts near the village of Big Lake, a hamlet in northwest Missouri, after nine levee breaks inundated the community. The broken levees — none operated by the United States Army Corps of Engineers — included five on the Missouri River and four smaller ones along the Tarkio River and Tarkio Creek.

The water from those breaks reached Big Lake on Monday night and Tuesday.

“The town is a loss,” said Mark Sitherwood, presiding commissioner of Holt County. “At this time, we don’t know, but it looks like that’s what’s going to happen.”

No injuries were reported. Big Lake, which is two miles from the Missouri River, is about 35 miles northwest of St. Joseph.

Matt Anderson, a volunteer firefighter at Big Lake, said he was standing near the lake when a dam burst early Tuesday. Mr. Anderson said he saw floodwaters carry off large trees and even boat docks with the boats still attached.

“It just all of the sudden starting rolling in,” he said. “I don’t know how fast it was coming, but it was coming too fast to stay around.”

The Missouri Water Patrol rescued about 20 people from their flooded homes over the last three days in Big Lake. Among them was Glenn Burger, who had the patrol return him to his home Wednesday to rescue his two pet cockatiels.

“I’ve had them about five years, and I hated to lose them,” said Mr. Burger, 78, who lived through floods in 1984 and 1993. “This is the last one. I’m through. I’m going to move to town.”

About 40 Missouri National Guard members worked overnight to protect a water plant in Craig, north of Big Lake.

In Levasy in northeast Jackson County, authorities evacuated 300 to 400 residents Wednesday after water from the Missouri River started to encroach on the unincorporated town.

East of St. Joseph, many residents evacuated the center of Agency, a town of about 600 that is bordered on three sides by the Platte River.
278 2007-05-10 Mr. Berkowitz said Microsoft’s equity investment in CareerBuilder was intended to ensure that Microsoft would share in any future value created by the partnership.

“It says we’re in this for the long haul,” he said. The new alliance will help CareerBuilder with a planned international expansion, he said.

CareerBuilder competes directly with other employment sites like Monster.com and HotJobs on Yahoo, which itself has a partnership with a consortium representing more than 260 newspaper Web sites.

The deal potentially heightens the rivalry between MSN and Yahoo, two of the leading Internet portals, which compete to attract users with news and entertainment content, as well as e-mail, instant messaging and other offerings. Yahoo recently announced a deal with publishers representing 264 newspapers, including McClatchy, to sell national advertising across their Web sites.

Despite the rivalry, Yahoo and Microsoft executives came together here on Wednesday amid high expectations that the companies might announce some kind of partnership.

But as Terry S. Semel, chief executive of Yahoo, addressed representatives of hundreds of marketers and advertising agencies at a conference convened by Microsoft, and later sat down for an onstage conversation with Joanne K. Bradford, chief media officer for MSN, there was not a single reference to a possible deal.

Instead, the talk was all about the forces that are shaping the online advertising industry: international expansion, mobile devices and interactive video.

Mr. Semel did make the obligatory dig at Google, which is outflanking both Microsoft and Yahoo in online advertising.

Referring to the video-sharing site acquired last year by Google, Mr. Semel said that either Microsoft or Yahoo could have chosen to build “YouTube look-alike” sites that disregarded copyrights. Instead, he said, both companies chose to be partners with Hollywood studios and television networks.

Unlike many of the other speakers at the two-day event, Mr. Semel took no questions from the audience.

SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 (AP) — Yahoo will close its online auction service for North America next month, signaling its intention to focus on more profitable endeavors.

The company’s auctions in the United States and Canada, begun nine years ago, will end June 16, although some tools will remain accessible until Oct. 29. The move will not affect its auction services in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan.
279 2007-05-10 But the authorities in Beijing are facing difficult choices: does it make sense to puncture a frenzied market at a time when investors are more eager than ever to invest in equities, or do nothing and allow the index to race up 1,000 points further?

Just two years ago, this market was nearly asleep, with the Shanghai composite index hovering around 1,200. The country’s other major stock barometer, in Shenzhen, was even more depressed.

But for the last 18 months or so, Chinese stock prices have soared , luring a nation of savers who are now finding few better places to put their money to work than in stocks.

Analysts say the market has also been buoyed by new regulations, rising corporate profits and a softening real estate market in 2006, which made stocks an attractive alternative.

These days, people wait in long lines outside banks and brokerage houses to open accounts, and they crowd into small rooms to spend the day watching stock monitors. They are retirees, college students taking out loans to invest in hot stocks, and homeowners who say they have sold apartments to buy shares of China Mobile or Sinopec.

On the most fevered days, Chinese investors are opening hundreds of thousands of accounts, according to the state-run news media. Some publicly listed companies are said to be raising money from the market, only to plow it back into stocks in the hope of earning even better returns.

Mr. Green at Standard Chartered says price-to-earnings ratios, perhaps the best-known measure of the value of a stock, are extremely high in Shanghai.

The government could take moderate steps to slow this growth. But officials worry about bursting a bubble and setting off waves of selling.

“The risk of Beijing intervening between now and 5,000 is high,” Mr. Green said. “The question is when.”

Government officials have also sounded warnings about “blind optimism” in the market, overzealous buying and a resulting stock market bubble. They are also concerned about stock scams, deceptive mutual fund practices and insider trading.

Perhaps the biggest test came on Feb. 27, when share prices plummeted nearly 9 percent in Shanghai, the biggest one-day drop in a decade, helping to spread a global stock sell-off.

But investors rushed back into the market, pushing the Shanghai composite index past 3,000 again in March, and now, slightly more than two months later, all the way up to 4,000.

Share prices in Hong Kong have also been buoyed by huge initial public offerings of Chinese companies. The benchmark Hang Seng index there closed at 20,844.78 on Wednesday, just below its record high.

Chang Chun, professor of finance at the China Europe International Business School, questions whether corporate profits, which may be high, are high enough to justify the current levels of stock prices.

“Earnings have gone up a lot in the last year,” he says. “But this market is up a bit too high.”
280 2007-05-10 The bill would also face a vote by the full House. Similar discussions are under way in the Senate, where the new Democratic majority is also skeptical of missile defense.

Administration officials say the proposals for two antimissile bases in former Soviet satellites in Central Europe are a modest but important step toward establishing a system of high-technology global sentries capable of shooting down warheads fired off by an adversary with a limited arsenal of ballistic missiles.

But in a critical assessment of the missile defense program issued in March, the Government Accountability Office noted that the antimissile program “cannot yet be fully assessed because there have been too few flight tests conducted to anchor the models and simulations that predict overall system performance.”

In an interview, Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering III, director of the Missile Defense Agency, took issue with the report, saying, “I do believe we are on the right path.” The American military is moving at full speed to prove that the system is capable of destroying a long-range enemy warhead in an environment that he says mirrors a real-world threat, and has its next test scheduled along the West Coast for the end of this month.

Even so, the administration says the United States must begin pouring concrete soon to have the European system operating by 2012 — to counter an Iranian long-range missile ability that American intelligence warns will be reached between 2010 and 2015. Pentagon officials have said that the emerging European system can also incorporate improvements in technology.

Last month, the administration opened a campaign in which the secretaries of state and defense, along with a team of other senior officials and generals, canvassed European capitals, including Moscow, to explain the limited nature of the system under consideration.

Daniel Fried, the assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, said recently that the missile defense system in Europe was intended to help protect American forces serving in NATO nations, and to help guarantee the security of those allies, at a time when the United States was moving ahead with its own system of missiles and radars to guard American territory.

“The fact is alliance security should be indivisible,” Mr. Fried added. “And if Europe is vulnerable to Iranian missiles, that means we’re insecure as well.”

Russia has little to fear from the bases proposed for the former Soviet satellites, American officials say, because the limited missile defense architecture under consideration — the 10 interceptors — is not even a tiny shadow of the Reagan-era “Star Wars” program that dreamt of an impenetrable missile shield. The price tag of the European system is small by comparison, at $3.5 billion.

Kremlin leaders rejected a peace offering of American-Russian cooperation on missile defense that was carried to Moscow by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, but Russian leaders agreed to set up a joint commission to examine the fine print of the plan. The Russians also demanded a high-level session to debate details of proposed missile defenses in Europe, which is likely to lead to a meeting in September between Mr. Gates, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and their Russian counterparts, Mr. Fried said.

As discussions with the Russians accelerate, administration and military officials are expected to emphasize their position that the location, size and design of the missile defense sites in Central Europe clearly illustrate that the system poses no threat to Moscow’s hundreds of missiles and thousands of warheads.

General Obering said the sites in Central Europe were not positioned to intercept Russia’s strategic nuclear missiles, as they would fly over the North Pole, and not over Europe, if fired at the United States.

“It doesn’t matter that the deployment poses no plausible physical threat to Russia’s deterrent, because Moscow fears it might serve as a toehold that could be expanded and upgraded in the future,” said Wade Boese, research director for the Arms Control Association, a research and advocacy group here. “The administration should be careful that its response to a projected or hypothetical threat does not create a much bigger problem with Russia.”
281 2007-05-10 To win the Cézannes, Sotheby’s had given Mr. Eskenazi a guarantee — an undisclosed minimum sum promised to a seller regardless of a sale’s outcome — that experts in the field estimated at $18.4 million. And while the other three sold, one went just at its low estimate and the others for less.

Mr. Eskenazi’s Cézannes weren’t the only watercolors by that artist for sale. “Group of Bathers,” a watercolor from about 1900 from the Cézanne series, was estimated at $900,000 to $1.2 million. A telephone bidder bought it for $1.6 million.

One of the biggest surprises of the evening was “Jesuits III” (1915). That richly colored canvas by Feininger, in which clerics crowd around a prostitute, brought $23.2 million, after an estimate of $7 million to $9 million. The seller was George Lindeman, a Florida collector, who also consigned “White Sound,” a brightly colored 1908 Kandinsky painting in which several faceless figures are posed in front of what appears to be a white cloud. Estimated at $6 million to $8 million, “White Sound” brought only $5.4 million from a telephone bidder.

Sculpture has been all the rage recently, and the auction had a particularly important Giacometti: “Man Walking in the Morning Sun,” conceived in 1948-49 and cast in an edition of six in 1950. Estimated at $4 million to $6 million, it sold to William Acquavella, the Manhattan dealer, for $7.4 million. The seller was David Geffen, the entertainment mogul.

The sale also included 15 Picassos from various periods and various media. One of the earliest was “Head of a Harlequin,” a 1905 painting from Picasso’s rose-period series of eight portraits of adolescent boys. Estimated at $14 million to $18 million, it sold to an anonymous telephone bidder for $15.1 million.

“Harlequin Family,” a gouache-and-ink work executed five years later, was being sold by heirs of Joan Whitney Payson, the art collector, philanthropist and former owner of the New York Mets, who died in 1975. Estimated at $6 million to $8 million, it brought $9.8 million from an active unidentified telephone bidder.

“The Lovers,” a 1932 painting, shows Picasso kneeling beside a naked, sleeping Marie-Thérèse Walter, his mistress at the time. Estimated at $10 million to $15 million, it was sold to a telephone bidder for $14.6 million. It had last been for sale at Christie’s in New York seven years ago, when it fetched $6.3 million.

Léger’s “Factories,” from 1918, shortly after the end of World War I, was expected to sell for $5 million to $7 million. Six bidders wanted the painting, which went to the same telephone bidder who bought “Harlequin Family.” This time the price was $14.3 million.

With Russian buyers making a splash in the art market during the last few years, it was no surprise to find artists like the Russian-born Chagall being heavily promoted. On Tuesday his “Grand Circus,” an oil-and-gouache on canvas from 1956, went to the same telephone buyer who bought the Léger and the Picassos. This time the buyer paid $13.7 million, above its high estimate of $12 million.

Works that failed to sell — including two paintings by Modigliani and a sculpture by Henry Moore — had been on the market too recently or were overpriced or simply of lesser quality.

Dealers leaving the sale seemed to have expected the strong results. “Judging from what we’ve seen in private sales, we all expected it would go well,” said James Roundell, a London dealer. “It didn’t disappoint. There sure were some fabulous prices.”
282 2007-05-10 “Artists that are sponsored by companies are probably getting some feedback to watch their behavior,” said William Chipps, a senior editor of the IEG Sponsorship Report. “I think, nowadays, most artists are savvy enough to realize that their actions have consequences. If you’re working with a sponsor, bad behavior could jeopardize that relationship.”

But others said Verizon should have more fully understood Akon before choosing to promote him. The first two singles from his recent album, “Konvicted,” include sexual references and became hits. Yet others say Akon’s stage show on Ms. Stefani’s tour has been relatively tame, and that Verizon acted unfairly, and perhaps without considering whether Akon could have known his onstage dance partner was under age.

“I want to sincerely apologize for the embarrassment and any pain I’ve caused to the young woman who joined me onstage, her family and the Trinidad community for the events at my concert,” Akon said in a statement.

Jim Guerinot, Ms. Stefani’s manager, said yesterday that although Verizon has the right to sever ties with Akon, “this kid is not getting a fair shake,” he said, referring to Akon. He added, “I strongly disagree with their take on it.”

Mr. Guerinot added that it was also unfair to pull the sponsorship from Ms. Stefani’s tour: “How this has anything to do with Gwen Stefani I have no idea.”

Verizon was expected to pay Ms. Stefani the cash portion of its sponsorship agreement, said to be around $2 million, but will not continue its advertising and other promotions related to the tour, which may have carried an even higher value.

“We made a decision, based on what we saw, and in this case, our own customers, who we listen to, were reacting,” James Gerace, a Verizon spokesman, said. He said Verizon would remove Akon from an array of Internet and store promotions, though it had not removed his music from its ring-tone service.

While the company may have appeased some critics, it may also have upset many fans. Akon’s album, “Konvicted,” has sold more than 2.2 million copies and is No. 11 on the Billboard chart. Ms. Stefani’s album has sold more than 1.2 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan.

One effect of the move was the cancellation of a contest.

One fan of Ms. Stefani, April Van Zandt, of Landers, Calif., said she and several friends she had met online had labored on a home-made Gwen Stefani music video for a Verizon-backed contest that was withdrawn because of the company’s move. Ms. Van Zandt, 27, said she and her friends — fans whom she has become close to but never met — were hoping to win the contest, in which the prize was a trip to California, so they could meet for the first time. “I would think they would lose some business over this, not just me,” said Ms. Van Zandt, who added that she has a Verizon phone. “People are very upset.”

And while Verizon may have distanced itself from Akon, it has not severed the connection completely: Ms. Stefani’s tour, with Akon, is set to hit four Verizon Wireless-branded theaters during the rest of the American segment of her tour, which runs through June. The show is scheduled for the Verizon Wireless amphitheater in Charlotte, N.C., on Saturday.
283 2007-05-10 The United States government has not considered special visa requirements for British or other European citizens based on particular ancestry. As we have often publicly stated, and as legislation currently before Congress contemplates, the United States government is considering obtaining more information from Visa Waiver Program countries regarding travelers to elevate security in light of recent threats.

But any new information requirement will be applied across the board to all Visa Waiver Program countries and will certainly not single out individuals by race or religion.

We share the concern of our British colleagues about terrorists in other parts of the world seeking to exploit travel into or through Europe for nefarious purposes. And we remain committed to working closely with our British counterparts to secure our travel systems and do everything within our authority — consistent with fairness — to detect security risks.
284 2007-05-10 With his official interlocking “NY” cap, shiny team jacket and seats near home plate, Rudolph W. Giuliani has often looked as if he might just bleed pinstripes if his beloved Yankees lost a game.

Now, as he runs for president, Mr. Giuliani found himself yesterday denying that his affection for the Yankees had been returned by the team in the form of discount diamond World Series rings and free tickets.

“I paid precisely what anyone else would pay,” Mr. Giuliani said in response to a report in The Village Voice that explored how he came to possess four commemorative rings identical to those given to players and coaches on its most recent championship teams.

The article focused on whether the $16,000 that Mr. Giuliani paid for the diamond-encrusted rings from championship years 1996 through 2000 represented their real value as jewelry or as sports memorabilia.

The article quoted several people who raised the possibility that Mr. Giuliani may have gotten one of the rings as early as 1997, when he was still mayor, but had not paid for it until years later. In such an instance, under city rules, an official would be required to report the ring as a gift, something Mr. Giuliani did not do.
285 2007-05-10 FED SEES A SLOWING ECONOMY The Federal Reserve acknowledged that the economy was slowing, but offered little hint that it was ready to lower interest rates anytime soon. The central bank kept the benchmark interest rate on overnight loans at 5.25 ...
286 2007-05-10 To the Editor:     Re ''U.S. Seeks Closing of Visa Loophole'' (front page, May 2):...
287 2007-05-10 Between now and the time that Roger Clemens joins their roster, the Yankees will search for a disability policy to insure him against a season-ending injury. It is not certain they will get one, or that it will be affordable.     ''It's up to our ...
288 2007-05-10 South Korea plans to break ground for the world's biggest solar power plant as it tries to diversify its power sources and use cleaner energy, the government and developers said. The $170 million plant, being built in Shinan, near the southwestern...
289 2007-05-11 I recently called up Lufthansa Miles & More to reserve a flight using my miles from the program. Lufthansa said that I had enough miles for the flight, but that there were no seats available. I was able to make online bookings for the seats I want...
290 2007-05-11 The largest institutional shareholder of Wendy's International is urging the hamburger chain to sell itself to the highest bidder, The Wall Street Journal reported. Hedge fund Highfields Capital Management, which owns 8.5 percent of the company, s...
291 2007-05-11 A federal jury in Brooklyn on Thursday acquitted two former stockbrokers and four former employees of the A. B. Watley Group, a day trading firm, of securities fraud in what became known as the "squawk box" case. The brokers, who hailed from Lehma...
292 2007-05-11 China will allow the country's commercial banks to buy stocks abroad, in a move that may release some of the nation's 35 trillion yuan ($4.6 trillion) of savings on overseas equity markets for the first time. Chinese commercial banks can invest up...
293 2007-05-11 Apple chief Steven P. Jobs faced a barrage of questions from shareholders about the company's handling of stock option grants and its policy of executive compensation, during a an annual meeting Thursday. But Mr. Jobs, with his typical flair for s...
294 2007-05-11 This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee....
295 2007-05-11 Q I live in a two-family house in which both apartments are rented. One family is Catholic, and the other is Jewish. Is it permissible for a tenant to display a religious symbol in the window — a cross or a menorah — that is visible from the outside?

A "I don't see any reason why not," said William J. Gribben, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants. Mr. Gribben said that as long as the symbol was inside the tenant's window and not affixed to or draping over the outside of the building, it was highly unlikely that the landlord (or the other tenant, for that matter) could require it to be removed.

Mr. Gribben noted at least one court case that upheld a tenant's right to place signs in a window calling for a rent strike. "And if a rent strike sign is protected," he said, "how could a religious symbol not be protected?"
296 2007-05-11 Aside from the presence of a few cars and a biplane, the setting of “Disappearances” — Kingdom County in Vermont during the closing days of Prohibition in 1932 — might as well be 1870s Deadwood in the Black Hills of the Dakota Territory. In some ways life in rural New England was even more hardscrabble.

The characters in this picaresque western, adapted by Jay Craven from Howard Frank Mosher’s 1977 novel, speak in biblical cadences. Compared to the conversation in the frontier town of HBO’s “Deadwood,” their dialogue is leaner, leached of profanity and, save for one character’s pronouncements, not overtly poetic. That exception is a wizened female oracle with magic powers given to spouting Shakespeare and Milton.

The movie’s code, however, is the same kill-or-be-killed law of the jungle. This is a world so primitive that supernatural forces rule. Ghosts materialize and vanish, and the mythic past lives in the present. The land is beautiful and raw. Visually “Disappearances” is an ode to virgin forests, clean lakes, and rivers and icy brooks teeming with trout.

The movie’s prophetic voice belongs to Cordelia (Genevieve Bujold), the sister of Quebec Bill Bonhomme (Kris Kristofferson), a farmer and woodsman with a shady past as a whiskey runner. When a freak fire destroys his hay, Quebec Bill returns in desperation to his old occupation and organizes a risky expedition into Canada with his brother-in-law Henry (Gary Farmer), his hired hand Rat (William Sanderson) and his 15-year-old son Wild Bill (Charlie McDermott). The goal is to transport some pirate hooch back across the border for $1,000.

Wild Bill’s name is a comic misnomer: cautious and practical, he is the temperamental opposite of his canny daredevil father, who is imbued with robust charm by Mr. Kristofferson. Cordelia, who warns against the journey, acts as a protective spiritual guide to Wild Bill on this grueling but enlightening rite of passage, appearing to him at stressful moments.
297 2007-05-11 A Mexican immigrant jailed on a drug trafficking charge was freed in a plea deal after the authorities learned that a federal agent had him pose for a demeaning photograph wearing a sombrero and holding a Mexican flag. The immigrant, Jorge Hernandez-Villalvazo, a native of Mexico with permanent United States residency, was arrested in April 2005 on a charge of conspiring to traffic in cocaine. District Attorney C. Colon Willoughby Jr. of Wake County said the photo had been taken by a Drug Enforcement Administration agent assisting in Mr. Hernandez-Villalvazo’s arrest.
298 2007-05-11 Two Republicans joined in that effort, which failed by a 255-to-171 vote. Still, the plan attracted more support than anticipated. Speaker Nancy Pelosi was among those voting in favor of it. Fifty-nine Democrats, including Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, opposed the proposal along with 196 Republicans.

“We finally got to vote for what we believed in,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the withdrawal plan.

The bill approved by the House would provide $42.8 billion total, with about $30 billion directed to the war effort for the next two months. It requires the president to report by July 13 on how the Iraqi government is performing in building its military and moving toward achieving political unity. Congress would then vote a second time on whether to give the administration the remainder of the money — about $50 billion — to maintain operations in Iraq through Sept. 30 or to restrict that money to deployment.

“No more,” said Mr. Hoyer, who backed the plan. “No more blank checks.”

Republicans derided the Democratic approach as war on the installment plan, and they and Mr. Bush said the two-stage financing was unworkable. Once the Senate is through with its negotiations, lawmakers say, a final measure may be ready for the White House by the end of the month.

Mr. Bush, who on Tuesday received a blunt assessment from Republican moderates about rising voter unrest over Iraq, acknowledged the public’s impatience with the war. But he said he could not allow political considerations like “the latest opinion poll, or how we can get our members elected” to drive his thinking.

“My message to the members of Congress is, whatever your beliefs may be, let’s make sure our troops get funded, and let’s make sure politicians don’t tell our commanders how to conduct operations,” Mr. Bush said.

Though Republicans voted solidly with the president, many made it clear that the administration had until September — the deadline for a progress report from Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander in Iraq — to prove its war strategy was working. While it was Republican moderates who took their complaints directly to the president this week, others in the party expressed similar misgivings on Thursday.

“There is a significant undercurrent that is looking for a reasonable way forward in Iraq,” said Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a conservative Republican of Nebraska, adding that the war is a leading concern for his constituents. “People are very conflicted in their hearts.”

Several Republicans are considering bipartisan legislation aimed at changing the war’s course. Senators Olympia Snowe of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee have introduced separate proposals aimed at bringing a gradual end to the war.

“We are troubled by the current policy,” Ms. Snowe said Thursday. “The White House needs to hear it.”

While the White House has not opposed setting general goals for progress in Iraq, they have resisted any effort to tie financing or troop withdrawal plans to the benchmarks.

On Thursday, Democrats welcomed the president’s new willingness to authorize negotiations on benchmarks but said any failure by Iraq to meet specified goals must result in penalties or they would be meaningless.

“There is a recognition that things are not going well,” said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader. “The only person who doesn’t believe there needs to be a change is the president.”

The Senate hopes to consider its version of the war spending measure sometime next week, and Democrats have not made public many of their ideas. Lawmakers and senior administration officials say the most likely course is that the Senate would approve a new measure dropping the withdrawal date Mr. Bush objected to in vetoing the initial legislation but retaining other restrictions, while providing the president the ability to waive them. The White House has not been receptive in the past to proposals for such waivers.

Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior White House official disputed the notion that Mr. Bush’s agreement to consider signing a bill with specific benchmarks for the Iraqis to meet was tied to Republican complaints that more pressure be brought to bear on the Iraqi government to make faster progress toward political reconciliation.

“We’ve said all along there’s going to be a compromise,” he said.

The official said the president understood that if General Petraeus delivered a bad assessment of conditions in Iraq in September, it would make it hard for some Republicans to continue supporting the war. For all of the administration’s complaints about the Democratic approach, officials concede that the lawmakers’ efforts to impose a timetable for American withdrawal may at least have helped emphasize the president’s point to the Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki that American patience is wearing thin and Iraq needs to act more urgently toward political reconciliation.

Some White House officials privately expressed displeasure Thursday that the concerns the Republican moderates raised with the president became public. Vice President Dick Cheney did not mince words in an interview with the Fox News Channel. “We didn’t get elected to be popular,” Mr. Cheney said. “We didn’t get elected to worry just about the fate of the Republican Party.”

Some lawmakers said they had lost patience not only with the war in Iraq, but also with the continuing legislative and political conflict in Congress as the two parties maneuver over the war.

“The Republicans should not be saying the Democrats don’t support the troops, nor should the Democrats be calling Republicans warmongers,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri and one of the 11 moderates who met with Mr. Bush on Tuesday. “Politics have taken over, and our soldiers deserve better.”
299 2007-05-11 “He needs to start winning again,” Humpy Wheeler, president of Lowe’s Motor Speedway and a longtime race promoter, said in a telephone interview. “He’s got to put himself in a position where he can win two or three races a year to keep that popularity, and he knows that.

“Personalities drive all sports, and he is the most popular personality that we have. He accounts for a significant part of souvenir sales.”

Maintaining that popularity will have an effect on everyone in the sport.

“If Dale Jr. will wind up with a team that’s in contention to win races every week and contend for a championship, that’s got to help ticket sales at the gate, TV ratings, all those kinds of things,” Eddie Gossage, president of Texas Motor Speedway, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of those things, a rising tide floats all boats.”

Earnhardt is not the first Nascar driver to become a free agent. There are no rules limiting movement; it is relatively common for drivers to switch teams as contracts expire. But it is rare for a driver of Earnhardt’s stature, at the height of his career and popularity, to make himself available to other teams.

Imagine if the Indianapolis Colts allowed quarterback Peyton Manning to become a free agent.

“A new paradigm has just been established in American motor sports,” Gossage wrote in an e-mail message. “Just as Andy Messersmith ushered in the era of modern-day free agency in major league baseball, Dale Jr. is establishing modern-day free agency in Nascar. Dale Jr. will now determine his full value on the open market and have the opportunity to make his own choices to put himself in a position to win races and championships.

“Dale Jr.’s announcement is every bit as significant as A-Rod’s huge contract a few years back or Roger Clemens’s extraordinary contract signing last week with the New York Yankees.”

Earnhardt said Thursday that this decision was not about money. He is looking to join a team that will help him win consistently.

Kelley Earnhardt Elledge, Earnhardt’s sister and chief negotiator, said a number of teams had contacted them in recent months to express interest. They hope to have a deal done in 60 days, she said later.

Earnhardt said he would listen to all offers but would work to remain with a Chevrolet team. Three Chevrolet teams are at the top of the sport: Hendrick Motorsports, Joe Gibbs Racing and Richard Childress Racing. Hendrick, though, has contracts with Jeff Gordon, Jimmie Johnson, Kyle Busch and Casey Mears and has sponsors through at least 2008. Nascar rules limit each owner to four drivers.

Gibbs and Childress have three drivers apiece, but if Budweiser remains an Earnhardt sponsor that could be a problem. Gibbs does not want to be involved with an alcohol sponsorship and Childress has one with Jack Daniels, creating a conflict.

“I think most everyone out there would say, ‘Yeah, he’d be a great fit here,’ ” J. D. Gibbs, president of Joe Gibbs Racing, said in a telephone interview. “I think for us, we’re just focusing kind of on what we’re doing now. Obviously he’s a big part of our sport, I think he could do about whatever he wants to do.”

Earnhardt’s father won six of his seven championships for Childress. But Earnhardt would hesitate to drive the racecar that his father made famous.

“I’ve got to do a little soul searching about how I feel about driving the No. 3 car,” he said.

Earnhardt did not rule out driving a different racecar for Childress, though. He also could create a Cup team for JR Motorsports, although that is not the No. 1 option.

Wherever he goes, the greatest impact could ultimately be felt at Dale Earnhardt Inc., which is losing the sport’s most marketable driver.

“Well, the most classic statement that I’ve heard, and it came from Tony Stewart: ‘What’s D.E.I. without Dale Jr.? A museum,’ ” said the three-time Cup champion Darrell Waltrip, who attended the news conference. “And that’s a pretty good analogy, I would say.”
300 2007-05-11 CHICAGO, May 10 — A powerful former alderman who in the 1980s led a bitter rebellion of white politicians against the city’s first black mayor was indicted Thursday on federal charges of fraud and bribery.

The defendant, Edward R. Vrdolyak, 69, has been out of office for 20 years but continues to be a prominent figure here. The indictment accuses him of conspiring with a businessman, Stuart Levine, to obtain a $1.5 million kickback in a real estate deal in the city’s affluent Gold Coast neighborhood. He is charged with one count of mail fraud, two counts of wire fraud and one count of bribery.

His lawyer, Michael D. Monico, said Mr. Vrdolyak planned to plead not guilty.

“The allegations in the indictment are simply not true,” Mr. Monico said, adding that Mr. Vrdolyak would “contest the charges with every fiber in his body.”

Prosecutors maintain that from 2002 to 2006, Mr. Vrdolyak plotted with Mr. Levine, who was then a trustee of a suburban medical school, to arrange for the school’s sale of a building to a developer. In exchange, the two men planned to receive from the developer $1.5 million, which they intended to split.

The indictment says that Mr. Vrdolyak solicited the buyer for the building and that Mr. Levine used his influence on the medical school’s board to exclude negotiations with other prospective buyers. A deal at a price of $15 million was reached in 2004, and under an agreement between Mr. Vrdolyak and the developer, the 10 percent fee was to be paid at a future date, the government says.
301 2007-05-11 Representative Linda T. Sanchez, the California Democrat who has led the House inquiry, expressed frustration over the inability of the Justice Department to fully explain the dismissals. Ms. Sanchez said Congressional investigators had interviewed most of the Justice Department officials involved, but, she said, “not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. attorneys were added to the firing list.”

Republicans on the House committee were more supportive of Mr. Gonzales than their counterparts in the Senate, where some Republicans were scathingly critical after his testimony there.

Several House Republicans asked no questions about the dismissals, instead praising Mr. Gonzales’s performance or quizzing him on issues like illegal immigration, copyright policy, computer crime and terrorism.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the ranking Republican on the panel, said, “As we have gone forward, the list of accusations has grown, but the evidence of genuine wrongdoing has not.” Mr. Smith added, “If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues.”

Mr. Gonzales at times expressed contrition for his mishandling of the dismissals, including his earlier misstatements about the process, but insisted that the action was appropriate. “What I have concluded is that although the process was not as rigorous or as structured as it should have been, and while reasonable people might decide things differently, my decision to ask for the resignations of these U.S. attorneys was not based on improper reasons and therefore the decision should stand.”

Several Democrats questioned Mr. Gonzales’s credibility. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, asked how people could have confidence in his management when he was unable to answer questions about the specific United States attorneys and why they were dismissed.

“Look at the record of the department,” Mr. Gonzales said, expressing a flash of annoyance that broke with his otherwise resolute demeanor. “Look at the record of the department.”

Several Democrats asked Mr. Gonzales about news reports that a ninth United States attorney, Todd P. Graves, had been pushed to resign his post in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Graves said in interviews that he had been forced out by Justice Department officials in March 2006.

Mr. Gonzales denied that Mr. Graves had been removed as part of the process supervised by his former chief of staff, D. Kyle Sampson, which resulted in the removal of eight other prosecutors. But Mr. Graves was asked to resign after his name was placed on a Justice Department list in January 2006.

It is not publicly known why Mr. Graves was asked to resign, but he had disagreed with a voting rights lawsuit that Justice Department officials wanted to bring in his district against the State of Missouri. Democrats viewed the lawsuit as a Republican effort to remove the poor and elderly from the voting rolls.

Mr. Gonzales said he had consulted Thursday with officials at the department’s civil rights division and had been told that the case had nothing to do with the decision to seek Mr. Graves’s resignation. “We aren’t aware of any concerns that existed in that office with respect to this particular case” he said.

After Mr. Graves refused to agree to the litigation, a lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, the acting chief of the civil rights unit in Washington, a division of the department that Democrats have accused of advocating Republican causes. Later, Mr. Gonzales named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s temporary successor. Mr. Schlozman has since returned to Justice Department headquarters.
302 2007-05-11 STONY POINT, N.Y., May 10 — Four years ago, a company that owns two local power plants settled a lawsuit with New York State by agreeing to install $100 million worth of pollution control technology at one of them, its coal-fired plant here, or shut it down.

At the time, the company, Mirant New York, said it would move forward with the upgrades at its Lovett plant. But on Thursday, state officials announced a different outcome. In a news conference here, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said the state was forcing the plant to close after Mirant failed to reduce emissions with new technology.

One unit of the plant closed on Monday, while the other will close in one year, as stipulated by a 2003 consent decree.

The emissions from the 350-megawatt Lovett plant are linked to acid rain and smog. At the time of the settlement, state environmental officials said the emissions from Lovett alone, which looms over the west bank of the Hudson River, represented a quarter of the sulfur dioxide and almost a third of the nitrogen oxide released by electric generators in seven counties in the Hudson Valley.

The state also announced on Thursday that it had won a concession from Mirant, the area’s largest taxpayer, that should assuage residents of this town as well as the neighboring town of Haverstraw, where the company has its Bowline plant, an oil-powered generating station.
303 2007-05-11 Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago.

If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the United States Senate in 2002.)

But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son.

She might also have faced a tough re-election fight.

For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public.

Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise.

“It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.”

But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an F.B.I. undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development.

No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing.

“It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters.

The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation.

The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well.

Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.”

Dallas still leads major cities in crime, largely because of thefts, but Ms. Miller said a $32 million increase to fight crime this year would show results. [State figures released Wednesday showed Dallas crime down 3.6 percent last year, compared with a drop of 5.3 percent statewide.]

Antagonisms have also carried over from a 2005 referendum, sought by Ms. Miller, to strengthen the powers of the mayor, who is now little more than a 15th council member.

Sharp opposition by minority council members and their constituents helped to kill that effort. But Ms. Miller has not given up on the idea. “I think a very charismatic Hispanic or African-American mayor could make that happen,” she said.

A current uproar is over the future of the Trinity River park project for flood control and recreation, which has yet to see any of the sailboat ponds and aesthetic bridges that were promised to voters in 1998. A toll road through the park’s flood control levees is under growing attack by critics, including the Dallas Observer, the free — and freewheeling — weekly newspaper where Ms. Miller last worked as a journalist.

A first-term councilwoman, Angela Hunt, whom the Observer likened to an early crusading Laura Miller, is collecting signatures for a ballot measure in November to kill the toll road, which was intended to relieve traffic congestion and provide revenue to build the park. Ms. Miller, who admits to doubts about how the road has grown, says that eliminating it entirely would doom the park as well.

The trials of public office have been quite an education, said Ms. Miller, who began her city career in 1998, serving three and a half years as a councilwoman.

She had abandoned journalism for government, thinking naïvely, she said: “Oh my gosh, I’m here, can’t you wait for me to start looking at records and telling you all what’s really going on — won’t this be fun? And they all said, ‘Oh my God, she’s got to get out of here.’ ”

Still, she never gave up her intimidating habit of taking notes in a reporter’s notebook. “It was like coming to council meetings with a machine gun,” she said. It also provoked rumors that she was writing a book, which she said she is not. “Who would want to read a book about the Dallas City Council?” she asked.

Her leadership of a Texas coalition against the coal-fired power plants left her interested, she said, in possibly joining the federal Environmental Protection Agency in a Democratic administration. But she said her days as a journalist were over.

“It’s very easy to see things as black and white and to just sit there in your bathrobe at 2 o’clock in the morning eating M&M’s and drinking black coffee and skewering everybody,” she said. “But now that I’ve been the hunted, I could never go back and be the hunter.”
304 2007-05-11 TORONTO, May 10 (AP) — The National Hockey League Players’ Association fired its executive director, Ted Saskin, on Thursday.

Saskin’s dismissal came two months after he was placed on a paid leave of absence following allegations that he and the senior director Ken Kim had read players’ private e-mail messages.

The union’s executive board, made up of 30 player representatives and the six-member interim executive committee, voted on a conference call to fire Saskin.

The players union said it was still considering its options with Kim. Saskin and Kim were put on paid leaves in March. An internal review into the hiring of Saskin is expected to be completed this summer.

Saskin replaced Bob Goodenow as the executive director on July 28, 2005, without other candidates’ being interviewed, prompting protests.

Saskin was in the second year of a five-year deal reportedly worth $10 million.
305 2007-05-11 The announcement was the start of a choreographed farewell that the Conservative leader, David Cameron, has mocked as “the government of the living dead.”

Between now and his departure, Mr. Blair plans to attend European Union and international summit meetings. According to British news media reports, he has also scheduled trips to France, Africa and the United States, and will seek to press laws through Parliament before handing power over to a successor — almost certainly Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer. “He’s a showman,” a columnist, Jonathan Freedland, said in a blog. “And every showman loves a big finish.”

Mr. Blair struck more statesmanlike tones. “Today I announce my decision to stand down from the leadership of the Labor Party,” he said.

“The party will now select a new leader. On the 27th of June I will tender my resignation from the post of prime minister to the queen. I have been prime minister of this country for just over 10 years. In this job, in the world today, I think that is long enough for me, but more especially for the country.”

His wife, Cherie Booth, the source of much controversy during the Blair era, was in the audience as he spoke, and he paid tribute to her. He did not directly endorse Mr. Brown as his successor, but he lauded a government run by both men. “There is only one government since 1945 that can say all of the following: more jobs, fewer unemployed, better health and education results, lower crime and economic growth in every quarter,” he said. “This one.”

But his convictions led Mr. Blair to order British troops into action in Africa, the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq. He supported Israel’s war against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon last year. He made no secret of his belief in military power, as he once put it, to reorder the world.

Yet soon after taking office in 1997, he declared: “Mine is the first generation able to contemplate the possibility that we may live our entire lives without going to war or sending our children to war. That is a prize beyond value.”

On Thursday he dwelled at length on a hallmark of his leadership — his readiness to take unpopular decisions out of conviction, as he did in Iraq, striking an alliance with President Bush that brought him opprobrium and mistrust at home

“Doubt, hesitation, reflection, consideration and reconsideration — these are all the good companions of proper decision-making,” he said. “But the ultimate obligation is to decide.” In so doing, on a variety of issues besides Iraq, his allies said, Mr. Blair remade the country. “The country isn’t perfect, but, boy, it has made progress,” said Alan Milburn, a former Labor minister.

Mr. Blair spoke, too, of perhaps the most decisive moment of his decade in office — his response to the terrorist attacks in the United States and the subsequent actions he took as an ally of the United States that sent his ratings plummeting and embroiled his country in unpopular warfare.

“Removing Saddam and his sons from power, as with removing the Taliban, was over with relative ease,” he said. “But the blowback since, from global terrorism and those elements that support it, has been fierce and unrelenting and costly. For many, it simply isn’t and can’t be worth it.

“For me, I think we must see it through,” he continued. “They, the terrorists, who threaten us here and round the world, will never give up if we give up. It is a test of will and of belief. And we can’t fail it.”

Mr. Blair did not mention his initial argument for joining the Iraq campaign — Saddam Hussein’s supposed possession of unconventional weapons that were never found — preferring to focus on his rectitude rather than the deep mistrust inspired by his rationale for the war. Neither did he explain the link between Sept. 11 and the Iraq war — a link many Britons disputed.

“The word Iraq is carved on his political tombstone,” said George Galloway, a maverick lawmaker from the minority Respect party.

Coincidentally, while Mr. Blair was speaking, the Bank of England announced a quarter-percentage-point increase in the basic interest rate to its highest in six years, 5.5 percent — an increase intended to curb inflation that has cast a shadow over Labor’s economic record.

The choreography of Mr. Blair’s farewell suggested that he did not want his departure to evoke humiliating comparisons to Margaret Thatcher’s ouster by her own party in 1990. When he announced last year that he would step down, he was widely seen as being under overwhelming pressure to quit from supporters of Mr. Brown.

“Tony Blair has been the most successful leader ever in our 100-year history,” said Peter Hain, the Northern Ireland minister. “Britain is a much fairer, much more tolerant, more democratic place than it was 10 years ago.” He said this week’s installation of a power-sharing government in Northern Ireland was “an inescapable achievement.”

The opposition Conservatives assailed both his record on public services and his credibility. “There has been so much spin in that, the word of government is less believed than at any other time,” said William Hague, the Conservative foreign affairs spokesman. “We will be glad to see the back of him.”
306 2007-05-11 Whatever wars may capture the headlines, the one that still fires the greatest passions is the battle of the sexes. In “Couples,” an evening of eight one-acts being presented at the WorkShop Theater Company, Rich Orloff offers brief updates on several skirmishes in that never-ending conflict.

Like the short story in fiction, the one-act play is the most difficult theatrical form to master, and some in “Couples” work better than others. Most are simply scenes at various stages of development, although each has a kernel of conflict and each has flashes of humor. They would make good acting-class exercises.

Many of these skits (all two-handers) start from familiar situations: a couple in a motel room for an adulterous tryst, a mate coming home from a hard day at the office, two lovers parting, a man and his wife arguing in public. In the scenes that succeed, Mr. Orloff moves the action in unexpected ways to create real dramatic tension. In others, the dialogue follows a familiar course to a predictable conclusion, picking up a few laughs from one-liners. There are wildly imaginative flights, like the one in which a man boasts to a woman he has just met about coupling with a lion in Kenya, and there are some dull spots, like one in which a woman bemoans her boring life in a self-pitying monologue.

Similarly, some of the characters are more fully drawn, while others border on stereotype. One or two are downright unpleasant, like the young female bartender who refuses to visit her dying mother for reasons that are never explained. In another a religion professor who had an affair with a student is painted as the victim.

In the best of the evening, titled “Right Sensation,” a woman and a man who met in a bar rush into the woman’s apartment, slightly inebriated and ready to fall into bed until the woman suddenly balks. As it develops, she is nervous about her first sexual encounter since undergoing a mastectomy. It is a fine little play, both funny and poignant.

With a total cast of 16, it is inevitable that the quality of the performances varies. Jacqueline M. Raposo is excellent as Paula, the reluctant lover in “Right Sensation,” and is clearly a talent to watch. Michael Anderson offers good support as the man who follows her home. A couple of other notable turns include C. K. Allen as the gay lover of a politician, in a funny diatribe about the immorality of heterosexuals, and Wende O’Reilly as a wife quarreling with her husband while waiting in line to ride the Matterhorn at Disneyland. The eight plays had three different directors, which probably explains the uneven pacing in some of them.
307 2007-05-11 It was, in a word, dismal.

From department stores to discounters, the nation’s retailers today reported the worst monthly slump in sales in at least six years for April, blaming wet weather, higher gas prices and a quirk in the calendar.

Sales slid 1.8 percent during the month, well below analysts’ expectations, with bellwether companies like Wal-Mart Stores and Target being the hardest hit.

“Terrible” was the verdict from Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics, a research firm. “With Wall Street looking for weak April retail sales,” he added, “retailers did not disappoint.”

Sales at stores open at least a year, a standard measure in retailing, fell 6.1 percent at Target and 3.5 percent at Wal-Mart.

Retailers, looking for a culprit, pointed to the shift of Easter, which fell earlier in April this year than it did in 2006. Therefore, they argued, consumers did more of their Easter spending in April last year, making for tougher comparisons.
308 2007-05-11 Trade specialists say that approval of pending trade accords, with labor guarantees, could provide a template for future trade accords winning approval in Congress, where sentiment against trade deals in general is high. Many Democrats elected as part of the party’s sweep last fall ran by promising to block future trade deals.

The breakthrough on trade came as the government revealed a significant widening of the United States trade deficit in March, after several months in which the trade picture had shown overall improvement. The jump — to $63.9 billion, or 10 percent more than February’s revised deficit of $57.9 billion — put the imbalance at its highest level in six months, despite a significant increase in American exports to expanding overseas economies.

Negotiations to complete the trade deals have been led by Susan C. Schwab, the United States Trade Representative, on the administration side and by Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat, who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, on the House side.

Despite the endorsement of Mr. Rangel and Speaker Pelosi, many Democrats say that half or more of the Democrats in Congress may vote against the deal. But the agreement is expected to pass with strong backing among Republicans, whose leaders will urge them to vote with President Bush.

The Bush administration hopes that this agreement paves the way for a much broader deal to extend Mr. Bush’s authority to negotiate future trade accords and get a quick up-or-down vote on them.

That authority, known as “fast track” trade negotiating authority, expires June 30.

The announcement tonight was seen as having major ramifications beyond the countries whose pending trade deals would be affected. The global trade talks that involve more than 150 countries have foundered in part because of widespread doubt that such an accord could get Congressional approval.

Last month, Pascal Lamy, the head of the World Trade Organization, was in Washington urging the administration and Congressional leaders to reach an accord on the bilateral deals because of their importance in pushing the global trade talks, known as the Doha round, after the Qatari city where the talks began five years ago.

The monthly trade report, issued by the Census Bureau, followed a trend that economists have been observing for several months: even as growth slows in the United States, expanding economies overseas are creating a need for American exports. In March, exports totaled $126.2 billion, up $2.2 billion from February.

Rising oil prices and a surge in pharmaceutical imports contributed to the widening of the United States trade deficit in March. It is now likely, economists said, that growth in the first quarter was even slower than the 1.3 percent rate the government reported last month.

But those gains were not enough to offset an $8.2 billion rise in imports, putting the monthly total at $190.1 billion.

While March’s trade picture was one of the most lopsided in recent months, many economists expect the situation will improve in the months ahead.

“I don’t see this as evidence that the trend is suddenly shooting up again,” said James F. O’Sullivan, senior economist with UBS Securities. “We probably are at the point now where the underlying trend at least has stopped going up outside of these swings in oil prices. How much it slows down will depend on how weak domestic demand gets.”

In addition to increased demand overseas, demand for foreign goods and services in the United States needs to slow to narrow the trade deficit. As growth trails many of the world’s other largest economies, consumer spending is likely to slow as well, dampening the need for goods and services from abroad.

In a reversal of recent trade trends, the trade deficit with China improved in March, growing by $17.2 billion compared with an increase of $18.4 billion the month before.
309 2007-05-11 Here is information about some of the places mentioned:

GLASSLANDS GALLERY 289 Kent Avenue (between South First and South Second Streets), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 599-1450, brookebaxter.com/glasslandsgallery. Formerly an underground spot, this performance space is going legit; look for a grand opening party in the coming weeks. The local duo She Keeps Bees headlines tonight; O’Death, a folk group with a tinge of Tom Waits, performs tomorrow.

ISSUE PROJECT ROOM 400 Carroll Street (between Bond and Nevins Streets), Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn; (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org. Worth the trek to Gowanus for the setting alone. Tonight an experimental movement-voice show on the subject of Lucifer’s descent. Tomorrow a piano-koto concert by Miya Masaoka and Anthony Coleman and a performance by the composer Joan LaBarbara.

MONKEY TOWN 58 North Third Street (between Wythe and Kent Avenues), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 384-1369, monkeytownhq.com. Dining in the front room, dining (on couches) and performances in the back. With bathroom sound installations, an ambitious menu and events like a video-mixing and D.J. party tonight and a film about Michael Jackson’s molestation trial tomorrow.

TODD P. SHOWS Venues vary; check toddpnyc.com for information. Tonight the Baltimore dance-punk duo the Death Set is at Don Pedro, 90 Manhattan Avenue (between McKibbin Street and Boerum Street), Bushwick, Brooklyn; (718) 218-6914, donpedro.us. MELENA RYZIK
310 2007-05-11 OXYCONTIN MAKER PLEADS GUILTY -- The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty to charges that the firm misled doctors and patients when it claimed that the drug was less likely to be...
311 2007-05-11 Some children are lucky enough to have a Miss Nelson: a sweet, sympathetic elementary school teacher who guides them gently over the rough spots in their paths toward higher education. Others must confront a Miss Swamp: an unforgiving, terror-indu...
312 2007-05-11 ''Planet Earth,'' an 11-part BBC series that became a cable hit in the United States on the Discovery Channel, has evolved once again, this time into a five-disc DVD set, giving viewers a good reason, Virginia Heffernan contends, to outfit a livin...
313 2007-05-11 Hours before the House approved a plan on Thursday to finance the Iraq war only through midsummer, President Bush offered his first public concession to try to resolve the impasse on war spending, acknowledging rising pressure from his own party a...
314 2007-05-11 The documentary ''ShowBusiness'' follows four Broadway musicals from rehearsal through the 2004 Tony Awards: ''Caroline, or Change,'' ''Taboo,'' ''Avenue Q'' and ''Wicked.'' On top of the usual challenges (fund-raising, rewrites, tryouts, marketing), they all had to endure scrutiny by a Greek chorus of theater critics and gossip columnists. (The rogues' gallery includes Ben Brantley and Charles Isherwood, critics for The New York Times, and The New York Post's dapper scorpion of a theater columnist, Michael Riedel.)

''ShowBusiness'' is packed with telling details that the director, Dori Berinstein, was lucky to catch on camera: the ''Avenue Q'' composers Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx hammering out a song; the ''Caroline'' director George C. Wolfe guiding his performers with tough yet empathetic creative notes; the ''Taboo'' producer and tabloid target Rosie O'Donnell urging theatergoers to paper the city with publicity materials for her show.

It's all conveyed with an evenhanded, often affectionate tone. Even Ms. O'Donnell comes off sympathetically; she's treated as a newcomer to producing whose noble efforts were undercut by lack of experience and an antagonistic relationship with the press.

A third-act roll call of canceled productions -- some of which closed before they officially opened -- makes one marvel at the stamina of artists who devote themselves to a world of many miseries and few rewards. MATT ZOLLER SEITZ 



''ShowBusiness'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for language and some sexual references.
315 2007-05-12 BAGHDAD, May 12 — A coordinated attack on seven American soldiers and an Iraqi Army interpreter early this morning south of Baghdad left five of them dead and three missing, the United States military said.

The attack occurred near Mahmudiya, a rural area that is a stronghold of Al Qaeda militants, and military officials said that they were not sure if the interpreter was among the dead. That seemed to suggest that the five bodies found at the site of the attack, near two burned vehicles, were unrecognizable.

An extensive search for the missing three began immediately after the attack, military officials said. Helicopters, planes and troops on the ground secured a wide perimeter, set up checkpoints, searched streets and contacted local leaders for assistance.

“Make no mistake,” said Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the top American military spokesman in Iraq, “we will never stop looking for our soldiers until their status is definitively determined, and we continue to pray for their safe return.”

The attack comes as five brigades of additional troops are being dispatched — roughly 30,000 additional troops have been dispatched to Iraq for what many consider a final attempt to pacify the country. Most of the units so far have been assigned to Baghdad, and American military officials have acknowledged that areas outside the capital have grown more violent as militants shift to parts of the country with lighter concentrations of Iraqi and American troops.
316 2007-05-12 Senator John McCain has dismissed his New Hampshire campaign manager. The man, Jim Martin, had run Mr. McCain’s campaign in the state and was part of Mr. McCain’s 2000 victory there. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. Mr. Barnett had served as the executive director of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director.
317 2007-05-12 The Postal Service’s new rates take effect Monday. The cost of a first-class stamp, which covers letters weighing up to one ounce, will increase to 41 cents from 39 cents, while the cost of each additional ounce will decrease to 17 cents from 24 cents. Items placed in mailboxes after Saturday’s pickup must reflect the new prices. Also available will be the Forever Stamp, currently 41 cents, which covers the one-ounce letter rate regardless of any future increases. More information on pricing for domestic mail and new international rates can be found at www.usps.gov.
318 2007-05-12 A Hanoi judge sentenced two democracy activists to up to five years in prison, bringing the number imprisoned this week to five as the government continued a crackdown on dissidents. The two, Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, both lawyers and part of a new generation of Internet-based political activists, were found guilty in a four-hour trial of “spreading propaganda against the state.” In March, the Rev. Thaddeus Nguyen Van Ly, a Roman Catholic priest and one of the best-known members of Vietnam’s small dissident community, was sentenced to eight years for antigovernment activities.
319 2007-05-12 Though legally separate from the department’s program, the foundation is in many ways a creation of the Pentagon. It was established shortly after the department, because of legal concerns, abandoned plans to set up its own entity to raise private donations that would be handed out to private groups involved in helping soldiers who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families.

Mr. Whitman said that the Pentagon had no evidence so far of wrongdoing by officials, and that the decision to ask for an inspector general’s inquiry was made out of an “abundance of caution” after complaints by employees to the department’s Office of the General Counsel.

“If there is something that we are doing that is inappropriate, if there is something that we are doing that is illegal, if there is something that we are doing that gives the appearance of impropriety, we want to know about that because these are important programs,” Mr. Whitman said.

The decision to open an inspector general’s inquiry came several days after The New York Times asked the Pentagon questions about the “America Supports You” effort after obtaining memorandums, and other documents from an employee critical of the Pentagon’s involvement.

Mr. Vahradian, whose movie credits include “Annapolis” and “Transformers,” said in an interview that he had been invited to go on a department-financed trip last fall to Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, where he and other civilians on the trip met with American troops and with commanders. Participants were also allowed to fire heavy machine guns at a firing range and to participate in mock raids against “insurgents,” at the Army’s Forward Operating Base Dagger in Kuwait.

The private America Supports You Fund and the Pentagon program with a similar name share the same goal: to promote and encourage the work of grass-roots groups that help soldiers and their families with things like small care packages for deploying troops and renovating houses to accommodate soldiers who come home wounded.

But some department officials also appear to have seen the new foundation as an important tool in their push to maintain public support for troops overseas, a task that they feared had become much tougher since the November election put the Democrats in control of Congress.

“What we have learned is that the American people are beginning to fatigue, even in their support for the troops,” Allison Barber, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs said in a January 3 internal department memorandum announcing the creation of the private foundation. “I don’t think we have a minute to lose when it comes to maximizing support for our military, especially in the new political environment.”

Ms. Barber also noted in the e-mailed memorandum that the Pentagon’s America Supports You effort was a “non-political” program.

In January, several months after his Middle East trip, Mr. Vahradian, the producer, expressed a desire to do something to help troops. Ms. Barber then suggested a Hollywood fund-raiser to help the fledgling foundation, according to two internal Pentagon memos. “Mark is talking to senior producers (i.e. Jerry Bruckheimer) to gauge interest. This could slowly evolve into a large event,” according to an unsigned Pentagon memorandum that notes Ms. Barber had told Mr. Vahradian in January that one of her “concepts for the event” was that the “ASY Fund” should be the “beneficiary” of the donations.

A second Pentagon-organized trip in February took Mr. Vahradian to the American naval base and detention center in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. In a telephone interview this week, Mr. Vahradian said that he had returned from the trip impressed and that the visit had heightened his willingness to raise money to support American troops.

Such tours are not unusual; for years the Pentagon has arranged them for private citizens like Mr. Vahradian to promote awareness of the military and encourage public support. Only in the last year, Pentagon officials said, have tours and other outreach efforts been used to encourage participation in the department’s America Supports You program.

Mr. Whitman, the Pentagon spokesman, said that Ms. Barber would not comment for this article so as not to interfere with the inquiry.

The Pentagon sought last summer to set up an in-house entity that could accept donations, an effort that reflected officials’ desire to do more to help the troops. But that effort was abandoned, Mr. Whitman said, after Pentagon officials determined that the department could not accept contributions unless specifically authorized to do so by Congress.

Officials then turned to the idea of establishing a private foundation. Grant Green, a former Pentagon and State Department official, said in an interview that he agreed at Ms. Barber’s request to help set up the foundation and seek tax-exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service so that donors could write off gifts.

Mr. Green said that the foundation had not yet obtained tax-exempt status and so far had raised only about $10,000. He declined to identify the donors. “DOD can’t accept the money, so this fund is being established so that we have a vehicle to accept contributions,” Mr. Green said.

Mr. Vahradian said he was planning to hold his fund-raiser for the private foundation this fall. He has asked the Pentagon to supply senior officials and enlisted soldiers to talk about their service. Though support for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is minimal in Hollywood, Mr. Vahradian said, he hoped to attract donors by emphasizing the importance of helping the troops and by keeping the event “apolitical.” Film studios and producers often seek help from the Pentagon on movies, such as access to military facilities or use of military equipment, said Mr. Vahradian.

“In our business we ask a lot from the military,” Mr. Vahradian said. “Having their support is certainly helpful.” But the fund-raiser “is not going to help my career in any way,” he said. “It’s going to help my conscience.”
320 2007-05-12 The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a decision — other campaigns suggested “gamble” might be a better word — to address head-on a fundamental obstacle to his winning the nomination: his long history as a moderate Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by Southern and Midwestern conservatives. As such, it loomed as a potentially important moment in the party’s efforts to decide how to compete against the Democrats in 2008 and what it should stand for in a post-Bush era.

“The mere fact that I am standing here running for president of the United States with the views that I have, that are different in some respects on some of these issues, shows that we much more adequately represent the length and breadth and the opinions of America than the other party does,” Mr. Giuliani said.

Since the late 1970s, national Republican candidates have increasingly taken conservative positions on social issues. In that sense, Mr. Giuliani is bucking what many members of his party consider to be a powerful trend and confronting what is often assumed to be a wall of opposition among Christian conservatives, among other constituencies that play influential roles in the nominating process.

Both his leading opponents, Senator John McCain of Arizona and Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, oppose abortion rights. Mr. McCain regularly refers to his lifelong opposition to abortion rights. Mr. Romney also regularly talks about his opposition, though he is perhaps more politically constrained because he supported abortion rights through much of his political career in Massachusetts.

Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a group of conservative Christians, dismissed Mr. Giuliani’s speech in an e-mail message he sent to supporters Friday afternoon.

“When people hear Rudy Giuliani speak about taxpayer-funded abortions, gay ‘rights’ and gun control, they don’t hear a choice, they hear an echo of Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Perkins wrote.

Mr. Giuliani’s speech came a week after he gave a convoluted answer to questions at a debate about his views on abortion rights, setting off criticism by conservative groups. On Friday, he offered a lengthy explanation of his views on abortion, saying that he personally opposed it but that government should not prohibit it. He acknowledged that the views differed from those of many in the audience.

“Where people of good faith, people who are equally decent, equally moral and equally religious, when they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very very personal, I believe you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “You give them a level of choice here.”

Mr. Giuliani asserted that his differences with his audience on gun control and gay rights were probably less sharp.

He defended his advocacy for tough gun control measures while he was mayor of New York, but said that was central to his strategy to reduce crime in the city. He described himself as an advocate of a view of the Second Amendment that holds that it permits citizens to bear arms. Mr. Giuliani said he supported allowing gay men and lesbians to enter into domestic partnerships but opposed allowing them to marry.

Mr. Giuliani’s speech appeared to reflect two calculations by his campaign. The first is that Republicans are so alarmed at the prospect of losing the White House, particularly after Democrats took control of Congress last year, that they will be willing to overlook differences on issues like abortion. The second is that voters often reward politicians for candor and independence though disagreeing with them on issues.

Mr. Giuliani drew a standing ovation from his audience, and many members, in interviews after the remarks, praised him for what they described as his candor in presenting his position on difficult issues. But leaders of some evangelical and conservative groups quickly denounced him and predicted his downfall.

“The mayor’s position on abortion couldn’t be more repugnant to pro-lifers” said Richard Land, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, the public policy arm of the Southern Baptist Convention. “It shows a moral obtuseness that is stunning.”

Republicans, even some involved in rival campaigns, said they were fascinated by his move, and applauded his frankness, even as they predicted that the party would not embrace a candidate who was an unapologetic advocate of abortion rights or gay rights.

“He’s going to tell it like it is about who he is, and for that he deserves positive recognition,” said Richard Bond, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee who is supporting Mr. McCain. “But the history of the Republican presidential nominating process, going back to John Anderson or Arlen Specter to name a few, suggests that that kind of dialogue and that kind of approach has not proved successful.”

Mr. Giuliani’s campaign went to some lengths to present his speech as historic in that it echoed a speech given in the same city in 1960 that proved to be a milestone in American political history: At that time, John F. Kennedy appeared before an audience of Baptists to address concerns about electing a Roman Catholic president.

In discussing abortion, Mr. Giuliani said he was guided by “the two pillars of my thinking.”

“One is I believe abortion is wrong,” he said. “I think it is morally wrong, and if I were asked my advice by someone who was considering abortion, I would tell them not to have the abortion.”

But, he continued, his personal opposition to abortion does not permit him to impose his views on people who do not agree with him.

“Because I think ultimately even if you disagree, you have to respect the fact that their conscience is as strong as yours is about this, and they’re the ones that are most affected by it,” he said. “So therefore I would grant women the right to make that choice.”

Mr. Giuliani said that he remained firmly committed to the idea that marriage should be between a man and woman, but that he was equally committed to protecting the rights of gay men and lesbians.

On guns, Mr. Giuliani defended his strict enforcement and calls for tougher gun laws when he was mayor, given the crime situation he faced. But he said, at that time and now, the decision on gun regulation should be left to local governments.

“I believe that the Constitution of the United States gives a personal right to bear arms,” he said.
321 2007-05-12 Bonds has 11 home runs this season and 745 for his career. Selig said that he would make his decision alone, and he seemed to indicate that he might be awaiting additional developments from baseball’s internal steroid inquiry or from an active federal investigation.

“My decision is a judgment I’ll make based on what I know at the time,” he said. “I don’t think there’s any great reason to do it now.”

When asked if the incessant booing of Bonds bothered him, Selig shrugged his shoulders and answered: “I don’t know if bother is the right word. You have to deal with life as it is.”

These are extraordinary times for the 72-year-old Selig, whose father was a Romanian immigrant, who in 44 years has risen from small-time investor in a small-market baseball franchise here to an omnipresent leader of change in Major League Baseball for the past 15 years.

In that time, baseball has had record attendance, and this year, increased television ratings. There is an exceedingly rare truce with labor. A tougher drug-testing policy is in effect, as is revenue sharing among the owners, whose teams now bring in nearly $6 billion. Under Selig’s watch, playoff wild-card teams, interleague play and realignment have been implemented.

And yet, the specter of rampant steroid use by players so vexed Selig that he appointed an independent authority, the former Senator George J. Mitchell, to investigate baseball and its connections to steroids. Mitchell does not have subpoena power to compel players to cooperate with his inquiry, but he has requested players’ medical records. He is believed to be following up leads and documentary evidence from a criminal investigation of steroid distribution involving a former equipment manager for the Mets who said that he provided drugs to dozens of players.

Selig insisted that he was not apprehensive about where Mitchell’s investigation would lead.

“We have nothing to hide — whatever George Mitchell finds, he finds,” Selig said in his office, where his desk is adorned with a baseball embossed with the saying, Sometimes You Just Have to Play Ball. “I hear people say, ‘Bud must be worried.’ If I was worried, why would I launch the Mitchell investigation? Some people thought it was a bad idea, you know. From all sides, I heard that I ought to let it go. I disagreed. When this is all over, I wanted people to have as thorough an understanding as humanly possible, wherever it led.”

Selig, whose manner is grandfatherly, is prone to telling long, droll stories about baseball history. But the homespun tales are often followed by a pointed reprove of his many vocal critics. On Thursday, he continually denied a frequent criticism of his leadership — that baseball turned a blind eye to steroid use in the late 1990s because hulking home run hitters like Bonds, Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa were boosting attendance and making profits for the owners.

“It’s a myth I hear repeated on TV all the time, that it was good for business,” Selig said.

“It wasn’t by itself. Attendance from 1998 to 1999, one year after the McGwire and Sosa thing, our attendance actually went down. They like to say we turned our backs on it. Turned our backs on what? I’ve interviewed clubhouse guys, reporters, general managers and trainers who all said they were unaware of steroid use back then. So how were we supposed to know?

“No owner ever fought drug testing. And people think the commissioner is omnipotent, but unfortunately that isn’t true. Everybody knows the union fought it. To put it on ownership or the commissioner’s office is revisionist history.”

Fay Vincent, who preceded Selig as the commissioner and whom Selig helped force out in 1992, had a similar view Tuesday, although Vincent said that previous commissioners, notably A. Bartlett Giamatti, would have done more to lobby the union.

“Bud says the union controlled baseball, and that’s true,” Vincent said in a telephone interview. “He says that no initiative on steroids could get approved without the union starting it, and that’s true. There was no baseball drug policy at the time, and that’s true.

“But had Bart Giamatti been commissioner, there would have been a lot more public conversation about steroids. Because Bart was good in the spotlight, and Bart would have forced the issue into the spotlight. Bud Selig has always been uncomfortable in the bully pulpit. He’s not a public person. What he is is a magnificent small-group politician.”

Vincent cited the ownership collusion in the late 1980s to thwart free-agent player signings, which eventually cost baseball owners $280 million in damages.

“There’s no question Bud Selig was in on that,” Vincent said. “He led it, and I was there. So that’s a negative to his legacy. The increased revenue he’s brought in recent years and the record attendance under his watch will be a positive. This latest chapter, the steroid use, is up in the air. It will be a big part of his legacy.”

Vincent predicted that Selig would not attend the game when Bonds passes Aaron.

“He’ll congratulate Bonds from afar and give it appropriate but subdued recognition,” Vincent said. “I think Bud has handled it perfectly so far. And maybe when the record is broken, Bud will say that if Bonds had been forthcoming with George Mitchell’s investigation — I’m assuming Bonds has not been — that the commissioner might have treated things differently.”

Twenty years ago, Selig owned a local car dealership and was known only in Milwaukee. He had been widely credited with bringing Major League Baseball back to the city in 1970. As the leader of the newly named Milwaukee Brewers, he used to like to wander from his owner’s box. A frequent stop would be the press box, where he would regale reporters with profane banter and repartee reminiscent of a Catskill resort stand-up comic. He was like a familiar uncle at a family barbecue, an image Selig relishes to this day.

On Thursday, Selig laughed when asked if he knew his childhood obsession for baseball would someday lead to a front-row seat for one of the game’s most thorny predicaments.

“No, and to quote the Beatles, it’s been a long and winding road,” Selig said. “Whatever I decide to do, somebody will think it’s wrong. Baseball mirrors life, and there are problems in life, whether it’s performance-enhancing drugs or other things. So it’s something we all have to deal with. This is my job right now. I will do what I think is right.”
322 2007-05-12 Dr. Chandler developed this theme most famously in “The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business” (1977), which won the Pulitzer Prize for history and the Bancroft Prize. His thesis was that managers, functioning as a “visible hand,” had replaced the “invisible hand” of Adam Smith’s free market in allocating resources.

This new emphasis on organizational structure so transformed the field of business history that some call the period before Dr. Chandler’s publications “B.C.,” meaning before Chandler. Glenn Porter wrote in 1992 in “The Rise of Big Business, 1860-1920”: “Virtually every work now written on the history of modern, large-scale enterprise must begin by placing itself within the Chandlerian analytical framework.”

Dr. Chandler’s work was distinguished by an intellectual rigor he gleaned from the sociologist Talcott Parsons, one of his professors at Harvard. Dr. Chandler rigorously compared earlier and later time frames to see what changed, and, more important, what caused the change. He likened the process to a controlled scientific experiment.

His conclusions jolted conventional wisdom. For example, he said that America’s industrial revolution did not start in New England mills, but with the beginning of large-scale mining of anthracite coal fields in Pennsylvania in the 1830s and 1840s. This new power source replaced water, wood and charcoal, facilitating the making of iron and metal products.

Alfred du Pont Chandler Jr. was born in Guyencourt, Del., on Sept. 15, 1918. Although he was not a blood relation of the du Ponts who founded the chemical company, his great-grandmother was raised by the du Ponts after her parents died of yellow fever.

Alfred spent his first five years in Buenos Aires, where his father represented an American locomotive company. When he was 11, the family moved back to the United States and settled near Wilmington.

Family lore has it that the boy announced his intention to become a historian by the time he was 7. He was inspired by Wilbur Fisk Gordy’s book “An Elementary History of the United States,” a primer for sixth-graders his father gave him. He read it 19 times.

At Phillips Exeter Academy, he won a prize for excellence in history. In 1940, he graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, where generations of his family had studied, beginning in the 18th century. During World War II, he served in the Navy, interpreting intelligence photos.

He enrolled as a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to study Southern regional history. But he became captivated by sociology, and returned to Harvard to study with Mr. Parsons.

He stumbled on his dissertation topic in old papers on the history of American railroads written by his great-grandfather, a founder of the financial-data company that became Standard & Poor’s. The dissertation became a book, “Henry Varnum Poor: Business Editor, Analyst and Reformer” (1956).

From 1950 to 1963, Dr. Chandler taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he helped edit the letters of Theodore Roosevelt and wrote “Strategy and Structure,” which used General Motors, DuPont, Exxon and Sears, Roebuck to develop his ideas on how companies employ organization structure to further strategy.

Dr. Chandler taught at Johns Hopkins, where he edited the papers of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, then joined the faculty of Harvard Business School from which he retired in 1989. He was editor of the Harvard Studies in Business History.

He was a visiting professor at Oxford and elsewhere, and president of the Economic History Association and the Business History Conference. He was a member of the American Philosophical Society and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Dr. Chandler is survived by his wife, the former Fay Martin; his daughters, Alpine (Dougie) Chandler Bird, of Annapolis, Md., and Mary (Mimi) Chandler Watt, of Dinas Powys, Wales; his son, Howard, of Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa.; his sisters Nina Murray, of Bedford, Mass., and Nantucket, and Sophie Consagra, of Manhattan; five grandchildren and two step-grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

Dr. Chandler fancied a glass of sherry with lunch before retiring to write on yellow-lined paper in small, cramped letters. Though he did not use a computer, he gave characteristic thought to its impact on economic change.

“All I know is that the commercializing of the Internet is transforming the world,” he said in an interview with Newsweek last year.
323 2007-05-12 “When you’re just hustling home, you can listen and relax a bit. It’s a nice diversion,” Ms. Vyfhuis said after her rendition of Whitney Houston’s “Saving All My Love for You” before a rapt panel of judges, who included a music instructor at the private Sidwell Friends School and the manager of Busboys and Poets, a popular local restaurant and lounge for striving artists.

“Could you do this for two hours straight?” the judges often asked the participants.

Each performer had no more than five minutes to impress the judges, whose criteria included expression and form, stage presence and past experience. But an hour into the auditions, it was clear the judges had strict standards: More than 30 acts had already been whisked out the door.

As soon as some performers took the stage, their moment came and went, although Leonard Alexander of southeast Washington continued to blare away on his trumpet long after the judges expressed a polite, but firm, “Thank you.”

“Is it over?” Mr. Alexander asked as he suddenly looked up, before immediately jumping into the first few notes of taps.

“I bombed, man. I didn’t have the chance to play the whole thing,” he said later of his audition. “He stopped me, so I decided to play taps.”

During Thursday’s three-hour audition — another full day of tryouts will be held Saturday — acts ranged from solo spoken-word artists to gospel/soul a cappella groups to traditional Bolivian Andean music and African dance, a testament to the city’s diversity. The judges expect to choose up to 50 lucky winners.

“It’s a diverse talent pool. With any talent competition, you see the good, you see the bad, you see the whole gamut,” said Jonathan G. Willen, one of the judges, whose arts management firm, Jonathan G. Willen & Associates, based in the city, represents regional artists and has helped produce some stage works at the Kennedy Center.

An average of 700,000 commuters in the greater Washington area ride the Metro to and from work each weekday. Visitors bump that number up considerably on weekends and during the tourist seasons, making the system the second-busiest in the country after New York City’s, which also features performers chosen by audition.

In Washington, performers will need to keep their day jobs — panhandling will not be allowed.

But the musicians will be paid $200 for each two-hour performance. The Arts in Transit performances will begin in early June and last through October, before returning for the winter holiday season. The number and times for performances have not been set, nor have the stations been chosen that will feature the artists. But there will be twice-daily appearances, in the late morning and then again in the early evening, close to the morning and afternoon commutes, at the selected stations.

“It brings something back to the D.C. music scene. D.C. needs something like this,” said Justin Trawick, 25, of Arlington, Va., who plays in a band whose music he described as urban folk rock.

Malik Wilson, 29, is realistic about the nature of street performance, when even the music of internationally acclaimed artists like Joshua Bell, the Grammy Award-winning violinist, can go ignored by the busy throngs of rush-hour commuters, as a recent experiment by The Washington Post Magazine showed.

And so when Mr. Wilson recited some of his original poetry before the judges, it was titled “Green/Yellow Line,” words he penned while riding that particular Metro line, part of which cuts through Washington’s historic jazz district.

“I expect sort of to be ignored and for people to go about their way,” Mr. Wilson said, should he be selected as one of the dozens of performers.

“But the hope is that a word, a phrase, lodges in someone’s mind and stays there. And that sort of is a seductive, interesting idea.”
324 2007-05-12 The draft report, expected to be released within the next week, was prepared by the United States Government Accountability Office with the help of government energy analysts, and was provided to The New York Times by a separate government office that received a review copy. The accountability office declined to provide a copy or to discuss the draft.

Paul Anderson, a spokesman for the office, said only that “we don’t discuss draft reports.”

But a State Department official who works on energy issues said that there were several possible explanations for the discrepancy, including the loss of oil through sabotage of pipelines and inaccurate reporting of production in southern Iraq, where engineers may not properly account for water that is pumped along with oil in the fields there.

“It could also be theft,” the official said, with suspicion falling primarily on Shiite militias in the south. “Crude oil is not as lucrative in the region as refined products, but we’re not ruling that out either.”

Iraqi and American officials have previously said that smuggling of refined products like gasoline and kerosene is probably costing Iraq billions of dollars a year in lost revenues. The smuggling of those products is particularly feared because officials believe that a large fraction of the proceeds go to insurgent groups. Crude oil is much more difficult to smuggle because it must be shipped to refineries and turned into the more valuable refined products before it can be sold on the market.

The Shiite militia groups hold sway around the rich oil fields of southern Iraq, which dominate the country’s oil production, the State Department official said. For that reason, he said, the Shiite militias are more likely to be involved in theft there than the largely Sunni insurgents, who are believed to benefit mostly from smuggling refined products in the north.

In the south, the official said, “There is not an issue of insurgency, per se, but it could be funding Shia factions, and that could very well be true.”

“That would be a concern if they were using smuggling money to blow up American soldiers or kill Sunnis or do anything that could harm the unity of the country,” the official said.

The report by the accountability office is the most comprehensive look yet at faltering American efforts to rebuild Iraq’s oil and electricity sectors. For the analysis of Iraq’s oil production, the accountability office called upon experts at the Energy Information Administration within the United States Department of Energy, which has long experience in analyzing oil production and exports worldwide.

Erik Kreil, an oil expert at the information administration who is familiar with the analysis, said a review of industry figures around the world — exports, refinery figures and other measures — could not account for all the oil that Iraq says it is producing. The administration also took into account how much crude oil was consumed internally, to do things like fuel Iraqi power plants and refine into gasoline and other products.

When all those uses of the oil were taken into consideration, Mr. Kreil said, Iraq’s stated production figures did not add up.

“Either they’re producing less, or they’re producing what they say and the difference is completely unaccounted for in any of the places we think it should go,” Mr. Kreil said. “Either it’s overly optimistic, or it’s unaccounted for.”

Several analysts outside the government agreed that such a large discrepancy indicated that there was either a major smuggling operation in place or that Iraq was incapable to generate accurate production figures.

“That’s a staggering amount of oil to lose every month,” said Philip K. Verleger Jr., an independent economist and oil expert. “But given everything else that’s been written about Iraq, it’s not a surprise.”

Mr. Verleger added that if the oil was being smuggled out of Iraq, there would be a ready market for it, particularly in smaller refineries not controlled by large Western companies in places like China, the Caribbean and even small European countries.

The report also contains the most comprehensive assessment yet of the billions of dollars the United States and Iraq spent on rebuilding the oil and electricity infrastructure, which is falling further and further behind its performance goals.

Adding together both civilian and military financing, the report concludes that the United States has spent $5.1 billion of the $7.4 billion in American taxpayer money set aside to rebuild the Iraqi electricity and oil sectors. The United States has also spent $3.8 billion of Iraqi money on those sectors, the report says.

Despite those enormous expenditures, the performance is far short of official goals, and in some cases seems to be declining further. The average output of Iraq’s national electricity grid in 2006, for example, was 4,300 megawatts, about equal to its value before the 2003 invasion. By February of this year, the figure had fallen still further, to 3,800 megawatts, the report says.

All of those figures are far short of the longstanding American goal for Iraq: 6,000 megawatts. Even more dispiriting for Iraqis, by February the grid provided power for an average of only 5.1 hours a day in Baghdad and 8.6 hours nationwide. Both of those figures are also down from last year.

The story is similar for the oil sector, where — even if the Iraqi numbers are correct — neither exports nor production have met American goals and have also declined since last year, the report says.

American reconstruction officials have continued to promote what they describe as successes in the rebuilding program, while saying that problems with security have prevented the program from achieving all of its goals. But federal oversight officials have frequently reported that the program has also suffered from inadequate oversight, poor contracting practices, graft, ineffective management and disastrous initial planning.

The discrepancies in the Iraqi oil figures are broadly reminiscent of the ones that turned up when some of the same energy department experts examined Iraq’s oil infrastructure in the wake of the oil-for-food scandals of the Saddam Hussein era. In a United Nations-sponsored program that was supposed to trade Iraq’s oil for food, Mr. Hussein and other smugglers were handsomely profiting from the program, investigations determined.

In reports to Congress before the 2003 invasion that ousted Mr. Hussein, the accountability office, using techniques similar to those called into play in its most recent report, determined that in early 2002, for example, 325,000 to 480,000 barrels of crude oil a day were being smuggled out of Iraq, the majority through a pipeline to Syria.

But substantial amounts also left Iraq through Jordan and Turkey, and by ship in the Persian Gulf, routes that could also be available today, said Robert Ebel, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.

“Any number of adjacent countries would be glad to have it if they could make some money,” Mr. Ebel said.

Mr. Ebel said the lack of modern metering equipment, or measuring devices, at Iraq’s wellheads made it especially difficult to track smuggling there. The State Department official agreed that there were no meters at the wellheads, but said that Iraq’s Oil Ministry had signed a contract with Shell Oil to study the possibility of putting in the meters.

The official added that an American-financed project to install meters on Iraq’s main oil platform in the Persian Gulf was scheduled to be completed this month.

As sizable as a discrepancy of as much as 300,000 barrels a day would be in most parts of the world, some analysts said it could be expected in a country with such a long, ingrained history of corruption.

“It would be surprising if it was not the case,” said John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org, which closely follows security and economic issues in Iraq. He added, “How could the oil sector be the exception?”
325 2007-05-12 Fretilin is the party most closely associated with the struggle for self-rule. Its now disbanded military wing, Falintil, waged the guerrilla war against Indonesia, and Mr. Guterres was one of the rebel army’s most prominent commanders.

Fretilin now faces an uphill battle to retain control of the government in parliamentary elections scheduled for June 30, when it will compete with 15 other parties. Among them is a new party led by Mr. Gusmão, who commanded the guerrilla forces before being captured in 1992. He chose not to seek re-election as president so he could run for the prime minister’s office, the real seat of power.

Analysts and election observers said Friday that the weakening of Fretilin’s grip on power, as suggested by the election results, could open the way for a more vibrant democracy.

“Nobody would have believed before that Fretilin would have won only a quarter of the votes,” Javier Pomés Ruiz, chief of the European Union’s election observer mission, said in a telephone interview by telephone. “Fretilin was hegemonic. This is the beginning of a multiparty system in East Timor.”

Still, it remains to be seen whether the election will help to bring about more effective government and to mend the divisions in East Timorese society. Since independence, popular frustration with politicians has been building steadily because of their failure to meet expectations of job creation, poverty reduction and providing basic services.

Unemployment in Dili, the capital, where about a quarter of the work force lives, is about 27 percent, the World Bank said in a recent report. Among the youth of the city, the figure is about 40 percent, creating a breeding ground for lawlessness.

Tensions boiled over in April 2006, when some 40 percent of the army went on strike.

The government, under Prime Minister Mari Alkatiri, the Fretilin secretary general, fired the striking soldiers, setting off a wave of violence in which about 150,000 people were driven from their homes and 37 were killed.

An Australian peacekeeping force was deployed to restore order. Mr. Alkatiri was forced to resign as prime minister last July, and Mr. Ramos-Horta, who was then foreign minister, stepped in to succeed him.

Mr. Ramos-Horta, 57, pledged Friday to dedicate his presidency to healing the wounds exposed by the violence last year. He started that process after his victory became clear by contacting Mr. Guterres and meeting with Mr. Alkatiri.

Yet the presidency is largely a ceremonial position, and the real contest for power will be the parliamentary elections.
326 2007-05-12 The viola da gamba virtuoso Jordi Savall runs a remarkably efficient musical enterprise. In addition to the three ensembles he directs, Mr. Savall has his own record label, Alia Vox, to document his adventures in (mostly) unusual corners of the early-music repertory. Mr. Savall’s ensembles produce a luxurious sound, and in recent seasons he has brought one or more of them to New York.

But for his two concerts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Wednesday and Thursday, Mr. Savall performed either on his own or with a spare harpsichord and theorbo (or sometimes Baroque guitar) accompaniment.

The programs were loosely thematic: the Wednesday concert began and ended with variations of “Folias de España,” a simple chord pattern that was as common in the 17th century as the standard blues progression is for rock bands today. (And in both cases, the chords are merely backdrops for expansive and, ideally, virtuosic variations.) Between the “Folias” explorations were dances, character pieces and fantasies. On Thursday, Mr. Savall offered a more focused look at music from the court of Louis XIV of France, most notably works by Marin Marais, long one of Mr. Savall’s specialties. A set of “Folias” variations by Marais closed the second concert, bringing the repertory full circle.

Mr. Savall’s recitals are a more subtle treat than his ensemble performances. In place of colorful string, woodwind and percussion textures, he draws a soft-voiced, slightly astringent tone from his gamba and sets it against the even gentler sound of the theorbo and the brighter, more prickly tone of the harpsichord.

Still, if the fireworks were in softer hues, they were hardly lacking. In the group of dances and variations by Diego Ortiz that opened the Wednesday program, and in the Marais “Couplets des Folies d’Espagne” on Thursday, Mr. Savall played with speed and precision, but also with heart: brisk as they were, the lines were gracefully shaped. In other works — “Le Labyrinthe” and “Voix Humaines” by Marais and a Fantasie en Rondeau by Saint-Colombe — he gave the music’s melancholy lyricism an almost vocal sound. And in a group of painterly works by Tobias Hume he used percussive bowing to suggest the sounds of military drums, and tremolando bowing to evoke trumpets.

Mr. Savall’s colleagues had well-deserved moments in the spotlight as well.

Xavier Diaz-Latorre gave robust performances of Gaspar Sanz dances (including the popular Canarios) on the guitar, and an introspective reading of a Passacaglia by Robert de Visée on the theorbo. And Pierre Hantaï began his reading of Bach’s English Suite No. 2 with an inventive but brief improvisation that blossomed into the work’s opening figure. He also gave vivid performances of works from François Couperin’s “Pièces de Clavecin.”
327 2007-05-12 The French eat four times as much yogurt as Americans, and the market for organic food is growing rapidly in the European Union, from $12.8 billion in 2005 to an estimated $31.9 billion by 2010, Mr. Hirshberg said.

“If organic is going to be relying on being better for the environment or saving farmers, then I don’t believe it’s going to be successful in Europe,” Mr. Hirshberg said. “It has to be about better taste.”

Organic yogurt differs from regular yogurt because it is made with milk from cows that are certified as not being treated with or exposed to farm chemicals or hormones.

For instance, organic yogurt comes from dairy cows that eat grain that isn’t treated with pesticides or artificial fertilizer, and they aren’t injected with hormones that stimulate milk production.

The organic movement in the United States took off as a reaction to industrialized agriculture, and Mr. Hirshberg was among its early pioneers. An outspoken environmentalist, he was promoting windmills before he joined Stonyfield in 1983, months after it was created, and has overseen its growth to become the leading seller of organic yogurt in the United States.

In France, the market for organic yogurt is less established and the competition among new dairy products is fierce.

“Our milk industry is probably the most competitive in the world,” said Christian Berger, the agriculture attaché at the French Embassy in Washington. He said that since the French don’t drink much milk, there is a huge market for milk-derived products like yogurt and cheese.

“There is a new product every two weeks,” Mr. Berger said, adding that in order to make room, an old product is discarded.

One challenge for organic food in France, he said, is that the distinction between conventional farming and organic is not nearly so clearly perceived as it is in the United States, where an increasing amount of milk is produced at huge industrial-size dairies. By contrast, most French dairy farms remain small, and the farmers can’t use growth hormones to stimulate milk production. “It’s not as critical here,” Mr. Berger said.

And the market is hard fought, with Danone struggling against other big manufacturers, like Yoplait, originally a farmers cooperative that is now part-owned by a private equity fund, and Lactalis, part-owned by Nestlé, as well as many smaller producers.

One competitor is Michel et Augustin, which recently introduced a line called La Vache à Boire (a cow to drink) that also relies on a catchy Web site and talking cows.

The biggest chunk of the French yogurt market, about a third, is held by the house brands of big food retailers, like Leclercq and Carrefour. Fighting for shelf space is furious, and the audience is discerning.

For Mr. Hirshberg, the next stop after France is Britain, which has a more established organic industry. There, he will introduce a brand called Stony, using the tagline “Yogurt on a Mission.” In addition, Stonyfield has invested in an Irish organic dairy, Glenisk, that will introduce a new look and recipe in June.

But even with Danone’s backing, Mr. Hirshberg’s European push comes with some risk. In Britain, for instance, the German yogurt company Müller introduced organic yogurt several years ago and was forced to withdraw within a year.

“The brand didn’t get anywhere,” said Amarjit Sahota, a consultant for Organic Monitor, a London-based organic research firm. He explained there were already several strong organic brands in Britain and limited shelf space in supermarkets.

“Most supermarkets have space for just three brands, including their own” Mr. Sahota said.

The most popular organic brand, called Yeo Valley, has succeeded with quirky marketing that isn’t much different from that of Stonyfield Farm (both use dairy-related puns, along with characterized cows).

Stonyfield’s gross revenues in 2006 were $263 million, compared with $72.6 million in 2001, and it has grown at a compound annual rate of 27.4 percent over the last 18 years, company officials said. The overall market for yogurt in the United States, including organic and conventional products, is about $4 billion a year.

The market for organic food in Europe differs greatly country to country, but in many countries, like Austria, Denmark and Britain, it is bigger and more established than in the United States.

Michael Steib, an analyst for Morgan Stanley in London, said that before the introduction of Danone’s organic products, Europe’s organic yogurt industry had remained largely the domain of farmers’ cooperatives and smaller companies.

“In order to maintain that image of local homegrown foods, very healthy foods, the multinationals have in the past shied away from that,” Mr. Steib said. “They felt they could not market these brands as effectively.”

So where Danone has marketed its probiotic yogurt Activia, which relies on beneficial bacteria to promote regularity, around the globe, the successful marketing of organic yogurt, at least in Europe, tends to be “very local,” Mr. Steib said.

Mr. Riboud of Danone said he did not expect Danone’s organic yogurt to be an immediate success, like Activia has been since it was introduced in the United States a little more than a year ago. Rather, he said it would take time — and Mr. Hirshberg’s marketing expertise — to build the organic brands.

“It’s more than a product,” Mr. Riboud said. “It’s a way of life. It’s a vision.”
328 2007-05-12 The European private equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners said yesterday that it had bought the aircraft leasing business Pegasus Aviation Finance for $5.2 billion, combining it with its own AWAS unit to create the world’s third-largest plane lessor.

AWAS, which Terra Firma bought from Morgan Stanley last year for $2.5 billion, will have a combined fleet of more than 300 planes, making it a much larger force in the aircraft-leasing business, which has boomed in the last year or so as airlines look to build up fleets quickly to meet resurgent travel demand.

In terms of fleet size, AWAS now ranks behind the General Electric Company, whose Commercial Aviation Services unit, known as Gecas, owns and manages the largest number of planes, and the International Lease Finance Corporation, a unit of the insurer American International Group.

Gecas and International Lease dwarf even the largest airlines in terms of fleet size. They are the biggest and most important customers for the commercial plane makers Boeing and Airbus, a unit of the European aerospace company EADS.

The companies are playing a significant role in airlines’ expansion, giving carriers a way to operate the newest planes without huge capital outlays.

Many airlines, especially smaller start-up carriers and those outside the United States, have relied on leasing firms to build their fleets to meet the new demand, as passengers return to the skies after economic slowdowns and concerns raised by the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
329 2007-05-12 WEISS--Jeanne (Nana) on May 11, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Edward, loving mother of Vivian Hammer and her husband Glenn, adoring grandmother of Rachel and Edward. She will be remembered for her love of family and many friends. Service Monday, ...
330 2007-05-13 In the nearly twenty years following his resignation from the presidency in 1974, Richard Nixon struggled to reestablish himself as a well-regarded public figure. He tried to counter negative views of himself by writing seven books, mostly about international relations, which could sustain and increase his reputation as a world statesman. Yet as late as 1992, he complained to Monica Crowley, a young postpresidential aide: "'We have taken ... ever since-insulted by the media as the disgraced former president.'"

Above all, he craved public attention from his successors in the White House. The reluctance of Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush to invite him back to the Oval Office for advice, particularly on foreign policy, incensed him. When Bush sent him national security form letters, he erupted in fury. "'I will not give them [the Bush advisers] any advice unless they are willing to thank me publicly,'" he told Crowley. "'I'm tired of being taken for granted.... No more going in the back door of the White House-middle of the night-under the cloak- of- darkness crap. Either they want me or they don't.'"

At the 1992 Republican Convention, after Bush publicly praised Nixon's contribution to America's Cold War victory, Nixon exclaimed, "'It took guts for him to say that.... It's the first time that anyone has referred to me at a convention. Reagan never did. It was gutsy.'" After Bill Clinton invited him to the White House to discuss Russia, Nixon declared it the best meeting "'I have had since I was president.'" He was gratified that Clinton addressed him as "'Mr. President.'" But when he saw his advice to Clinton being "diluted," it "inspired rage, disappointment and frustration."

Nixon's postpresidential resentments were of a piece with longstanding sensitivity to personal slights. His biography is in significant part the story of an introspective man whose inner demons both lifted him up and brought him down. It is the history of an exceptional man whose unhappy childhood and lifelong personal tensions propelled him toward success and failure.

It may be that Winston Churchill was right when he said that behind every extraordinary man is an unhappy childhood. But because there are so many unhappy children and so few exceptional men, it invites speculation on what else went into Nixon's rise to fame as a congressman, senator, vice president, and president. Surely, not the least of Nixon's motives in his drive for public visibility was an insatiable appetite for distinction-a need, perhaps, to make up for psychic wounds that produced an unrelenting determination to elevate himself to the front rank of America's competitors for status, wealth, and influence. Like Lincoln, in the words of law partner William Herndon, Nixon's ambition was a little engine that knew no rest.
331 2007-05-13 The military command has not yet released the names of the victims they have already identified.

American military officials offered few details on Sunday about the search but said they were sparing no resources.

“Everybody is fully engaged, the commanders are intimately focused on this,” Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the top American military spokesman, said at a news conference with reporters from the Iraqi media, according to The Associated Press. He said the searchers were using “every asset we have, from national assets to tactical assets.”

Troops surrounded the town of Yusufiya, near Mahmudiya along the eastern bank of the Euphrates River, conducted house-by-house searches and checked all cars entering and leaving town, The Associated Press reported.

The Islamic State of Iraq posted its claims of responsibility on jihadist Web sites on Sunday. “Clashes between your brothers in the Islamic State of Iraq and a Crusaders’ patrol in Mahmudiya, southern Baghdad province, has led to the killing and arresting of several of them,” the message said.

If history is any measure, the chances of the Americans surviving capture would be slim. The organization has claimed responsibility for numerous killings of prisoners.

Last June, insurgents captured two American solidiers during a surprise attack near Yusufiya. After a four-day search by 8,000 American and Iraqi troops, the soldiers’ bodies were found about three miles from the site of their kidnapping. They had been tortured, and insurgents had booby-trapped the road leading to the bodies.

Mujahedeen Shura, an umbrella insurgent group that was a precursor to the Islamic State of Iraq and included Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, claimed responsibility for those killings.

Controlling the predominantly Sunni towns on the periphery of the capital, such as Mahmudiya and Yusufiya, has become an important element of the American command’s latest strategy for trying to pacify the capital. American commanders say the insurgency has been using these outlying rural towns — comprising what the Americans call “the Baghdad belts” — to store munitions, build car bombs, hide fighters and stage attacks on the capital.

But in public comments in the past two weeks, the American military commanders who control access routes into the capital from the north and south have described in unusually frank terms the difficult challenges they face.

On Friday, Maj. Gen. Benjamin R. Mixon, who commands American troops north of Baghdad, said he did not have enough troops to fight the insurgency in Diyala Province, which has become one of the most violent areas and among the deadliest for American forces.

On May 5, Gen. Rick Lynch, who oversees about 26,000 American forces in an area bounded by the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers south of Baghdad and including Mahmudiya and Yusufiya, described the struggle in Iraq as “three-dimensional chess in the dark — and that’s an understatement.”

“There’s no simple solution here,” he told reporters. He said the American military’s work is “not an impossible task but it’s going to take a long time.”

In the first 45 days after his division’s deployment in March, his troops suffered more than 50 casualties, including 13 dead, he said, adding that he expected the number to rise as the number of American troops increases over the summer.

Both Mahmudiya and Yusufiya are situated east of the Euphrates River, which is bracketed by thick date palm orchards often used by insurgents as hideouts — the dense foliage shields them from American aerial reconnaissance. General Lynch said that while Sunni and Shiite militants operate in his area, he regarded Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia as his most serious problem.

“It’s like a hydra,” he said. “It keeps regenerating its heads.”

In violence elsewhere, the American military said Sunday that an American soldier was killed on Saturday and one was wounded when their armored truck was struck by a bomb planted in the roadway near Haditha, in Anbar Province.

In the most deadly attack on Sunday, a suicide car bomb exploded outside an office of a leading Kurdish political party in the northern town of Makhmur, killing at least 50 people and wounding 115, said Brig. Mohammed al-Wagaa, an Iraqi Army commander in Mosul.

The attack occurred at the gate of a government compound that includes the offices of Makhmur’s mayor and the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the organization led by Massoud Barzani, president of the region of northern Iraq that the party calls Iraqi Kurdistan. Makhmur is located just south of the area controlled by Mr. Barzani but has a sizable Kurdish population.

The blast destroyed several buildings and houses, “many cars” and a gas station, according to Abdulrahman Belaf, the mayor of Makhmur, who was in his office at the time and was wounded in the attack. The town’s police chief died in the blast, officials said.

It was the second vehicle bombing in five days against Kurdish targets in northern Iraq.

Makhmur falls within a region that the authorities in Iraq’s Kurdistan region want to annex. The Iraqi Constitution calls for a referendum before the end of year on whether a swath of territory in three northern Iraqi provinces, including the oil capital of Kirkuk, should become part of the Kurdish-controlled region.

American and Iraqi officials say they expect a sharp rise in violence as the referendum nears, mainly led by Sunni Arab insurgents opposed to a geographic expansion by the Kurds.

Kurdish officials said Sunday that they did not yet know who was responsible for the attack in Makhmur or whether it was related to an attack last week in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdistan region, in which a truck loaded with explosives detonated in front of offices of the Kurdish regional government, killing at least 19 people and wounding more than 70.

In Baghdad, a car bomb exploded at the Sadriya market in a predominantly Shiite quarter of eastern Baghdad, killing at least five people and wounding 40, an official at the Interior Ministry said.

The neighborhood has been a repeated target of attacks in recent months. On April 18, at least 140 people were killed and 150 people were wounded when a bomb exploded in an informal bus station near the market. On Feb. 3, a truck bombing killed at least 137 people, wounded 305 and obliterated part of the market.

In another attack on Sunday, gunmen broke into a flour factory in the Uaireej region south of Baghdad and killed five people and wounded four, the Interior Ministry official said.

The Iraqi authorities reported finding at least 11 bodies dumped around the capital, and 10 bodies in the streets and empty lots of Baquba, the capital of Diyala Province. A former senior official in the Baath Party in Mosul was killed by gunmen, officials reported.
332 2007-05-13 Lawyers for a man who was convicted of killing a bouncer at the Palladium nightclub in 1990 but who faces a second trial after the conviction was set aside have asked to have the case dismissed based on a prosecutor’s admission that he did not personally believe the man was guilty.

In a television interview, Daniel Bibb, a former prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, said that he believed the defendant, David Lemus, was the wrong man, even while he was arguing in court to sustain the conviction, according to court papers filed last week in Manhattan.

Mr. Bibb said he “began to have serious doubts” about the guilt of Mr. Lemus and a co-defendant, Olmedo Hidalgo, in the spring of 2004.

Nonetheless, Mr. Bibb said, he argued to sustain Mr. Lemus’s conviction in a hearing that took place a year later.

He said that officials in the district attorney’s office did not want to set Mr. Lemus free, and that as a lawyer representing the office, his duty was to argue its case.
333 2007-05-13 The area just south of Baghdad has proven particularly hard to control. An American soldier was killed Friday in the region in a bomb attack, and troops have been captured there at least twice before.

The United States military said in a statement that a soldier from the 89th Military Police Brigade had died of wounds from a roadside bombing on Friday night near Iskandariya, about 15 miles south of Mahmudiya.

In January, gunmen dressed in fake American military uniforms stormed the provincial governor’s office in Karbala, killing a soldier and capturing four who were later found dead in or near abandoned sport utility vehicles.

Last June, two American soldiers disappeared after being ambushed near Mahmudiya. Their bodies were found days later, mutilated and booby-trapped.

General Caldwell said the attack on Saturday apparently started with a bomb at 4:44 a.m. A unit nearby heard explosions “and attempted to establish communications, but without success,” he said.

Fifteen minutes later, pilotless aerial reconnaissance found two military vehicles on fire.

It was unclear why the patrol seemed to have had only two Humvees. Typically, convoys have three or four vehicles.

At 5:40 a.m., a quick-reaction force arrived and found five bodies. Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, a military spokesman, said the five might have been killed by the explosion or small-arms fire.

Three Iraqi security officials in the area said that the attackers also used rocket-propelled grenades and that the charred vehicles were Humvees. They said the soldiers were on patrol, driving toward Anbar Province, when the gunmen attacked, possibly after setting up a fake checkpoint.

The security officials also asked why it took roughly an hour after the ambush for American reinforcements to arrive.

Colonel Garver said the quick reaction force arrived as quickly as possible given the situation at the scene. “You have to maintain your combat awareness moving into an area,” he said. “You don’t want to rush into there without a full awareness of what the enemy situation is.”

He said a search began as soon as American forces found that three people were missing. “We’ll be out looking for these guys,” he said. “And hopefully we’ll find them alive.”

Violence also raged elsewhere in Iraq. In Baghdad, 17 bodies were found across the city, mostly in its largely Sunni western half, an Interior Ministry official said. In Adhamiya, an eastern Sunni enclave, gunfire killed two people and wounded one, the official said. Two mortar shells crashed into the fortified Green Zone about 4:30 p.m. No injuries were reported.

North of the capital, in Mosul, the police said that Adeeb al-Jalabi, a prominent doctor and the chief of an Islamic medical society in Iraq, was shot and killed as he exited the clinic where he worked. A roadside bomb in western Mosul killed at least one, and three bodies were found, the authorities said.

Two roadside bombs, one in eastern Baghdad and the other in the west, struck American convoys, an Interior Ministry official said. It was unclear if there were casualties.

In Diyala Province, two women were killed and two other people were wounded when a roadside bomb exploded in northern Baquba, the police said. A second bomb nearby killed at least two people and wounded three.

On Friday, bombs tore through two bridges over the Diyala River on Baghdad’s southern outskirts, and a third bomb exploded on a bridge north of Baghdad.

TABUK, Saudi Arabia, May 12 (Agence France-Presse) — Vice President Dick Cheney arrived in Saudi Arabia on Saturday to seek its help in Iraq, two months after King Abdullah criticized the “illegitimate foreign occupation” there.

Mr. Cheney, who arrived in the northern town of Tabuk from Abu Dhabi, was to have talks and dinner with the Saudi monarch during a brief visit to the kingdom.

Despite the long alliance between the United States and Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah opened an annual Arab summit meeting in Riyadh in March with a speech denouncing the occupation of Iraq.

Mr. Cheney was to next visit Egypt and Jordan to wrap up a weeklong Middle East visit.
334 2007-05-13 TAIPEI, Taiwan, May 12 (Reuters) — Su Tseng-chang, Taiwan’s prime minister, resigned Saturday, a week after losing the ruling party primary for the 2008 presidential elections. The move was seen as aimed at shoring up the Democratic Progressive Party’s prospects in the polls.

Mr. Su is the fifth premier to quit during the seven-year tenure of President Chen Shui-bian. He became the prime minister in 2006, replacing Frank Hsieh, who won the D.P.P.’s primary last weekend.

President Chen told a news conference that the next premier would be named “in the short term.”

The entire cabinet will resign en masse next week after Mr. Su steps down, a government spokeswoman said.

“To allow the president to strategize in the new environment, I am willing to cooperate and release myself, and I have told this to the president and he has approved,” Mr. Su told the news conference. “Although I have given up my duties, I have not given up on Taiwan.”

Mr. Su, affectionately nicknamed “light bulb” by his supporters because of his bald head, gained popularity because he was the magistrate of the important Taipei County in the north and Pingtung County in the south.

He had also served as secretary general of the presidential office under Mr. Chen and as chairman of the D.P.P., a position he resigned from in December to take responsibility for the poor showing in elections for local government chiefs.
335 2007-05-13 MONROE, La., May 12 (AP) — In 1970, salmonellosis, a disease associated with pet turtles, was diagnosed in 250,000 American children, and by 1975 the Food and Drug Administration had imposed a ban on the sale or distribution of turtles with shells smaller than 4 inches across — the size commonly sold as pets.

The ban had a multimillion-dollar impact on Louisiana. Beginning in the 1940s, the state was home to hundreds of turtle farms primarily raising red-eared sliders for pet stores across the country.

Now that scientists at Louisiana State University have developed a procedure to make baby turtles 99.9-percent salmonella free, two Republican congressmen from Louisiana, Senator David Vitter and Representative Rodney Alexander, have introduced legislation directing the F.D.A. to lift the ban. And Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, attached an amendment ending the ban to a wide-ranging bill affecting the F.D.A. that has passed the Senate. Vitter is a co-sponsor of the Landrieu amendment, which still needs House approval.

“The F.D.A. is holding pet turtles to a standard that is impossible to reach — one that even food products are not expected to attain,” Mr. Vitter said in an interview about his legislation.

Turtle farmers question why the F.D.A. singled out turtles when other pets, like lizards and birds, also carry salmonella.
336 2007-05-13 An article last Sunday about the cultural and political implications of the act of kissing referred incorrectly to the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who refused to apologize to clerics in his country for kissing the gloved hand of an elderly woman. It was Iran's former president, Mohammad Khatami — not Mr. Ahmadinejad — who visited Pope Benedict XVI in the midst of the controversy.
337 2007-05-13 “No one knows how to define progress in such a mixed-up situation,” said Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia and a member of the subcommittee that overseas military spending. “We’re having trouble measuring it. Imagine building a house without a ruler.”

Mr. Kingston, who holds weekly breakfast meetings with the Republican “theme team,” a group of about 30 lawmakers, is trying. The star of last week’s session, held in the basement of the Capitol, was the deputy prime minister of Iraq, Barham Salih, a Kurd. But equally important to Mr. Kingston was the other guest: Jason Campbell, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who is a co-author of something called the Iraq Index.

The Iraq Index is a huge compilation of data tracking life in Iraq — everything from the monthly car-bomb rate to how many foreign nationals are kidnapped to how many Iraqis have electricity and Internet access. It is long on numbers and short on analysis, though the latest report, dated April 30, includes a brief, and somewhat gloomy, summation in which the authors write that “on balance, the picture in Iraq has some signs of hope, but continues to present more grounds for worry than for confidence.”

Mr. Kingston has been circulating the index on both sides of the aisle and has asked its authors to winnow down the indicators to a manageable number — say, fewer than a dozen — that could serve as a standard bipartisan metric. Given that Brookings is a left-leaning institution, he said, he hoped Democrats might sign on.

“It would be like the Dow Jones,” he said. “Nobody accuses the Dow Jones of being biased. It would be good information for all of us. And then you could say who’s winning and losing.”

So far, Republicans like Mr. Kingston are hanging with the president on the spending bill. They voted overwhelmingly against a measure, vetoed by Mr. Bush earlier this month, to set a timeline for troop withdrawal. But they must also worry about re-election in 2008 — a worry the president no longer has. Having already lost control of Congress, they can ill afford another election in which Iraq is the dominant issue. A standardized metric might give them a useful exit strategy.

But Michael O’Hanlon, the lead author of the Iraq Index, is skeptical. He says metrics are “important grist for a fact-based debate,” but history shows it is dangerous to rely on too few of them.

“Metrics were used in Vietnam, and we had the wrong ones, and in my opinion they did net harm to the debate,” Mr. O’Hanlon said, adding, “I’m afraid that Congressman Kingston is going to continue to be frustrated, because we can’t be exactly precise about which indicators are the conclusive ones.”

In any event, such an index would be politically unpalatable to the White House, which does not want to back itself into a corner by agreeing to someone else’s standard for progress. The White House says the only progress report that counts is the one from Gen. David H. Petraeus, the new top commander in Iraq, and Ryan Crocker, the new ambassador, who are expected to testify on Capitol Hill in September.

The two are apparently trying to prepare. They have spent the last month in Iraq consulting with a team of independent advisers who have been asked to “think through the question of, Is the current strategy for waging war going well or not?” said Stephen Biddle, a defense policy expert at the Council on Foreign Relations and member of the team. Mr. Biddle could not talk about his work, he said, but he did fault the White House for not being more open with the public about its own idea of what constitutes progress.

“By being unbelievably vague about everything,” he said, “they’re making it very hard for congressmen and senators to go to their constituents and say, ‘Look, here’s why things are going better than you might imagine.’ ”

Some say measuring progress is simple: you will know it when you see it.

“I want to see life starting to come back,” said Senator Robert Bennett, Republican of Utah, who has been generally supportive of the president. “I want to see people in markets. I want to see couples strolling down the street, folks sitting at outdoor cafes.”

Others, like Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who is facing a strong Democratic challenger next year, have their own specific ideas. Ms. Collins says she is looking for provincial elections, an oil law to be signed and put in place, and “a significant reduction in violence and attacks accompanied by a transfer of more and more authority to the Iraqi forces.”

Ms. Collins, like Mr. Bennett, says much will depend on General Petraeus’s progress report. But she acknowledges that one man’s progress may be another man’s failure.

“To me,” she said, “the difficult question is going to be if the analysis is mixed, and I suspect it may well be. And for me, a mixed report is not sufficient to continue to have an open-ended commitment of troops.”

Some Republicans are not waiting until the fall to re-evaluate. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee announced last week that while he would support funding the troops, he also intends to introduce legislation to put the bipartisan Iraq Study Group report into effect. The report sets a goal of withdrawing combat forces by March 2008, a timeline Mr. Bush explicitly rejected when he announced the troop buildup in January.

Mr. Alexander said he was simply trying to bring a divided country together. “I don’t see any way for us to maintain a long-term presence in Iraq,” he said, “without more bipartisan support.”

For Mr. Bush, then, the clock is ticking. Mr. Kingston says he expects the debate to “become a lot more democratic” in the next few months, as more Republicans grow queasy and defect.

In the meantime, he hopes to come up with some useful way of figuring out whether he and his colleagues should abandon their president in September, or remain supportive for a little while longer:

“I’ve heard three years of nearly happy-talk in testimony,” Mr. Kingston said. “We always seem to be about to be around this elusive corner, but we never get there.”
338 2007-05-13 LITTLE seemed unusual outside Public School 24 in Riverdale on Wednesday morning, as a parade of buses, S.U.V.’s and sedans discharged children in scuffed sneakers in front of the two-story red brick school on West 236th Street.

To the east, where the busy thoroughfare intersects with Independence Avenue, two crossing guards wearing neon yellow vests and white gloves blew whistles and directed students through the crosswalks before the 8:40 a.m. bell rang.

But missing from the scene were the orange traffic cones that for eight years had been placed at the intersection in front of the school. Their purpose was to halt westbound traffic on West 236th Street during peak school drop-off and pick-up hours, effectively making the two-lane street one-way.

Late last month, the crossing guards, who are supervised by the local police precinct, stopped putting out the cones. Two crossing guards who stood outside the school on Wednesday declined to explain why. A Police Department spokesman, Deputy Inspector Edward Mullen, said Friday that the department had not ordered the removal of the cones.

Some parents speculate that the guards no longer wanted to be responsible for stopping the flow of traffic.
339 2007-05-13 “I was honest with my boss, but I was building contacts and a network,” he told me.

He achieved limited institutional fame when he was named Microsoft’s Worldwide Software Architect of the Year in 2003. But the next year, when his stock options vested, he quit the company to start the Perfect Future.

Mr. Anand financed his company (which is named for a favorite book, “A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Promise of Globalization,” by two Economist editors, John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge) with $25,000 of his Microsoft money. He describes the venture as “dedicated to bringing innovative solutions to emerging markets.”

“That’s where the most demanding customers exist today,” he said. “Emerging markets also offer you the opportunity to experiment on both the mobile and Web platforms since the largest number of Web and mobile users exist in those markets.”

After a number of false starts, and, like so many Indian software firms, some service work (in this case, developing the Web site of The Hindustan Times), the start-up decided to focus on education.

“We realized that in Indian schools, children find education boring and static, and teachers and administrators are overburdened,” he said. “Parents are also out of touch with what’s happening. But most importantly, children are unprepared for real life.”

India’s international reputation for educating so many to high standards is deserved, and is the more remarkable in a nation whose per-capita income was $3,700 in 2006.

According to India’s Department of School Education and Literacy, 90 percent of the country’s children enroll in school, but after five years in class around 50 percent of the students fail basic reading tests and are unable to perform single-digit subtraction. Ninety percent of Indian children drop out before they reach high school.

When I visited with Mr. Anand, his company had just moved out of a garage into its new offices (an undistinguished low-rise office block in a dry, sun-blasted field in an industrial park) and was weeks away from shipping its first branded product, called “School in a Box.” In the 115-degree heat of a Delhi afternoon (the air-conditioning in his company’s new offices had failed), Mr. Anand’s small team of programmers and educational advisers proudly showed me their answer to the problems of Indian education.

School in a Box offers Indian primary and upper primary schools (that is, for children from 5 to 14) an array of services which the Perfect Future hosts and manages. Teachers and others can use the services either on the Web, on mobile phones or even, in many cases, print them out at an Internet cafe and take them to school.

Among the tools that School in a Box users can deploy are simple text messages to notify school administrators, teachers, parents and children of important events; online student assessment tools; interactive question-and-answer examinations; and something called “activity-based learning,” or 25 games (most of them traditional and Indian) that teach children chemistry, physics and vocabulary.

By far the most interesting and radical element of School in a Box is how it attempts to promote Vedic mathematics, a system that Bharati Krsna Tirthaji Maharaja, a Hindu mathematician and scholar of the last century, claimed to have rediscovered in the Vedas, or Hindu sacred literature.

Vedic mathematics is controversial. It is associated with Hindu nationalism. The section of the Vedas where Mr. Tirthaji unearthed them is notoriously obscure, and some mathematicians believe that Mr. Tirthaji was a fabulist whose inventions distracted from the genuine achievements of ancient Indian mathematics.

While I am no great mathematician, Mr. Anand’s short tutorial revealed to me a system of remarkable power and elegance, ideally suited to calculations that must be performed without pen or paper.

Mr. Anand believes that traditional Indian learning, of which he thinks Vedic mathematics is an example, was suppressed by the British during their administration. “Most Indian children are unaware of the rich traditional knowledge and educational system of a great civilization,” he said.

The Perfect Future will earn money from School in a Box by charging schools about 15 Indian rupees, or around 40 cents, a month for each child, according to Mr. Anand. But he says the company will give away the service to the poorest schools or schools in rural areas.

Still, School in a Box, for all its high-minded promise, faces real challenges. To flourish, it would have to be purchased by Indian school administrators, who are typically conservative, and who have limited resources.

For his part, Mr. Anand believes that his service will succeed because it doesn’t threaten administrators, but will help them to do their jobs better. In the meantime, he is seeking the patronage of the minister of education for Delhi State, Arvinder Singh Lovely, whom he hopes will recommend School in the Box to administrators, and he is pursuing partnerships with other companies with interests in Indian education.

More tellingly, it’s not clear how much the new service can help Indian education. But for Mr. Anand, at least, it’s a start. “It’s not an easy task to uproot an existing system, no matter how bad, with a new one,” he argued. School in a Box, he said, won’t foment any revolution. “It was designed to bring an effective, affordable and user-friendly interface between technology and education.”

Tarun Anand is one member of an intriguing and growing group: Indians who have done well in the United States, and who, in preference to becoming even richer in their adopted country, have come home to see what commercial technology can do to improve the intractable problems of the subcontinent.
340 2007-05-13 James G. Phillips, principal in the New York-based firm TPG Architecture, and Luc Massaux, TPG’s studio design director, designed the space, whose parallelogram shape is dictated by the unusual street pattern in the financial district. The center core construction of the tower, at the foot of Greenwich Street between Barclay and Vesey Streets, is column-free, making the raw floor a blank canvas for architect and tenant. Obtuse and acute angles set it apart from office towers with square or rectangular footprints, Mr. Phillips said.

“It makes the floor plan more dynamic,” he said.

Sweeping 360-degree vistas of New York dominate the space, whose exterior walls are all glass. “The mandate was to do nothing to interfere” with the view, Mr. Phillips said. “Just bring it inside.” Partitions were kept to a minimum to preserve the views and natural light. Seven conference rooms and 35 individual offices around the periphery have glass walls, with sliding glass doors framed with galvanized aluminum. Workstations for interns, which are away from the windows and around the inner core of the building, are equipped with stools to permit the most light and good views.

Mr. Koten wanted to use as few materials as possible and wanted to conserve resources when configuring the new headquarters. Seven World Trade Center is the first New York City office tower to receive a gold rating for environmental sustainability from the United States Green Building Council.

In the Mansueto offices, there is no dry wall, for example, and ceiling tiles are used only in the private offices and conference rooms. Ceilings are raw in the rest of the space and finished only with textured fireproofing materials, while most of the floor is bare concrete coated with an epoxy finish.

There are four communal copying and printing rooms on the floor, eliminating about 40 individual printers that staff members had previously used. That move cut down significantly on the use of ink and toner, according to Ms. Kern, the general manager.

Fewer partitions also create a sense of openness that was critical to the strategy behind the design. According to Mr. Phillips, the layout was meant to engender interaction among staff members. The space is divided into sections for three divisions: one for each of the two magazines and the third for corporate offices. Pale maple work cubicles designed by the Italian company Unifor at the center of each section were given less space in favor of communal areas. Those include conference rooms in a range of sizes — from the principal one that seats 28 to one with a high, colorful Parsons-style table and four aluminum stools.

Further economizing on individual space, employees’ personal gear will be relegated to the 200 high-school-style lockers soon to be installed inside space in the unfinished building core.

“Tremendous emphasis was placed on the sharing of knowledge, rather than on personal territory,” said Mr. Phillips, whose current projects include the New York headquarters for the music publisher EMI and the retail component of the Plaza Hotel. The company also designed the studio for NBC’s “Today” show.

The offices will also feature a high-tech innovation in publishing. Computer monitors show images of page layouts that change as the editors revise them. There are 40 screens on each wall. A third display of eight monitors is to be used as needed for different Web sites, including those of Fast Company and Inc.

As in most modern office renovations, the entire floor has WiFi access so staff members with laptops can move to impromptu meetings in casual seating areas scattered around the offices or in the conference rooms.

The cafeteria is the most popular gathering spot, near the elevators. Also serving as a reception area, it is marked off by a large carpeted circle with modern tables and chairs and a serpentine bench. A cool white marble bar, a wall paneled in dark wood and a wall of banquettes upholstered in deep olive fabric create an unusual counterpoint to the corner conference room, which hangs like a sleek glass box over ground zero and the first few beams of the Freedom Tower.

The space is ultramodern but somewhat retro, Mr. Koten said. It is the feel of the newsrooms in which he started his career and which has been lost since publishing went desktop, the “sense that something was being manufactured here, and that people were creating something,” he said.
341 2007-05-13 The market for these types of jobs has evolved much more in Europe, which has agreed to curb greenhouse gases under the Kyoto Protocol, a United Nations treaty. But in the United States, which has not agreed to the treaty, the job market is blossoming as businesses realize that more legislation to cap emissions is inevitable. Already, California has passed laws to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

Voluntary efforts are growing as well amid heightened awareness of the dangers of global warming. For example, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a group of Eastern states, is creating a program for trading emission credits.

Jobs tied to the carbon markets include company project developers, who find ways to reduce emissions; brokers and traders, who bring together companies that want to buy or sell emission credits; and verifiers, who go to a business to validate the credits being offered.

Mr. Barbour said that the people he hires as verifiers typically have science or engineering backgrounds and have a broad understanding of climate change policy. Verifiers with limited experience typically start at an annual salary of about $50,000, he said, with salaries over $100,000 for experts.

In the corporate world, there is growing demand for “greenhouse gas coordinators” and “sustainability directors,” whose jobs include managing how much carbon dioxide their company is generating.

Environmental advocacy groups are looking for people to create programs that will ensure that the trading of carbon emissions credits meets standards and cuts emissions.

Environmental Defense, for example, has an opening for a carbon market specialist who would help businesses track and reduce greenhouse gas emissions — a job expected to pay $60,000 to $80,000. The group also has an opening for a carbon finance project team leader to work with the financial services industry to examine how a formal cap would affect current carbon credit markets. The salary is about $100,000.

“There probably aren’t people out there with that direct title in prior jobs, but there are people who have the skill sets that are necessary,” said Marcia Aronoff, vice president for programs with Environmental Defense in New York.

Jonathan Stack, a broker with CantorCO2e — a subsidiary of Cantor Fitzgerald that trades in gases tied to global warming — said he knew in college that he wanted a job protecting the environment. But only after taking a class at Vermont Law School in environmental law did he realize he wanted a job in trading of emission credits.

The class examined how companies addressed climate change and studied emissions trading as a way to control the release of greenhouse gases. Mr. Stack read up on the subject and contacted Josh Margolis, a managing director with CantorCO2e, who subsequently hired him.

“I want to be involved in climate change and doing what I can to stop it,” said Mr. Stack, who works in the San Francisco office of CantorCO2e. “I believe businesses will react more to carrots than to sticks.”

MANY of the jobs related to greenhouse gas emission are evolving out of ones that already existed.

Brian Anderson was recently named director of environmental management, regulatory affairs and sustainable development for the western division of the Vulcan Materials Company, a major producer of crushed stone, sand and gravel. In his previous job as manager of environmental affairs, he focused on carrying out environmental management systems.

His new job, which he assumed about two months ago, makes him responsible for how the company responds to climate change. He will help assess Vulcan’s carbon emissions and develop ways to manage them.

Mr. Anderson trained as a geologist and began his career as an environmental consultant in 2002. To prepare for his new responsibilities, he said, he sought training through professional associations. He also works closely with experts and engineers to help the company meet goals like taking inventory of emissions levels for the California Climate Action Registry.

“Climate change is rapidly evolving and so new to most of us, really, I think time will dictate where the opportunities are in the job market,” Mr. Anderson said.
342 2007-05-13 He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.)

These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2.

“The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ”

Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted.

His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said.

His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said.

“The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.”

But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ”

He decided to pursue the subject further and was led to Heather MacAllister, the founder and artistic director of Big Burlesque and the Fat Bottom Revue, a troupe of plus-size female performers in San Francisco. Ms. MacAllister died in February of ovarian cancer, but something she said to Mr. Nimoy in one of their first meetings struck a chord. “ ‘Any time a fat person gets on a stage to perform and is not the butt of a joke — that’s a political statement,’ ” he recalled. “I thought that was profound.”

Initially, he was interested in replicating Herb Ritts’s popular image of a group of nude supermodels clustered together on the floor, and a Helmut Newton diptych of women clothed and then unclothed in the identical pose. Ms. MacAllister and some of her friends agreed to be his subjects. He then posed the women to simulate Matisse’s “Dance” and Marcel Duchamp’s “Nude Descending a Staircase.”

The responses have ranged from joy to horror. One formerly obese woman said the photos terrified her; she said they recalled a picture she kept in her wallet as a reminder of her former self. Other women have thanked Richard Michelson, the Northampton gallery owner, for displaying the images, and even asked if Mr. Nimoy wanted to photograph them.

“I am actually amazed at how little negative reaction there has been,” said Mr. Michelson. “I attribute this in part to the gallery setting, and the fact that Northampton, Massachusetts, is perhaps the most liberal city in the most liberal state in the nation.”

“We do overhear some reductive ‘Is Nimoy into fat chicks’ comments when the gallery room is first entered,” he continued, “but in fact the fun nature of the work and the quality seem to shut people up by the time they leave. I’ve had a few crank e-mails with snide remarks, but not a one from gallery visitors.”

The Big Fat Blog, a Web site devoted to fat acceptance, wrote about Mr. Nimoy’s photographs in 2005. A woman calling herself Nellicat wrote in response: “I’m 5’5" and weigh between 130 and 135. But I don’t feel as comfortable in my own skin as I should. I look at those women strutting, posing, laughing, and I feel real envy towards them. There they are, posing for a man (!) knowing that the whole world will be able to see them naked (!!) and they are LOVING it. Oh, to be that free! To be that comfortable and beautiful in your body — I truly envy them.”

Though most people think of performers as naturally more unabashed than the rest of us, Ms. MacAllister said it is sometimes difficult for them, too. “We get scared and struggle w/self-acceptance and self-love just like you,” she posted on the blog at the time. “Just want you to know that ‘freedom is not free’; the freedom you see us enjoying is the result of constant hard work and eternal vigilance against the ‘tyranny of slenderness.’ ”

Mr. Nimoy was born in Boston to Russian Jews; he speaks and reads Yiddish. He began acting at 8, but his big break came at 17, when he was cast as Ralphie in a Boston production of Clifford Odets’s “Awake and Sing.” In 1966, he landed a gig on a little television show called “Star Trek,” which ran for only three seasons but would resonate for decades. He spent two seasons on “Mission Impossible” and in 1971 went to U.C.L.A. to study photography. He didn’t graduate, but he has a master’s in education and an honorary doctorate from Antioch College. He hasn’t acted since 1990, choosing to devote himself to art collecting, voiceover work and various philanthropic endeavors, including an artists’ foundation he and his wife run.

Most people know him as Mr. Spock, the terminally rational Vulcan with the famous hand signal. (The signal, which he said was his design, is actually rooted in Judaism. It represents the Hebrew letter “shin,” the first letter in the word Shaddai, which means God.)

In 2002, he published a book of photographs entitled “The Shekhina Project.” Shekhina is the feminine aspect of God; the photographs are sensual, erotic images of women draped in phylacteries, religious garments typically worn by Jewish males. The pictures were very controversial within the Jewish community: some people objected to the nudity, while others were offended by women in traditionally male garb. On the latter point, Mr. Nimoy said that he was not the first to put forth the idea. “There are historical writings of famous Jewish women, daughters of rabbis, who have done that,” he said.

He expects his second book to provoke an equally strong reaction, though he hopes the audience will gain a new perspective on the issue and learn something.

As for whether people will think he has a fetish, he said he can’t help that. “I just have no way of dealing with that,” he said with a laugh. “People will think what they’re going to think. I understand that.”

And what of his own attitude toward fat women?

“I do think they’re beautiful,” he said. “They’re full-bodied, full-blooded human beings.”

He doesn’t necessarily find them sexually attractive. “But I do think they’re beautiful.”
343 2007-05-13 SHEIK MARWAN AL-MUALLA has a new V-10 Lamborghini Gallardo that he has driven only once. Ditto for his new Ferrari.

It’s not that they aren’t nice, he says, but when it comes to sports cars, he prefers American muscle. I learned of his preference recently at the Emirates Motorplex when Sheik Marwan, son of the ruler of Umm al Qaywayn emirate, rolled up in a sleek blue-and-white Ford GT, a modern recreation of the Fords that conquered Le Mans in the 1960s.

Knowing that Sheik Marwan had financed the track himself — originally as a way to drag race against his friends — I sidled up for an interview. Eventually we retired to his trackside suite. But soon the sheik seemed distracted; another moment, I assumed, and I would be sent back outside.

Suddenly he hopped up and barked a few orders in Arabic to the track’s general manager: I’m to follow the sheik, the manager says, but where we are going is a surprise. Next thing, the sheik and I are squeezed into the space-age cockpit of his GT, barreling through the desert night at cheek-flattening speed while I clutch the armrest for dear life.

Soon we are rolling up the long driveway to one of the garages where the sheik houses his collection — dozens of unashamedly big and beautiful cars, some received as gifts, some custom-designed for him. He cannot tell you the year or model name of each one, but he knows what he likes: a Corvette-powered dune buggy and a motorcycle fitted with a helicopter engine.

One of the problems with the Lamborghini, he said, was that if you go to a city like Dubai you might see four or five in a night. Not so for most of his cars. More to the point, the Lamborghini doesn’t have a big American V-8 like the Ford GT or Corvette Z06, his favorites. AUSTIN CONSIDINE
344 2007-05-13 Melissa Costiere Holsinger, a daughter of Lorraine and John R. Holsinger of Hackensack, N.J., is to be married today to John-Paul Ryan Anderson, a son of Sandra and H. Charles Anderson of Boise, Idaho. The Rev. John J. Ranieri, a Roman Catholic priest, is to perform the ceremony at Queen of All Saints Church in Brooklyn.

The bride, 29, will keep her name. She is an associate at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, the New York law firm. In August, she is to become a law clerk for Judge Aleta Arthur Trauger of the Federal District Court in Nashville. The bride graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received her law degree from New York University.

The bridegroom, 30, received a master’s degree in public administration from New York University on Friday. He graduated from the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Wash. From 2000 to 2002, he was a Peace Corps volunteer in Gyumri, Armenia, establishing a summer camp for village children.
345 2007-05-13 Yfat Miri Reiss and Bradley Howard Gendell were married last evening by Rabbi Sol Greenberg at the Wheatleigh, a hotel in Lenox, Mass.

The bride, 36, is a founder of Foundry Literary & Media, a literary agency that is to open next month in New York. Until then, she is working as a literary agent at SharpMan Media, an author development company that she originally founded as a book publisher in 1998. She graduated from Brandeis and received a law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.

She is the daughter of Yael Reiss and Dr. Uzzi Reiss of Los Angeles. Her parents own the Beverly Hills Anti-Aging Center, where her father, an obstetrician and gynecologist, specializes in nutritional solutions to medical problems. He has also written several women’s health books with the bride.

The bridegroom, 38, is a hedge fund manager at Cumberland Associates, an investment advisory company in New York. He is the chairman of JazzReach, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting the appreciation of live jazz. He graduated from Williams College and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.

He is a son of Marion and Gerald Gendell of Tucson. His father, who is retired, was the head of public affairs and public relations at the Procter & Gamble Company in Cincinnati, where he was also the president and a trustee of the Procter & Gamble Fund, a charitable foundation.
346 2007-05-13 Re “Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife,” by Michael Winerip (Parenting, May 6): Although Deborah Garrison is clearly bright and so well balanced in her life, I shuddered — after reading her poetry — over the fact that she is the poetry editor for Knopf.

I don’t see glorious fragments of life taking shape in her poetry. With such a buildup as Ms. Garrison receives in this article, her words should be irresistible.

When it comes to poetry, please give me the amazing and raw. As a mother and everyday worker, I deserve to read what is not yet within my world of words.

George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar wrote in “Local Forecast: Bad” (Op-Ed, May 6) of the need for an “international institute” based in New York where experts “can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change.” There is also much that individuals and community groups can do to help mitigate some of the disastrous effects of “climate-driven perils.”

This year, the members of the Long Beach Interfaith Clergy Association have worked to raise awareness within our congregations of the urgent need for emergency preparedness. In the last month, the association has developed a form now being implemented here to identify those in our at-risk city most in need of assistance in the event of a hurricane or other disaster.
347 2007-05-13 “Worst case, they’re put in a vault, no more meaning to their buyer than compound interest.”

“You should buy whatever pleases you. . . . ”

As a result, the walls of Mike’s apartment were replete with art from the 19th and 20th centuries — most of it Scottish. He had eclectic tastes, so that Cubism sat alongside pastoral, portraiture beside collage. For the most part, Allan approved. The two first met at a party at the bank’s headquarters on George Street. The First Caledonian Bank — “First Caly,” as it was more usually called — owned an impressive corporate art collection. Large Fairburn abstracts flanked the entrance lobby, with a Coulton triptych behind the reception desk. First Caly employed its own curator, whose job was to discover new talent, sell when the price was right and replenish the collection. Mike had mistaken Allan for the curator, and they’d struck up a conversation.

“Allan Cruikshank,” Allan said, shaking Mike’s hand. “And of course I already know who you are.”

Allan was in his late 40s and, as he put it, “expensively divorced,” with two teenage sons and a daughter in her 20s. He dealt with H.N.W.’s — High Net Worth individuals — but assured Mike that he wasn’t angling for business. After the party, they exchanged e-mail and became friends. Mike had come to the viewing this evening only because Allan persuaded him that it might be fun. But so far Mike had seen nothing to whet his jaded appetite, other than a charcoal study by one of the major Scottish Colorists — and he already had three at home much the same, probably torn from the same sketchbook.

“You look bored,” Allan said with a smile. He held his dog-eared catalog in one hand and a drained Champagne flute in the other. Tiny flakes of pastry on his garish tie showed that he had sampled the canapés.

Allan looked around him. “Busy old night, all the same. Usual mix of freeloaders, dealers and the Edinbourgeoisie.”

“Anything you’re going to bid on come auction day?”

“Probably not. Last term’s school fees are still on my desk, awaiting checkbook.”

Mike smiled, knowing better than to offer his help — he made that mistake once before. Another tray of canapés was coming past. Allan shook his head but asked if the Champagne could be pointed in their direction.

“Not that it’s worth waiting for,” he muttered to Mike. “Have you pressed the flesh with Laura yet?”

“A glance and a smile. She seems popular tonight.”

“The winter auction was the first one she’d fronted,” Allan reminded him, “and it didn’t exactly catch fire. She needs to woo potential buyers.”

“With due respect, Mike, you’re fairly transparent. That glance you exchanged probably told her all she needed to know. When you see a painting you like, you stand in front of it for minutes on end.” The Champagne arrived, and Allan held out his glass.

“Comes with the job. A lot of H.N.W.’s want you to know what they’re thinking without having to spell it out.”

“So what am I thinking now?” Mike held a hand over his own glass, and the waiter moved on.

“You’re thinking you can do without smart alecks like me,” Allan replied. “You’re wishing you could stand in front of our charming hostess for minutes on end.” He paused. “And you’re just about to suggest a bar where we can get ourselves a real drink.”

“What’s more,” Allan added, raising his glass in a toast, “one of your wishes is about to be granted.”

Yes, because Mike had seen her, too: Laura Stanton, squeezing her way through the throng, heading straight for them. Almost six feet tall in her heels, auburn hair pulled back into a simple ponytail. She wore a sleeveless knee-length black dress, cut low to show the opal pendant hanging at her neck.

“Laura,” Allan said, kissing her on both cheeks. “Congratulations. You’ve put together quite a sale.”

“Better tell First Caly,” she said. “I’ve got at least two brokers in the room scouting on behalf of rival banks. Everyone seems to want something for the boardroom.” She turned her attention to Mike.

“Hello, you,” she said, leaning forward for another exchange of kisses. “I get the feeling nothing’s quite caught your fancy tonight.”

“Not strictly true,” Mike corrected her, causing her cheeks to flush.

“Where did you find the Matthewson?” Allan was asking. “We’ve one from the same series outside the elevators on the fourth floor.”

“It’s from an estate in Perthshire. Owner wants to buy some land so that property developers can’t spoil the view.” She turned to him. “Would First Caly be interested?”

“The snowy landscape,” Laura explained, pointing toward the far wall. “Ornate gilt frame . . . not really your thing, Mike.”

“Nor mine,” Allan felt compelled to add. “Sheep and highland cows and trees with no leaves.”

“Funny thing about Matthewson,” Laura added for Mike’s benefit, “is that they fetch more if you can see the faces of the animals.” It was the sort of tidbit she knew would interest him, and he nodded his appreciation.

“Incidentally,” he said, “I’ve hung the Monboddo.”

“Just inside the front door.” The Albert Monboddo still life was his last purchase at auction. “You said you’d come see it,” he reminded her.

“I’ll e-mail you.” Her eyes narrowed a little. “But meantime, feel free to quash a rumor I’ve been hearing.”

“That you’ve been cozying up to the city’s other, less likable auction houses,” Laura said teasingly.

“Free country,” Allan said, raising his glass to his mouth.

Mike was wondering how to answer when a meaty hand descended on his shoulder. He turned his head and was staring into the dark, piercing eyes of Robert Gissing. The older man’s huge dome of a head shone with sweat. His tweed tie was askew, his blue linen jacket creased and stretched beyond saving. All the same, he carried huge presence assisted by a booming voice.

“I see the playboys have arrived, just in time to save me from this awful hooch,” Gissing said. He wafted his empty Champagne flute like a conductor’s baton. His eyes fixed on Laura. “I don’t blame you, my dear, it is your job, after all. . . . ”

“Actually, it’s Hugh who orders in the Champagne.”

Gissing shook his head theatrically. “I’m talking about the paintings! Don’t know why I come to these tragic affairs.”

“The free drink?” Allan pretended to guess, but Gissing ignored him.

“Dozens and dozens of works, representing the best each artist could muster . . . a story behind each brush stroke, each carefully considered placing of object or subject. . . . ” Gissing pinched his thumb and forefinger together, as if holding a tiny brush. “They belong to all of us, part of our collective consciousness. They don’t belong in First Caly, where only a security pass will get you into the building, or in some insurance company’s executive washroom or a captain of industry’s wall safe or hunting lodge. . . . ”

“Or a self-made millionaire’s penthouse apartment,” Allan goaded Gissing. But Gissing wagged a finger at him.

“Your lot are the worst offenders,” he declared, “but I won’t hear a word said against young Michael here.” His hand gripped Mike’s shoulder again. “Especially as he’s just about to buy me a pint pot of whiskey.”

“I’ll leave you boys to it,” Laura said, making a small bow. “The sale’s a fortnight today . . . make sure it’s in your diaries.” There was, it seemed to Mike, a final smile just for him as she moved away.

“The Shining Star?” Gissing was offering. It took Mike a moment to realize he was talking about the wine bar up the street.

It was a low-ceilinged, windowless basement, with mahogany-colored walls and brown leather furnishings. In the past, Gissing complained that it felt like being in a well-upholstered coffin. The three men found an empty booth and waited for the waitress to take their order — whiskey for Mike and Gissing; the house Champagne for Allan.

“I meant it, you know,” Gissing was saying, “meant every word.”

“We know,” Allan told him, winking at Mike, who smiled in complicity. Robert Gissing was head of the city’s College of Art, but not for much longer. Retirement was only a month or two away, but it seemed that he was determined to argue his various points to the very last.

“I can’t believe it’s what the artists themselves would have wanted,” Gissing persisted.

“Didn’t they all crave patrons?” Mike felt obliged to ask.

“Those same patrons often lent out important works,” Gissing shot back.

“First Caly does the same,” Mike added, looking to Allan for support, but Allan was paying attention only to the bar.

“Don’t!” Allan warned, lowering his voice and leaning across the table. “Three men at the bar, necking a bottle of what looks suspiciously like Cristal. One of them’s Chib Calloway.”

“The gangster?” Gissing craned his neck to see. The man called Calloway caught the movement and stared back at the trio. His shaved, bulbous head rested on huge, hunched shoulders. He wore a black leather jacket and a distended black T-shirt. The Champagne glass looked as if it were trembling in his fist.

Allan had opened his catalog on the table and was pretending to skim through it. “Nice going,” he hissed.

“I was at the same school,” Mike added quietly. “Not that he’ll remember.”

“Probably not the time to remind him,” Allan muttered as their drinks arrived. Calloway was a known face in the city: protection, strip clubs, probably drugs too. The waitress added a warning look of her own as she moved off, but it was too late. A hulking figure was moving toward the booth. Chib Calloway rested his knuckles against the table and leaned down over it, casting a shadow across the seated figures.

“Are my ears burning?” he asked. None of the men spoke, though Mike returned the gangster’s stare. Calloway had a lined face, though only a few years older than Mike, the nicks and scrapes evidence of past fights won. “Gone all quiet, hasn’t it?” he went on, lifting the catalog and examining its cover. He opened it at random. “Seventy-five to a hundred? For some wattle and daub?” He tossed the catalog back on to the table. “Now that, my friends, is what I call daylight robbery.”

He was laughing as he went back to the bar; laughing as he finished his drink and headed out into the night with his scowling colleagues.

Allan waited a further dozen beats before speaking. “We could’ve taken them.” But his hand wasn’t at its steadiest as he raised his glass. “Rumor has it,” he added, “our friend Calloway pulled off the First Caly heist back in ’97.”

“Maybe we could get him to help us,” Gissing offered.

“Another raid on First Caly,” the professor explained into his whiskey. “Help some of those poor imprisoned paintings to escape.” He started chuckling to himself, but from above the rim of his glass, his eyes met Mike’s.

As one door closes, another one opens. . . .
348 2007-05-13 In this seat of antiterrorist wizardry the new DVD only skipped and froze and restarted once.

“The Naked City” is named after a book of photographs by the tabloid photographer Arthur Fellig, known as Weegee, as in Ouija, for his seemingly supernatural ability to find bloody crime scenes quickly. He spent his nights driving with a police radio. The book caught the eye of the screenwriter Malvin Wald, who cobbled his script from several real New York crimes. “My concept was that the Police Department — with all its fingerprint experts, crime scene photographers and autopsy physicians — solved murders, not Sam Spade-type private eyes working alone,” he later wrote.

The picture opens with a long aerial shot of Manhattan and a voice-over from the producer, Mark Hellinger. “I may as well tell you frankly that it’s a bit different from most films you’ve ever seen,” he says. “As you see, we’re flying over an island. A city. A particular city. And this is a story of a number of people, and a story also of the city itself. It was not photographed in a studio.” (Hellinger died before the film opened, and officials at the studio debated whether a posthumous voice-over would disturb the audience but ultimately kept it in.)

Mr. Kelly immediately pointed out a horse-drawn carriage in a crowded street scene, a fond memory for the boy of 6 in 1948. “My father was a milkman with a horse and carriage,” he said. “The horse knew where the stops were.”

After the movie murder the police switchboard lights up at the old headquarters building, at 240 Centre Street. Officers are seen placing calls to Roosevelt Hospital, the medical examiner, the “Research Lab” and then, lastly, “Homicide.”

The Police Building, as it is still known, is now luxury apartments, but as a police cadet, Mr. Kelly worked those switchboards at headquarters. There was no 911 system then. Manhattan callers dialed SPring 7-3100 for the police. “I had 2,000 extensions in front of me,” he said. “Very quickly you remembered most of them.”

Soon enough the film’s hero appears, Lt. Dan Muldoon, played by the Irish actor Barry Fitzgerald, in between his comedic turns as a man of the cloth in “Going My Way” and the flinty chaperone in “The Quiet Man.” Here he plays a wise police veteran, his remarks — “Haven’t had a hard day’s work since yesterday” — carried along on a lush brogue.

“Barry Fitzgerald!” Mr. Kelly shouted. “He doesn’t look right without a priest collar.” The actor was a reminder of a time when the department was predominantly Irish. “You don’t find too many cops with brogues these days,” Mr. Kelly said. “You’re just as likely to have a lieutenant who speaks Arabic.”

The film pays dearly for its triumph of location. The sound technology of the day was no match for the visuals, leaving the narrator to jauntily fill the dead air between mostly indoor conversations.

“An investigation for murder” — “Moyduh!” Mr. Kelly said, imitating the narrator’s accent — “is now under way. It will advance methodically, by trial and error, by asking a thousand questions to get one answer, by brainwork and legwork.” The narrator directly addresses characters as they appear on the screen: “Don’t bite your nails, honey. Very few stenographers are moyduhed.”

Mr. Kelly squinted at the screen as Lieutenant Muldoon met cops in his office in the 10th precinct house in Chelsea, still in use today. “I was a lieutenant at that building,” he said. “That may have been my office.”

The narrator says it is located in “a rather shabby building on a rather shabby street,” and Mr. Kelly agreed. “It was old then,” he recalled.

Lieutenant Muldoon makes his way to the dead woman’s apartment, receiving his briefing in the front room, a staple of the genre. (Question: “Where’s the body?” Answer: “In there.”) He is surprised to find Ms. Dexter laid out on her bed, not in the bathtub, where she died. Mr. Kelly seemed surprised too. “You wouldn’t move the body these days,” he said. Suddenly, as if he heard the remark, the lieutenant on screen promptly scolded a housekeeper for handling the victim, and Mr. Kelly chuckled: “I guess you wouldn’t move the body in those days either.”

The investigation proceeds, with cops hoofing up and down Manhattan, interviewing jewelers and pharmacists and society swells. The script is not without its flourishes (“She needed a good spanking.” “My hands haven’t trembled like this since I was in the South Pacific.”). But many details ring true, for example, when the lieutenant says, “Not a word about him to the newspapermen,” drawing a knowing chuckle from Mr. Kelly. The film predated the Miranda warning, so there are no lawyers. “That’s why it’s so refreshing,” Mr. Kelly said. He pointed out a suspect: “He would have lawyered-up a long time ago, this dude.”

From time to time during the film Mr. Kelly, never really off duty, glanced over at Al Jazeera or down to tap out messages on his Blackberry, a long way from his days at the telephone switchboard. Known for his tailored suits and pocket handkerchiefs, he admired the film’s wardrobe. “Everybody’s well dressed in this movie,” he said, pointing one out. “A detective with a handkerchief in his pocket.” Mr. Kelly wears a snub-nosed revolver in a holster strapped to his ankle, which looks like a prop from the old movie, except that there aren’t any in the old movie. “No snub-nosed pistols in those days,” he said. “Even the lieutenant has a big gun.”

The cops surprise a gunman in an apartment, and both sides open fire as he flees. “He got away,” the cop who lost him tells the lieutenant. “He was a husky guy. That’s all I got.”

Mr. Kelly laughed: “He didn’t tell him, ‘I fired a few shots at him.’ Just go back to work. No investigation.”

On the screen the cops catch their man’s scent again a bit past the one-hour mark, on the Lower East Side. A detective pays a nickel for a cold root beer at Rivington and Norfolk Streets, where today patrons at the restaurant Schiller’s Liquor Bar crowd three-deep for $10 cocktails. The suspect’s name is Willie Garzah, a wrestler who plays the harmonica. He seems to be the city’s only harmonica-playing wrestler (the root-beer lady says, “Sure I know him! Willie!”), and the detective is at Willie’s tenement door in no time. Willie, in the middle of his calisthenics, distracts the detective with small talk (“Some condition I’m in, eh, brother?”) before smacking him around, taking his gun and shouting: “This is a great big beautiful city. Just try to find me!” And the finale chase is on.

Mr. Kelly said, “You wouldn’t let anyone go out alone anymore.” As the unarmed detective gave chase, he watched with disapproval: “Now for my next bright move.”

The suspect runs over fences and under clotheslines heavy with wash, finally ending up at the Williamsburg Bridge and a traffic bottleneck familiar to New Yorkers today. Mr. Kelly chuckled. “It was screwed up then, in those days, the Williamsburg Bridge,” he said.

The wrestler is attacked by a blind man’s dog, but he shoots it and sprints along the bridge toward Brooklyn. Mr. Kelly said to the screen, “Radio ahead,” and once again Lieutenant Muldoon seemed to hear him, ordering: “Get radio. Have them send a car for the Brooklyn end.”

The villain, trapped, climbs a bridge tower (“as if he were launching an assault on heaven,” the writer Luc Sante observed in a booklet with the DVD). The Manhattan skyline is spread over his husky shoulder. Mr. Kelly, perhaps anxious about his next meeting, spoke to the screen with a reasonable imitation of Mr. Fitzgerald’s brogue: “It’s all over, Garzah. Jump. Make it easy on all of us.” His wish comes true, more or less, with gunshots and a thud. Night fell on the screen as Mr. Kelly pulled on his suit coat and offered his appraisal.

“It’s reasonably authentic, in terms of investigative techniques,” he said. “These days there’s a lot more technology. Better tactics.”

Sure. But what about the film, commissioner?

He replied, “It actually was a pretty good movie.”
349 2007-05-13 One of the tenderest, least self-interested love scenes to have graced a page in a decade or so pops up a little more than halfway through Cathleen Schine’s latest novel, “The New Yorkers,” when Everett, a gruff, divorced 50-year-old chemist who has been conducting a lazy affair with a 26-year-old named Polly (she lives in his building), is bowled over by a wave of bliss. As Everett sits in his apartment, reading the paper and sipping a martini, a pair of warm eyes unexpectedly meets his, and his world turns from blasé to rosé. “Everett experienced an unfamiliar sensation,” Schine writes. “He was suddenly, intensely aware of the room around him, of the soft order of his furnishings and his life, of the soft order outside where day was giving way to night, of the TV sounds and the cold wet of the martini glass, of the smudgy feel of newsprint on his fingers, but mostly he was aware of joy — the wild, clattering joy of being alive. ‘Howdy,’ he whispered.”

“Howdy” may sound like anticlimax, especially coming from a non-Texan. But Everett’s epiphany is not a coup de foudre for Polly; it’s an onrush of puppy love for her hound, Howdy. A lifelong dog agnostic, Everett quickly becomes a believer. (Howdy, of course, was already one of the faithful.) “The two of them gazed into each other’s eyes, like lovers,” Schine writes. Everett’s newfound affection for the canine species transforms his ordinary Upper West Side neighborhood into a playground. Walking Howdy in Central Park while Polly is on vacation, Everett interacts with local men, women and children, and their terriers, poodles and Labradoodles, shedding his standoffishness and unleashing his humanity. After five days, he notices that “life had come alive for him. His street was full of people, and his city was full of streets. His park, once nothing more than a grand exercise track, was now a landscape, a lawn, a garden, a thicket, a boulder, a swamp.” If you are one of this city’s one million dog owners, you may thrill to Everett’s rapture. For the uninitiated or unsusceptible, it’s a dog thing: you wouldn’t understand.

A redemptive fairy tale of urban loneliness, set on an appealing but “slightly raffish” and “not terribly clean” street in the West 70s, “The New Yorkers” lays out a sidewalk’s span of paper-doll characters, most of them the sort of people you might not recall if you scanned their photos in an old school yearbook, but without whom subways, streets, squares, cafes and concert halls would be echoingly empty. In her previous novels — like the elegantly intricate “Rameau’s Niece” and the delectable fantasy “The Love Letter” — Schine built her stories around one central person, or couple, or close knot of relatives, whose struggle tugged the plot forward. But here, her characters — with the exception of a brother and sister who share an apartment — are an unconnected group of people who have been nudged into a herd by one another’s pets, and are striking chiefly in their unremarkableness. Not particularly good at playing with others, they are socialized by four-footed companions that serve as fairy godmothers to these contemporary Cinderellas, who may not clean up too well but still deserve a fair shake.

One of them, a middle-aged social worker named Simon, has “the crumpled face of a man who has just climbed out of bed” and describes himself as “a fussy, intolerant old maid”; Jody, an eccentric but upbeat music teacher, takes pride in her insomnia and knits a sweater for a crush who doesn’t even know her name; while a badly dressed bartender named George lacks all ambition at 28, and lives with his sister (Polly). The characters don’t aggressively seek out one another’s company, but they don’t need to hold hands to be connected; the dogs at their heels join them together, and magnify their attraction for one another. Anyone who has ever caught the boastful glint in a dog’s eye as it walks bouncily ahead of its bedraggled, sweat-pants-wearing owner will recognize the chord Schine sounds here: would we could all see in one another what dogs see in their owners. With the author’s gentle cues, we look fondly at the animals, then raise our eyes with heightened interest to their owners.

The mutts and men in Schine’s tale meet with uncanny frequency at a Cheers-style neighborhood restaurant called the Go Go Grill, which is owned by a gay father of five little kids; he is also the parent of two cairn terriers that have free run of the Grill. Apart from the transparent device of this too-convenient rallying point (have these unimaginative neighbors never heard of Shun Lee West? Rosa Mexicano? Lincoln Center? the AMC multiplex? Gray’s Papaya?), the narrative proceeds with curiously unforced yet purposeful forward motion, like a dog that’s determined to enjoy its walk, regardless of the sights en route. Fetching line drawings by Leanne Shapton frisk through the pages, feeding the indulgent mood and throwing a bone to readers who think their own breed, mix or mutt is the only kind that deserves artistic rendering, whether it’s a bat-eared dachshund, a defiant Westie, a humorously awkward terrier mix or a bobble-head puppy of indeterminate parentage.

Like the daemons in Philip Pullman’s series “His Dark Materials,” who can’t live when separated from their human hosts, Schine’s animals seem to hold the souls of their dog sitters, yielding the inevitable equation: No dog = no soul. And just as when, in a movie, you see a woman light a cigarette, you can guess she’ll turn out to be a cruel malefactor, whenever any of Schine’s characters reveals a hatred for hounds, you know a conversion or comeuppance is in store. Thus, Simon of the “crumpled face” seems deserving of sympathy until, late in the game, it is revealed that he detests the baby voices people use with their pets, and privately permits himself the uncharitable thought: “These people and their dogs. Get a life.” Doris, a wicked-witch dog hater whose skin is unnaturally orange instead of green, is downright loathsome (she drags a health official into the Go Go Grill to out the cairns, or, as she calls them, “the violations”) until she acquires a teacup Pomeranian and, thereby, a heart.
350 2007-05-13 A foundation hired me to start and help run a philanthropy club at the high school where I am a junior. We raise money for women’s health in Mexico. None of the other members are paid. Am I ethically wrong not to tell them (or colleges or future employers) that I am paid for work they might assume is voluntary? — Anna Akullian, Berkeley, Calif.

I prefer to put this affirmatively: it is good to be open and honest in this situation (as in so many). There is nothing wrong with your being paid for a job that others do gratis. Some people help out at a soup kitchen, for instance, working alongside paid staff. But in such cases, everyone knows what they’re getting into. Club members can make a meaningful decision to do unpaid work only if they have an understanding of the circumstances, including yours. Such transparency gives them the information they need and allows you to avoid the queasy feeling of acting under false pretenses. And as things stand, you’ve nothing to hide and much to be proud of.

My brother, an eighth grader in a school where I am a junior, gave a speech about the genocide in Darfur to his English class. His teacher and classmates chose him to present it to the entire grade. School administrators would not let him speak unless he removed a sentence containing the word “rape,” finding it inappropriate for 13-year-olds. Is this censorship, or does the school have a valid point? — name withheld

It is reasonable for the school to consider what presentations are appropriate for students of various ages, but not every conclusion is wise. I would agree with those administrators if your brother were in kindergarten and illustrated his talk with horrifying photographs, but in his actual circumstances, “censorship” is an apt description — not in the sense of trying to cover up the atrocities of Darfur, but of foolishly trying to shield older students from harsh truths expressed in precise language.

Your brother’s teacher admired his speech, and your brother delivered it to his class without ill effect — school officials should not have intervened. A discussion of the ghastly events in Darfur must mention rape, lest the audience be significantly misinformed. Your brother spoke in a serious way, using language eighth graders can hear on a nightly newscast (and without the flashy graphics and florid music).
351 2007-05-13 My best friend and I decided if we dated the sisters of the heads of the clubs, we’d be safe. He dated the sister of one club’s leader, and I went out with the sister of another. It worked.

When I was a student at Virginia State University, my oldest brother was drafted and sent to Vietnam. My mother wept as she read letters describing his near-fatal experiences.

He also discussed race relations in the military. I was disturbed and wanted to enlist and help him.

My mother told me to wait and become an officer because I could have a greater impact. I went through R.O.T.C. and was commissioned a lieutenant in the Army.

Now I command the organization that produces nearly two-thirds of all Army officers. I believe I am making a difference.

While serving in West Germany in the 1970s, I took a risk that made my career as a young cavalry officer. My troop patrolled the borders between East and West Germany and Czechoslovakia.

One day while on reconnaissance maneuvers against another American unit, I found a hole in the opposing force’s lines. I knew if I could get behind them I could win the mock battle.

After marching all night and near exhaustion, we came to a bridge rated to hold 30 tons. Our tanks weighed about 52 tons.

There was no time to turn back and try something else. We’d been trained to survey bridges and determine how much weight they could sustain.

I calculated that the bridge could carry the extra weight. I had the tank crews dismount except for the drivers, whom I told to drive very slowly over the bridge one by one.

We succeeded and won the fight. If the bridge had caved in, my career would have been over.

As brigade combat team commander overseeing 6,500 soldiers in the late 1990s, part of my job was to peacefully disarm the Bosnian special police. I approached their area with my personal security detachment and three Humvees armed with machine guns and grenade launchers.

I asked the leader to surrender his arms and he said, “Colonel, do you think it’s a good day to die?” Then his forces aimed their rifles at us. I told him every day is a good day to die — if it is for the right reason.

At that point my security detachment cocked their rifles and aimed them at his forces. At the same time, my other forces, which had been hidden from view, emerged.

We negotiated for 40 minutes, discussing the capabilities of our respective weapons systems, and how unfortunate it would have been for him to have fought that long war against his enemies only to die that day. They surrendered their arms.

On 9/11, I was deputy director of operations of the Pentagon’s National Military Command Center and the general officer in charge. My team remained in the building after the plane hit. We were the link between government leaders and the military around the world. We also held the controls for America’s nuclear arsenal.

It was my job to convey the order from the vice president to shoot down hostile aircraft. Thanks to the heroes of Flight 93, that order never had to be carried out.
352 2007-05-13 In his rush to achieve a state of samadhi, Russell Simmons apparently skipped right over the principle of ''ahimsa,'' which, simply put, means to do no harm (Deborah Solomon, April 29). Hardly the sentiment behind so many of the rap lyrics advocat...
353 2007-05-13 Photo of New Jersey Gov Jon Corzine meeting with cabinet for first time since his April 12 auto accident...
354 2007-05-13 To The Editor: Thank you to Joshua Kurlantzick for including the American Jewish World Service in ''21st-Century Religious Travel: Leave the Sackcloth at Home'' (April 29). Readers may have been left unclear, however, about the kinds of travel exp...
355 2007-05-13 I certainly resonate to Lisa Sanders's (Diagnosis, April 22) feeling that she had been ''punched in the chest'' as she realized that while focusing on her patient's immediate problems, she had missed an enlarged prostate. However, I was taken abac...
356 2007-05-13 This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. In tent, trapeze and baby-doll shapes, these dresses give lots of coverage on top and maximum exposure on the bottom: it's a good ye...
357 2007-05-13 Jon Mooallem's article (April 29) literally and figuratively opened my eyes. After reading that the porn company Kink.com had a disproportionate number of employees who were graduates of the University of California at Santa Cruz and that its foun...
358 2007-05-13 WEXLER--Melissa Ann. May 9th, 1958-September 12th, 1981. Dear Missy, we miss you everyday, especially on your Birthday. Love, Mommy Arline Joachim, Eddie, Sheri & Larry...
359 2007-05-13 HOLBROOK--Ruth Price, of East Blue Hill, ME died May 1, 2007. She was born on November 9, 1911 in Walpole, MA and was predeceased by her husband, Luther Gardner Holbrook in 1979 after a long and happy marriage. Ruth graduated from Wheaton College ...
360 2007-05-13 WEISS--Jeanne (Nana) on May 11, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Edward, loving mother of Vivian Hammer and her husband Glenn, adoring grandmother of Rachel and Edward. She will be remembered for her love of family and many friends. Service Monday, ...
361 2007-05-13 To the Editor:     Re ''Young, Gifted, and Not Getting Into Harvard,'' by Michael Winerip (Parenting, April 29):      As the parent of a high school junior, I am very conscious of the articles devoted to college admission. The application process ...
362 2007-05-13 Melissa Costiere Holsinger, a daughter of Lorraine and John R. Holsinger of Hackensack, N.J., is to be married today to John-Paul Ryan Anderson, a son of Sandra and H. Charles Anderson of Boise, Idaho. The Rev. John J. Ranieri, a Roman Catholic pr...
363 2007-05-14 When it comes to executive pay on both sides of the Atlantic, Jean-François Théodore is probably not shouting "vive la difference." Financial News points out that Mr. Theodore, who was head of Euronext and is now deputy chief executive of the ne...
364 2007-05-14 Some Bancroft family members want to meet Rupert Murdoch to discuss his $5 billion offer for Dow Jones but they face stiff opposition from other relatives, The Financial Times reported. Mr. Murdoch has been pressing for a meeting with the Bancroft...
365 2007-05-14 As lawmakers continue to scrutinize the hedge fund industry, a recent surge in the hiring of lobbyists and stepped-up contributions to political action committees by managers in the $1 trillion hedge fund industry and top officials of private-equi...
366 2007-05-14 Spain's Telefonica has reached a deal to sell the Dutch TV company Endemol, creator of the "Big Brother" show, for 2.63 billion euros ($3.55 billion) to a consortium including the Mediaset media empire controlled by the family of the former Italia...
367 2007-05-14 News that a Russian-born billionaire is buying a stake in Houston's Lyondell Chemical fueled an 11 percent surge in shares of the company on Friday in anticipation of a possible takeover. Leonard Blavatnik, chairman of New York-based private equit...
368 2007-05-14 Seasoned managers know one of the coldest truths of corporate life: A new chief executive means a scramble for survival in executive suites. Fresh research published by a father-and-son team in this month's Harvard Business Review shows just how t...
369 2007-05-14 DaimlerChrysler confirmed Monday that it would sell a controlling interest in its struggling Chrysler Group to Cerberus Capital Management of New York, a private equity firm that specializes in restructuring troubled companies. The price being pai...
370 2007-05-14 A look at the critical hits and misses from the 2006-2007 Broadway season....
371 2007-05-14 Anyone who wanted a crash course in downtown dance currents could have spent several profitable evenings attending the recent “La MaMa Moves!” festival, where some 50 companies and choreographers have been presented over the last two weeks.

Narrative — not usually a popular downtown inclination — was surprisingly alive on the final program of “Motion Makers,” on May 6. Zach Morris and Tom Pearson’s enigmatically titled “Rub the Sleep” and Stefanie Nelson’s “Out of Wonderland” both had stories of a kind, even if neither was entirely clear. Both had their moments of loopy charm: “Rub the Sleep” had a 1950s look with oppressed housewives, face cream, lipstick, a sharp knife and a dreaming prom queen; “Out of Wonderland” featured a tortured Lewis Carroll and (perhaps) his real-life Alice.

Yet both squandered their virtues by staying onstage far too long — a drawback of most “Motion Makers” pieces, which included Mary Seidman’s emotive, well-danced “Who Will Roll Away the Stone” and Valerie Green’s impenetrable “Shedding.” The exception was Nina Buisson and David Kieffer’s “Chambre Noire,” a taut, atmospheric male duo for Mr. Kieffer and Joey Celej to incantatory music by Dead Can Dance. Mr. Kieffer has an extraordinary ability to move with pantherlike smoothness from low rolls and crouches to sudden levitating jumps, often propelled off the bench on which he first sits, and sometimes ricocheting off a wall. But there is more to this piece, which skillfully juxtaposes fast athletic partnering and slow, isolated meditative states to evoke emotion and atmosphere from little more than two bodies in space.

The same ability to conjure much from little was evident in Douglas Dunn’s solos on the festival’s final program, “Inventors,” on Friday night. It featured the happy combination of works by Mr. Dunn, part of a generation of modern dancers and choreographers who transformed the field in the 1960s and ’70s, and by Christopher Williams, who has danced with Mr. Dunn’s company and made a considerable impact of his own over the last few years.

Mr. Dunn’s minimal solos focus on matter-of-fact, deadpan presentation of pure movement. Sometimes it is as simple as his windmilling arms in the 1975 “Gestures in Red”; sometimes more complex, like the controlled and dreamlike movement of an extract from the 1987 “Peepstone,” beautifully performed by Mr. Williams. (Paul Singh gave an equally delightful rendition of another “Peepstone” extract, flinty and quick.)

Mr. Williams, on the other hand, goes in for visually extravagant maximalism, with movement just one part of a greater theatrical whole that includes live music, singing and text. Three extracts shown from “The Golden Legend,” a full-length work Mr. Williams is currently building, each offered a physical and aural portrait of a saint (Francis of Assisi, James the Greater, Pancras). These were so outlandish in costume and conception as to stun the viewer into mostly happy acceptance of Mr. Williams’s extraordinary imagination.
372 2007-05-14 Progress by September - that was the latest mandate from some nervous Republicans to President Bush over the war in Iraq. However, nobody in Washington seems to agree on what progress actually means - or how, precisely, it might be measured. How d...
373 2007-05-14 The University of Texas announced today that it had fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct, saying that he had more ties to a student loan company than were previously known and had begun recommending the lender to students a few months after he purchased stock in its parent company.

The university announced the dismissal of the director, Lawrence W. Burt, who had been on paid leave since April, as it released a 33-page report with more than 100 pages of exhibits prepared by its general counsel. The report provides the most detailed public documentation yet of how lenders sought favor inside a university, and of how one financial aid office responded.

The report described a university financial aid office that was oblivious to conflicts of interest but that kept meticulous track of “lender treats” like ice cream, happy hours and birthday cakes that apparently were considered in deciding whether to put loan companies on lists recommended to students.

The report found that Student Loan Xpress, the company with which Dr. Burt had financial dealings, had the No. 1 spot on the university’s preferred lender list for four out of five years since 2001, even though no employee of the aid office “was able to articulate a compelling case” for that decision. Its customer services to students, for example, were often rated as “average,” while its “visibility” — “based on number of lunches, breakfasts and extracurricular functions” for financial aid staff — was “very good.”

The report found documents showing how lenders sought access to students through gifts to university officials. Just last February, Tom Ramaeker of Access Group, another lender, sent an e-mail message to a financial aid officer to find out whether his company “made the cut” for the 2007-08 preferred lender list. He went on to offer to take Dr. Burt and a subordinate to play golf.
374 2007-05-14 That charge, however, is not included in the case before Judge Marcia G. Cooke. The government said that it had obtained the information by questioning other terrorism suspects abroad and that Mr. Padilla had corroborated some of it during his own interrogation in a military brig in South Carolina. But federal rules of evidence prohibit or limit the use of information obtained during such interrogations.

Instead, Mr. Padilla and his co-defendants, Adham Hassoun and Kifah Jayyousi, stand accused of participating in a “North American support cell” that, the government says, sent money, goods and recruits abroad to assist “global jihad.”

Mr. Frazier spent a good part of his opening arguments defining terms like “terrorism support cell,” “jihad” and “mujahadeen.” He described Kifah Jayyousi, a Jordanian-born American citizen, as “the money man” who provided funds and equipment to terrorist groups overseas, and Adham Hassoun, a Lebanese-born Palestinian, as someone who “indoctrinated people and converted them to become Al Qaeda fighters.”

Mr. Frazier went on to describe the ethnic and religious conflicts that raged in Lebanon, Somalia, Kosovo and Chechnya in the 1990s, telling the jury that “Al Qaeda used these conflicts for its own purposes.”

He said Al Qaeda needed “people who were willing to fight and even kill” for Islamic fundamentalism — people like Mr. Hassoun, Mr. Jayyousi and Mr. Padilla. Their cell, he said, “fit right into this pattern of training, equipping and deploying Islamic fighters all over the world.”

Mr. Frazier said the jury, made up of seven men and five women, would hear and see evidence including many of the men’s phone conversations, recorded by the F.B.I., and an application that he said Mr. Padilla filled out — in Arabic, under an alias — to attend a terrorist training camp.

“The phone calls will tell the story of this case,” he said.

But Jeanne Baker, a lawyer for Mr. Hassoun, said in her opening statement that the government was “cherry-picking words here and there” from more than 300,000 taped phone calls, using “snippets” and “speculation” to further its own agenda.

“The government really is trying to put Al Qaeda on trial in this case,” Ms. Baker said, “and it doesn’t belong in this courtroom because it has nothing to do with the true facts.”

The defense lawyers asserted that their clients were merely trying to help Muslims who were under attack in places like Kosovo and Chechnya. In their context, Ms. Baker said, words like mujahadeen and jihad had positive connotations and nothing to do with terrorism.

“The mujahadeen in the 1990s were trying to stop the brutal oppression” of Muslims around the world, Ms. Baker said, adding that jihad can mean “fighting against tyranny and oppression.”

By supporting the work of Muslim charities in conflict zones like Kosovo and Chechnya, Ms. Baker said, Mr. Hassoun was preventing the killings of Muslims “who were under horrendous attack and who were resisting oppression.”

She added that Mr. Hassoun was “truly consumed” with a desire to help embattled Muslims in Bosnia, Chechnya and Kosovo.

“The government wants you to believe that what he was talking about was murder,” she said, but in fact, “he was helping to protect and defend Muslims against murder.”

Mr. Padilla’s lawyer, Anthony Natale, said Mr. Padilla was that “a young man who’s been wrongfully accused,” and that he wanted only to become an imam. That, he said, is why Mr. Padilla traveled to Egypt in 1998.

“As you will hear clearly and without a doubt,” Mr. Natale said, “there were no victims in this case, real or imagined.”

After being held without charges for more than three years, Mr. Padilla was transferred to civilian custody. The transfer took place just as the United States Supreme Court was weighing whether to take up the legality of his military detention.

Mr. Natale said the training camp application was a “questionable document” that contained not just Mr. Padilla’s fingerprints but several others. He also suggested the handwriting on the application was not Mr. Padilla’s.

“In this case,” Mr. Natale said, “you will see how, in the absence of hard evidence, a suspicion can be fueled by fear, nourished by prejudice and directed by politics into a criminal prosecution.”

Both sides will begin presenting testimony on Wednesday. The trial, conducted under heavy security, is supposed to last well into August.
375 2007-05-14 The driver of an overloaded minivan lost control of the vehicle early yesterday on the Harlem River Drive in northern Manhattan, the police said, and one of 10 people on board, a 14-year-old boy, was killed when it hit a light pole.

The boy who was killed was identified as George Perez, from Manhattan. The police identified the driver of the minivan, a 2005 Dodge Caravan, only as a 35-year-old woman. She and eight other people — including another adult who was in the front seat, and seven children, from two months to 16 years old — were taken to Harlem Hospital Center, where all were listed in stable condition. The police declined to identify any other of the vehicle’s occupants pending notification of their families.

What caused the driver to lose control remained unclear last night. Investigators said the minivan was traveling south on the Harlem River Drive near 180th Street at 2:15 a.m. when it swerved with such force that George was thrown partly out a window from one of the rear seats. He was directly in the path of the light pole when the crash occurred, and was declared dead at the scene, the investigators said.

The police did not know whether George had been wearing a seat belt.

The Dodge Caravan, like many other models of minivans, was designed with seats and seat belts for no more than seven occupants, the police said.

They said the driver was cited for driving without a license and for operating an overloaded vehicle under a state law that forbids having more occupants than seat belts in a moving vehicle.

While declining to identify any of the others, the investigators said it did not appear that the children were all members of the same family, based on their last names.
376 2007-05-14 The military command has not released the names of the victims they have already identified.

American military officials offered few details on Sunday about the search but said they were sparing no resources.

“Everybody is fully engaged, the commanders are intimately focused on this,” Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the top American military spokesman, said at a news conference with reporters from the Iraqi news media, according to The Associated Press. He said the searchers were utilizing “every asset we have, from national assets to tactical assets.”

Troops surrounded the town of Yusufiya, near Mahmudiya along the eastern bank of the Euphrates River, conducted house-to-house searches and checked all cars entering and leaving town, The A.P. reported.

The Islamic State of Iraq posted its claims of responsibility on jihadist Web sites on Sunday. “Clashes between your brothers in the Islamic State of Iraq and a Crusaders’ patrol in Mahmudiya, southern Baghdad province, has led to the killing and arresting of several of them,” the message said.

If history is any measure, the chances of the Americans surviving capture would be slim. The organization has claimed responsibility for numerous killings of prisoners.

Last June, insurgents captured two American soldiers during a surprise attack near Yusufiya. After a four-day search by 8,000 American and Iraqi troops, the soldiers’ bodies were found about three miles from the site of their kidnapping. They had been tortured, and insurgents had booby-trapped the road leading to the bodies.

The Mujahedeen Shura Council, an umbrella insurgent group that was a precursor to the Islamic State of Iraq and included Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, claimed responsibility for those killings.

Controlling the predominantly Sunni towns on the periphery of the capital, such as Mahmudiya and Yusufiya, has become an important element of the American command’s latest strategy for trying to pacify the capital. American commanders say the insurgency has been using these outlying, rural towns — comprising what the Americans call “the Baghdad belts” — to store munitions, build car bombs, hide fighters and stage attacks on the capital.

But in public comments in the past two weeks, the American military commanders who control access routes into the capital from the north and south have described in unusually frank terms the challenges they face.

On Friday, Maj. Gen. Benjamin R. Mixon, who commands American troops north of Baghdad, said he did not have enough troops to fight the insurgency in Diyala Province, which has become one of the most violent areas and among the deadliest for American forces.

On May 5, Maj. Gen. Rick Lynch, who oversees about 26,000 American troops in an area bounded by the Tigris and Euphrates rivers south of Baghdad, including Mahmudiya and Yusufiya, described the struggle in Iraq as “three-dimensional chess in the dark — and that’s an understatement.”

“There’s no simple solution here,” he told reporters. He said the American military’s work is “not an impossible task, but it’s going to take a long time.”

In the first 45 days after his division’s deployment in March, his troops suffered 13 deaths, he said, adding that he expected the number to rise as American troop levels increase over the summer.

Both Mahmudiya and Yusufiya are situated east of the Euphrates, which is bracketed by thick date-palm orchards used by insurgents as hideouts because the dense foliage shields them from American aerial reconnaissance. General Lynch said that while Sunni and Shiite militants operate in his area, he regarded Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia as his most serious problem.

“It’s like a hydra,” he said. “It keeps regenerating its heads.”

In violence elsewhere, the American military said Sunday that two American soldiers died in separate attacks — one on Saturday near Haditha, in Anbar Province, the other on Sunday in Salahuddin Province.

In the deadliest attack on Sunday, a suicide car bomb exploded outside an office of a leading Kurdish political party in the northern town of Makhmur, killing at least 50 people and wounding 115, said Brig. Mohammed al-Wagaa, an Iraqi Army commander in Mosul.

The attack occurred at the gate of a government compound that includes the offices of the Makhmur mayor and the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the organization led by Massoud Barzani, president of the region of northern Iraq known as Iraqi Kurdistan. Makhmur is located just south of the region but has a sizable Kurdish population.

The blast destroyed several buildings and houses, “many cars” and a gas station, according to Abdulrahman Belaf, the mayor of Makhmur, who was in his office at the time and was wounded in the attack. The town’s police chief died in the blast, officials said.

It was the second vehicle bombing in five days against Kurdish targets in northern Iraq.

Makhmur falls within an area that the authorities in the Kurdistan region want to annex. The Iraqi Constitution calls for a referendum before the end of year on whether a swath of territory in three northern Iraqi provinces, including the oil capital of Kirkuk, should become part of the Kurdish-controlled region.

American and Iraqi officials say they expect a sharp rise in violence as the referendum nears, mainly led by Sunni Arab insurgents opposed to a geographic expansion by the Kurds.

Kurdish officials said Sunday that they did not yet know who was responsible for the attack in Makhmur or whether it was related to an attack last week in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdistan region, in which a truck loaded with explosives was detonated in front of offices of the Kurdish regional government, killing at least 19 people and wounding more than 70.

In Baghdad, a car bomb exploded at the Sadriya market in a predominantly Shiite quarter in the eastern part of the city, killing at least 5 people and wounding 40, an official at the Interior Ministry said.

The neighborhood has been a repeated target of attacks in recent months. On April 18, at least 140 people were killed and 150 wounded when a bomb exploded in an informal bus station near the market. On Feb. 3, a truck bombing killed at least 137 people, wounded 305 and obliterated part of the market.

In another attack on Sunday, gunmen broke into a flour factory in the Uaireej district south of Baghdad, killing five people and wounded four, the Interior Ministry official said.

The Iraqi authorities reported finding at least 11 bodies dumped around the capital, and 10 bodies in the streets and empty lots of Baquba, the capital of Diyala Province. A former senior official in the Baath Party in Mosul was killed by gunmen, officials said.
377 2007-05-14 “To me, this is a great sport,” Mr. Leshem said. “Right now it’s got a little bit more of a carnival atmosphere than perhaps we intend, but I can tell people are buzzing. There’s a lot of energy here, and we’re culling the field down to the best of them.”

The tournament is a single-elimination contest. Opponents stand across from each other over a table, and a referee tells players when to go. The winner of two of three throws wins a set, and the person who wins two of three sets moves on to the next round. As is conventional, players throw rock, paper or scissors, with rock crushing scissors, paper covering rock and scissors cutting paper.

Mr. Leshem said he considered the event an important step toward earning respectability for the game, providing clear rules, refereeing standards and creating a community for like-minded people to indulge their passion. He says there are hundreds of thousands of competitive rock-paper-scissors players, and he dreams of making it an Olympic event.

Leagues have existed for years, according to the World Rock Paper Scissors Society. The first known formal contest in the United States took place in 2001 at the Burning Man festival in the northern Nevada desert, with 100 players vying for a T-shirt. The poker player Phil Gordon holds a World Series of Rock Paper Scissors at the World Series of Poker each year with a $500 buy-in and a $10,000 prize. In 2005, a Japanese businessman used the game to decide which of the two top American auction houses would sell his company’s art collection.

“Even before the invention of scissors, we have evidence of tripartite hand games,” said Jason Simmons, who will do color commentary when the tournament is shown on ESPN in July. Mr. Simmons, who organized the Burning Man contest in 2001, is known in these circles as Master Roshambollah after roshambo, the French name for the game. “It’s been played under many names for probably millennia. But this is as big as I’ve ever seen in terms of the spectacle, the preparation of the players, the media interest and the size of the actual site.”

Anheuser-Busch is the engine behind the national tournament. Beer distributors organized tournaments at bars around the country, producing regional finalists, and the company put up the prize money and paid for each finalist and a guest to fly to Las Vegas for three days.

Many contestants were having a bit of trouble getting their heads around the idea that they were in Las Vegas, on a free vacation, just to play in a rock-paper-scissors tournament.

“Everyone thought I was lying,” said Rachel Fricker, 24, a nursing student from Harrisburg, Ill., who had not been on a plane before this trip. “Nobody believed that rock-paper-scissors was a real big thing. I didn’t either. Then one day, I was at Poor Boy’s Lounge and they asked me to play and I did and here I am.”

While many said the free trip was reward enough, others had hopes for the top prize. Among those was Antony Maanum, 26, of Overland Park, Kan., who won his passage at Maloney’s Bar and Grill in Shawnee Mission, Kan. Mr. Maanum was dressed in a custom-made red silk boxing robe with white lettering on the back that read “Antoine ‘Shears’ Maanum,” and explained that he was wearing red cooking mitts because “my hands are just too hot.”

The costume and the Ali-like persona, he admitted, was part of his strategy.

“It’s kind of silly, but you see boxers all the time and they’re cocky and they’re full of attitude, and I thought I’d take it to another level,” said Mr. Maanum, a lifelong player who said he became so good as a child that others would only flip coins with him to decide things. “I’m definitely serious when I’m playing the game, but with my costume my opponents don’t think so. And I beat them.”

Some view the game as a matter of pure luck, but others, like Mr. Leshem, say there is a clear-cut strategy that involves learning to read an opponent, much as poker players do.

“This is a sport that, as you can see, unites people from all walks of life to play,” Mr. Leshem said. “It’s a sport that has a very low barrier of entry, and yet it’s something if you really want to get good at, you can.”
378 2007-05-14 Now, rebels are putting new pressure on the government, two weeks before the transfer of power on May 29 from President Olusegun Obasanjo to his handpicked successor, President-elect Umaru Yar’Adua.

In a separate incident, the Italian energy giant Eni declared a state of force majeure — an uncontrollable event that releases one from fulfilling a contractual obligation — for oil exports from its Brass terminal last week. Simultaneous attacks on its pipelines had forced the company to shut down 98,000 barrels a day of production.

About a quarter of Nigeria’s oil output, which typically totals about 2.5 million barrels a day, has been out since January 2006. Local armed groups have demanded that a bigger share of the country’s oil wealth be distributed to the Nigerian states where the oil is in fact produced.

The attacks, along with kidnappings of a nonpolitical nature, have helped force up world oil prices at a time when global supplies are constrained. Nigeria, the leading producer in Africa, is one of the largest suppliers of crude oil to the United States.

On Friday, next-month crude oil futures settled on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $62.37 a barrel, up nearly 1 percent.

The increase in violence could jeopardize plans by Royal Dutch Shell, the biggest oil producer in Nigeria, to restart production from its fields in the western part of the delta, which have been down for more than a year.

A leading rebel group, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, has pledged that it would renew attacks against pipelines, platforms and workers to halt oil exports.

“We promised to give the present Nigerian administration a shameful sendoff,” the group said in a statement on May 1 after a series of coordinated attacks on oil installations. “It is also a warning to the incoming government, which we view as an extension of the present. We will continue with our struggle for justice until we achieve all our goals without exception.”

The Nigerian government was also criticized last week for starting a new auction round for oil-exploration licenses, granting preferential rights to Chinese and Indian companies. The auctions have come under fire from advocates of corporate transparency who are critical of attempts to hand over politically favorable licenses shortly before Mr. Obasanjo leaves office.

The violence forced oil companies to bolster security and oil workers to hunker down in fortified compounds in the delta. But the measures seem to have had little effect.

So far this year, 93 foreigners have been kidnapped, including nearly 30 since the elections on April 21. The number of kidnapped workers already exceeds last year’s, when 80 foreigners were seized in the region. Most are released unharmed in exchange for ransom payments.
379 2007-05-14 And already, 2007 is looking worse than 2006. Early this year, Dow Jones projected that for the year, The Journal would see an increase in ad revenue in the midsingle digits. Instead, through the first four months of the year, it is down more than 4 percent from the year-earlier period, despite the resources being poured into the Saturday issue and the decision to open up the paper’s front page to advertising last fall.

Last week, Lehman Brothers projected a slight decline for the year in ad revenue at Dow Jones’s consumer media group, which includes The Journal, Barron’s and MarketWatch, with declines at the print Journal wiping out the online gains, and then some.

Mr. Murdoch argues that the News Corporation can capitalize on The Journal’s strength as a brand, leveraging it for a new Fox business cable channel and pouring more money into its European and Asian editions. The Bancroft family, which owns a controlling share of Dow Jones, opposes Mr. Murdoch’s bid of $60 a share, although the opposition is based more on philosophical reasons than financial ones.

In part, The Journal’s recent struggles can be attributed to its longstanding commitment to high-quality journalism that translates into high costs, and to the particular pressures felt by a business-oriented newspaper.

But they are also the result of some management decisions to expand during the late 1990s boom, high turnover in the paper’s ad sales department and recent attempts to broaden the paper’s advertising base with the Saturday issue.

The Journal and its Web site account for most of the consumer media group, which makes up about 55 percent of Dow Jones’s revenues. As a whole, the group posted a slight operating loss in 2005 and a positive margin of 3 percent last year, despite unusually strong ad sales — and analysts say the margins for the Journal were probably worse.

Yet even in unsettled times, with newspapers unsure of their futures, many still rack up healthy profits. The corporate divisions that include newspapers posted 2006 operating margins of 23.7 percent at the Gannett Company, the nation’s largest chain and publisher of USA Today; 18.3 percent at the Tribune Company, which publishes The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times, where editors and publishers have been under pressure to cut costs; and 9.6 percent at The New York Times Company.

In a way, the Journal’s troubles are nothing new; Wall Street analysts, big investors and, at times, members of the Bancroft family have complained for more than a generation that it was a brilliant product poorly managed, but boom times made it profitable, anyway. In 1998, the paper added Weekend Journal, a Friday section with softer news and features, and the two years after that, operations were flush as the stock market rose and the technology industry went wild.

But this decade has amplified the industry’s troubles, with ad dollars contracting, newsprint and other costs rising, and the decades-long decline in circulation accelerating. And while Sept. 11 marked a turning point at all papers, it hit particularly hard at The Journal, whose headquarters is near the World Trade Center site.

Like many other papers, the Journal has cut costs by shrinking the physical size of the paper, losing about 10 percent of the space devoted to news in early 2007. But it has not been willing to engage in the kind of wholesale staff cuts seen across the industry.

Dow Jones Newswires and The Journal often produce separate coverage of the same events, and Dow Jones executives have argued for reducing that duplication, allowing some reduction in the news staff. The Journal’s editors and reporters have strongly resisted such consolidation, often successfully arguing that heavier use of the wires’ work would dilute the distinctiveness and quality of The Journal. But many people in The Journal newsroom also say that some consolidation is inevitable.

The Journal has additional challenges, including its heavy dependence on business-to-business advertising, which dropped sharply in the 2001 recession, and never rebounded the way consumer advertising has. In the first four months of this year, technology advertising — a business mainstay — dropped 23 percent, while total advertising volume was down 5.5 percent.

The paper, traditionally published only on weekdays, introduced a Saturday issue in September 2005, hoping to tap deeper into consumer ads and make itself competitive on coverage of news that breaks on Fridays. The company says the Saturday issue is meeting expectations — 60 percent of its advertisers last year were new to The Journal, and 70 percent of the revenue was from consumer ads.

But it is an expensive project because it means filling and printing more papers and requires new delivery arrangements to reach the homes of readers who get The Journal weekdays at work. The Weekend Edition of the Journal may turn out to be a smart long-term strategy — analysts are divided on that question — but for now, it loses money, and will continue to do so for some time. Dow Jones has said that the weekend Journal lowered earnings by about 15 cents a share last year, which translates to a loss of about $12 million.

The Journal’s attempts to sell ads have not been helped by the fact that the top advertising position will soon have changed hands five times in eight years, sometimes going to people with little or no newspaper experience.

Ad revenue at the Journal began to improve in late 2005, and in 2006, it rose 8.8 percent, the first full-year increase since 2000. Some of that was because of the Saturday issue, but even the weekday numbers rose.

But in February, the executive in charge of ad sales, Judy Barry, who was well-regarded in the company, resigned. People at Dow Jones who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak about internal matters said that she clashed with Richard F. Zannino, who had become Dow Jones’s chief executive in February, 2006. Ad revenue has dropped sharply since she left.

Last Thursday, the company put Michael F. Rooney, a career magazine executive, in charge of ad sales, with the new title of chief revenue officer. By the time he takes over next week, the position will have been vacant for three months.

Increasingly, Dow Jones is positioning itself as a digital information supplier whose parts — including newswires and the Factiva archive service — nourish one another and should not be judged singly.

But the domestic edition of the Journal remains by far the largest piece of that puzzle. The Journal is also the only large paper in the country to charge for access to its Web site. With more than 900,000 subscribers, WSJ.com has become an important source of income, but the demand for payment limits the audience it can offer to online advertisers, and the ad rates it can charge.

A former Dow Jones executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of damaging career prospects, said: “I don’t think there’s much hope of averting a revenue decline this year at The Journal, maybe even the company as a whole, and I wouldn’t be surprised if The Journal was operating in the red by year’s end.”
380 2007-05-14 Online retail executives said liberal return policies and better navigation tools on their Web sites, like the ability to zoom in on and rotate the images of a $500 handbag, have bridged the once wide gap between online and offline clothes-shopping experiences.

At the same time, the rapid growth of high-speed Internet access in American homes — now in about 50 percent of households — has made it possible for online shoppers to quickly download product images and complete a purchase in seconds, rather than minutes using dial-up services.

At Zappos.com, a popular online retailer of shoes, jewelry and clothing, free overnight shipping and free returns, with postage paid by the company, now make it possible for customers to treat the Web site somewhat like a bricks-and-mortar store, where they can try on and discard a dozen pairs of high heels.

“We think of ourselves as Netflix,” said Tony Hsieh, the company’s chief executive. “If you don’t like it, you send it back.”

Consumers are still largely reluctant to buy clothing online, at least compared with products like computers. In 2006, they made only 8 percent of all clothing purchases on the Web, compared with 41 percent of computers, 21 percent of books and 15 percent of baby supplies, according to the Shop.org report, which was prepared by Forrester Research.

But the clothing market is far larger than the others, which explains why apparel retailers are eager to refine their Web sites and win over new buyers.

There is a downside, though. Return rates for clothing bought online are about twice as high (14 percent) as other products bought on the Web, Shop.org said, giving retailers the cost of restocking and reselling merchandise.

Online apparel and footwear retailers are decking out their sites with a range of new features. At Timberland.com, shoppers can design their own boots right down to the color of the retailer’s signature tree logo. They can consult a detailed chart that converts sizes for customers in Japan, Italy and Greece. And they can spin, rotate and zoom into images of it.

“You can virtually pick up the product, giving you the essence of touch,” said Troy Brown, general manager of Timberland’s Web site. Sales at the site, started in 2001, have grown an average of 35 percent over the last three years.

A factor behind the strong growth of online clothing sales in 2006 was the start-up of several sites from prominent retailers. Gap created Piperlime, which sells shoes; Amazon.com started Endless, a site for shoes and handbags; and eBags created 6pm.com, another handbag and shoe site.

Shoppers who traditionally ordered clothing from catalogs are switching to the Web, a trend spotted by J. C. Penney executives, who run both Web site and catalog operations.

Customers now use the catalog “as a tool for online shopping,” said Richard Last, head of new business development for the department store’s jcp.com site. It reached sales of $1 billion in 2005, two years ahead of schedule, Mr. Last said.

Over all, online sales grew 25 percent in 2006, to $220 billion, including travel. Still, online sales represented only 6 percent of all purchases made last year, excluding travel packages and airline tickets.

But Shop.org, in surveying the state of the online retail industry, said the growth suggested that e-commerce “has come of age.”

The report, which surveyed 174 retailers, said the young industry was in little danger of reaching a saturation point and abruptly slowing down.
381 2007-05-14 After being accused by Radar magazine of stealing an article, the Chilean magazine Cosas said it had been hoodwinked by a reporter and had withdrawn the issue from newsstands.

Radar’s March/April issue cover article, “Toxic Bachelors,” depicted celebrities as cads; an article in the April issue of Cosas, “Solteros Tóxicos,” featured the same celebrities behaving boorishly and included what appeared to be direct translations from Radar’s article.

The Cosas article was published under the byline Manuel Santelices.

In a letter to Radar dated May 8, Carlos Alberto Reyes, a Chilean lawyer representing Cosas, said that Mr. Santelices “did not warn of any similarity of his work with other publications.”

He added that since the journalist had contributed reliably to the magazine for more than 25 years, “we did not doubt that his work fully responded to the upright norms always practiced by Cosas.” The magazine was willing to pay Radar the market price for the article, Mr. Reyes wrote.

Four days after Mr. Reyes faxed his letter, Mr. Santelices was still listed on the Cosas Web site as its New York correspondent. Neither the magazine’s executive editor, Mónica Comandari Kaiser, nor Mr. Reyes returned calls seeking comment about the status of Mr. Santelices, who does not have a published New York number.

Radar’s editor, Maer Roshan, said he was satisfied that the situation “has come to an amicable end.”

Other letters to Radar concerning the “Toxic Bachelors” article have been less amicable.

Lawyers representing two of the bachelors in the article, the talk-show host Charlie Rose, and Revlon’s chairman, Ronald O. Perelman, sent Radar a letter detailing grievances, according to Scott P. McBride, a Chicago lawyer who represents Radar.
382 2007-05-14 Internet radio sites are global by nature, streaming musical programs digitally to users all over the world. But there is no one-stop global shopping for royalty collections, which means that Pandora has to negotiate separate agreements with institutions from each territory or directly with music labels.

Global demand, though, respects no boundaries. The American Internet radio audience climbed to 34.5 million in March, and the share of listeners in Europe is even higher at 49.5 million, according to comScore, a marketing research company that tracks Internet traffic.

Those listeners are logging on to sites that can tailor programming to eclectic tastes. Live365.com, for instance, is a 10-year-old network of thousands of members who create their own online stations offering fare as diverse as Konkani music from the west coast of India or hundreds of versions of “Ave Maria.”

The expanding market has overwhelmed the existing royalty structure. But the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in London has just completed an international agreement to develop a more manageable way to stream across competing territories and collect royalties.

“In actual practice, companies had two options if they wanted to remain legal,” said Lauri Rechardt, a legal consultant who helped negotiate the agreement for the federation, which represents 1,400 record companies in 70 countries. Either they limited their service to certain territories for which they had cleared the rights, Mr. Rechardt said, or they faced the physically impossible task of striking deals with hundreds of record labels.

Mr. Rechardt said he expected 40 national royalty collection agencies in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America to sign the agreement within the next few months. On Friday, Gramex, the Finnish collection agency, was the first to sign.

But the agreement leaves rate-setting to each individual country, and for the moment the United States is poised to set what could be, in effect, a global benchmark. The proposed increases could raise the cost of sound recordings for Internet stations 300 percent to 1,200 percent, and have set off a furious political struggle.

Currently, Webcasters pay a percentage of revenue in performance royalties for music streamed to the United States to an industry-backed association called SoundExchange, which collects and distributes the money. But the Copyright Royalty Board has set new rates effective July 15 that change the structure so that Webcasters are charged each time a user listens to a song.

The pending rate increases have sparked an intense lobbying campaign in Congress by small Webcasters and large ones like AOL Radio and Clear Channel.

Those efforts prompted Senators Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, to introduce legislation last Thursday to reverse a Copyright Royalty Board decision setting the new rates.

John L. Simson, executive director of SoundExchange in Washington, said that the Webcasters had managed to portray themselves as a grassroots collection of gritty, independent Webcasters, but the ones who would benefit most were large companies with deep pockets like AOL Radio and Clear Channel.

“Do you say that if this service plays this music I get paid very handsomely, but if this service pays my music I don’t?” Mr. Simson said of the divide in resources between big Internet radio companies and smaller independents. “I think it’s a very delicate issue. And I think in any new area like the Internet there will be some businesses that survive and some that don’t.”

Along with a lobbying campaign in Congress, Webcasters are also pursuing a public relations offensive online through the SaveNetRadio coalition, which is urging listeners to contact their legislators to support the Internet Radio Equality Act.

Last.fm, a popular Webcaster in London that is also a social networking site, will be affected by the rate increases, but is not terribly worried because of direct deals that it has negotiated with major labels, according to Christian Ward, a spokesman for Last.fm.

“The industry trusts us,” Mr.Ward said, “which means that there are always ways around the issues. It will be difficult, but we’ll find our way around the problem.”
383 2007-05-14 TOP SELLER ONLINE -- For the first time since online retailing was born a decade ago, sales of clothing have overtaken those of computer hardware and software, suggesting that consumers have reached a new level of comfort buying merchandise on the...
384 2007-05-14 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, the Westchester Democrat, has something to add to the campaign finance bill now being batted around between Governor Spitzer, for whom it is a top priority, and Mr. Bruno, for whom it is not.     Mr. Brodsky wants t...
385 2007-05-14 FLEISSNER--Erwin, 70, died on May 12, 2007 at home. Devoted husband of Judith Friedlander, loving father of Jennifer (Joshua Kates) and Katie, adoring grandfather of Ezekiel, devoted brother of Robert and son-in-law of Sadie Klein, mother of his d...
386 2007-05-14 SHELTON--Miss Frances Elizabeth was the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John B. Shelton and was born in Decatur, Alabama on January 24, 1919. After graduating from high school, she visited New York City with her mother and ultimately decided to enroll at...
387 2007-05-15 Tyco's outside auditor got too close to management, and that will cost PricewaterhouseCoopers a lot of money....
388 2007-05-15 Even as rumors swirl that Yahoo might be heading for some kind of deal with Microsoft, the Internet giant has picked a technology deal maker as its next chief financial officer. Yahoo announced Tuesday that it had hired Blake J. Jorgensen, a co-fo...
389 2007-05-15 In the latest crackdown on illicit pillow talk, the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday accused a former Oracle vice president of improperly profiting from his wife's knowledge about two deals engineered by her boss, Oracle's chief execut...
390 2007-05-15 Misbehaving executives, take note: before you have your day in court, you may already be out of a job. Last Wednesday, Chris Albrecht, the chief executive of Home Box Office and a star at Time Warner, was asked to resign three days after he was ac...
391 2007-05-15 Investors will get a chance to bid on a Latin American online auctioneer, MercadoLibre, after the company, which is backed by eBay, filed to raise as much as $100 million in a proposed initial public offering. The Red Herring notes that MercadoLib...
392 2007-05-15 Continental Resources, an oil and natural gas exploration and production company, priced its initial public offering late Monday at $15 per share, below the expected range of $16 to $18. The company sold 8.85 million new shares and Harold G. Hamm,...
393 2007-05-15 Law enforcement authorities in Switzerland confirmed Monday that they had opened a criminal investigation into possible money laundering at BAE Systems, adding to the international scrutiny of the company, the top British military contractor. Jean...
394 2007-05-15 A bill to increase penalties for gasoline price gouging unanimously passed the Assembly Transportation Committee yesterday. The measure, which has passed the Senate, increases fines for a first violation to $1,500 from $50 and for subsequent violations to $3,000 from $200. The previous fines were set nearly 70 years ago. The measure grew out of a rash of violations after Hurricane Katrina, which disrupted oil industry operations in the Gulf of Mexico, sent gasoline prices soaring in 2005. The measure will now go to the full Assembly.
395 2007-05-15 Nokia, the telephone handset maker, raised its outlook for global market share in the second quarter to more than 36 percent, extending its lead over its nearest rival, Motorola. Nokia, based in Finland, has benefited from growing demand in emerging markets, and problems at Motorola. Shares of Nokia rose 4 percent.
396 2007-05-15 General Electric said that its commercial finance division has teamed up with Hermes Sports Partners, a sports finance advisory boutique in London, to help finance soccer club buyouts and other deals related to the sport. G.E. has already helped the Texas oil magnate Malcolm Glazer finance his £790 million ($1.6 billion) acquisition in 2005 of Manchester United.
397 2007-05-15 Gunmen killed José Nemesio Lugo, a veteran government intelligence officer and the new chief of the National Center for Analysis, Planning and Information to Combat Crime, a unit of the attorney general’s office that gathers and analyzes intelligence on organized criminal organizations, including drug traffickers. He was appointed to the post just a month ago.
398 2007-05-15 Mr. Chaudhry, who has vowed to fight his removal, had come to address lawyers of the provincial bar association. Since Mr. Chaudhry’s suspension, lawyers incensed by what they perceived as an assault on the judiciary have staged rallies and boycotted court proceedings across the country. Opposition political parties have also taken up the cause.

Adding to the tensions, a senior official of Pakistan’s Supreme Court was shot and killed by unidentified gunmen early Monday here in Islamabad, the capital.

Syed Hammad Raza, 37, an additional registrar of the Supreme Court, was killed under mysterious circumstances at 4:30 a.m. local time at his home, relatives and police officials said.

Islamabad police officials speculated that the killing was tied to a robbery. But relatives and lawyers called it politically motivated.

“It was targeted killing,” said Munir A. Malik, an aide to the chief justice. “He was shot near the temple.”

Mr. Raza, a bureaucrat with an able reputation, was close to the suspended chief justice and was brought to Islamabad from Quetta by Mr. Chaudhry almost a year and half ago, Mr. Malik said.

Mr. Raza “was asked to provide evidence against the justice, but he refused,” Mr. Malik said.

Reuters quoted Mr. Raza’s widow, Shabana, as telling Mr. Chaudhry, “You called him to Islamabad, you should have protected him, and now my children need protection as well.”

Mr. Raza left two sons and a 5-year-old daughter as well as his wife, who said she had dual Pakistani and British citizenship. The family left their home for Lahore on Monday afternoon.

Mr. Chaudhry has not shied away from investigating cases that challenged the government and has taken cases involving “forced disappearances” — people believed to have been taken by intelligence agencies without due process.

In addition, Mr. Chaudhry’s previous public stances implied that the court was unlikely to favor the government in a number of politically charged cases that are likely to come before the Supreme Court soon.

These include one challenging the legality of General Musharraf’s being allowed to hold the posts of president and army chief, and one on whether the present Parliament could re-elect him president before its term expires later this year.

On Monday, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami, a religious party, filed a petition before the Supreme Court, calling for the removal of General Musharraf on grounds that he had violated his oath by patronizing some political parties, according to Mr. Ahmed’s lawyer, Shaukat Siddiqui.

Pakistani analysts said the expanding legal and political crisis and its handling by President Musharraf seemed to have made his position tenuous and seriously undermined his credibility.

“He has run into a cul-de-sac,” said Talat Masood, a retired general and a defense and political analyst based in Islamabad.

Anger has risen across the country over the way in which security officials stood by or vanished from the streets in Karachi as armed groups of the Muttahida Quami Movement, a pro-government political party, and opposition parties clashed with one another Saturday.

On Monday, some 12,000 paramilitary troops were deployed in Karachi, as well as 3,000 Rangers who were called in from the interior of Sindh Province, according to Maj. Gen. Javed Zia, director general of Pakistan Rangers in Sindh.

Still, protesters set fire to some vehicles and pelted police officers with stones in the city’s Lyari neighborhood, but were later dispersed by the police and the arrival of the Rangers, according to the local news media.

Three people were killed in the Lyari neighborhood on Monday night as protesters clashed with law enforcement authorities, according to local news media and opposition political workers.

Elsewhere, the strike had varying impact. In the eastern city of Lahore, most shopping malls were closed and public transportation was thin. Business activity, however, was partially restored later in the afternoon after a huge rally of lawyers and opposition political workers ended peacefully.

Similar strikes were observed with partial success in other parts of the country.
399 2007-05-15 “I think too often people sit around in offices like this and say, ‘O.K., I know better than the customer what it is they want and so this is what we’re going to do.’ I want the customer to drive the priorities.”

The first report cards could appear this summer on the No. 7 line, Mr. Roberts said. He envisions cards that would be handed out to riders as they exit stations, and which they could fill out and mail in at no cost.

By the fall, he said, he hopes to bring the report cards to every line in the system, and bus lines as well.

Mr. Roberts said that he did not expect to be able to respond with a single solution that would work for all lines.

“It may very well be that different subway lines in the city will have different priorities,” he said. “If it’s cleanliness on the 6 line and it’s security on the A line, those are the things that have to be my first priorities on their lines.”

Mr. Roberts declined to say how he would fill out one of the report cards, but he had his own complaints about cleanliness. He said that he too often found cars that were dirty and full of trash when riding the subway to work as early as 4:30 a.m.

Mr. Roberts had been on the job less than two weeks when Daniel Boggs, a track worker, was struck and killed by a No. 3 train near Columbus Circle on April 24. Five days later, Marvin Franklin, another track worker, was struck and killed by a G train at a station in Brooklyn.

Mr. Roberts, as transit chiefs have in the past, promptly began a comprehensive safety review. But he did it in a very visible partnership with Roger Toussaint, the president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union.

That cooperation has contrasted with the tense relations between labor and management that prevailed in recent years at the agency.

To a large extent, the tone had already been set by Elliot G. Sander, the executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, who hired Mr. Roberts to succeed Lawrence G. Reuter, who retired.

But in choosing Mr. Roberts, Mr. Sander knew that he was hiring someone with a history of getting along with labor leaders — a history that had not always worked out well for Mr. Roberts.

This is Mr. Roberts’s second stint at the transit agency, and he is now in the unusual position of having been hired to run an organization where he was once fired. He first came to work there in 1981, as vice president for finance and then as the vice president in charge of buses.

He was fired in 1986. Mr. Roberts said that it was a result of his closeness to the labor unions.

Mr. Roberts, who is 67, went on to work at Citibank, where he said he first saw customer report cards used to improve service.

He worked from 1989 to 1997 at the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, the transit system for the Philadelphia area, where he used similar report cards.

Mr. Roberts’s formative years were spent in the Army. He graduated from West Point and then served for 20 years, retiring as a colonel.

Mr. Roberts said that the Army taught him about honor and duty; then he handed a reporter a sheet of paper with the final stanza of a Robert Frost poem, “Two Tramps in Mud Time.” The poem is a meditation on the things a person does out of necessity and the things he does because he chooses to, and Mr. Roberts said he planned to have the stanza posted on his office wall.

The poem says, in part: “My object in living is to unite/My avocation and my vocation/As my two eyes make one in sight.”

“That sort of describes why this job means as much to me as it does,” Mr. Roberts said. “Very few of us get to combine our vocation and our avocations and very few of us get to play for mortal stakes, and soldiers and doctors and leaders of transportation organizations and a very few other people do that.”
400 2007-05-15 “Companies are just far less accepting of this omnipotent behavior,” said Mortimer Feinberg, chairman of BFS Psychological Associates, which counsels chief executives and corporate boards.

Media companies are becoming particularly sensitive to the image projected by their employees. Last month, both CBS Radio and MSNBC fired Don Imus after he made racially insulting comments on his program about the women’s basketball team at Rutgers, despite Mr. Imus having built his career on comments like those and his show’s ability to generate tens of millions in revenue.

It is a sign of how much the times have changed that when Mr. Albrecht, who was seen by the police in Las Vegas with his hands around his girlfriend’s throat, went through a similar episode in 1991, he suffered no repercussions from his company.

At that time, he was accused of choking Sasha Emerson, another executive who was herself on the fast track at HBO. The company, a division of Time Warner, paid her a $400,000 settlement. Despite having a contract, she left the company.

HBO’s decision to protect a male executive back then was hardly an anomaly. In 1999, Richard D. Beckman, then publisher of Condé Nast’s Vogue magazine, banged the head of Carol Matthews, a Vogue advertising manager, against that of another woman. Ms. Matthews’s cheekbone was broken, requiring reconstruction.

Mr. Beckman was known to be a hard-driving executive who also enjoyed partying, according to reports at the time.

The matter was settled for a payment believed to be $1 million to $5 million, and Ms. Matthews left the company.

Mr. Beckman kept his position as publisher after the incident and is currently president of the Condé Nast Media Group and the company’s chief marketing officer.

Maurie Perl, a company spokeswoman, said that Condé Nast had no comment.

One significant change, many experts contend, is the greater presence of women and minorities in the executive ranks. If companies do not act decisively in cases of offensive behavior, they can face opposition from both inside and outside their offices.

Companies, Mr. Feinberg said, “are afraid of the exposure, bad publicity and lawsuits, and there is also a greater sensitivity to minority groups and their reactions.”

Time Warner has faced criticism from some of its own female employees recently over a decision to retain another executive, according to a person close to Time Warner. Last year, a woman accused of being a prostitute alleged that she had had a relationship with the company’s chief financial officer, Wayne H. Pace. At the time Mr. Pace denied that he had had an inappropriate relationship. Ed Adler, a Time Warner spokesman, said that the company had investigated the allegations and found no illegal activity and Time Warner took no action.

Voices of various insiders and outsiders played a crucial role in the decision last month by NBC Universal to drop Mr. Imus from its morning slot on MSNBC’s cable television network. Faced with anger from prominent blacks like the “Today” show’s Al Roker and Senator Barack Obama, the Illinois Democrat who is running for president, NBC said that after “many conversations with our own employees,” it decided to drop the show.

“It used to be that people in lower economic groups — women and minorities — had no power,” Mr. Feinberg said. “If an executive had an affair with a secretary, you would fire her. Now she goes to the gossip columns and that is dangerous for companies.”

And those gossip columns — along with tabloid television and blogs — now give heightened scrutiny to every misstep. That means the news moves so fast on so many outlets that companies want to stop the debate before it harms the corporate image.

Bloggers from the liberal group Media Matters were instrumental in giving wide exposure to the comments of Mr. Imus.

Web sites like the Smoking Gun, which swiftly posted Mr. Albrecht’s arrest photo, and TMZ.com follow the peccadilloes of studio executives as though they were celebrities themselves.

William Simon, who heads the media and entertainment practice for the executive search firm Korn/Ferry International, said that “there are plenty of people who have survived experiences like what happened to Chris Albrecht, but in today’s competitive media marketplace and coverage by such diverse sources as gossip columns, blogs, and the Internet, it is impossible to keep such news away from the public.”

Last week some of Mr. Albrecht’s associates argued that Time Warner should have given him “a second chance,” as a talent agent, Ari Emanuel, a friend and sometimes business associate, wrote on HuffingtonPost.com.

In addressing the incident, Mr. Albrecht said that he had started drinking again after stopping for 13 years and regularly attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings.

Douglas Tieman, chief executive of Caron Treatment Centers, which treats addicts, pointed out that alcoholics generally get at least one chance to address their problems without corporate repercussions. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, addiction is considered a disability, and therefore addicted employees cannot be terminated if they agree to seek help.

But experts on alcoholism, including one chief executive who quit drinking 25 years ago, were less tolerant if a person knows he is an alcoholic, starts drinking again and does not get help. Geoffrey McKernan, the chief executive of NSM Insurance, a $300 million private property and casualty insurance company, stopped drinking 25 years ago. But he still attends meetings and describes himself as a recovering alcoholic.

In his view, Mr. Albrecht’s admission that he had been drinking again meant he needed help. Whether Mr. Albrecht was prompted to resign or did so on his own, Mr. McKernan said he should get himself healthy first, and then worry about his job.

“Getting himself sober should be his priority,” Mr. McKernan said in a telephone interview.

Perhaps the most widely publicized dismissal of a top level executive was Citigroup’s ouster of Mr. Thomson. At the time, the press reported that Mr. Thomson had invited Ms. Bartiromo to fly home from Hong Kong and Shanghai on the corporate jet, bumping several Citigroup executives from the flight.

But a leading executive search veteran, who agreed to speak only if his name was not used because he deals with many different top executives, said that in his opinion, once a crisis develops, “the way it comes down is somewhat affected by the good will that exists — or doesn’t — toward that person.” Ms. Bartiromo has maintained her job at CNBC.

Mr. Tieman said that the very character traits that make executives successful can also lead to their belief that they can overcome alcoholism or other addictions themselves.

“They have a big work ethic, are very clever and creative,” said Mr. Tieman, whose company treats about 1,200 executives a year at its centers in Pennsylvania and Florida. “They also have the notion of invincibility. They suffer from terminal uniqueness. They think: ‘I am different. I can drink again.’ That creates a very slippery slope.”
401 2007-05-15 Procter & Gamble announced an overhaul of its corporate structure yesterday, dividing it into three new global units and breaking up the Gillette business that it acquired in 2005.

As part of the revamping, the company will promote Susan E. Arnold to president, global business units, and Robert A. McDonald to the new post of chief operating officer.

Procter & Gamble, based in Cincinnati, has nearly doubled its business since 2000 with the acquisitions of the Clairol and Wella hair care businesses and Gillette. The chairman and chief executive, A. G. Lafley, said in a statement that the changes were intended to meet the needs of a larger business that is developing new initiatives faster than in the past.

Gillette will no longer operate as its own global business unit. Its Duracell battery division will be part of the global household care unit, while the shaving part of the business will come under beauty care.

Several unit presidents and other corporate officers will leave, the company said. The changes will take effect July 1.

Ms. Arnold, 53, will be in charge of the company’s three worldwide business units: beauty care, global health and well-being, and household care. She will be responsible for development and innovation in P.& G.’s brands.
402 2007-05-15 The letter asked for a response from the company by May 29.

In a statement, Hemanshu Nigam, the chief security officer of MySpace, said the company had recently begun using new software to “proactively identify and remove any known sex offenders from the site.”

Last December, MySpace announced that it would work to remove sexual predators from the site by working with Sentinel Tech Holdings, a database company based in Miami. MySpace said that it planned to run its membership rolls against Sentinel’s Sentry database of known sex offenders.

MySpace said that it has spent the last five months testing the automated service.

In his statement, Mr. Nigam also reiterated MySpace’s support for state and federal laws that would require convicted sex offenders to register their e-mail addresses and instant messenger accounts with authorities. He said such a step would aid the company in keeping sex offenders off the service, which has 65 million monthly visitors, according to comScore Media Metrix.

Currently Virginia and Kentucky are among the few states with such laws. In December, Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, introduced an e-mail registration bill in the Senate, where it is still pending.

Law enforcement officials used yesterday’s announcement to warn parents of young children of the risks of online social networks. “I tell parents every day that MySpace is a dangerous place for teenagers,” Lawrence Wasden, attorney general of Idaho, said in a statement.

Mr. Blumenthal of Connecticut speculated that the problem might be deeper than is realized. “There are apparently thousands of convicted sex offenders using their real names and identities, which is counterintuitive,” he said. “Our concern is over whether this is just the tip of the iceberg.”

Officials did not say what actions they would take if MySpace failed to respond adequately by May 29. Mr. Blumenthal said only that all 50 states were behind the letter and that “appropriate actions” against the company were being considered.

At least one child safety advocate gives MySpace good reviews for fighting sexual predators. “I haven’t seen in my 12 years of working on these kinds of issues a company jump through as many hoops and respond as quickly and diligently as MySpace,” said Donna Rice Hughes, president of Enough Is Enough, an Internet safety organization.
403 2007-05-15 The minimum value of the intellectual property being auctioned in Munich is more than 5 million euros ($6.7 million), according to the organizers. The event has attracted large companies like Bayer, Rolls-Royce Deutschland and ABB, as well as universities, research institutes and individuals.

Many sellers are hoping for a new sales channel for intellectual property, which is costly to market through the traditional method of hiring patent lawyers to negotiate with potential buyers. Webasto, for example, is hoping to get a seven-digit sum for the license to its sunroof solar panel, which generates electricity to ventilate parked cars on hot summer days.

“Climate change is a very big topic right now and we are approaching this auction with that in mind,” said Markus Bedenbecker, Webasto’s director of intellectual property services. “The normal way we sell I.P. is to study the market and make contacts, but that is immensely labor-intensive.”

Smaller sellers, who often lack the power to obtain large royalty fees in negotiations with corporations, are also hoping for better profits. That includes Ipal, an organization that markets patents developed by researchers at universities and teaching hospitals in Berlin. In Munich, Ipal is auctioning rights to inositolized phospholipids, a substance developed by researchers at Charité Hospital that has shown promise in treating skin ailments.

An intellectual property auction held in April by Ocean Tomo Auctions, a Chicago company, netted $11.4 million for sellers, including the largest single fee paid, $3 million. Ocean Tomo plans to hold its first European auction in London on June 1.

“The auction is a unique platform. It creates a sense of urgency,” said Andrew T. Ramer, president of Ocean Tomo Auctions. “It is appropriate not just for patents and licenses, but for brands and catalogs.”

Mr. Ramer said the auction format was suited to all types of intellectual property except complex pharmaceutical patents, where the density of information is too great for the compressed negotiating atmosphere of an auction.

But Lothar Steiling, chief patent counsel at Bayer, who is also president of the German Association of Intellectual Property Experts, said auctions would probably fill a niche only for smaller intellectual property sales, with larger sales remaining subject to protracted one-on-one negotiations.

Still, even Bayer is willing to experiment. On Tuesday, it will auction a license for electrochromic systems, a nanotechnology used to tint windows and enable car mirrors to be used as digital displays. In addition to gaining royalties, Mr. Steiling said Bayer wanted to cut the cost of maintaining 80,000 patents.

“If this auction is successful,” he said, “we will be back.”
404 2007-05-15 VALENCIA, Spain, May 14 (AP) — Emirates Team New Zealand and the Italian boat Luna Rossa earned victories Monday in the first of the Louis Vuitton Cup semifinal races. The semifinals are best-of-nine series.

Emirates Team New Zealand, which finished the round-robin portion of the competition on top of the standings, beat Desafio Español of Spain by 43 seconds.

Luna Rossa defeated BMW Oracle Racing of the United States by 2 minutes 19 seconds.

Luna Rossa chose to come into the prestart from the right after winning the coin toss.

Luna Rossa had a 52-second advantage around the first marker, but BMW Oracle Racing, with the skipper Chris Dickson, caught a pocket of wind to reduce the lead to 100 meters, then pulled ahead slightly.

Luna Rossa held a seven-second lead before pushing it to 1:21 during the third lap.

“Neither the left or right was necessarily better,” Peter Isler, the navigator for BMW Oracle Racing, said of the prestart. “On a day like today, you have to keep an open mind, throw away the classic tactics and open your eyes.”
405 2007-05-15 Ms. Balmer, of the prosecutor’s office, declined to give any further details of the investigation, citing Swiss secrecy laws. Mr. Said could not be reached for comment.

[After the publication of this article, Mr. Said said that he was not a target of the money-laundering investigation.

[“The Swiss authorities have formally and officially confirmed that their investigation into money laundering at BAE Systems does not involve me and they are not examining my Swiss bank accounts,” he said in an e-mail message. “Nor am I considered as a witness in their investigation.”

[Jeanette Balmer, a spokeswoman for the Swiss federal prosecutor’s office, declined to comment.]

The news follows a meeting last week in The Hague of prosecutors from Austria, Britain, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Switzerland. They are seeking to coordinate corruption inquiries related to the sale and lease of Gripen fighter jets, which are built by Saab of Sweden and sold through a joint venture with BAE. The two companies are accused of offering intermediaries as much as 1 billion kronor, about $150 million, to promote the sale of the jets to the Czech Republic and Austria in 2002.

Ms. Balmer said that the meeting had been convened under the auspices of Eurojust, an arm of the European Union established in 2002 to coordinate prosecution of serious cross-border and organized crime.

BAE has denied making corrupt payments to win a contract known as Yamamah, under which it has supplied arms to Saudi Arabia for more than 20 years. The deal, the biggest in British history, has been worth an estimated £40 billion in sales and maintenance, mainly of Tornado, Hawk and other fighter aircraft and related equipment. An extension, involving the sale of Typhoon Eurofighter jets for an estimated value of at least £6 billion, was agreed to in 2006.

Lisa Hillary-Tee, a spokeswoman for BAE Systems, declined to comment on the Swiss inquiry, saying that the company had not yet been contacted by prosecutors. But she maintained that BAE was “committed to meeting the highest ethical standards in our dealings with others.”

“We will not tolerate bribery,” she said.

This year, the O.E.C.D. expressed “serious concerns” about the way Britain had handled the Yamamah inquiry. The British government has also received two separate diplomatic protests from the United States, at a meeting of the O.E.C.D. in Paris in January and at a meeting of diplomats in London.

“It shows just how widespread the outrage is at the decision” by the British government to suspend its inquiry of BAE’s Saudi contracts, said Symon Hill, a spokesman for the Campaign Against Arms Trade, which has filed a court challenge to the decision to scrap the inquiry. “It proves how far out of step the U.K. government is with international opinion with regard to BAE.”

Britain argues that halting its own inquiry was in line with practices permitting countries to defend their national interest, and did not conflict with O.E.C.D. antibribery conventions.

While the British fraud office has suspended its investigation of the Saudi deals, its investigators are still pursuing allegations of bribery linked to BAE deals in South Africa, Chile, the Czech Republic, Romania, Tanzania and Qatar.

The various investigations could put BAE’s recent $4.1 billion purchase of Armor Holdings, an American maker of body armor and other protective gear, under additional scrutiny from the United States Congress.

Staff members of the foreign affairs committees of both the House and Senate were briefed last week on the BAE investigations by the State Department, which is represented on a committee that reviews all foreign takeovers of American companies.

Correction: May 17, 2007 

 An article in Business Day on Tuesday about an investigation by Swiss authorities into a money laundering case linked to the military contractor BAE Systems referred incorrectly to a report in The Guardian, the British daily, about a Syrian financier, Wafic Said, a potential witness in the case who the newspaper said might have acted as a middleman for payments. The Guardian said the authorities “will be able to examine” the accounts of Mr. Said, not that they were already doing so. Editors’ Note: May 23, 2007 

 An article in Business Day on May 15 reported that law enforcement authorities in Switzerland had begun a criminal investigation into possible money laundering at BAE Systems, the British military contractor. It noted a report in The Guardian, a British daily, that said Swiss investigators could examine accounts held by Wafic Said, a Syrian financier who helped broker a $79 billion arms contract between BAE Systems and Saudi Arabia two decades ago. Mr. Said could not be reached by The Times before the article was published. After the article was published, Mr. Said received a letter from the Swiss authorities that stated he was not now a target of the investigation, that his accounts were not being examined and that he was not considered a witness in the case. His lawyer provided a copy of the letter, dated May 16, to The Times. Swiss prosecutors declined to comment on the letter or on the case in general. The Times should have made a greater effort to obtain a response from Mr. Said or his lawyer before including the material from The Guardian.
406 2007-05-15 The six well-attended presentations on Saturday were introduced through informal and often witty video interviews with the composers and librettists. It is too soon for thorough critical assessments, of course. Still, like everyone else, I left the showcase, which lasted more than three hours, with initial impressions.

“The Rat Land” tells of a dysfunctional Midwestern suburban family in the late 1980s: three troubled children, including a young girl who deifies pet rats; an invalid father with a violent temper; and a weak-willed mother who lives in denial. The claustrophobic family life is presented with bleak realism and bitterly comic flourishes. There may be too much talking in the score: whole passages of text are spoken or shouted. Still, Mr. Beeferman’s music, with its skittish melodic lines and pungent atonal harmony, is gritty, fidgety and intriguing.

“Elegy for a Prince,” with music by Sergio Cervetti and a libretto by Elizabeth Esris, is freely adapted from Oscar Wilde’s fairy tale “The Happy Prince.” In the video introduction Mr. Cervetti said that this story “needs the love that only tonal music can give it.” Maybe so. But some blandly tonal passages seemed almost mawkish, at least on first exposure.

“Airline Icarus,” by the composer Brian Current and the librettist Anton Piatigorsky, is a chamber opera about thoughts, fears and attractions among a group of passengers aboard an airplane that, as in the myth of Icarus, flies too close to the sun. Turbulence during the flight is linked to emotional turbulence within the characters through punchy, swirling and gratingly astringent music.

In extended passages Mr. Current uses the voices almost like instruments, producing set pieces that seem less like operatic ensembles and more like strange hybrid orchestral compositions with vocal components.

It was hard to know what to make of “The Endings,” with music, libretto and video by Jenny O. Johnson. In this early stage, the 20-minute work, to quote Ms. Johnson, is a “sampling of music that I one day hope to flesh out into a full-length opera.” It tells a metaphysical story of two adolescents who fall in love during the course of a grand and vague adventure somewhere. The music is like an exercise in sustained sonorities, drones, instrumental colorings (including the exotic sounds of Tibetan bowls) and lacy, abstract, sometimes aimless vocal lines.

John Zorn’s monodrama “La Machine de l’Être” seemed not an opera at all. Mr. Zorn’s answer to the challenge of finding a good story and libretto, it would appear, is to do without them completely. Though filled with restless, pungently modern and often gripping music, this 10-minute work for solo singer and orchestra, inspired by the drawings of Antonin Artaud, has no story and no text. A soprano sings vocalization syllables, interspersed with groans and screams.

Keira Duffy was the brave soloist in Mr. Zorn’s work. Many of the vocal performances were impressive, including those by James Bobick as Elmer, and Jennifer Rivera as Sharon Falconer, in “Elmer Gantry,” and Scott Hogsed in both “Elegy for a Prince” and “The Rat Land.”

Gerald Steichen, Brian Garman, Steven Jarvi and Marc Lowenstein were the afternoon’s assured conductors. The musicians of the City Opera Orchestra clearly relished the challenges of playing these difficult new works, and did so very well. Most of the roughly $400,000 budget for these helpful showcases, raised primarily from foundations, goes toward paying the hard-working players.
407 2007-05-15 Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.)

The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.”

Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low.

Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks.

“The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices.

“We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?”

Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up.

“Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center. “There are a lot more recipients than donors.”

Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that stem cell researchers have promised not to pay for eggs.

“One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the Institute of Medicine said.

The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare.

“As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute.

So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.”

The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once.

The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure.

The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to anesthesia, infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ.

It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children.

And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.”

That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe.

“There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif.

In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent.

When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand.

“They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.”

Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.”
408 2007-05-15 The private Kamehameha Schools in Hawaii announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians.

The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived.

The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day.

The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000.

The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers.
409 2007-05-15 ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner?

¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent?

Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect.

One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after.

But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape.

Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including chlamydia, trichomoniasis, H.I.V. and, of course, unwanted pregnancy.

Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants?

Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot.

In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV vaccination for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease.

This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted polio or smallpox before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences.

Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance.

Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.”

This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease.

An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24.

Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV.

Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer.

Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears.

There are no treatments for HPV infections. Most of the time, they are eliminated by the immune system in a matter of months without causing any signs of disease. It is only those virus infections that linger that can become troublesome in the long run.

But with 11,000 cases of cervical cancer in the United States each year, there are enough viral infections that are not cleared naturally to result in a devastating, and now mostly preventable, health problem.

Wide use of Pap smears has done wonders to greatly reduce cervical cancer deaths among American women. In developing countries, where most women do not have Pap smears, this cancer is rampant and a major cause of death.

The only sure way to prevent an HPV infection is to remain abstinent and avoid all genital contact. The virus can be transmitted even if a woman stops short of sexual intercourse. Condoms do not provide full protection.

Alternatively, a woman could be protected if she had only one sexual partner and remained monogamous for life, but she would need a guarantee that her partner behaved similarly.

This is why the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends routine vaccination with three doses of Gardasil for girls 11 to 12 (it is licensed for use in girls from 9 to 26), with luck before they have become sexually active. But even if a woman has already had an HPV infection, the vaccine could help protect her from other disease-causing variants.

In the name of equality, some advocates urge that boys, too, be immunized, because they spread the infection to women. In fact, men may benefit directly from the vaccine, because the virus can also cause cancers of the penis and anus. Anal cancer is a particular concern to gay men, and a study is under way to determine whether the new vaccine will protect gay men from cancer.

Some cautionary notes. The vaccine should not be given to women who are or may be pregnant. Nor should it be used for anyone who is allergic to its ingredients.

As with all vaccines, Gardasil can cause temporary side effects. They may include pain, swelling, itching and redness at the injection site, as well as fever, nausea and dizziness.
410 2007-05-15 Gunmen killed José Nemesio Lugo, a veteran government intelligence officer and the new chief of the National Center for Analysis, Planning and Information to Combat Crime, a unit of the attorney general's office that gathers and analyzes intellig...
411 2007-05-15 CHRYSLER SOLD TO PRIVATE FIRM DaimlerChrysler announced a deal to sell its Chrysler unit to Cerberus Capital Management for $7.4 billion. Can private equity investors fix Chrysler for good, and can they avoid a confrontation with the United Automo...
412 2007-05-15 FLEISSNER--Erwin, 70, died on May 12, 2007 at home. The family will be receiving visitors on May 15, 16, and 17 from 5pm-9pm. A memorial service will take place at Hunter College, May 30. Check Hunter College's Website for details. Contributions i...
413 2007-05-15 What is it that some parents don't understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical cancer?     That infections with human papillomavirus, or HPV, are the most common sexually t...
414 2007-05-16 The judge overseeing the bankruptcy case of New Century Financial, the subprime lender, rejected the federal government's effort to oust its management on Tuesday but agreed to appoint an examiner to review its accounting. Judge Kevin Carey of Uni...
415 2007-05-16 Merrill Lynch said that Dow Kim, executive vice president and co-president of its global markets and investment banking group, will leave this year to start his own investment firm. Merrill said it expects to be a client of Mr. Kim's new firm. Mer...
416 2007-05-16 Hedge fund registration is back on the menu. Under a bill to be introduced by Senator Charles E. Grassley, hedge fund advisers would be required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a move intended to give regulators new tool...
417 2007-05-16 Visa hired Joseph W. Saunders to find a chief executive for the company as it prepares for an initial public offering and he found - drum roll, please - himself. Visa, which said in October that it was planning to go public in a process that could...
418 2007-05-16 PHILADELPHIA, May 15 — Michael Nutter, a former member of the City Council, won the Democratic primary for mayor Tuesday, effectively guaranteeing him the position in a city that has not had a Republican mayor since 1952.

With 85 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Nutter, 49, clinched the contest with 35 percent of the vote. Tom Knox, 66, a businessman, placed second, with 26 percent of the vote and conceded the contest.

Trailing those two were Representative Robert A. Brady, Representative Chaka Fattah and State Representative Dwight Evans.

Mr. Nutter, who pulled ahead of the five-candidate field in polls late in the campaign, will take over from the incumbent, John Street, whose administration has been tarnished by accusations of corruption and which has been unable to halt a surge in gun violence.

The Republican candidate, Al Taubenberger, ran unopposed in the primary.

The general election is in November.

Mr. Nutter is also a former disc jockey and investment manager. He was educated at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.

During the campaign, the Democratic candidates proposed different solutions to reduce gun violence, which has pushed homicides to their highest level in a decade. Four of the five said they would hire more police, but Mr. Nutter proposed declaring a state of emergency in high-crime areas where the police would have the power to stop and frisk people suspected of carrying illegal guns.
419 2007-05-16 FORT DRUM, N.Y., May 14 (AP) — The capture of three 10th Mountain Division soldiers by insurgent forces in Iraq will only unite America and strengthen the military’s determination, soldiers here said Tuesday.

“If this is a scare tactic to undermine our resolve, they need to realize our soldiers are trained killers and don’t scare,” said Specialist Dorothy Drake of Los Angeles, who returned in February from a yearlong tour in Afghanistan.

“This is more incentive to finish the job. The Army is family,” she said. “This will bring us together. It will bring the country together.”

The three were captured Saturday during a predawn ambush in Iraq that killed four other Americans and an Iraqi Army soldier. Army officials said the seven American victims were members of the 10th Mountain Division’s Second Brigade Combat Team, based here.

Late Tuesday, the Pentagon identified three of the dead soldiers as Sgt. First Class James Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn.; Pfc. Daniel Courneya, 19, of Nashville, Mich.; and Pfc. Christopher Murphy, 21, of Lynchburg, Va.

Lt. Col. Paul Fitzpatrick, a Fort Drum spokesman, said the Army had not yet positively identified the fourth soldier, which was why four soldiers were listed as missing — Sgt. Anthony Schober, 23, of Reno, Nev.; Specialist Alex Jimenez, 25, of Lawrence, Mass.; Pfc. Joseph Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif.; and Pvt. Byron Fouty, 19, of Waterford, Mich.
420 2007-05-16 Microsoft plans to announce today that the third installment of Halo, the company’s biggest video game franchise, will be released on Sept. 25.

As Microsoft continues its foray into the video game business, taking on established Japanese game giants like Sony and Nintendo, the Halo franchise has proved to be one of its most formidable weapons.

Since the original Halo was introduced in 2001, the series has sold more than 14 million copies. In November 2004, Halo 2 generated more than $100 million in sales in 24 hours.

Set in a science-fiction environment, Halo became wildly popular because it was one of the first games to successfully use the first-person shooter technique on a console plugged into a television rather than on a personal computer.

Until Halo, a mouse and keyboard were generally thought necessary to provide an engaging first-person experience. Halo demonstrated that the small joysticks on a console controller could also deliver first-person action.

The first Halo was essential in building the credibility of Microsoft’s original Xbox game machine.
421 2007-05-16 Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he hoped that Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes over as France’s president today, would drop his opposition to Turkey’s joining the European Union. Mr. Sarkozy, who argues that Turkey is culturally not a part of Europe and that most of its territory is in Asia, vehemently opposes Turkey’s membership. “This approach of Mr. Sarkozy comes from prejudices,” Mr. Erdogan said, addressing a media conference in Istanbul. “Mr. Sarkozy has to overcome these prejudices.” Mr. Erdogan’s remarks were the first to directly address the implications of Mr. Sarkozy’s election for Turkey. “Turkey’s E.U. membership is the peace project of the 21st century,” Mr. Erdogan said, “an alliance of East and West.”
422 2007-05-16 A reward has been offered for information leading to the arrest and conviction of vandals who have been spraying anti-Semitic graffiti on homeowners’ garages and advertising signs during the past several weeks. Swastikas and anti-Semitic slurs have been painted on the garages and on signs for an Israeli fair in five incidents reported since April 1. The UJA/Federation of Westport, Weston, Wilton and Norwalk has offered a $2,500 reward for information leading to a conviction, said Steven Friedlander, the group’s executive director.
423 2007-05-16 The Jets signed five free agents, including Jesse Pellot-Rosa, a former basketball player at Virginia Commonwealth. The Jets also signed defensive back James Ihedigbo, cornerback Rayshaun Kizer, linebacker Jared Newberry and wide receiver Renard Stevens. All five players received tryouts at rookie minicamp last weekend.Pellot-Rosa, who tried out at wide receiver, helped lead the Rams to a Colonial Athletic Association title and a first-round upset of Duke in the N.C.A.A. tournament in March.
424 2007-05-16 But the Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, said he was disappointed that many of the revenue estimates remained below the governor’s original projections and said it should serve as a “reminder of the precarious conditions of New Jersey’s finances.”

State Treasurer Bradley I. Abelow said he welcomed the narrowing of the differences between the projections of his office and those of the legislative analysts. But in an effort to stifle any urge among lawmakers to increase spending, he insisted that nothing in the recent collections and trends “substantially changes the amount of money we have to appropriate.”

In March, the Office of Legislative Services, the budget arm of the Legislature, projected that revenue would be $300 million less than anticipated this year and $354 million less than envisioned next year.

But David J. Rosen, the Legislature’s chief financial officer, said it now appeared that the state would collect $80 million more in revenue.

Mr. Rosen added, however, that rising government costs and decreases in the rate of growth in sales tax revenue could mean collections of $168 million less in 2008 than Mr. Corzine’s budget officials have projected, leaving a projected shortfall of $88 million.

Still, he said, “That is a lot easier to solve than the $653 million we originally projected.”

Mr. Rosen and Mr. Abelow agreed that the improved figures were a result of greater than expected revenue from April and May payments on the state’s corporate business tax and the new withholding tax on payments to partners of New Jersey businesses who live out of state.

The legislative analysts said the corporate business tax revenue was more than $250 million more than either they or the state treasurer had estimated.

But at the same time, sales tax revenue was about $200 million below what was projected in Mr. Corzine’s budget. Mr. Abelow attributed it to “a national trend in slower sales tax growth” but added that there was indeed growth over last year’s figure.

One of the questions that had separated the legislative analysts and those from the treasurer’s office two months ago was the level of quarterly income tax payments by the state’s highest earners, those making $500,000 or more annually who pay their income taxes in quarterly payments rather than by salary withholding.

Mr. Rosen’s earlier estimate projected 9 percent growth over last year, while Mr. Abelow had predicted 17.6 percent growth. The actual figure was midway between the projections, at 13.4 percent.
425 2007-05-16 As a major trade organization for the largest companies in the country, the National Association of Manufacturers often has issues before the Consumer Product Safety Commission. It recently prevailed on the agency, for instance, to relax the requirements for when companies must notify the agency about defective products. The White House, Mr. Baroody and the commission would not make available the letter that Mr. Baroody wrote describing the $150,000 payment. A copy was provided by a Democratic Congressional aide who found it in Mr. Baroody’s nomination file in the Senate.

A spokeswoman for the White House, Emily Lawrimore, said the administration was satisfied that Mr. Baroody “has taken the steps necessary to avoid any conflict of interest in the event he is confirmed.”

Ms. Lawrimore said Mr. Baroody’s letter had been approved by government ethics lawyers. “Mr. Baroody has proven leadership abilities and over three decades of experience with labor policy, manufacturing and safety issues,” Ms. Lawrimore said, “and we believe he will be a valuable advocate on behalf of American consumers.”

Experts in executive compensation said it was unusual for someone to be paid under a severance agreement for voluntarily leaving to take a top position at another organization.

“Severance agreements are usually a safety net for the employee,” said Don B. Lindner, head of the executive compensation practice at WorldatWork, a professional organization previously known as the American Compensation Association that provides training and certification for compensation and benefits professionals. “It would be unusual to have a severance agreement triggered by a person leaving on a voluntary and positive basis. It’s usually used for a job that has been eliminated or cut back, or a person that’s been asked to leave.”

Government ethics experts said people occasionally received a severance payment when they left the private sector for a government job, but it could be problematic when the person was going to a post whose mission was to regulate the former employer. Mr. Baroody’s nomination will be before the Senate Commerce Committee next week. He is opposed not only by consumer groups but also by trial lawyers, firefighters and pediatricians. They have highlighted what they say are repeated actions taken by Mr. Baroody and the association on behalf of companies that have made consumer products less safe.

Mr. Baroody “not only represented the interests of the nation’s manufacturing firms — often in direct opposition to the interest of consumers — but led efforts to weaken the C.P.S.C. and opposed numerous initiatives to protect children and the public from unsafe products,” said Dr. Jay E. Berkelhamer, the president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, in a letter opposing the nomination.

In recent years, Mr. Baroody has been involved in legislative efforts to limit the liability of makers of asbestos as companies have faced growing numbers of lawsuits from workers who say they have been exposed to the fire-retardant material. In 2000, he sent a letter on behalf of the association urging Gov. George Pataki of New York to veto legislation that required tobacco companies to make cigarettes that were less likely to cause fires. (The governor signed the measure.)

Hank Cox, a spokesman at the association who has known Mr. Baroody for many years, said Mr. Baroody’s letter opposing the New York legislation “has nothing to do with the efficacy of safe cigarettes” but was more generally opposed to the principle that the states could set safety standards, rather than one national standard.

Mr. Baroody and the association signed a severance agreement in January 2006, nearly a year before he was nominated. It was rewritten in January, after Mr. Baroody was identified in trade publications and Web sites as the leading candidate to head the commission. Neither the White House nor the association would reveal any details of the original or amended agreements.

Ms. Lawrimore, the White House spokeswoman, said the revisions had to do with “the timing of his service, not the amount of his severance.” She would not elaborate, saying, “It’s personal financial information, and we don’t normally discuss that.” In an e-mail message, Mr. Baroody declined to comment.

Mr. Baroody’s nomination has been delayed by Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida. Several Democratic senators, including John Kerry of Massachusetts, Barbara Boxer of California and Mark Pryor of Arkansas, have raised concerns about the nomination, and Mr. Nelson has said he will vote against it.

“He’s just not the person to have at the head of the organization responsible for the safety of products coming out,” Mr. Nelson said. “He’s represented a bunch of these companies that are making these products that will be very much in front of that body. That’s like putting the fox in charge of the henhouse.”

Other officials said they would not be surprised if Mr. Bush, as he has done for other nominees that Democrats have found objectionable, bypassed the Senate and appointed Mr. Baroody to the commission during a Congressional recess.

Since January, the agency, which enforces consumer product laws and is responsible for making sure that companies recall or fix products that have safety problems, has been paralyzed because of the failure of the White House to appoint a chairman. Its lack of a quorum has prevented the agency from writing rules or issuing civil penalties.

William Brock, a labor secretary in the Reagan administration who worked with Mr. Baroody in the Labor Department and when the two were senior officials at the Republican National Committee, said Mr. Baroody had been a vigorous regulator who helped adopt a number of workplace safety rules and beat back efforts by more conservative officials to trim affirmative action regulations.

“He has as much intellectual depth and integrity as anyone I’ve met in government over the decades,” Mr. Brock said.
426 2007-05-16 The dispute started, residents say, when Bono bought his penthouse in the building’s north tower in April 2003 from Steve Jobs, a founder of Apple Computer, for around the $14.5 million asking price. Mr. Jobs had spent millions on renovations, including adding a residential floor, said the listing broker, Roger Erickson, now a senior managing director at Sotheby’s International Realty. Mr. Jobs never spent a night in the apartment, Mr. Erickson said.

At some point after moving in, Bono (who was born Paul Hewson) and his wife, Ali Hewson, who also own homes in Dublin and the south of France, noticed smoke drifting toward their apartment from chimneys in the roof, according to residents in the building familiar with the situation.

The Hewsons approached the co-op board about the smoke and related chimney problems. “Bono was so nice,” said Leni May, whose husband, Peter May, is a member of the board. “He said, ‘Listen, whatever I can do to get these things working, but it’s emptying into my apartment and I can’t have smoke like that.’ ” One of the Hewsons’ children has asthma, he told the board, Ms. May said. The couple have two daughters, 18 and 15, and two sons, 7 and 5.

Other residents had complained about smoke entering their apartments through faulty flues in the 1930 building. The board banned the use of fireplaces while the problems were studied.

Soon, hackles went up, notably those of Mr. Squier, whose apartment on the third floor includes a fireplace, and Mark Gordon, another resident with a fireplace.

Only about 40 of the building’s roughly 135 apartments have fireplaces, said Phyliss Koch, a real estate broker who has lived in the San Remo for 29 years and has been the listing agent in many sales there. Renovations over the years may have caused chimney ventilation problems, she added. Mr. Gordon sent at least one flier through the building seeking to raise awareness about the fireplace issue, residents said.

The fireplace owners’ position was that the Hewsons had complained when they saw the smoke coming toward their penthouse, not because they had evidence that harmful pollution was entering their living quarters, said a longtime friend and tour manager of Mr. Squier’s.

“It was just assumed that because they could see the exhaust, that would present a problem to their children,” the tour manager said, adding that Mr. Squier, whose last hit was “Rock Me Tonight” in 1984, had discussed the issue in detail with him. (Mr. Squier did not respond to messages left with an assistant seeking comment.)

Mr. Gordon declined to comment, beyond saying: “I don’t want to see this in the press in any way whatsoever. It could only be more damaging to the situation. The situation is a delicate and private one.”

The fireplace complaint is not a case of a prima donna pop star making unreasonable demands, said a representative from Principle Management, the company that manages Bono’s band, U2.

“This is not a Bono issue,” the representative said. “It’s a building issue. It’s about health and safety regulations.” Neither Bono, who was in Germany this week to press the Group of 8 nations for more African aid, nor his wife would comment, the representative said.

Meanwhile, the news from experts brought in by the San Remo to examine the fireplaces has not been good. “Apparently, the mistakes were made before any of us moved into the San Remo,” said Ms. May, who is chairwoman of the Jewish Museum in Manhattan. “It’s to the point where we’re not to code and we can’t fix it. It’s not fixable.”

Other residents said the problem is that the building chimneys end at a height that is hazardously close to the Hewsons’ tower duplex, and that emissions tests have confirmed unsafe levels of smoke. Making the chimneys taller would be expensive and present an eyesore that might run afoul of the city’s Landmarks Preservation Commission, the residents said.

One resident, Mitch Miller, the host of the 1960s television program “Sing Along with Mitch,” had little sympathy for the log-lighting set. “If people want fireplaces, let them go live in the country,” said Mr. Miller, who is 95.

Many residents appear to be choosing to let the most passionate ones fight this battle, and saving their energy for other struggles. Mr. Brickman, a co-writer of the movie “Annie Hall” and of the Broadway hit “Jersey Boys,” worked the dispute for comedy. After trying out a few fireplace jokes during a telephone interview, the longtime San Remo resident tinkered with his material and called back. “People who continue to roast meat in their fireplaces,” he said, “should be required to move to the East Side,” adding, “Other than that I have no position.”

The San Remo had its annual shareholders meeting May 8. The fireplace issue was raised, but no resolutions were passed, said building residents who attended.

“People were fighting about other things — pets, this and that,” one longtime resident said.

With the fireplace season over, the dispute seems to have quieted, at least until next winter.

“I’m putting all my effort into trying to make sure the Democrats widen our lead in the Congress and win back the White House,” said Andrew Tobias, a financial writer and San Remo resident who is also treasurer of the Democratic National Committee. “So the fireplace controversy is not high on my list.” He paused. “But if I had a fireplace, it would be high on my list.”
427 2007-05-16 SAN FRANCISCO, May 15 (AP) — Yahoo has hired a veteran investment banker, Blake Jorgensen, as its chief financial officer, an indication that the Internet company is more interested in expanding through acquisitions than selling to potential suitors like Microsoft.

With the appointment, announced Tuesday, Yahoo finally designated a successor for Susan L. Decker, who has been the chief financial officer for seven years. She is widely viewed as the most likely successor to Yahoo’s chairman, Terry S. Semel, who is under increasing pressure to improve the company’s recently sagging profit.

Yahoo promoted Ms. Decker to oversee the most critical part of its business — online advertising — as part of a management shake-up late last year. She had continued as finance chief while the company searched for a successor.

Mr. Jorgensen, 47, will join Yahoo June 4 after a decade as a top lieutenant for one of Silicon Valley’s most prolific deal makers, the Thomas Weisel Partners Group.

His investment banking background suggests that Yahoo wants more expertise in identifying and negotiating takeovers that will help the company regain its stride and challenge the online search leader Google, which runs the Internet’s largest ad network.

“Any time a company picks an investment banker as its C.F.O., you have to think some deals might be in the offing,” said a Jackson Securities analyst, Brian Bolan. “These guys are trained to do deals.”
428 2007-05-16 According to a text made available by a supporter of Mr. Wolfowitz, he warned that a vote of no confidence in his leadership, tantamount to requesting his ouster, “has the potential to do greater long-term damage to the institution” than any conflict of interest he may have failed to avoid.

Declaring that he had been “held up to public ridicule” and “caricatured as a ‘boyfriend’ who used his position of power to help his ‘girlfriend,’ ” Mr. Wolfowitz said that “for the sake of the bank, and for your sake, this process has to be fair.”

He promised to change his management approach by relying less on advisers from the Bush administration, restructuring his office, delegating more to managers and placing “more trust in the staff,” according to the text.

“I implore each of you to be fair in making your decision, because your decision will not only affect my life, it will affect how this institution is viewed in the United States and the world,” he said. This was an apparent reference to criticism of the bank among American conservatives and fears of Congress cutting off financing for the bank.

European and American officials said that senior aides to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. held a telephone conference with their counterparts at the leading industrial nations, raising the idea of a two-track approach to Mr. Wolfowitz.

The first track, administration officials said, required the board to agree that while Mr. Wolfowitz had erred, so had others and that all had acted in good faith.

“The fact is that he made mistakes,” Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, said of Mr. Wolfowitz as he presented this approach on Tuesday. “They are not, in our view, firing offenses.”

The second track would involve a discussion of “all options,” as Mr. Snow and others put it, on what to do about Mr. Wolfowitz’s future ability to lead the bank as a result of the deep antipathy he has engendered among the staff, the board, senior managers and finance ministries of major donor countries.

Mr. Snow, addressing this track, said that “at some point in the future, there are going to be conversations about the proper stewardship of the World Bank,” and that at that point, “all options are on the table.”

But there is so much distrust of the United States at the bank that some saw these and other comments as a feint designed to keep Mr. Wolfowitz in office.

“The odds of this flying are very, very low,” said a senior bank official. “It is too little, too late. It might have been possible a day or two ago, but not after he was found guilty as charged of a whole slew of violations.”

A senior European official briefed on the conversation with Mr. Paulson’s aides said that European and Canadian ministries found the American approach outlined in the conference call to be a tough sell.

“The general view from capitals, with the exception of the Japanese,” he said, “is that it is impossible to disentangle the charges of misconduct and corruption from the credibility of the bank, which is going around the world lecturing countries not to engage in misconduct and corruption.”

Nevertheless, the administration held out some hope on Tuesday evening that it could get its point of view across. There was a fear, some administration officials said, that the two-track approach would entail a long investigative process examining Mr. Wolfowitz’s leadership abilities, when in fact an inquiry could be finished quickly.

It appeared that the best the administration could hope for was the possibility of President Bush appealing personally to Prime Minister Tony Blair, with whom he is scheduled to meet at the White House on Wednesday, and to other elected leaders.

A factor that kept emotions high was the disclosure on Tuesday of documents that seemed to buttress the bank committee’s conclusion that Mr. Wolfowitz tried to keep the pay and promotion arrangement for Ms. Riza a secret.

According to one document, Mr. Wolfowitz had a bitter showdown with the bank’s personnel director, Xavier Coll, in March 2006 over Mr. Wolfowitz’s concern that word of the salary was leaking out to the press.

Mr. Coll recounted that Mr. Wolfowitz became “increasingly agitated” and said he was “tired of people” who were “attacking him.”

“You should tell your friends to stop it,” Mr. Wolfowitz added, using expletives and threatening retaliation, according to the memo.

Aside from the coarse language, the document seemed to demonstrate that Mr. Wolfowitz was aware six months after he arranged for Ms. Riza’s compensation that few people at the bank knew about it. This appeared to contradict his contention that it was well known at the bank and deemed appropriate.
429 2007-05-16 WASHINGTON, May 15 (Dow Jones) — Hedge fund advisers would be required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission under a bill intended to give regulators new tools to oversee the fast-growing industry.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said Tuesday that he was introducing the bill because regulators “need much more information about the activities of hedge funds in order to protect the markets from institutional insider trading and other potential abuses.”

Last year, an appeals court threw out an S.E.C. rule requiring hedge fund advisers to register with the commission.
430 2007-05-16 Any measure Medicare adopts is certain to strongly influence private insurers.

Last week, an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration also recommended restrictions on use of the drugs. But the Medicare proposals, if anything, would be even more restrictive than that committee’s recommendation, stunning many Wall Street analysts.

“We could never have anticipated that the extent of regulatory and reimbursement threat could reach these levels,” Geoffrey C. Porges, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said in a note to clients yesterday. He estimated that the proposals could cut Aranesp use in half.

Amgen shares closed yesterday down $2.06, or 4 percent, to $54.01. Earlier in the day the shares were as low as $52.36, the lowest level in two and a half years.

Shares of Johnson & Johnson, which is a much more diversified health care company, fell 79 cents, or about 1 percent, to $61.82.

The drugs, genetically engineered versions of a human hormone that stimulates production of oxygen-carrying red blood cells, constitute Medicare’s biggest drug expenditure.

Last year Aranesp had sales of $4.1 billion. Sales of Aranesp and Epogen, a similar drug used to treat anemia in kidney dialysis patients, accounted for nearly half of Amgen’s $14.3 billion in revenue.

Sales of Johnson & Johnson’s Procrit, known as Eprex outside the United States, were $3.2 billion.

Medicare’s proposals will be open to public comment for a month and are expected to go into effect later this year.

Amgen, known in Washington as a formidable lobbyist, is bound to fight them. It said in a statement that it planned to work with Medicare officials “to ensure that coverage decisions are consistent with the available science and in the best interest of patients.”

Stephanie Fagan, a spokeswoman for Johnson & Johnson, said that Medicare should not have acted until a final decision by the F.D.A. on the advisory panel’s recommendation.

Dr. George Demetri, an oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard University, who has also consulted for both Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, said the proposed restrictions “seem very strict,” though he added that Medicare might have evidence that he was not aware of.

Still, Dr. Demetri, who is on a committee that develops anemia treatment guidelines for an organization of leading cancer centers, said that solid studies on the safety of the drugs were “distressingly limited.”

One group of patients likely to object to the new proposals suffer from myelodysplastic syndromes, or M.D.S., a family of bone marrow diseases that can lead to leukemia. The drugs are not approved to treat the anemia that often accompanies M.D.S., but Medicare has been paying for such use. Now, it proposes to stop.

“There’s a body of literature that supports their use in M.D.S. even though they don’t have the indication,” said Dr. Mikkael Sekeres, the co-chairman of the medical advisory board of the Aplastic Anemia and MDS International Foundation.
431 2007-05-16 NDJAMENA, Chad, May 15 — Young protesters have overrun an oil pipeline hub in the volatile Niger Delta, the authorities said, helping to cut Nigeria’s oil production by about 30 percent as the country weathers a period of instability after a deeply flawed election last month.

The protest, by activists of the Ogoni tribe in the Niger Delta, is the latest violence among ethnic militias that have attacked pipelines and other facilities since the election last month returned the ruling People’s Democratic Party to power with wide margins.

The European Union called the election, which was marred by fraud and intimidation, not credible, and Nigerian observers demanded a revote.

Since May 7, a group of protesters in one of the oil-producing states has occupied a Chevron oil field, and in a neighboring state, Bayelsa, a militant group called the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has bombed three pipelines, disrupting the flow of nearly 100,000 barrels a day for the Italian oil company Eni. The disruptions helped push oil prices in New York to $63.17, up 71 cents a barrel.

More than a dozen foreign workers are being held hostage in the Niger Delta, and dozens more have been kidnapped and released in the last year as violence in the oil region has escalated. Despite producing most of Nigeria’s foreign currency earnings, the Niger Delta is one of the poorest regions of the country.

Militants in the region have said that they plan to escalate their attacks in the weeks leading up to the inauguration of Nigeria’s president-elect, Umaru Yar’Adua. He was declared the winner of an election that international observers said had been marred by ballot stuffing, intimidation and incompetence by electoral officials. Mr. Yar’Adua has said he plans to make developing the Niger Delta a priority.
432 2007-05-16 WASHINGTON, May 15 (Reuters) — A hazy ring of dark matter created by a colossal cosmic crash eons ago offers the best evidence to date that vast amounts of the mysterious material reside in the universe, a scientist at the Johns Hopkins University said Tuesday.

Images taken by the Hubble Space Telescope allowed astronomers to detect the ring of dark matter, which was created by the collision of two galaxy clusters five billion light-years from Earth.

Scientists came across the evidence while studying the distribution of dark matter within a galaxy cluster designated as Cl 0024+17. Wondering about the genesis of the ring, the researchers came across earlier work showing that the galaxy cluster had run into another cluster one billion to two billion years ago.

“The collision between the two galaxy clusters created a ripple of dark matter that left distinct footprints in the shapes of the background galaxies,” Myungkook James Jee, an astronomer at Johns Hopkins. Richard Massey, an astronomer at the California Institute of Technology, said the findings were facing skepticism within the astronomical community.
433 2007-05-16 Visa named a credit card industry veteran, Joseph W. Saunders, as chairman and chief executive yesterday, to oversee preparations for a planned initial public offering.

Visa, the world’s largest credit card payment system, had appointed Mr. Saunders to help Visa find a chief executive but in the end decided that he was the best choice, the company said.

Mr. Saunders, 61, was previously president of card services at Washington Mutual, which he joined after the bank acquired his former employer, Providian Financial.

Visa said in October that it planned a public offering to finance its expansion and help pay legal costs, saying it expected the process to take 12 to 18 months.

As part of the lead-up to the offering, the company plans later this year to merge its United States, Canadian and international units to form Visa Inc., the entity that will go public and be led by Mr. Saunders.
434 2007-05-16 LAST week the United States military compensated the families of 19 Afghans killed when a Marine Special Operations unit opened fire on a civilian crowd in March; the marines involved face charges for unlawful use of force. What did the Afghans receive? Just $2,000 for each fatality, while the 50 people wounded in the same shooting got nothing but an apology from a Marine colonel.

Such cases are vivid reminders of what happens when soldiers at war run amok. As with the massacre of 24 Iraqi civilians at Haditha in 2005 and the rape and murder of a teenager and the killing of her family in Mahmudiya, Iraq, last year, prosecuting the soldiers is only the first step toward justice. Legitimate compensation and a real show of contrition must also be offered. In fact, there is a law authorizing such payments — the Foreign Claims Act — but the military continually fails to do the right thing.

The Foreign Claims Act was enacted in 1942 as the United States prepared to enter World War II. The first paragraph of the statute specifies that the purpose is to “promote and maintain friendly relations” with foreign civilians “through the prompt settlement of meritorious claims.”

From its inception, the act was intended to win the hearts and minds of the local population, a valuable tool in the military’s arsenal. Yes, many terrible things happen to civilians in war, and many are not the direct fault of combatants. But criminal acts should never be treated as just another part of the business of war, and the act gives a method for the United States to accept financial and moral responsibility for atrocities committed by American troops.

It seemed that the Pentagon might be taking a step toward accountability this spring when it released documentation of civilian casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan (albeit only after the American Civil Liberties Union filed a Freedom of Information Act request). But as I examined the documents, my initial optimism again gave way to disappointment. The records — including hundreds of claims filed by families for the death and injury of loved ones — prove that the military’s current policy is a failure.

I spent 14 months in Iraq as a military lawyer, adjudicating claims by Iraqis who had suffered combat- and noncombat-related injuries. We also used the Foreign Claims Act a few times to get financial compensation for wrongful acts by our troops. Clearly, atrocities like those at Haditha and Mahmudiya should have been addressed the same way. But thus far the Pentagon has not done so. In Haditha, the Marine Corps presented a $38,000 “condolence payment” to the victims’ families — about $1,500 for each Iraqi killed. In the Mahmudiya case, the family’s relatives got nothing, even though two American soldiers have pleaded guilty to the crimes.
435 2007-05-16 Re “House Panel Considering Cuts in Budget for Missile Defense” (news article, May 10):

Instead of spending billions of dollars and outraging our allies to build two missile defense bases in Europe to counter a hypothetical nuclear threat by Iran sometime around 2012, the administration would do better to try a much less expensive, less contentious and probably more successful approach — talking with Iran. Paul Wapner

The writer is an associate professor, School of International Service, American University.
436 2007-05-16 There are problems with the Clean Development Mechanism, to be sure. The most troubling aspect of it is not that China has used it effectively, but that it has so far failed the countries, like those in Africa, that will be hardest hit by climate change.

Given that any tenable solution to reducing carbon emissions will be market-based, it is past time to propose solutions to make the C.D.M. work for the countries that have been cut out of it to date. That is just what we at the Center for American Progress, in a commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative, have been doing for the last year.

By putting interested investors into direct contact with African governments with attractive project possibilities, we are determined not just to lament the shortcomings of the current system but also to overcome them. John Podesta

The writers are, respectively, president and chief executive; and distinguished senior fellow at the Center for American Progress.
437 2007-05-16 She found a receptive ear in Ellen Golden, a senior vice president of development at Coastal Enterprises, and together they came up with the idea of a book profiling some of the women who had found ingenious ways to make a living in the area. But how to create it on a limited budget?

“When in doubt, use students,” Ms. Golden said — in this case, from the University of Maine at Farmington. The university agreed to create a course through its women’s studies program, under a professor there, Lee Sharkey, in which students would study the art of interviewing and collect the stories of women who own businesses. Over the spring and fall semesters in 2003, 13 students gave it a try.

The result, “Telling Their Stories,” describes businesses that are nothing if not eclectic. One woman runs a dance studio and troupe in a town of fewer than 1,000 residents. One has a complex of greenhouses. One analyzes soils and designs septic systems. Some are native Mainers; others moved there from more populated places.

In the profiles, the women talk not just of how they got started, but also of their philosophies, goals, hopes and regrets. The how-they-got-started stories, though, are often entertaining by themselves.

For Ms. Barron, 48, who owns Alder Stream Canvas in Kingfield, it was a matter of not being able to throw away some leftover material. A certified Maine guide, she once made herself a waterproof pack. Her co-workers in a canoe shop asked her to make them packs, too, but the canvas came in larger quantities than she needed.

“I had this 20 yards of cloth, and what do I do with it?” she recalled. More packs was the answer, which led to a line of backpacks, belts, totes and specialty items (alderstream.wcha.org), which she has sold all over the United States and abroad.

The business is almost 20 years old, but Ms. Barron said she could still recall a moment early on when, in a backhanded way, she realized she had made a mark: someone from a company in Japan called and ordered one of everything she had. Later she realized that the buyer probably wanted to copy her designs, but what loomed largest were the dollar signs.

“I was just starting out,” she said. “A $500 check? My goodness; I didn’t know.”

Ms. Burns and Ms. King also backed into their business, Cabins to Castles, which is based in Denmark, west of Sebago Lake. About 14 years ago, they bought a tractor for work on their own property, and to help pay for the tractor they started pulling tree stumps and such for neighbors. Now, said Ms. Burns, 52, they do $500,000 to $600,000 a year in landscaping and erosion-control work, emphasizing environmentally sensitive areas.

From pulling stumps to a half-million-dollar-a-year company? “I think that’s often the way it happens for women,” Ms. Burns said, “because they have an idea, but they don’t necessarily have the courage to make that leap of faith.”

Certainly Wendy Newmeyer didn’t realize just how far balsam tips could take her. She and her husband, Jack, had escaped New Jersey for a large chunk of cheap land in West Paris, and 24 years ago, she started making balsam-filled pillows from the byproducts of logging that Jack was doing. Ten years later, she was selling $500,000 worth of pillows and other products a year.

“It’s amazing how a business, once it’s set on its path, can become that snowball rolling downhill,” said Ms. Newmeyer, 52, whose company is called Maine Balsam Fir Products (mainebalsam.com; products available through a catalog or a gift shop in West Paris). A decade ago, she said, “I had to step back and say, ‘What sort of business do we want?’ ” She decided to rein things in; now annual sales are about half what they were at the business’s peak. “We’ve tried to keep this light and fun,” she said, “because that was our original vision.”

Whether it’s capitalizing on unexpected opportunities or keeping a business from getting out of control, all the women in “Telling Their Stories” testify to the importance of remaining flexible. To that, Ms. Ouellette, the owner of the Moose Point Tavern in Jackman (moosepointtavern.com), adds, Know your market.

“The most important thing is a true understanding of the area before you jump into anything,” said Ms. Ouellette, 44, who bought the tavern in 1996. It also means knowing local tastes. Ms. Ouellette created a gourmet restaurant in an incongruously remote spot, but an early vow never to serve mashed potatoes didn’t last. In fact, she said, mashed potatoes are now a customer favorite. “You learn pretty quickly what’s going to work and what isn’t,” she said.

Ms. Golden at Coastal Enterprises said the booklet (which can be read at ceimaine.org or westernmountainsalliance.org) has many lessons to offer prospective small-business owners. Another goal, she said, is to get it into the hands of policy makers and bankers, so they can see the value of supporting women-owned small businesses.

Perhaps no one will be more influenced by the book’s stories than the students who wrote them. Samantha DePoy, who wrote the entry on Ms. Burns and Ms. King, now has her own wedding-photography business where she is applying the lessons she learned from the entrepreneurs profiled in the book.

“None of these women talked about their business like it was just a business,” Ms. DePoy, 24, said. “It was more like an extension of themselves. You can’t not be in love, madly in love, with what you’re doing.”
438 2007-05-16 It was perfect for Mr. Johnstone, who had lost money in a motorcycle-accessories deal years earlier. He went to Harvard.

“The program can’t transform them into highly successful entrepreneurs overnight,” said W. Carl Kester, the deputy dean of Harvard Business School, “but it helps focus them on what questions to ask when they’re approached with business opportunities, which happens often because they have the capital from their salaries and bonuses plus they have personal brand names.”

The N.F.L. Business Management and Entrepreneurial Program, as it is called, now also includes Stanford Business School and the Kellogg Business School at Northwestern University. Each university focuses on its own area of expertise.

More than 250 players have attended one or more of the programs. At Harvard and Wharton, there are two sessions of three days each; both schools charge a total of $10,000. At Kellogg and Stanford, the seminar is three days. Stanford charges $4,500; a spokeswoman for Kellogg said an average three-day seminar costs $4,950 to $5,250, but she would not give the players’ exact fees. Veteran N.F.L. players may be reimbursed up to $15,000 for education expenses.

An N.F.L. survey last year found that nearly half of those who attended the programs in 2006 intended to start businesses as a result of participating. Mr. Vincent, who has played defensive back for the Washington Redskins and the Buffalo Bills, among others, had started two companies before he took the seminar at Wharton. He had a financial services company, which was running well, and he and his wife, Tommi, had a hair salon in Ewing, N.J. He found that his newly acquired business acumen came in handy, especially in evaluating the salon, the Essence Hair, Nail and Body Spa.

“It was always $1,500 here and $2,200 there” to keep the business going, he said. His business education prompted him to revisit “how we were pricing products and services, how we were managing expenses and employee productivity.” Mr. Vincent revamped the business, and, he said, “Last year, we began to turn a profit.”

Tony Richardson, 35, a fullback with the Minnesota Vikings and a veteran of 14 N.F.L. seasons, wanted to learn the nuts and bolts of running a business when he signed on for the Harvard program.

Mr. Richardson, who has an M.B.A. from Webster University in St. Louis, had rejected many deals, he said, including “ridiculous promises of a 45 percent return.” But he was interested in a partnership with other athletes for a sports bar in Kansas City, Kan., where he played for years.

He attended the program three years ago with that prospect in mind. “In football and other sports, you never want to stand on the sidelines,” he said, “but at Harvard, I learned that sometimes in business it’s good to be on the sidelines until you are sure of what you’re doing.”

He learned about defining and diversifying risk and calculating the money that the business needed, and went ahead with opening the bar, the 810 Zone, in Leawood, a suburb of Kansas City.

It has gone smoothly so far, he said. But he knows that when the excitement and adulation of the football field are behind him, he will have new challenges.

“I want to have as much business education under my belt as I can,” he said.

Outside the N.F.L., players must be prepared for different dynamics, said Dhani Jones, 29, a Philadelphia Eagles linebacker.

“We’re competitive and aggressive while we’re playing,” he said, “but when you’re off the field you need to understand those dynamics change, and you need to know a lot about people — how to evaluate them, how to manage them, for example.”

Mr. Jones also attended the Harvard program; then he started Five Star Ties, which sells bow ties and neckties.

Mr. Johnstone wanted to learn how to evaluate business deals and the people behind them. Football relies on trust, which “doesn’t always work on the outside.”

At Harvard, he said, he picked up enough knowledge to be able to sift through some business possibilities, including franchises. He decided to buy a company to “set myself up for life, and have a business to have some cash flow after I’m done playing.”

Last spring he and his brother, Brent, opened the Original Printing Service in Philadelphia; the company prints promotional items like coffee mugs, pens and T-shirts. Mr. Johnstone spent $500,000 for two large printing machines and other equipment. His six employees print 60,000 items a year, for customers as varied as schools and politicians. The company has yet to make a profit but with no loans or leases to worry about, Mr. Johnstone said he was confident that his investment would pay off.

But he is not leaving much to chance. He took a class in screen printing, and says: “I can work everything in the building. I know just enough to keep everyone on their toes.”

Two weeks after his printing company opened, Mr. Johnstone attended the March 2006 N.F.L. program at Wharton, to increase his knowledge. And last month, he gave the 35 players enrolled in this year’s Wharton class a tour of his plant.

“The business is not flashy in any way,” said Kenneth L. Shropshire, a Wharton professor and director of its sports business initiative, who organized the visit, “but it is impressive that he’s still in the league and he’s already started a business.”

Players like Mr. Johnstone, he said, “are really self-motivated to be here, and apply what they learn as soon as possible.”

It is also a great networking opportunity, said Mr. Johnstone, who met Seth Berger, founder of AND 1, a basketball apparel company, at Wharton. And some professors agree to be coaches that players can tap for advice. Mr. Johnstone said he got a lot out of Wharton, where he went soon after he opened his business. His big question among his fellow students was: “Anyone have any printing jobs I can do?”
439 2007-05-16 While much of the world has warmed in a pattern that scientists have linked with near certainty to human activities, the frigid interior of Antarctica has resisted the trend.

Now, a new satellite analysis shows that at least once in the last several years, masses of unusually warm air pushed to within 310 miles of the South Pole and remained long enough to melt surface snow across a California-size expanse.

The warm spell, which occurred over one week in 2005, was detected by scientists from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory of NASA and the University of Colorado, Boulder.

Balmy air, with a temperature of up to 41 degrees in some places, persisted across three broad swathes of West Antarctica long enough to leave a distinctive signature of melting, a layer of ice in the snow that cloaks the vast ice sheets of the frozen continent. The layer formed the same way a crust of ice can form in a yard in winter when a warm day and then a freezing night follow a snowfall, the scientists said.

The evidence of melting was detected by a National Aeronautics and Space Administration satellite, the QuickScat, that uses radar to distinguish between snow and ice as it scans the surfaces of Greenland and Antarctica.

There have been other areas in Antarctica where such melt zones have been seen, but they are not common so far inland, said Son Nghiem, a scientist at the NASA laboratory who directed the analysis with Konrad Steffen, a glaciologist at the University of Colorado, Boulder.
440 2007-05-16 Amgen shares were battered again yesterday after Medicare proposed to sharply curtail reimbursement for the company's biggest selling product, the anemia drug Aranesp.     Some analysts said the proposed restrictions, announced late Monday, could ...
441 2007-05-16 To the Editor:     Re ''The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, Or How Dirty Is That Bologna?'' (May 9):...
442 2007-05-16 Photo of 56-year-old house, built by French designer Jean Prouve, which spent most of its existence in Africa and is now on display beside Queensboro Bridge...
443 2007-05-16 Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he hoped that Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes over as France's president today, would drop his opposition to Turkey's joining the European Union. Mr. Sarkozy, who argues that Turkey is culturally not a part of E...
444 2007-05-16 To the Editor:      Re ''House Panel Considering Cuts in Budget for Missile Defense'' (news article, May 10):...
445 2007-05-16 Peppercorns' color palette has gotten brighter. Red ones, rarely seen outside India, are being imported, freeze-dried, by Bart Delicatessen, a company in Bristol, England.      The most common black variety of peppercorn is the fully matured, oxid...
446 2007-05-16 THOMSON ACQUIRES REUTERS -- The Thomson Corporation's $17.2 billion acquisition of the Reuters Group was announced, a confirmation of Thomson's success turning an Ontario newspaper chain into a financial information powerhouse. [Page C1.]      The...
447 2007-05-16 To the Editor:     Re ''Clean Power That Reaps a Whirlwind'' (''The Energy Challenge'' series, Business Day, May 9):     There are problems with the Clean Development Mechanism, to be sure. The most troubling aspect of it is not that China has use...
448 2007-05-17 Stories of triumph, hope, loss and love based on the popular Times Vows column and told by the couples themselves.
449 2007-05-17 As he seeks the Republican presidential nomination, John McCain has missed half of the votes cast this year by the Senate. It is the worst attendance record of any candidate....
450 2007-05-17 The “O.C.” of N.Y.C., “Gossip Girl,” is on the big screen. The kids are rich and mean, and they party and steal each other’s boyfriends. Sounds cool, but can teen life seem sexy without beaches and bodies of water? There’s a lot of dop...
451 2007-05-17 The Republican presidential candidate hop-scotched from one Manhattan fund-raiser to another, in between a Washington stop to announce a deal on immigration....
452 2007-05-17 Dwindling polar ice caps are a good reason to worry. But should the declining number of publicly traded U.S. companies be cause for concern? USA Today considered this question Thursday, telling readers that "private equity's public-company pig fes...
453 2007-05-17 Federal prosecutors may soon charge "a number" of current and former employees of prominent securities firms with taking part in a kickback scheme involving loans of stocks and bonds to short sellers, according to BusinessWeek, which cites undiscl...
454 2007-05-17 New shows in New York include "Passing Strange" and "Memory."...
455 2007-05-17 A week after confirming that it hired an investment bank to explore "strategic alternatives," 24/7 Real Media has decided that a sale is the way to go. The company, which provides online marketing services, said it agreed to be bought by advertisi...
456 2007-05-17 In the coming weeks, the Securities and Exchange Commission must decide a series of critical issues worth billions of dollars to the business community, from how far to cut back accounting rules to whether it should side with investment banks or s...
457 2007-05-17 While the sums that angel investors typically provide to hopeful start-ups may be dwarfed by the investments that their later-stage colleagues drum up, their returns are far from bite-sized. In particular, one group of angel investors - individual...
458 2007-05-17 Presidential contender John Edwards earned $479,512 in 2006 for his work advising Fortress Investment Group, a hedge fund and private equity firm, and sold several million dollars in assets to personally invest in Fortress funds, according to pers...
459 2007-05-17 But others think Mr. Wolfowitz, in seeking a second chance after Iraq, repeated the same mistakes he made at the Pentagon of adopting a single-minded position on certain matters, refusing to entertain alternative views and marginalizing dissenters.

“Wolfowitz unsettled people from the outset,” said Manish Bapna, executive director of the Bank Information Center, an independent watchdog group. “His style was seen as an ad hoc subjective approach to punishing enemies and rewarding friends.”

At the Pentagon, Mr. Wolfowitz was an early champion of going to war with Iraq, just a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, and continued his advocacy for regime change in Iraq over the next year. His time at the Pentagon was characterized by infighting, especially with the Central Intelligence Agency, which he thought underestimated Iraq as a threat to the United States. He clashed with Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, and others who warned — correctly, it turned out — that the United States needed more forces in Iraq. His vision of democracy in the Arab world also ran aground in Baghdad.

Despite the administration’s aversion to multilateral institutions, many at the World Bank had initially hoped that Mr. Wolfowitz — a neoconservative intellectual, former academic dean and ambassador to Indonesia — could help forge a new consensus with liberals on ways to more effectively aid poor countries.

But his low-key, intellectual approach to subjects belied a determination to get his way, according to bank officials.

These accounts, coming as Mr. Wolfowitz negotiated the terms of his departure, are from friends and current and former colleagues, both at the Pentagon and the World Bank, who have remained in contact with him.

Once Mr. Wolfowitz leaves the bank, friends say, he may join the legions of former colleagues, from George J. Tenet of the C.I.A. to L. Paul Bremer, the Iraq occupation leader, who have written books and Op-Ed pieces to defend their actions on the war.

Bank officials say, in fact, that when he arrived there in 2005, Mr. Wolfowitz wanted to write a book about Iraq and accept fees for speeches. That set off his first fight with ethics officers, who told him that he could not do so.

When these proposals were rejected, he soured on the office of the general counsel, Roberto Daniño, a former prime minister of Peru and the first official who suggested to him that Shaha Ali Riza, his companion and a bank employee, could not remain at the bank because she would come under his supervision.

Recently released bank documents show that Mr. Wolfowitz rejected Mr. Daniño’s advice on Ms. Riza and went directly to the bank board’s ethics committee in search of a different ruling. He also refused to deal with the general counsel on all other matters. An associate said he called Mr. Daniño “incompetent.”

Mr. Daniño, forced to resign last year, told a reporter at the time: “He presumes that anyone who opposes him is incompetent or corrupt.”

The battle with Mr. Daniño laid the groundwork for battles with Ad Melkert, the head of the bank board’s ethics committee, and Xavier Coll, a vice president for human resources, over the handling of Ms. Riza’s case. The three became Mr. Wolfowitz’s main accusers, asserting that he acted unethically in arranging pay raises, a promotion and a transfer for his companion.

Those disagreements might have faded into irrelevance if Mr. Wolfowitz had not waged other battles with the bank staff, many bank officials say.

At an institution obsessed with process, consensus and respect for its civil servants, Mr. Wolfowitz rankled people by bringing in two close aides from the Bush administration, Robin Cleveland and Kevin Kellems, and used them not only as advisers but as managers who issued directives to senior officers.

Among those with whom he tangled were Christiaan Poortman, a vice president for the Middle East, over Mr. Wolfowitz’s demand that the bank establish a greater presence in Iraq. Mr. Poortman, ordered to transfer to Kazakhstan, resigned instead.

Gobind Nakani, a vice president for Africa, also resigned following disputes with Mr. Wolfowitz over the size of his staff, according to several bank officials.

One official recalled Mr. Wolfowitz dressing down several top employees in the Africa division because they could not tell him whether the incidence of malaria among children had declined as a result of the bank’s program distributing bed nets to families.

Another official who left was Shengman Zhang, the top deputy to James Wolfensohn, Mr. Wolfowitz’s predecessor. Mr. Wolfowitz contended that it was hypocritical for bank officials to allow Mr. Zhang’s wife to work at the bank but to banish Ms. Riza. Mr. Zhang, now a senior vice president at Citigroup in Hong Kong, was furious, several associates say, because bank rules permit husbands and wives to work at the bank under circumscribed conditions, which Mr. Zhang said he followed, but they bar bank employees from having a sexual relationship with top bank officials outside of marriage. “What Paul didn’t understand is that the World Bank presidency is not inherently a powerful job,” a Bush administration official said, speaking anonymously to be more candid. “A bank president is successful only if he can form alliances with the bank’s many fiefdoms. Wolfowitz didn’t ally with those fiefdoms. He alienated them.”

Ms. Cleveland, a former budget official who handled defense matters when Mr. Wolfowitz was deputy defense secretary, sometimes delivered the news on key decisions to suspend aid to countries charged with corruption.

In a dispute with Chad over its use of revenues from a bank-financed oil pipeline, Ms. Cleveland ordered a suspension of money to Chad, according to several officials.

“It produced unpleasant negotiations and made people angry,” said a bank official. “The approach by Mr. Wolfowitz and Ms. Cleveland was one of confrontation. It positioned us as adversaries rather than partners.”

A similar decision to suspend financing for a health program in India last year rankled the British, a partner in the program. It caused the British development minister, Hilary Benn, to retaliate last fall by withdrawing a nominal amount of money for another bank program.

That matter was eventually resolved, but it helped ensure that Mr. Benn and his ally, Gordon Brown, chancellor of the Exchequer and presumed future prime minister of Britain, would not be in Mr. Wolfowitz’s corner in the current fight over his future.

Mr. Wolfowitz’s order to suspend funding for some countries alienated officials in Chad, Kenya, Congo and many other African nations, even though South Africa, Liberia and other African leaders supported his advocacy of honesty in bank activities.

Suspension of aid to Uzbekistan, which Mr. Wolfowitz said was on grounds of corruption, angered some at the bank who asserted that the real motivation was that country’s decision to suspend air rights for United States military operations in Afghanistan.

The battle over corruption came to a head last fall in Singapore, when a majority of the bank board demanded changes in the program, insisting that no suspensions of aid occur without consulting them.

They also blocked Mr. Wolfowitz from providing money to dissident groups over the objections of a country’s leaders, fearing that he was trying to duplicate the Bush administration’s support for dissidents who waged uprisings that led to the “rose revolution” in Georgia and the “orange revolution” in Ukraine.

In his final appeal to the bank board to save his job, Mr. Wolfowitz promised to change his management style. Mr. Kellems had quit, and Ms. Cleveland had moved out of her office next to Mr. Wolfowitz’s. His statement was filled with such phrases as “I relied much too long on advisers who came in with me from the outside;” “I now have a team of vice presidents and I am very comfortable empowering them and delegating to them,” he said, adding, “I am aware of the concern that I need to place more trust in the staff.”

Mr. Wolfowitz also said he hoped to continue pressing for programs to stop corruption, combat AIDS in Africa and avian flu in Asia, achieve new records of funding for the world’s poorest countries and do more to combat global warming.

In the end, however, his supporters said his willingness to resign came not because he had violated bank rules over the handling of his companion’s compensation, but because his leadership style had impeded progress on these issues. Whether or not the denouement was inevitable, Mr. Wolfowitz and his supporters came to see it more as the result of the war within the bank than the one in Iraq.
460 2007-05-17 The decision avoided what would have been a serious embarrassment for the United Nations’ human rights organization, which in the past has attracted scorn for permitting participation by countries like Cuba and Libya.

Last week, the United Nations came in for renewed criticism on a similar front when it elected Zimbabwe, a country with one of the world’s most battered economies and rights records, to be chairman of its Commission on Sustainable Development.

Today’s election in the General Assembly chose 14 new members for the 47-member Human Rights Council, the Geneva-based body created last year to replace the discredited Human Rights Commission.

Elected along with Slovenia and Bosnia were Angola, Bolivia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Italy, Madagascar, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Qatar and South Africa.

The only other seat that was contested was for Western Europe, where Italy defeated Denmark on a runoff ballot.

The council, while more restrictive in its membership than the previous commission, has performed poorly in its first year, devoting all its energies to denouncing one country, Israel, while taking no action in cases like the turmoil in Darfur.

The United States decided not to be candidate for the council either last year or this year, saying that the body, while better than its predecessor, still fell short of what it should be to be credible and effective

There was also concern that, given the hostility in the United Nations to American actions in Iraq, the United States might not be able to win a place.

“This bodes well for the reform of the Human Rights Council that is very much needed,” Mr. Khalilzad said of today’s vote.

Steve Crawshaw, the United Nations advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, said that rights group were particularly galvanized by the prospect of Belarus on the council.

“Belarus’s track record is, frankly, appalling,” he said, “It has no real civil society, no freedom of expression, its elections have been deemed absolutely not to be free or fair, there is no breathing space, and the U.N. special envoy to Belarus has been blocked from visiting the country.”

Asked why Bosnia, a country with a recent past of rights abuses, was a better candidate, he said, “Bosnia’s record is far from perfect — Human Rights Watch has repeatedly criticized it on a number of issues — but Belarus is simply in a league of its own.”

Earlier this month, two watchdog groups — UN Watch and Freedom House — expressed disapproval of three other candidates for the panel, Angola, Egypt and Qatar, calling them “authoritarian regimes with negative U.N. voting records on rights issues and are not qualified to be council members.” All three were elected to the council today.
461 2007-05-17 The first performance of “Girls” yesterday had an improvisational, guerrilla-theater feel. It unfolded in different parts of the World Financial Center complex — in a bridgelike space between two of the office towers, in a corridor near stores, on the escalators.

The action began without warning. There were no lights to go down, no announcement asking the audience to switch off cellphones and pagers, no curtain to go up. The audience was whoever stopped to watch. There were no tickets. There were no seats: everyone who watched the performances stood.

“We wanted it to be found theater, invisible theater that you didn’t know was happening until you were in it,” said Linda Powell, who produced “Remembrance.”

Some passers-by were clearly baffled, and that was exactly what the organizers had hoped for.

“It was too delicious, the idea of coming down here and doing something about women and money,” said Julie Crosby, the producing artistic director of the Women’s Project, the Manhattan theater lab that staged the plays. “That was something I couldn’t refuse.”

So she commissioned six playwrights to write what she called “site-specific” plays. The playwrights included the author of “Remembrance,” Katori Hall, and Saviana Stanescu, a Romanian who has been receiving death threats for another of her works. In that one, she said, she used vampires to depict the infamous former Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife, Elena.

But “Girls Just Wanna Have Funds” was not staged in the financial center’s tall, bright Winter Garden, where performers have appeared for nearly 20 years.

“We have well-defined performance spaces,” said Debra Simon, the director of arts for the World Financial Center. “I was interested in shaking that up.”

The reviews from passers-by suggested that “Girls Just Wanna Have Funds” did just that.

“Corporate America is too stuck-up,” said Zaya Haynes, an informational technology specialist with XL Global who watched “Keep the Change,” the first play in “Girls.” “Corporate America needs something like this to break out of the cycle of everyday work.”

Staging plays in the open, echoey spaces of the financial center was a challenge. Some cast members wore little microphones and battery-powered loudspeakers to make themselves heard. And the two actresses in “Remembrance,” Edwina Findley and Dominique Morisseau, thought they would have to do some improvising when Officer Monteforte stepped onto the escalator, right in front of Ms. Morisseau.

“I thought, oh, goodie,” Ms. Morisseau said after the performance.

Ms. Findley put it somewhat differently. “I thought, oh, goodie, they’ll arrest her,” she said.

Ms. Morisseau said she figured she would just make the two officers “part of the show.” Their appearance “helped the character” she was playing, she said, adding, “She’s crazy anyway.”

Just in case Officer Monteforte had not figured out what was going on, a security guard was trying to catch his eye with sweeping gestures like a baseball umpire would make when a player is safe.

But Officer Monteforte soon realized that what he had stumbled on was not a crime in progress. And when he got to the bottom of the escalator, he joined the audience.

As it happened, the two officers were not the first walk-ons in “Girls.”

“One day when we were rehearsing,” said Ms. Powell, the “Remembrance” producer, “the cleaning staff went up the escalator at the same time.”
462 2007-05-17 On abortions, the number decreased in New York City in Mr. Giuliani’s tenure by 18 percent, according to the Guttmacher Institute, which studies reproductive health and policy. Nationally, the number fell in that period by 13 percent.

As mayor, Mr. Giuliani continued a strong tradition of supporting abortion rights, including using public money to provide poor women with abortions, as well as contraceptive services.

JoAnn M. Smith, president and chief executive of Family Planning Advocates of New York State, attributed the decline in abortion in New York chiefly to the state’s having long been a leader in providing and expanding contraceptive services and supplies through Medicaid.

“If you’re going to make a dent in abortion rates, you have to make sure women have prevention services,” Ms. Smith said, “and New York State has made a real commitment to that. Giuliani was part of the mix in New York, and a large portion of the state’s population is in the city.”

Randall K. O’Bannon, director of education and research for the National Right to Life Committee, said the rate at which women chose abortions had been declining for several years before Mr. Giuliani became mayor. He attributed the decline to an increase in education about what abortion entailed and decisions by more women “to choose life.”

When Mr. Giuliani brought up the increase in adoptions, he was referring to those using city agencies involving children in the city foster care system. He was not including private adoptions or those by New Yorkers in other countries.

At the time, the child welfare system in New York had been mired in extreme disarray, with reports of severe abuse and highly publicized deaths. Mr. Giuliani created the Administration for Children’s Services in 1996 to try to improve caseworker responses to reports of neglect and to move children more quickly out of temporary foster homes and into permanent adoptive homes.

That increased adoptions for a few years, an increase that resulted largely from Mr. Giuliani’s response to the foster care crisis. Little if anything in the public record suggests that he was promoting adoption as an alternative to abortion.

At the time, a law enacted in the Clinton administration, the Adoption and Safe Families Act, offered huge incentives to cities adoption programs.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani’s campaign, Maria Comella, said he had created a climate promoting adoption.

“Whether it was the mayor’s creating A.C.S., implementing welfare reform or a series of other initiatives, they all contributed to the decrease in abortions and the increase in adoptions,” Ms. Comella said.

Asked whether Mr. Giuliani was linking the two, she said, “When you’re creating an environment that encourages adoption as a choice that will naturally lend itself to decreasing the number of abortions.”

When Mr. Giuliani said at the first debate that adoptions had increased 65 percent to 70 percent, he was comparing the last six years of his administration with the previous six years.

He revised the figure at the second debate, to 133 percent, by comparing adoptions in all eight years of his administration with those in the previous eight years.

According to figures from the Administration for Children’s Services, the number of adoptions was increasing before Mr. Giuliani took office and before he created the agency. The total peaked in 1997, at 4,000, and declined, to 2,700, by Mr. Giuliani’s last year as mayor.
463 2007-05-17 Mr. Rendell has proposed shifting school taxes away from property owners. The goal, in part, is to ease the burden on older residents, who are more likely to have substantial homes but low incomes, and to move more of the share of school financing to people who rent their homes.

The Pennsylvania School Boards Association, which had opposed the tax shift, welcomed the result and said the state needed to place less emphasis on local financing of schools.

“Quite clearly, Pennsylvania residents have rejected the notion that property taxes can be lowered by shifting the burden to income taxes,” Thomas J. Gentzel, the association’s executive director, said in a statement on the association’s Web site. Mr. Gentzel called on the legislature and the governor to increase state aid.

Doug Rohanna, a spokesman for Mr. Rendell, said the governor was not surprised by the defeat, which he believes was caused by voters’ having incomplete or inaccurate information about the benefits of the proposal.

In the Radnor School District near Philadelphia, for example, voters were told that their property taxes would decline by $480 a year under the plan whereas the real reduction would have been about $1,200, Mr. Rohanna said.

“The full value of the property-tax relief was not clear to the voters,” he said.

In another tactic to cut property taxes, Mr. Rendell has proposed raising the state sales tax to 7 percent, from 6 percent. In a statement, he said the rejection of the income tax increase might give lawmakers an incentive to approve the higher sales tax, a “substantial portion” of which would be used to pay for property-tax reduction.

The vote on Tuesday was not the first defeat for Mr. Rendell’s plans to cut property taxes. In May 2005, the state’s school boards rejected a plan, known as Act 72, to use some of the revenue from 61,000 slot machines planned for the state’s casinos to finance school districts.

Voters in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Scranton did not have the question on their ballots Tuesday because those cities already have wage taxes that are higher than elsewhere in the state.
464 2007-05-17 The documents that were unsealed yesterday during a conference in Federal District Court in Manhattan consisted of summary reports filed by detectives involved in police surveillance operations leading to the convention.

A second batch of documents contains raw intelligence reports produced by detectives upon which the summary reports were based. A sampling of those unfiltered reports reviewed by The Times shows that they include more detailed information about the groups and individuals that were watched and in some cases disclose how the undercover officers conducted the surveillance.

Judge Francis said that he would rule next week on motions from the city objecting to the release of that material to the plaintiffs.

The summary reports released yesterday and other raw intelligence reports that have not yet been made public show that before the convention, detectives traveled to at least 15 places, including cities in Canada and Europe, where they often posed as activists or sympathizers while participating in political meetings held by church groups, antiwar organizations and environmentalists, among others. The police have said that they needed to find out about what they called dangerous groups that they said were intent on disrupting the convention and breaking the law.

“I think a close examination of the documents will show that the New York City Police Department did an outstanding job of protecting this city during the Republican National Convention,” Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday. “People wanted to come here to shut down the city, to replicate what happened in Seattle and Montreal and Genoa, and we simply did not let that happen.”

Civil rights lawyers have said that the records show that the police monitored many law-abiding citizens who were engaged in legally protected activities.

“This is an important first step toward exposing the N.Y.P.D.’s surveillance of political groups planning demonstrations at the convention,” said Christopher Dunn, associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union.

“There are many more documents that remain secret, however, and this controversy will continue until the city releases all the documents.”

The judge also suggested that “the city might consider whether or not they want to proceed” with its request for a special inquiry into the sources for a New York Times article about the surveillance program.

City lawyers initially accused the civil liberties union lawyers of leaking the information, then dropped that charge and conceded that they did not know who had provided the information.

In his letter to the judge, Mr. Farrell wrote that the city will continue to seek “relief due to the disclosure of the intelligence documents in violation of the protective order,” under which the records were once sealed.
465 2007-05-17 WASHINGTON, May 16 (AP) — The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the labor federation, has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to delay approval of a proposed $4 billion public stock offering from the private equity firm, the Blackstone Group, and suggested that the firm be regulated as an investment company.

The S.E.C. is reviewing the plan by Blackstone, one of the world’s biggest private equity firms.

The labor federation, which is a major shareholder in public companies, sent a letter Tuesday urging the S.E.C. to have Blackstone regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which would subject the firm to limits on the amount of debt it could assume, as well as additional governance requirements.

Blackstone, with $78.7 billion in holdings, has said that the public offering announced in March would enable it to tap new sources of capital for multibillion-dollar acquisitions.

According to the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Blackstone deliberately structured the proposed offering to disguise what are, in reality, interests in pools of investment securities, and therefore the firm must be required to register with the S.E.C. as an investment company, like a mutual fund. To do otherwise would set a dangerous precedent for other private equity firms or hedge funds seeking to escape strict regulation, the labor federation said.

“Blackstone wants to book profits on investment assets like an investment company and claim the tax benefits of an investment company, but refuses to comply with the laws governing investment companies. That’s unacceptable, and the S.E.C. should step in and enforce the law,” Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s secretary-treasurer, said in the letter.

In its prospectus for the stock offering, Blackstone said it was a partnership and therefore not subject to the S.E.C. requirements that apply to investment companies.

A S.E.C. spokesman John Nester declined to comment Wednesday. Spokesmen for Blackstone could not be reached for comment.
466 2007-05-17 It was advice from Mr. Severiens, who died in 2004, that encouraged Mr. Villalobos, a two-time successful entrepreneur and engineer, to persevere in forming Tech Coast Angels in 1997. At that time, he recalled, local business colleagues told him: “ ‘You’re crazy. There are no venture investors or technology or entrepreneurs in Orange County, other than maybe in real estate.’ ”

Yet in 10 years, Tech Coast Angels has grown to 270 members in four locales — Orange County, Los Angeles, San Diego and Westlake/Santa Barbara — who have invested collectively $85 million in 128 companies.

It’s a sign of how attitudes toward risk have changed in little more than a decade that seasoned executives and financial managers now readily join groups to put $200,000 to $1 million behind people with ideas and a sense of adventure. Top corporate executives with outsize pay and perks may have been heroes of American business in bygone decades, but these days the entrepreneur is king or queen and praised for creating jobs and innovation in the American economy.

It helps that returns on angel investing have been quite attractive. “Angel investors typically earn 5 to 10 times their money in four to eight years,” said Mr. Villalobos, citing a PricewaterhouseCoopers Money Tree study of venture capital. But the spread of angel investing attests also to the economy’s encouragement of innovation, whether in high technology or everyday products.

For example, Richard Morganstern, a patent lawyer who is president of Los Angeles Tech Coast Angels, recalled the group’s introduction to Language Weaver, a company that created a software product for automatic translation at the University of Southern California, with the aid of grants from the Defense Department. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency asked the group in 2000 to help Language Weaver become a commercial enterprise, Mr. Morganstern said.

“So we mentored the inventors and brought in executive talent,” he said. “And then in 2002, after 9/11 increased demand for Middle Eastern languages, we invested along with other venture groups.” Today, Language Weaver, much in use in Iraq, is adding corporate customers interested in translations to Chinese and 16 other languages.

In April, the Orange County Tech Coast Angels invested $900,000 in YouMail, a company that adapts telephone greetings so that a group of selected callers receives a personalized message. The firm’s original idea was that the service would appeal to sales agents and brokers eager to greet clients in a personal way, but Alex Quilici, YouMail’s chief executive, said that his customers tended to be younger. “Generation Y that likes to personalize everything is spreading the use of our product,” he said.

Angel capital groups, whose members invest their own money, pride themselves on rolling up their sleeves to help fledgling concerns. With each group member obliged to review four to eight companies a month and invest $50,000 a year in some of them, Angels say they act like a “farm system” doing the due diligence on small companies that traditional venture capital funds no longer take time for.

One Angel network, the Keiretsu Forum, founded seven years ago in Lafayette, Calif., east of San Francisco, has grown to 500 members in Colorado, Idaho and Washington as well as California. Keiretsu’s size allows it to make larger investments, said Randy Williams, who started the group. (The name derives from the Japanese word for companies linked by cross-ownership of shares.)

Two years ago, for example, Keiretsu investors backed Earth Class Mail with $1.75 million. The firm is a licensed mail receiver that can collect clients’ mail, show it to them on e-mail and then, with customer approval, open the mail, scan it and show the contents on the e-mail screen. Employees traveling the world for multinational companies are customers, said the founder, Ron Wiener, “and also today’s decentralized employees who work on their own and check in for conferences to rented office suites.”

For all today’s enthusiasm for entrepreneurs, angel capital is not easily handed out. Gerrie Adams, co-founder of Xengaru Fun Foods of Laguna Niguel, in Orange County, tells of competing in the Tech Coast Angels Fast Pitch Competition to get expansion capital. Ms. Adams and her business partner, Anuradha Prakash, had gained Angel backing and even National Aeronautics and Space Administration recognition for the low-cholesterol and fat content of their Pizzettos pizza chips.

But in 2005, Xengaru needed more money to expand nationally. Ms. Adams recalled facing 300 professional investors. “I was terrified,” she said. “I had 59 seconds to get my point across.” So Ms. Adams, a former sales and marketing manager, opened her pitch with alarming statistics about childhood obesity, noted that state governments were already banning unhealthy snacks, and then related quickly that schools loved Xengaru’s low-fat pizza chips because they were healthy and children loved them because they taste good. She won the right to a potential $500,000 in expansion money for Xengaru.

The next stage for angel capital? Not surprisingly, it’s globalization. Keiretsu Forum opened a chapter in Beijing last year “and we will open next in Shanghai,” Mr. Williams said. There appears to be a receptive audience for entrepreneurship in China.

Kevin Scanlon, a member of the Los Angeles Tech Coast Angels, returned recently from China, where government officials and businesspeople “were eager to learn how angel capital works and how we put our groups together,” Mr. Scanlon said. “The angel capital idea could be our next great export.”
467 2007-05-17 In “We Try Harder (but What’s the Point?)” (Op-Ed, May 16), Michael Kinsley observes that the financial side of “business” is difficult to understand and leaves one wondering “what the point is and why people who do it need to get paid so much.”

True. But one thing that’s easy to understand is that someone has to pay for those high salaries, and I think I know who that is.

Kudos to Michael Kinsley for reminding us through Avis’s serial metamorphosis on paper that innovation and imagination are alive and well in business.

After all, the car rental industry is not unfamiliar with innovation. It has been used by American automakers as a dumping ground for their unsold cars to create the appearance of sales.

Too bad all this creativity still goes into engineering legal deals, financial arrangements and accounting statements rather than actual products.

Let’s leave that to the Japanese and Germans. They produce the luxury cars owned by the financiers and lawyers behind all that perception of creating value. Zino Vogiatzis
468 2007-05-17 To the Editor:     In ''We Try Harder (but What's the Point?)'' (Op-Ed, May 16), Michael Kinsley observes that the financial side of ''business'' is difficult to understand and leaves one wondering ''what the point is and why people who do it need...
469 2007-05-17 SURGERY WITH A WARRANTY A hospital group in central Pennsylvania is trying a radically new way to improve its quality of care and avoid mistakes. Taking a cue from the makers of television sets, washing machines and other consumer products, it cha...
470 2007-05-18 Up Next in Video
471 2007-05-18 For all the talk about how hedge funds are raking in cash and earning double-digit returns all the time, it's helpful to remember that they can lose - and lose big. Witness the letter that Jurg Buhler, managing director of Dighton Capital, recentl...
472 2007-05-18 Microsoft had about $28 billion in cash and short-term investment on March 31, an amount the CIA World Factbook tells us is more than twice the gross domestic product of Iceland. But despite its riches, the software giant has shied away from large...
473 2007-05-18 Two candidates who fawn over each other....
474 2007-05-18 Microsoft said Friday it would buy aQuantive, an online advertising firm, for $66.50 a share in cash. The deal, valued at $6 billion, was easily Microsoft's largest acquisition ever and the price represented an eye-popping 85 percent premium to aQ...
475 2007-05-18 REDMOND, Wash. (AP) -- Microsoft Corp. said today it would purchase the online advertising firm aQuantive Inc. for about $6 billion in cash, paying a premium to catch up with major ad deals by its competitors over the last six weeks.

The $66.50-per-share purchase price represents an 85 percent premium to aQuantive's Thursday closing price of $35.87.

It comes just one day after WPP Group PLC, the world's second-largest advertising and marketing conglomerate, said it would buy the online advertising company 24/7 Real Media Inc. for $649 million. Microsoft had been widely seen as a potential bidder for 24/7.

Last month Google Inc. agreed to buy online advertising company DoubleClick Inc. for $3.1 billion, and Yahoo Inc. struck a deal to buy the privately-held online ad exchange Right Media Inc. for $680 million.

"Today's announcement represents the next step in the evolution of our ad network from our initial investment in MSN, to the broader Microsoft network including Xbox Live, Windows Live and Office Live, and now to the full capacity of the Internet," said Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer in a statement.

The deal is expected to be completed in the first half of Microsoft's fiscal 2008. The acquisition is not expected to significantly impact the company's prior financial guidance.
476 2007-05-18 Germany will make a last-ditch effort Friday to persuade the world's top economic powers to tighten their grip on hedge funds and private equity firms. But even before these countries' finance ministers convened at a Group of 8 meeting, the push w...
477 2007-05-18 With the purchase of 24/7 Real Media, WPP Group's chief executive, Martin Sorrell, who called Google a "frenemy" last fall, is hoping to become a frenemy himself. The chief of the advertising holding company that owns traditional ad agencies has p...
478 2007-05-18 As New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer won national attention by becoming the new sheriff in finance, taking on Wall Street and mutual funds and the insurance industry. With Mr. Spitzer now in the governor's mansion, is there another state re...
479 2007-05-18 With indications pointing toward the European Union's likely approval of both the SonyBMG merger and the Universal Music Group's purchase of BMG Music Publishing, London-based EMI Group has moved into full sale mode, the New York Post reported cit...
480 2007-05-18 A Syrian-born financier who helped broker a $79 billion arms contract between BAE Systems and Saudi Arabia two decades ago said Thursday that he was not a target of a money-laundering investigation opened this week by the Swiss authorities. "The S...
481 2007-05-18 Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers have both experienced high-level departures in their hedge-fund-related businesses, the Financial News reported. The turnover comes as investment banks have been trying to capture more business from these private p...
482 2007-05-18 Royal Philips Electronics, Europe's largest consumer electronics maker, sold $2.56 billion of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing shares as part of a plan to shed its entire stake in the chipmaker within three years. Philips sold 240 million Americ...
483 2007-05-18 A biopharmaceutical company, Amicus Therapeutics set its planned initial public offering on Thursday at 5 million shares for an estimated $14 to $16 each. Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan, Lazard Capital Markets, and Pacific Growth Equit...
484 2007-05-18 Three sculptures — one fashioned from a dozen African masks, a dead deer cast in bronze, and a ball of painted and chromium-plated steel mangled as if hit by a truck — by some of today’s most popular artists brought record prices last night at Phillips de Pury & Company. After a week of records at the auction giants Christie’s and Sotheby’s, the contemporary-art sale at Phillips, the Chelsea-based boutique firm, had a mix of lower-priced works. Still, the lust to collect continued.

Of the 74 works, only 6 failed to sell. The auction totaled $33.3 million, just above its high estimate of $30.8 million.

Instead of concentrating on what it does best — selling works by younger artists Sotheby’s and Christie’s don’t bother with because the prices they bring are still relatively low — Phillips mixed masters like Andy Warhol, John Chamberlain and Donald Judd with young art stars like Cecily Brown and Mike Kelley. The problem was that Phillips doesn’t have the heft as a company to pull in the best works by established names. But it didn’t seem to matter.

Warhol has been a big draw this week, and last night Phillips was selling one of his seminal silkscreen paintings of a Campbell’s Soup can, this one from 1965 and rendered in soft, almost washed-out shades of green, blue and orange. Only one bidder went for the painting, and Simon de Pury, chairman of Phillips and the evening’s auctioneer, brought down the hammer right at the low estimate, $3 million, or $3.4 million with the fee Phillips charges buyers. (Final prices include Phillips’s commission: 20 percent of the first $500,000 and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)

It was a high price compared with most last night; the audience clearly had no trouble dropping six figures but seemed hesitant to move higher. Although the painting was the evening’s top seller, it paled in comparison with Warhol’s “Green Car Crash (Green Burning Car I),” from 1963, which brought $71.7 million, a record for the artist, at Christie’s sale of postwar and contemporary art on Wednesday night.
485 2007-05-18 General Motors said yesterday that its North American marketing and advertising chief, Mike Jackson, would leave the company June 15.

Mr. Jackson, 50, joined G.M. in 2000 from the Coors Brewing Company and took his current post in March 2006. Mr. Jackson’s tenure included a cut in advertising spending, moving G.M.’s Cadillac account to Modernista after 71 years with Leo Burnett Detroit, and bringing in an Interpublic Group of Companies’ unit, Deutsch/LA, to handle Saturn ads from Goodby, Silverstein & Partners.

G.M. reduced its United States ad budget by $714 million last year, to $2.3 billion. In a speech in New York on May 8, G.M.’s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said the automaker had trimmed its budget for traditional advertising and would spend more on Internet-based marketing.
486 2007-05-18 The chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Anthony R. Coscia, called on his agency yesterday to reduce carbon emissions at its ports and airports by 80 percent over the long term. That goal, he said, could be met by using geothermal energy to heat and cool buildings, installing fuel cells and harnessing wind and solar energy. Equipment used to service aircraft at airports could use electricity and alternative fuels. The strategy, said Mr. Coscia, above, would help reduce global warming and benefit the renewable energy industry.
487 2007-05-18 “Politicians don’t want to deal with the problem,” said Michael H. Granof, an accounting professor at the University of Texas. He said state lawmakers were betting that by the time rising health care costs became unmanageable, they would no longer be in office and could not be held accountable.

Officials in Texas argue that having to disclose the state’s total obligation — roughly estimated around $50 billion — could bring pressure to cut benefits. They also contend that the figures are misleading and impossible to compute accurately, assertions a spokesman for the accounting board called “an attempt to hide the truth from the public.”

Some places, like New York City, have already disclosed their retiree health obligations and have started setting aside money to pay for them.

Other state and local governments appear to be delaying disclosure, waiting to see if the federal government will save the day. The cost of retiree health care is turning out to be so great in some places that officials say they think that Washington will have no choice but to step in and remake the nation’s health care system, taking states and local governments off the hook.

The spokesman for the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, Gerard Carney, said it was the first time in the board’s 23-year history that any legislature had tried to derail one of its standards.

“This is a disturbing reminder of what can happen when politicians interfere with an independent system that was designed to protect financial reporting from politics and other self-interests,” Mr. Carney said.

The bill to ignore the accounting standard, which has already passed the Texas House 142 to 0 and is awaiting a vote in the state Senate, flies in the face of prevailing trends in private industry, where the failures of Enron and other companies prompted efforts to bolster accounting and crack down on companies that skirt the rules.

If other governments follow the lead of Texas, it will be nearly impossible for taxpayers, bondholders or anyone else to know how much those governments will be spending on retiree health care in the coming years. Auditors and ratings agencies will then have to decide whether to sign off on their financial statements, or penalize the governments for failing to disclose significant obligations.

In its initial form, the bill prohibited government bodies in Texas from adopting the new accounting rule. But it has been softened somewhat, so that it would now permit authorities to adopt the new standard, but not require them to. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill on Monday. It would next go to Gov. Rick Perry, who is expected to sign it.

Texas is so far the only state to have moved so close to passing a law against the new accounting rule. But elsewhere, some officials have become so disenchanted with the accounting board that they want to abolish it altogether.

In December, the Government Finance Officers Association, an influential body, issued a statement saying the accounting board had outlasted its usefulness and was merely looking for “creative new outlets for its standard-setting energies.” If it were shut down, the association said, governments could instead follow the accounting rules for corporate America established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

Those rules tend to be more demanding, and they would still require governments to disclose in detail the costs of their retiree health care and pension plans.

But the corporate rules have an advantage, as the finance officers’ group sees it: They would not require governments to measure the effectiveness of their programs and services.

The Governmental Accounting Standards Board has been working on a standard for measuring performance for some time, over the strenuous objections of the finance officers’ group, which maintains that assessing program effectiveness is not an accounting issue.

Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said he thought the proposed switch to the corporate rules was a ploy to avoid dealing with the looming effectiveness standard.

“They know that FASB doesn’t have the time to make them do it,” said Mr. Turner, now managing director of research at Glass, Lewis & Company, which advises institutional investors.

The chairman of the S.E.C., Christopher Cox, has, meanwhile, been arguing that the Governmental Accounting Standards Board should be strengthened, not abolished. He has publicly questioned America’s current two-tier system of financial reporting, in which the S.E.C. collects corporate financial disclosures and polices companies for accounting tricks, but has no standing to enforce rules in the public sector.

With no agency to back it up, the governmental accounting board must rely on elected or appointed officials to follow its rules and on their outside auditors and credit analysts to catch any errors.

Bond analysts are not, as a rule, eager to confront the governments that hire them. But some have said that failing to report retiree health care obligations could influence their ratings to some degree, particularly if the government in question had other financial weaknesses.

“We would certainly take that into account in the rating,” said Amy Laskey, managing director in the public finance group of Fitch Ratings. “Our understanding is that if these are benefits you provide, you are required to account for them.”

In hearings on the bill this year, Texas lawmakers expressed concern that their credit ratings might suffer if they defied the accounting board. But they were persuaded by critics of the new rule, who argued that it gave rise to invalid numbers.

Susan Spataro, the auditor of Travis County, said she began to question the new rule after asking the county’s actuarial firm, Milliman, to calculate the county’s retiree health obligations. Milliman said the cost was $89 million. But then the county sought a second opinion from another firm, Deloitte, and was told the cost was $320 million.

“In analyzing this, I thought, you know, it’s not measurable,” said Ms. Spataro, a leader of the opposition to the accounting rule in Texas. A state senator praised her as “a one-man wrecking crew” in hearings.

Travis County provided copies of the two actuarial studies. They showed that while the two firms indeed came up with different numbers at the start of their work, there were reasons. Milliman took its first measurement as of Sept. 30, 2004, a day before major changes to the health plan took effect. Deloitte took its measurement after the changes had been made, and used different statistical techniques.

Over months of working with Travis County, though, the two firms began using data from the same year and applying similar assumptions and statistical methods. When they did that, the records show, they came up with similar numbers.

Despite this, Ms. Spataro said she stood by her conclusion that the accounting standard was severely flawed and could give rise to incorrect measurements — numbers she was unwilling to certify or base tax decisions on.

“The creditworthiness of Travis County has not changed” by its decision to reject the new accounting rule, she said. “Not one iota.”
488 2007-05-18 PARIS, May 17 — President Nicolas Sarkozy of France on Thursday named François Fillon to be his prime minister in a move intended to smooth the enactment of an ambitious reform program.

Mr. Fillon, 53, a four-time cabinet minister who helped mastermind Mr. Sarkozy’s campaign, is a close confidant of the president and has a strong record of promoting economic change and successful negotiations with unions. He pledged Thursday to carry out Mr. Sarkozy’s election promises and signaled that he would consult with workers and employers.

“I will respect all of the commitments we made,” Mr. Fillon said. “I will listen to everybody because a France in motion needs everyone.”

His streamlined cabinet of 15 ministers, to be announced Friday, is expected to include seven women, at least one centrist politician and Bernard Kouchner, a Socialist, as foreign minister. Mr. Fillon said he would govern “in a spirit of outreach.”

Mr. Sarkozy, who was sworn in on Wednesday, depends for the success of his program on the results of legislative elections next month, in which he is expected to win the majority in Parliament needed to enact it.
489 2007-05-18 Re “A Defense We Just Don’t Need (Yet)” (Op-Ed, May 17):

Michael O’Hanlon has made an excellent and prudent argument for the administration to temporarily abandon the idea of establishing a small missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.

Even though President Vladimir V. Putin may be overreacting to such an employment near Russia’s borders, more good would come from President Bush’s relenting on this issue rather than his antagonizing a friend.

In this case, it is not a question of who is right, but what is right.
490 2007-05-18 WASHINGTON, May 17 (Reuters) — The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., introduced proposals on Thursday for making the nation’s capital markets more competitive by strengthening financial reporting and auditing procedures.

The proposals reflect concern that capital markets have been growing faster abroad than in America at a time when the United States is concerned that foreigners have trimmed their pace of investment in the United States.

Mr. Paulson said that a transparent financial reporting system and strong auditing “form the backbone of a marketplace investors can trust” and said any plan to strengthen capital markets had to be based upon those principles.

Mr. Paulson outlined his proposals in an editorial published hours earlier in The Financial Times newspaper, in which he said two former officials with the Securities and Exchange Commission would lead a panel that aimed to assess the health of the auditing industry.

A former S.E.C. chairman, Arthur Levitt Jr., and a former chief accountant at the agency, Donald T. Nicolaisen, will serve as co-chairmen on a committee that will consider how to strengthen the auditing industry’s financial soundness and its ability to retain qualified staff, Mr. Paulson said.
491 2007-05-18 WASHINGTON, May 17 — Senate Democrats urged President Bush on Thursday to withdraw his nomination of a top lobbyist from the National Association of Manufacturers to lead the Consumer Product Safety Commission, saying the candidate was unqualified and the appointment posed insurmountable conflicts of interest.

The criticism was a preview of what is certain to be a confrontational confirmation hearing for the nominee, Michael E. Baroody, before the Senate Commerce Committee next week.

In a letter to President Bush, Senator Bill Nelson of Florida and Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, both Democrats, said Mr. Baroody “cannot escape a serious conflict of interest” because he will receive a $150,000 departing payment from the association. They asked Mr. Bush to withdraw the nomination.

In a separate letter to the head of the Commerce Committee, Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, said, “Leading the nation’s premier product safety commission is too important a responsibility to put in the hands of someone who owes his career to the same companies whose products he is supposed to judge.”

Mr. Baroody did not respond to an e-mail message seeking comment. The White House criticized the lawmakers’ request, saying they had rushed to judgment.
492 2007-05-18 CHICAGO, May 17 (AP) — The Detroit Pistons can breathe a little easier. Richard Hamilton scored 23 points and the Pistons defeated the Chicago Bulls, 95-85, in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference semifinals on Thursday night, clinching a series that turned tense after Detroit won the first three games.

No N.B.A. team has lost a best-of-seven series after taking a 3-0 lead. Now, Detroit can focus on its fifth consecutive conference final.

Down by 48-43 at halftime, the Pistons outscored the Bulls, 31-21, in the third quarter to take a 74-69 lead, and Chicago could not sustain any momentum in the fourth.

Rasheed Wallace had 16 points and 13 rebounds, and Tayshaun Prince added 17 points and 9 rebounds for Detroit. Chauncey Billups was 3 for 12 from the field, but he scored 11 of his 21 points in the third quarter.

A jumper by Wallace, who had received a technical foul about a minute earlier, and a hook shot by Prince made the score, 85-73, with 2 minutes 20 seconds left.

“We were moving the ball,” Wallace said of the difference in Detroit’s offense in the second half. “In the first half we were stagnant and didn’t move the ball. That’s what we talked about at halftime.”
493 2007-05-18 PARIS, May 17 —A Syrian-born financier who helped broker a $79 billion arms contract between BAE Systems and Saudi Arabia two decades ago said Thursday that he was not a target of a money-laundering investigation opened this week by the Swiss authorities.

“The Swiss authorities have formally and officially confirmed that their investigation into money laundering at BAE Systems does not involve me and they are not examining my Swiss bank accounts,” the financier, Wafic Said, said in an e-mail statement. “Nor am I considered as a witness in their investigation.”

Jeanette Balmer, a spokeswoman for the Swiss federal prosecutor’s office, declined to comment.

Swiss prosecutors confirmed on Monday that they had begun an investigation of BAE after receiving a report from money-laundering investigators. They would not give any further details on the scope of the inquiry, citing Swiss secrecy laws. Banks in Switzerland are required by law to report any suspicious financial transactions.

In December, the Serious Fraud Office in Britain, with the support of Prime Minister Tony Blair, closed a two-and-a-half-year investigation into allegations that BAE had paid bribes to secure a major military contract from Saudi Arabia. British officials said at the time that the investigation risked jeopardizing relations with the Saudis.

A person with knowledge of the case said Thursday that the Swiss investigation involved aspects of BAE’s Saudi arms contract, known as Al Yamamah. The person asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak for the Swiss.

The Yamamah deal — the biggest in British history — has been worth an estimated £40 billion, or $79 billion, in sales and maintenance, mainly of Tornado, Hawk and other fighter aircraft and related equipment, since the mid-1980s. An extension of the contract, involving the sale of Typhoon Eurofighter jets for an estimated value of at least 6 billion euros, or $8.1 billion, was agreed to in 2006.
494 2007-05-18 The decision avoided what would have been a serious embarrassment for the rights council, which in the past has inspired scorn for permitting countries like Cuba and Libya as members.

Last week, the United Nations came in for renewed criticism on a similar front when it elected Zimbabwe, a country with one of the most battered economies and worst rights records, to be chairman of the Commission on Sustainable Development.

Thursday’s election in the General Assembly chose 14 new members for the Human Rights Council, which has 47 members and was formed last year to replace the discredited Human Rights Commission.

The countries elected were Angola, Bolivia, Bosnia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Italy, Madagascar, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Qatar, Slovenia and South Africa.

The only other contested race was for one of the Western European seats, where Italy defeated Denmark in a runoff.

The United States decided not to be a candidate for the council last year and again this year, saying it thought that the body, while better than its predecessor, fell short of being credible and effective. There was also concern that given the hostility in the United Nations to American actions in Iraq, the United States might not win a place if it ran.

Steve Crawshaw, the United Nations advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, said his group had been particularly galvanized by the prospect of Belarus on the council.

“Belarus’s track record is frankly appalling,” he said. “It has no real civil society, no freedom of expression; its elections have been deemed absolutely not to be free or fair. There is no breathing space, and the U.N. special envoy to Belarus has been blocked from visiting the country.”

Asked why Bosnia, a country with a recent past of rights abuses, was a better candidate, he said: “Bosnia’s record is far from perfect. Human Rights Watch has repeatedly criticized it on a number of issues, but Belarus is simply in a league of its own.”

Earlier this month, two watchdog groups, UN Watch and Freedom House, expressed disapproval of Angola, Egypt and Qatar, which won seats on Thursday. All of them, the two groups said, “are authoritarian regimes with negative U.N. voting records on rights issues and are not qualified to be council members.”
495 2007-05-18 The shrinking of their habitat to this small nook of landscape and the dwindling numbers of Mekong giant catfish and Irrawaddy dolphins here are signals that the complex ecology of the river is quickly fraying.

“The area we are working in is the best of the whole river, all of it, from China all the way down,” said J. F. Maxwell, who has surveyed the lower Mekong. “China is all wrecked.”

Until recently it was war that saved the turtles, but it is peace that threatens them now. For decades this 30-mile strip of river was a refuge for Khmer Rouge guerrillas, the armed remnants of the regime that cost the lives of 1.7 million people from 1975 to 1979. The area became accessible when the guerrillas disbanded at the end of the 1990s.

As a no man’s land it offered a haven for rare plants and animals that have fallen victim to development in safer places. “It’s an emergency to get this place preserved, because if it goes there’s nothing to replace it,” said Mr. Maxwell, who is curator of the Chiang Mai Herbarium in Chiang Mai, Thailand.

“They’ve had their war, they’ve killed their people, and the second generation is coming in now,” he said of the Cambodians. “Motorboats are coming up the river, people are moving in, and no one is controlling this.”

In the natural course of things, two or three of the released baby turtles will survive, grow into giants the size of a sofa and live for as long as a century, almost all of it buried under the sand, Mr. Emmett said.

Or they will all die, victims of overfishing, pollution and environmental degradation, bringing their endangered species closer to an end.

“These things have survived the extinction events that wiped out the dinosaurs and now we’re going to wipe them out,” said Mr. Emmett, a wildlife biologist based in Cambodia. “Look, we can’t let them go extinct now.”

The huge and little-studied Cantor’s turtle (Pelochelys cantorii) seems to have already disappeared from the neighboring countries of Vietnam, Thailand and Laos. It was last spotted in Cambodia in 2003, and nobody knew until now whether it still survived.

In March a team that included Conservation International, the Cambodian government and the conservation group WWF, formerly known as the World Wildlife Fund, made the first survey of the area since it became safe to explore and found it teeming with the diversity of a complete ecosystem.

“The existence of such an extensive area of natural habitat that still borders the Mekong is almost unthinkable,” R. J. Timmons, a bird and mammal expert, wrote in a report for the WWF. He called for the creation of a haven along this stretch of river, and the WWF said local fishermen would be hired as monitors and paid for reducing their catch.

To everybody’s surprise, a group of young researchers, the Cambodian Turtle Conservation Team, using a trap of its own invention, immediately confirmed the presence of Cantor’s turtles in the area, capturing and releasing a 24-pound turtle in March.

Soon afterward they captured a young seven-pound female that Mr. Emmett studied for a month at his home in Phnom Penh before releasing it together with the dozen hatchlings. The researchers also found a trove of eggs, some of which hatched in his bathroom.

What he observed was a very peculiar turtle.

Without a shell to protect it, he said, the turtle spends more than 95 percent of its life almost motionless under the sand, surfacing just twice a day to take a single huge breath. It emerges once a year to lay its small round eggs on the riverbank.

The secret of longevity that it offers is to sit in one place, preferably under a layer of sand, and do nothing. “It’s a very boring lifestyle, really,” Mr. Emmett said.

But when it does move, it strikes with the lightning of a snake rather than the leisure of a turtle. When its tiny eyes, protruding from the top of its head among the grains of sand, spot a shrimp or a fish or a crab, the turtle shoots its neck out the way a chameleon shoots out its tongue.

“It strikes faster than a snake,” Mr. Emmett said. “I have seen cobras striking, and this is easily the same speed. And it has the hardest bite of any animal known to man.”

Its very longevity goes to show the success of the turtle’s adaptation, he said. But the environment today, crowded with human predators, presents challenges of a new sort.

As Mr. Emmett released his turtles into the water plants and grasses at the side of the broad, brown river, a fisherman towing his net drifted idly nearby, watching.

The modern history of the Mekong, with its fishermen, its factories, its polluters and its dam builders, does not offer much hope to conservationists, Mr. Maxwell said.

“We get together, all of us, and it’s the same story,” he said of ecological specialists. “I talk about plants, others talk about fish, others talk about birds and amphibians. It’s the same story. Things are going down the tubes. It’s all going.”
496 2007-05-18 Melisa Benedict, who works at the Blue Bayou, the pirate-themed restaurant that overlooks the ride at Disneyland, said: “Every day we see plenty of adult guests who really get into it. I just had three ladies here who were in full costume. They even wore mustaches during their meal.”

Long before Johnny Depp mastered saying “Arrgh” on camera, the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, which opened in Disneyland in 1967, spawned a subculture of adult fans. And it be a vast and motley crew, with its own clubs, merchandise, discussion boards, vocabulary and lore.

The Walt Disney Company — which can sniff out booty on the smallest of atolls — has long been targeting this hearty band with customized merchandise and exclusive events at its resorts. This year, the big event is next week, May 22 to 25, when many a pirate matey will be voluntarily hornswoggled for a thoroughly adult price of $2,350 to attend a three-day party at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla. It will culminate in a midnight viewing of the movie “Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End,” the third “Pirates” film, which will open nationally next Friday.

For that treasure chest of doubloons, “Pirates” obsessives will be able to ride the ride, eat breakfast at the ride, and even buy plunder associated with the ride at an auction. Tickets for the whole three-day party are sold out (cheaper tickets for individual events are still available).

“I think the appeal of this attraction to boomers lies with the heavy dose of nostalgia that comes from a visit to a Disney park,” said Jeff Baham, who created a Web site called TellNoTales.com, which boasts some 750 fellow ride aficionados as members. “Pirates is the last attraction Walt Disney personally oversaw, and it marks what is arguably the most significant example of Disneyland’s use of space-age robotics. To ride through an attraction that likely made such a major impact on a child’s memory and then ride it again some 40 years later is the closest thing to a time machine that we’ll ever experience.”

Asking a devotee to describe the voyage provokes a range of interpretations as broad as the Seven Seas. Phrases like “voyage of the hero,” “an exercise in freedom,” “a morality tale” and even “a return to the womb” creep up to explain the lasting allure of what many might have dismissed as a mere amusement park ride.

“I’ve never been able to figure out if the ride tells a real story,” Ms. Treadwell said. “It’s really just a vignette of images without any underlying narrative. It’s like a Latin Mass. Not understanding it means you’ll project more personal meaning into it. “

Indeed, when looking at the ride with adult eyes (or at least the one not covered by an eye patch), you can find enough implied story lines, mini-sermons and gleeful moral havoc to make Hieronymous Bosch seem like a mere landlubber. Are all those skeletons acting out the Seven Deadly Sins? Does the vixen being auctioned off by the marauders become the pirate queen in the portrait above the ghost bar upriver? Will the drunken gun duel in the gunpowder-filled arsenal spark a pirate apocalypse?

“I’ve taken the ride hundreds of times, and I notice something new every voyage,” said Jason Surrell, a Walt Disney Imagineer and the author of “Pirates of the Caribbean: From the Magic Kingdom to the Movies” (Disney Editions, 2005). “You never take the same ride twice.”

Mr. Surrell added that several other Disney rides — notably Haunted Mansion — attract their own communities. “But Pirates is special. It taps into something primal.”

However, gales have been blowing over the pirate community of late, thanks to the astounding success of the movie franchise. While the first “Pirates” movie came out in 2003 and was only tangentially based on the ride, its popularity and the popularity of the second movie resulted in the ride’s being changed. Last year, audio-animatronic models of the film characters, including Johnny Depp in the role of Capt. Jack Sparrow, were added to the rides at Disneyland and Disney World — the Depp character appears three times on the Disneyland ride alone. For die-hards the additions have provoked divisions, discussions and online acrimony worthy of “American Idol.”

“It’s about as weird and inappropriate seeing Johnny Depp in this ride as it would be if Charlton Heston was written into the Bible after starring in ‘The Ten Commandments,’ ” Ms. Treadwell said.

Jeff Lippman, a TV writer and a “Pirates” aficionado, agrees. “The allure of the ride was the fact that it was timeless. Adding Johnny Depp kind of ruins that.”

But Mr. Surrell takes a different view: “You have an entire generation of guests who come there for the film series. Younger fans expect to see these movie characters in the attraction.”

In other words, kids might want to take the ride, too.
497 2007-05-18 Real estate prices have risen markedly. But if you think that same wooden bungalow is expensive today at $750,000, consider that you’re likely to find absolutely nothing for that price just 15 miles up the Pacific Coast Highway in Laguna Beach.

Avenida del Mar, the town’s main drag, is riding the wave of San Clemente’s renaissance, which was spurred by a booming coastal real estate market and a 4,000-home, Spanish-style inland residential development called Talega. In many ways, though, San Clemente, especially west of Interstate 5, is still rough around the edges and relishes its surfer-in-flip-flops sensibility. Most of the country’s major surf magazines are based there, as are a healthy number of executives at the world’s top surf companies.

Norb Garrett, editor of the weekly San Clemente Times and a former publishing director at Surfer, Skateboarder and Snowboarder magazines, said Talega was a catalyst for change. “Suddenly there were homes that young families could get into and bring a much younger spirit,” he said. “The town had to respond, and it’s brought a ton of good new restaurants and boutiques.”

Avenida del Mar today is a pedestrian-friendly area of boutiques, galleries and up-and-coming places like the BeachFire, a popular restaurant, bar and surf-art gallery. Along the Pacific Coast Highway, near the tiny, original Lost surf shop, talk has turned to the multibillion-dollar shopping and residential development known as Marblehead Coastal and the possible renovation of the long-defunct Miramar, a dilapidated Spanish Colonial-style theater and casino at the town’s north end.

Scott Nelligan, 56, a film distributor and real estate developer from Costa Mesa, has been working with the owner of the Lab, a shopping complex there, on a renovation of the Miramar that would include retail space, a theater and a boutique hotel. He said he hoped to buy as a second home one of the 160 or so Spanish-style cottages sprinkled around the center of San Clemente. These were built in the late 1920s by San Clemente’s founder, Ole Hanson, who dreamed of building a Spanish village by the sea.

“I’ve always wanted to live here,” Mr. Nelligan said. “So why not buy one of these original Spanish-revival homes?”

Mike Cotter, a real estate agent and president of San Clemente’s historical society, said Mr. Nelligan’s search may take awhile. “The Ole Hansons usually get snatched up quickly and cost from $900,000 to $2.8 million,” he said. “There are rarely more than two or three on the market at a time.”

John Brincko, who specializes in turning around troubled companies and lives in Los Angeles, said he and his wife, Debbie Waadt-Brincko, were drawn to the challenging waves and serene scene around Califia State Beach at the town’s southern end.

They recently spent $1.55 million for a two-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom condo with an ocean view in what was once a huge late 1920s bluff-top home. They said they planned to spend a lot of time here with their 13-year-old son, gazing at the surfers, picnicking families and sunsets.

“My mother has a place on the bluffs at Malibu,” Mr. Brincko said, “but we like it so much better here. It’s a real community with a lot of old-time, funky charm.”

A perfect climate and a clean ocean fronted by cliffside trails along sandy beaches are among San Clemente’s assets. Just to the south of town are Trestles and San Onofre, two legendary surf spots.

Even though San Clemente is more affordable than many California beach towns, a median home price of more than $800,000 makes it far from cheap. The town’s acreage is nearly built out, but Talega, Marblehead Coastal and more development along San Clemente’s northern and eastern fringes will mean that generally sticky traffic will probably become even thicker.

San Clemente real estate began to surge in 2000, agents said, after a decade in which the average price neared $300,000, with the market finally cooling in 2005.

According to a survey in April of the Multiple Listing Service by Mr. Cotter, the median home price in San Clemente is $842,000, a 7 percent drop from $905,000 in April 2006. Total home sales in April 2006 were 71, versus 55 last month.

Mr. Garrett of The San Clemente Times said that houses on the ocean side are in a seemingly random mix of styles — from Ole Hanson to Craftsman to bland 1970’s stuccos.

Some of the larger stuccos are two- to four-unit apartment complexes. Mr. Cotter said these have become an attractive option because the owner can rent out the spare apartments for $1,000 to $2,000 a month.

That was the route taken by the Doughers, semiretired owners of a mobile-home park. Parents of two children ages 8 and 11, they split their time between their 7,000-square-foot house in San Diego and their 1,200-square-foot master unit in a triplex they bought in San Clemente for $1.1 million. Ms. Dougher walks regularly to the beach, coffee shops and the local farmers’ market.

“I lived here 10 years ago, and the town was all run down and full of thrift stores,” she said. “Now they’re taking all those stores and turning them into surf shops, boutiques and nice shops. It’s turned into quite a little retreat.”

POPULATION 60,235, according to a 2005 estimate by the Census Bureau.

LOCATION The southernmost tip of Orange County, between Los Angeles and San Diego.

WHO’S BUYING Young upper-income families are moving to the areas around Talega. Second-home buyers include well-to-do surfers and beach lovers from areas as diverse as suburban inland Orange County, Malibu, Long Beach, Los Angeles and San Diego. Retirees are buying, too.

GETTING THERE The nearest airports are John Wayne Airport in Santa Ana, Long Beach Airport and San Diego International. Direct flights run from major cities in the East to all three airports. San Clemente is on Amtrak’s Pacific Surfliner route.

WHILE YOU’RE LOOKING For a true luxury hotel, there’s the Ritz-Carlton, Laguna Niguel (1 Ritz-Carlton Drive, Dana Point; 949-240-2000; www.ritzcarlton.com), eight miles up the road. Rooms are $375 to $875 in spring. The Beachcomber Motel (533 Avenida Victoria, 949-492-5457; www.beachcombermotel.com) is funky; it has small, well-kept rooms ($140 to $375) and terrific views of the Pacific and San Clemente Pier.
498 2007-05-18 LISS--Elliott R. July 6, 1931May 18, 2004. Beloved husband, father, and friend. You are missed every day. Love, Dotty and the kids....
499 2007-05-18 The chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Anthony R. Coscia, called on his agency yesterday to reduce carbon emissions at its ports and airports by 80 percent over the long term. That goal, he said, could be met by using geoth...
500 2007-05-18 CHINA'S PERCEPTION PROBLEM -- After a highly publicized pet food recall that involved tainted Chinese ingredients, China is coming under international pressure to prove that its exported products are safe. The question worrying Chinese officials i...
501 2007-05-18 To the Editor:      Re ''A Defense We Just Don't Need (Yet)'' (Op-Ed, May 17):...
502 2007-05-19 During the meeting, which lasted about three hours, mosque leaders said that children are taught that violence is unacceptable, that the six men have not yet been tried and that the mosque had not yet considered a screening policy, adding that they were still in shock about the accusations.

The tension in the mosque, on a residential street in this town of 7,000 people, was a mark of the suspicions that have arisen — or perhaps simply been shaken loose — after the arrest of the six men, who the authorities said had acquired guns and trained at a weapons range, all in preparation for a spectacular attack on soldiers at Fort Dix.

The men lived in New Jersey and Philadelphia. Mohamad Shnewer, 22, is portrayed by investigators as the group’s leader. He, Serdar Tatar, 23, and three brothers — Eljvir, Shain and Dritan Duka, ages 23, 26 and 28, respectively — face charges of conspiring to kill uniformed American soldiers, which carry a possible sentence of life in prison. A sixth suspect, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

The authorities have called the men Islamic extremists, but have not detailed exactly what role religion played in the plans they are accused of making. There has been no indication of involvement by the mosque here in Palmyra or another one in Philadelphia where four of the men occasionally prayed.

Regardless, the leaders of the mosque here last night found themselves on the defensive because of the accusations against the six men: at one point, a resident stood up and accused the congregants of endangering the lives of Americans by not reporting the extremist leanings of the Duka brothers.

Ismail Badat, a mosque trustee, said, “It never occurred to me that they were up to something.” The Duka brothers and Mr. Shnewer had all attended services at the mosque, he said. “They only used to pray here,” Mr. Badat said.

Rafey Habib, a professor of English at Rutgers University’s Camden campus and a member of the mosque’s executive committee, tried his best to respond to the anger, speaking about Islamic beliefs and about the mosque’s teachings. “Given the frightening situation in the world today,” he said, “we need to begin the process of understanding one another.”

Since the men were arrested on May 7, there have been reports of anti-Muslim acts in New Jersey, according to Afsheen Shamsi, a spokeswoman for the local chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. In one case, a man was reported to have yelled racial slurs at a Muslim woman headed to a Laundromat; in another, a Jordanian woman was punched in the face by a man who threatened to kill Muslims. “We’re really concerned about the backlash,” Ms. Shamsi said.

After the meeting, in a telephone interview, Mr. Smekal said he would have liked to stay to the end, but he was tired of hearing from some of the politicians who spoke. What he had heard had not much changed his mind, he said. The mosque leaders sang “the party line,” he said. The president of Iran sang a different tune, he added.

As for the questions he had about Islam, they would remain unanswered for now, he said.
503 2007-05-19 Rafael Nadal extended his record winning streak on clay to 80 matches yesterday by defeating Fernando González, 6-4, 6-4, to reach the semifinals of the Hamburg Masters. Roger Federer also advanced, but he struggled to beat David Ferrer, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Federer faces Carlos Moyá, who defeated fourth-seeded Novak Djokovic, 7-6 (4), 4-6, 7-5. Nadal will play Lleyton Hewitt after Hewitt, playing in his first clay-court quarterfinal in three years, beat Nicolás Almagro, 6-3, 6-4.
504 2007-05-19 Robert Faurisson, a French academic and outspoken Holocaust denier, was prevented from holding a talk at Teramo University in central Italy when the rector, Mauro Mattioli, decided to shut down the university for the day because of rising tensions over Mr. Faurisson’s presence. Mr. Faurisson had been invited to lecture at the university by a professor who runs a master’s program in Middle East studies. The decision to close the campus was taken because of security considerations, Mr. Mattioli said in a statement. In Poland, meanwhile, another well-known Holocaust denier, the British historian and author David Irving, was ordered to leave the Warsaw International Book Fair after he turned up publicize his work, organizers of the fair said.
505 2007-05-19 An advisory committee to the F.D.A. last week recommended new restrictions on use of the drugs to treat the anemia from cancer chemotherapy. A second advisory panel is expected to meet in the early autumn to discuss using the drugs for patients with kidney disease.

Roche said yesterday that it expected Mircera to be approved after that fall meeting. The company’s application is only for kidney failure, not cancer, although it says it eventually hopes to win approval for cancer patients as well.

“We are confident that Mircera will be approved in the United States,” George B. Abercrombie, the chief executive of the American operations of Switzerland-based Roche, said in a statement. “And we understand and support the F.D.A.’s initiative to convene an advisory panel to review the use of anemia agents in the renal setting.”

A year ago, Roche’s pending market entry was perceived by many analysts as the biggest looming threat to Amgen, which gets nearly half its revenues from sales of its anemia drugs, Aranesp and Epogen. Amgen also receives royalties from Johnson & Johnson’s sales of its anemia drug, Procrit, which is not allowed be used for dialysis patients under terms of that agreement.

But as the safety concerns have mounted, the threat from Roche had become almost an afterthought. And approval of Mircera, once considered certain, also came into doubt.

The biggest impact of an approval for Roche would be in the kidney dialysis market, in which Johnson & Johnson is not allowed to compete under the terms of its contract with Amgen. Amgen’s Epogen, which is sold only for dialysis use in the United States, had sales last year of $2.5 billion. Medicare, which pays for most dialysis, spends more than $2 billion a year on the drug.

Mircera’s marketing advantage would be that it could be given as infrequently as once every four weeks. Epogen and Procrit are given as often as three times a week. Aranesp can be given as once every three weeks for use in cancer, according to its label.

Even if Roche finally wins F.D.A. approval, its challenges will not be over. Amgen can still keep Mircera off the market if it wins a patent infringement lawsuit it filed against Roche. Roche says Mircera, which was known as C.E.R.A. during its development, does not infringe.

Roche had planned to start selling Mircera before the patent case was resolved. Such an “at-risk” product introduction would have subjected Roche to greater penalties if it ultimately lost the patent suit.

But with the trial scheduled to start in September in federal court in Boston, it is now possible the court will rule on patent infringement before the F.D.A. approves Mircera.

Amgen’s patents are based on work done in the early 1980s by one of its scientists to clone the gene for the production of EPO, as the class of drugs is known. The patent on that work expired at the end of 2004.

But Amgen managed to get six other patents based on the same 1980s work, covering things like the method of manufacturing and pharmaceutical formulations. Those patents were not granted until years after the first one, extending Amgen’s patent protection until as late as 2015.
506 2007-05-19 The Collins & Aikman Corporation, the auto parts maker reorganizing in bankruptcy, has sued its former chief executive, David A. Stockman, and 13 others connected with the company and a private equity firm, accusing them of using fraudulent schemes that worsened its financial troubles.

Collins & Aikman also sued two former auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers and KPMG, saying that they violated professional standards and acted with lack of care.

The lawsuit comes as Mr. Stockman and other former executives face criminal charges that accuse them of similar conduct. Mr. Stockman and three others have pleaded not guilty.

In the suit, filed this week in Federal District Court in Delaware, the company said that “defendants concealed the true financial results of operations and condition of the company, embarking on a fraudulent accounting scheme which hastened the demise of the company and left it unable to right itself.”

PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a statement that it “believes its work complied with all professional standards and intends to defend this case vigorously.” A KPMG spokesman, Dan Ginsburg, said his firm had not yet seen the complaint.
507 2007-05-19 This spring they allowed a reporter to see how they struggled with these choices. Ms. Moellering’s basket recently included more unwelcome news: $2,693 due on a Visa card through her credit union, including finance charges of $25, and $13,680 on a CashBuilder Elite Visa, including a monthly finance charge of $200.

Their credit card debt came to $22,228, including $380 in monthly finance charges. Interest varied from 12.1 percent to 32.24 percent. The Moellerings also have a mortgage of $93,000 and a home equity loan balance of $68,574, at 8 percent interest.

“We have friends in the same position,” said Ms. Moellering, who earns $30,000 a year as an administrative assistant. “One was off his insurance for a couple weeks and he broke his arm, and they’re out 25 or 30 thousand. We’ve talked to them about it. It doesn’t matter what you do, you always have that credit card debt.”

Just a generation ago, financial profiles like the Moellerings’ would have been unusual. But changes in federal regulations since the 1980s, along with consolidation in the banking industry and changed consumer attitudes toward borrowing and saving, have made credit more widespread, more heavily marketed and more confusing, with offers of more credit — at low rates — extending to even the least reliable risk. In 2006, the industry mailed out nearly 8 billion credit card offers, up from 3.5 billion in 2000.

Credit card debt, less than $8 billion in 1968 (in current dollars), now exceeds $880 billion, more than tripling since 1988, adjusting for inflation, according to the Federal Reserve Bank. Penalty fees alone cost consumers $17.1 billion in 2006 — up from $12.8 billion in 2003, adjusted for inflation, according to R. K. Hammer, a bank card advisory firm. In part because of the debt burden, the consumer savings rate fell below zero percent in 2005 and has stayed there.

At the same time, as banks have moved from fixed interest rates to variable rates, the ability of borrowers like the Moellerings to move balances from one card to another, or from credit cards to lower-interest home equity loans, can have as much impact on their finances as whether they get a raise or trim household expenses, said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. Especially since 2001, Mr. McBride said, as home values have increased and interest rates have dropped, home equity loans have enabled families to carry more debt — to buy more things — at lower cost.

“It’s a whole change in what we consider normal now,” said Vanessa G. Perry, an assistant professor of marketing at the George Washington University School of Business. “Not only has the total amount people borrow increased, but the number of instruments we borrow on has increased. An average family has a mortgage, home equity loan, various credit cards, a car loan, maybe a student loan.”

The growth of easy credit has its upside, helping some families buy a first home or get through a temporary hardship. But the array of loans has become so complicated that many consumers fail to understand the different interest rates, financing charges and penalties they now face, Ms. Perry said.

For the Moellerings, juggling balances and interest rates has enabled them to pay for things they could not otherwise afford, like their 2004 wedding and house renovation, or to eat out occasionally, when “we’ve both had a bad day at work,” Mr. Moellering said. He earns $36,000 a year as a software applications designer.

As foster parents of two children they also receive about $1,200 a month in reimbursement from the State Department of Human Services, which goes toward “food, general living and ballet lessons,” Ms. Moellering said.

When the Moellerings pay a bill late or exceed their credit limit, interest rates have shot up, increasing the monthly cost of transactions and heaping penalty fees on top.

The bills in Ms. Moellering’s basket described an uneven track record of managing balances and interest rates.

On March 27, Mr. Moellering used a debit card rather than a credit card to make nine purchases, ranging from $5.38 to $48, hoping to avoid finance charges. But he miscalculated their checking account balance. Each purchase incurred an overdraft charge of $32, or a total of $288 in penalties, more than the $221.82 cost of the purchases. (After some pleading, the bank, National City, forgave four of the charges, leaving the Moellerings with $160 in penalties, plus interest on both the fees and the principal.)

Every two or three months they send in a payment late, running up a late fee of $30 or more.

Until a court ruling in 1996, most credit cards charged everyone the same fixed rate of interest, around 16 percent, and fees for late payments averaged about $14. But since then, rates have diverged wildly. Late fees typically run $30 to $39.

In their home, with the dishes from a dinner of spaghetti and diced vegetables on the table, the couple discussed their relationship with debt. A 42-inch television, an $800 Christmas gift from Mr. Moellering to his wife, occupied the older child, 4, in the living room. The baby slept.

When the couple met through Yahoo personal ads in 2003, they did not discuss debt. She wrote that she liked snow; he said he looked like Babe Ruth. She had about $6,000 in credit card debt at the time, mostly from paying for books and living expenses after a return to college. She used credit cards rather than applying for lower-interest student loans. “I never tried to get student loans,” Ms. Moellering said. “I was working full time and taking care of my sick mom and trying to go to school, so I never had time, so I just ad hoc’d.”

Their debt escalated when they decided to get married. They paid for rings, a reception, a honeymoon and a new bathroom — about $50,000 in a seven-month stretch.

“In such a short period of time, there’s no way to do it other than credit card debt,” Mr. Moellering said.

He paid for some of the expenses through a home equity loan, and paid contractors with promotional checks that came with low interest for the first year. When money gets low, the Moellerings skip paying credit card companies rather than miss a mortgage payment.

“And if the cat gets sick or something, then suddenly we’re trying to figure out, what kind of card can we use to pay this $500 vet bill,” he said.

In the last two years they have managed to cut their credit card debt by $20,000, Ms. Moellering said, and have built a savings of about $5,000, thanks to a Christmas gift from a relative. Ms. Moellering contributes to her retirement account at work. Both say they could manage better if they only had the time.

“It’s been almost two weeks since we’ve had time to sit down and go over the bills,” Ms. Moellering said. “You can’t do it every day because we both work full time. I’ve got two kids; they want all our attention; they haven’t seen us all day. We’re trying to cook dinner. We have to do the dishes, fold the laundry. We’re exhausted. And on the weekends the kids want our attention, and we want to spend time with them; we don’t want to spend time going through the bills.”
508 2007-05-19 “We’ve been behind the curve,” said Greg Tarpinian, executive director of Change to Win. “Nixon came in ’71. We’re coming in 2007.”

The American union leaders say they do not intend to collaborate with China’s only state-controlled labor union, the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, but they hope that encouraging the government union to improve working conditions and wages in China will reduce the gap between costs in the United States and China.

For years, American unions refused to have any dealings with China’s government-controlled union because it is not independent.

But now, American union leaders say that encouraging union leaders here may actually raise standards in China and around the world, thereby making American jobs more competitive.

“I think a dialogue with them is very constructive,” Mr. Hoffa said. “You can’t ignore a union that claims to have 100 million workers.”

Asked about whether working with China’s labor union could help improve American wages or conditions, Mr. Hoffa said: “The way we see that changing is to raise the standards in China. I think a rising tide raises all boats.”

The visit comes as China’s only official union is pressing multinational corporations like Wal-Mart and McDonald’s to allow unions in their Chinese factories and stores.

Though long regarded as friendly toward management, the government-controlled union is starting to flex its muscle and is also helping to draft a new labor law that some American corporations are opposing on the grounds that it is unfair to corporations operating here and gives too much power to workers.

That proposed law, which has already been through a variety of drafts, may be passed as early as this summer, and American union leaders say they are angry that American companies are trying to oppose or weaken such a law.

“We’ve been concerned with how American corporations have attempted to water down that law,” Mr. Hoffa said.

Lawyers working for some American corporations operating here, however, have insisted that existing labor laws are adequate but are often not enforced and that the new draft makes hiring and firing workers more difficult and cumbersome.
509 2007-05-19 The state attorney general said he would not bring criminal charges against an electric utility over a 2005 reservoir collapse that seriously injured a family of five. The collapse of the stone retaining wall around the Taum Sauk reservoir spilled more than one billion gallons of water across a state park. A park superintendent and his family were hurt. The attorney general, Jay Nixon, said the Highway Patrol “found no suspects to charge criminally.” But he said it was clear the utility, the Ameren Corporation, “repeatedly put profit over safety. For this they will be held accountable.” The state is pursuing a civil settlement with Ameren, which has accepted responsibility.
510 2007-05-19 Northwest Airlines received approval yesterday to emerge from bankruptcy, freeing it to move out of court protection from its creditors.

The airline, which is based in Eagan, Minn., has spent more than 20 months cutting costs and eliminating jobs in its reorganization effort and said it expected to emerge from bankruptcy on May 31.

More than 97 percent of creditors eligible to vote on the company’s reorganization plan have approved it.

Under the plan approved by Judge Allan Gropper after a two-day hearing, Northwest’s secured creditors will be paid in full. Most unsecured creditors are expected to be paid 66 to 83 cents on the dollar in new shares of the reorganized company. Existing shares will be canceled, leaving shareholders with nothing.

Once the company emerges from court protection, its shares will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NWA.
511 2007-05-19 Haitians now make up a huge percentage of the population here, exceeding the number of other residents, according to government estimates. With migrant boats landing regularly, authorities here and across the Caribbean are struggling to contain them.

“It’s a tremendous strain on the government, and we’d appreciate international assistance,” said Lee Penn, who runs the detention center for illegal migrants in Providenciales, the financial capital of Turks and Caicos. “We’re feeding them and housing them and repatriating them — and it’s costing us.”

What exactly happened at sea on May 4 remains uncertain, and is still under investigation by maritime authorities from Britain, which administers the territory.

But it is clear that the voyage was hellish. After a day and a half packed together in a tiny craft, with nothing but water all around, the migrants finally saw lights on the horizon as they approached Turks and Caicos. Excitement grew, and then dreams turned to nightmares.

With a police boat on the scene in rough waters, the Haitian boat went over on its side. Screams filled the air and bodies hit the water. In all, 61 dead Haitians were plucked from the sea, some of them with shark bites. Twenty or so others were never found.

“The closest thing I could compare it to was Katrina, with that many people floating in the water,” said Lt. Cmdr. Jennifer Arko, a Coast Guard helicopter pilot who responded to the scene and who had done search-and-rescue work over post-hurricane New Orleans.

Of the 69 men and nine women who survived, none would succeed in escaping their desperate lives back home. All were flown back to Cap Haitien, a city on Haiti’s northern coast and a major departure point for migrants.

Inspector Hilton Duncan of the Royal Turks and Caicos Islands Police Force said it was a fierce storm, not the police, that forced the Haitian sloop to capsize. He acknowledged that the crowded boat was being towed to shore by the police when it went over. Immediately, he said, a rescue effort ensued, involving the police, other government boats, good Samaritans and the Coast Guard.

“For five officers on a boat, at that time of morning, with that type of weather, rescuing 78 people ought to bring a commendation,” said Inspector Duncan. “But people don’t see it that way.”

But before they were returned home, the surviving Haitian migrants charged that the Turks and Caicos police boat had not responded to their capsized vessel, as the police originally said.

The migrants charged that the police had rammed them in the rough waters and that the overloaded sloop went over when it was being hauled farther out to sea by the police boat.

“We fell into the water and many people drowned,” Marcelin Charles, 37, one of the passengers, told The Associated Press. “I was swimming past dead bodies left and right.”

The tragedy focused attention on the growing exodus of Haitians in recent months and the increasing enforcement efforts to thwart them. In April alone, the United States Coast Guard picked up 704 Haitians at sea, almost as many as the 769 migrants interdicted during all of last year.

President René Préval took office last May amid high expectations that he would end a long bout of violence and economic stagnation. But reversing course has proved challenging: after a spike in kidnappings at the end of 2006 that terrorized residents of Port-au-Prince, Haiti’s capital, the United Nations peacekeeping force in Haiti has only recently begun to make headway in controlling the insecurity there. Meanwhile, hunger and joblessness linger.

The Haitian migrants follow the wind to the Bahamas, to Bermuda, or here in Turks and Caicos, any place that might offer a way to make a living or might take them closer to the United States.

It is a pattern similar to that of other Caribbean migrants. Cubans, for instance, are trying alternative routes to escape that island. The emerging route: west to the Mexican coast and then overland to the United States border.

But Haitians have it harder than others. They are not allowed to stay if they reach American soil, like the Cubans. They are not granted temporary protected status while their countries recover from war and natural disasters, like those who have fled Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador.

And if they make it ashore on Turks and Caicos, their efforts at escape have just begun.

Immigration agents are on the lookout for illegal Haitians throughout the eight inhabited islands that make up Turks and Caicos, demanding proof of legal residency from everyone they stop.

“We’re a small country, and if these people are continuing to come, it causes problems for us,” Mr. Penn said. “We’ve become a stepping stone.”

Residents here speak of the need to maintain their identity. A British territory, the islands have a governor appointed by Queen Elizabeth as well as a local premier. One government survey estimated the population at 33,000, only a third of whom are longtime residents. Haitians make up the bulk of the foreigners.

In recent months, immigration agents in search of illegal Haitians have waited outside Haitian churches on the island to grab parishioners without papers. In one case, they barged inside All Saints Baptist Church and took five migrants out. Legal Haitians who hire or house a migrant — or even allow one into their homes — face legal jeopardy, local Haitians say.

Residents recall that back in 1998 another boatload of escaping Haitians died off the shore here, after the police fired at the boat. Authorities say they were firing warning shots and did not cause that vessel to capsize.

“We’re still human and ought to be treated that way,” said James Prosper, a Haitian-born pastor who has lived in Turks and Caicos for 24 years and who complained to the government recently about the rough treatment endured by those caught without papers.

“If a Haitian is mistreated, I feel it, because it’s in my blood,” said Ronald Gardiner, a Haitian-born businessman who is now a “Belonger,” as citizens of Turks and Caicos are called.

On Turks and Caicos, Haitians pick up trash and sweep the streets. They make the hotel beds and pour the concrete.

The tourism industry here is booming, a far cry from the 1990s when a Gallup poll found the islands had the lowest name recognition in the world. Now, Hollywood stars vacation in hidden bungalows. Other well-heeled sun worshipers fly in on tickets that can cost less than the several thousand dollars some Haitians pay to get a spot on a sloop.

The police here say some migrants smuggle drugs and guns, which means every sloop is considered a security threat. In fact, the recent deaths revived a call among local officials to create a defense force to better patrol the surrounding waters.

“These are poor people seeking a better life but among them are criminals,” Inspector Duncan said in an interview. “We believe some of them may be former members of the Tontons Macoute,” a reference to the armed thugs who ruled the Haitian countryside during the long years of the Duvalier dictatorships.

The Haitian authorities hope the tragedy may help keep more Haitians home. They are considering using photos of the latest overturned vessel and the resulting bodies thrown into the sea as part of a public education campaign to discourage others from making the trip.

“The answer to migration is economic development and, as you know, that won’t happen overnight,” said Louis Joseph, who is Haiti’s ambassador to the Bahamas. “When you don’t have money to eat or to send your children to school, you don’t know what to do. So you leave — or you try, like these people did.”
512 2007-05-19 MOSCOW, May 18 — The police detained more than a dozen opposition leaders and journalists here on Friday, preventing them from flying to a provincial city to take part in anti-Kremlin protests. The action followed a wave of harassment of the protest’s organizers.

The detentions added a new element of frostiness to President Vladimir V. Putin’s meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and other leaders of the European Union near the city, Samara.

“Speaking frankly, I would like that those who today want to hold a demonstration in Samara would be able to express their opinion and have the chance to do so,” Mrs. Merkel said.

Among those detained at a Moscow airport was Garry Kasparov, the former chess champion, who was on his way to the latest in a series of protests organized by Other Russia, a loose opposition coalition he leads.

Protests so far in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Nizhny Novgorod have ended in arrests and clashes with the police, sometimes violent ones. A rally and march in Samara went ahead with several hundred in attendance, according to news media accounts, and no immediate reports of unrest.
513 2007-05-19 Vasco Wellenkamp, the co-artistic director of Companhia Portuguesa de Bailado Contemporâneo, uses a lot of aggressive movement. Sometimes he uses really aggressive movement. If he’s feeling especially wild, he throws in a languid pause or two.

O.K., that’s reductive. Sorry. It’s just that, at a certain point during an evening of his work, the eyes begin to glaze under the inexorable onslaught of shapely thighs and chiseled torsos. Yes, the dancers are impressive. They’re seductive. They can do it all. But where are all the ideas, especially those that can be expressed through means other than stop-drop-and-roll choreography?

“Requiem,” set to a lush Benjamin Britten composition, has a bit of substance in its moody depiction of the crowd, which repeatedly sweeps up the individual in its sinister wake.

But “Seven Bird Dreams,” a premiere, is as overwrought and underfed as the disjointed sound collage that accompanies it. There are moments of razzle-dazzle, often involving a leaping kick or a sinuous, dangerous-looking partnering sequence.

Yet there is nothing to grasp at once the moment passes, nothing to explain what these birdlike creatures mean as they stack and rearrange chairs, and each other, doing violence to everything but the imagination.
514 2007-05-19 The “peak age” for the entrepreneurs he looked at was 26. “Within a year of that age were Google’s Sergey Brin and Larry Page, Apple’s Steve Wozniak, Yahoo’s Jerry Yang, Skype’s Janus Friis, Chad Hurley from YouTube, and Tom Anderson from MySpace.”

“So,” he asked, is the current environment a “cult of youth,” or a “rational response of venture capitalists to observed outcomes?”

As Mr. Denton notes, the venture capitalist Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures recently wrote on his blog, A VC, that most of the people running companies he finances are in their 30s.

Just one of the entrepreneurs in Union Square’s portfolio is over 45, Mr. Wilson noted in a post titled “The Midlife Entrepreneur Crisis” (avc.blogs.com). “And he’ll probably be starting companies until he dies. It’s what he does.”

“But,” he added, “the facts are pretty eye-opening. Nine of our 11 entrepreneurs are in their 30s. One is in his 20s, and one is in his 50s.”

In a follow-up post this week — reacting in part to Mr. Denton and in part to some of the comments his original post generated, Mr. Wilson wrote: “I don’t totally buy that age matters. I think, as I said in my original post, that age is a mind-set.”

“So I don’t know if youth is an advantage in the tech/start-up world, but it certainly isn’t a disadvantage.”

Nothing’s Forever It is a good idea to stock up on the Postal Service’s new “forever” stamps, which can be used, well, forever. But do not buy too many, warns productdose.com. As an investment, they are a loser.

When the price of first-class postage was increased this week to 41 cents, the Postal Service made forever stamps available for the same price, allowing people to stock up on them and use them for years to come, even as rates are increased.

Assuming an average annual future rate increase of 3.3 percent, productdose concludes: “there are smarter places to put your money.”

“Even placing your money in a savings account is a better option.”

Gender Wheels In introducing a blog entry titled “Dude, you bought a girl car?” Will Thompson of the Automotive Blogger felt compelled to write a long “disclaimer.” His aim, he wanted to make clear, was “not to insult,” but “to point out that at some point after buying one of the cars on this list that you will most likely hear a comment about your car being a ‘girl car’ ” (automotiveblogger.net).

Thus cautioned, we learn that the Mazda Miata is “really cute” and “the epitome of a top-down-at-the-mall girl car”; that if the Toyota Rav4 were smaller, “you could totally picture it in a woman’s closet”; that the Volkswagen New Beetle models “just don’t look right with a man behind the wheel”; and that when Volkswagen designed the Rabbit, it was as if “they just plain gave up on any semblance of masculinity.”
515 2007-05-19 Re “Bush Intervened in Dispute Over N.S.A. Eavesdropping” (front page, May 16):

As we grapple with the crises over civil liberties and the legality of eavesdropping programs, we must look ahead to anticipate other crises to follow. As more details are uncovered and the debates continue, vast amounts of data from public and commercial sources continue to be collected.

Data mining algorithms are being applied to detect what is loosely termed “suspicious activity” in order to ensure our “security.”

It is not a question of if this will happen — it has already, and will continue.

Perhaps we should also turn our attention to the technology. For instance, how sensitive and specific are these algorithms? What proportion of the “suspicious” activities uncovered are actually useful?

While I appreciate that these details need to remain classified, could an independent expert panel be established to monitor the application of novel technologies to ensure that we strike the delicate balance between privacy and security?
516 2007-05-19 Microsoft has struggled to compete in the online advertising market, particularly against Google, which dominates the field.

Until now, Microsoft has sold ads on its MSN portal and used a technology called AdCenter to sell ads linked to Internet search — a booming businesses, and the cornerstone of Google’s power. But Microsoft’s share of the search business has steadily declined, limiting the effectiveness of AdCenter.

With aQuantive, Microsoft will be able to help sell and broker ads on sites across the Web, a business that is seen as increasingly important as advertising continues to shift online. The acquisitions of DoubleClick and RightMedia by Google and Yahoo were also intended to bolster those companies’ efforts to sell and broker ads on a myriad of Web sites.

Microsoft has asked regulators to scrutinize the Google-DoubleClick deal, which it said would reduce competition. But Brad Smith, Microsoft’s senior vice president and general counsel, said Microsoft’s acquisition of aQuantive would promote competition.

Forecasters at ZenithOptimedia, a media buying agency, predict that Internet ad spending will total $31 billion globally this year, a 28 percent increase from last year. In terms of market share, the Internet has already passed outdoor advertising, and will pass radio next year, ZenithOptimedia says.

“We’re going to see people taking tens of millions of dollars out of television advertising and putting it into online, and that’s what all these guys are betting on,” said Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst at Forrester Research.

The boom in Internet advertising is also reshaping the advertising pipeline, with online media owners like Google, Yahoo and Microsoft’s MSN increasingly moving into areas that used to be dominated by advertising companies like Omnicom Group, WPP and Publicis Groupe.

In the offline world, there has generally been a clear distinction between media outlets and advertising agencies, which create the ads and buy time or space to run them. On the Internet, that line has been blurred, with portals like Google increasingly pushing into “upstream” areas like media planning and buying.

“We’ve suddenly got two different sides that are competing in the same area, in the advertising companies and the media owners,” Ms. VanBoskirk said.

There are signs of friction as online media owners like Google, with their deep pockets, expand. Google’s agreement to buy DoubleClick was criticized by Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP Group, who said it could trouble marketers.

“It raises issues about whether we are prepared to give Google data that’s very valuable,” he said last month as WPP gave a quarterly financial update. “Clients will be concerned over the access Google may have to information that is owned by them.”

While companies like 24/7 and DoubleClick focus primarily on distributing Internet advertising to online media owners, aQuantive gives Microsoft some broader capabilities. In addition to the Atlas ad serving platform, it also creates ads and plans media strategy, among other things, moving Microsoft into areas in which Google has not yet staked a claim.

“Today’s announcement represents the next step in the evolution of our ad network from our initial investment in MSN, to the broader Microsoft network including Xbox Live, Windows Live and Office Live, and now to the full capacity of the Internet,” Microsoft’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said in a statement.

Microsoft said that the deal would close during its 2008 fiscal year, which begins July 1, and that the merger is likely to require antitrust review.

Microsoft’s shares opened slightly lower after the deal was announced, and closed at $30.83, down 15 cents.

The dealmaking frenzy in the online advertising business has caused a rapid escalation in the valuations of acquisition targets. In January, Publicis Groupe, the Paris-based advertising company, acquired Digitas, a Boston-based agency that specializes in Internet and medical communications, for $1.3 billion, or about 2.7 times sales.

In the latest deal, Microsoft is paying around 10 times estimated revenue for aQuantive. “There will be a limit to the escalation in price,” said Maurice Lévy, chief executive of Publicis, in a recent telephone conversation. “The current market has a kind of bubble.”

Mr. Dobson of Microsoft said the price that his company was paying was justified because of the potential for growth in the online advertising market. “Yes, it is high — it is a premium,” he said. “It’s much more about the medium to long term than the current size of the market.”
517 2007-05-19 C. William Jones, president of the Association of Belltel Retirees Inc. and sponsor of the Verizon proposal, said he was thrilled with the results and would wait to see how the company responded. The proposal, which asked that shareholders be given an advisory vote on executive pay at Verizon each year, is not binding.

“If the company does something about it we will be delighted,” Mr. Jones said. “If it doesn’t, we will be back next year with a binding proposal, would be my guess.”

The company said that independent election inspectors tabulated the vote and certified the final results. “The board is committed to continuous review of the company’s compensation practices and will further consider its policies in light of the high level of shareholder interest and the active discussion taking place with respect to the advisory vote issue in a variety of forums, including in the U.S. Congress,” Verizon said in a statement.

The Belltel Retirees, a 100,000-member organization, has forced governance changes at Verizon in the past. It has often focused on the company’s executive pay practices, which it says are not adequately tied to performance.

Mr. Jones said the association’s members lobbied Verizon shareholders hard on the proposal. “We went to the employees of Verizon; we wrote to every shareholder that holds 3,000 or more shares; we contacted all the pension funds that own Verizon shares; and we got some help from the unions,” he said. “It was a big push.”

Shareholder dismay over executive pay has been a common theme at annual meetings this year. At yesterday’s meeting for owners of J. C. Penney, a proposal to limit executive severance payments won majority support.

Advisory votes on executive pay are an annual event at public companies in Britain and Australia but most United States companies that have received such proposals from their owners have lined up against them. An exception was Aflac Inc., an insurance company that changed its policy this year, giving shareholders a say on its pay. beginning in 2009.

Stockholders at several companies have come close to passing such resolutions; at Merck, for example, 49.2 percent voted in support of an advisory vote on pay.

Last month, the House of Representatives passed a bill sponsored by Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Financial Services Committee, that would give shareholders the right to an advisory vote on executive pay.

The Verizon vote indicates that the legislation on pay is unnecessary, Mr. Foley said.

Amy Borrus, deputy director of the Council of Institutional Investors, said the results at Verizon showed investors’ growing desire to communicate views on executive compensation directly to corporate directors. “At Verizon this speaks very loudly to the board,” she said, “and the board should adopt the proposal.”
518 2007-05-19 AIRLINE RECEIVES APPROVAL Virgin America Inc., a new low-cost carrier backed by British billionaire Richard Branson, won final approval to begin flights in the United States and keep its chief executive, Fred Reid, below, for six months. The airli...
519 2007-05-19 Photo of preparations for open house at Islamic Center of South Jersey in Palmyra, NJ, after arrest of four members of mosque on terrorism charges...
520 2007-05-19 To the Editor:     Re ''Bush Intervened in Dispute Over N.S.A. Eavesdropping'' (front page, May 16):...
521 2007-05-19 C. William Jones, president of the Association of Belltel Retirees Inc. and sponsor of the Verizon proposal, said he was thrilled with the results and would wait to see how the company responded. The proposal, which asked that shareholders be given an advisory vote on executive pay at Verizon each year, is not binding.

“If the company does something about it we will be delighted,” Mr. Jones said. “If it doesn’t, we will be back next year with a binding proposal, would be my guess.”

The company said that independent election inspectors tabulated the vote and certified the final results. “The board is committed to continuous review of the company’s compensation practices and will further consider its policies in light of the high level of shareholder interest and the active discussion taking place with respect to the advisory vote issue in a variety of forums, including in the U.S. Congress,” Verizon said in a statement.

The Belltel Retirees, a 100,000-member organization, has forced governance changes at Verizon in the past. It has often focused on the company’s executive pay practices, which it says are not adequately tied to performance.

Mr. Jones said the association’s members lobbied Verizon shareholders hard on the proposal. “We went to the employees of Verizon; we wrote to every shareholder that holds 3,000 or more shares; we contacted all the pension funds that own Verizon shares; and we got some help from the unions,” he said. “It was a big push.”

Shareholder dismay over executive pay has been a common theme at annual meetings this year. At yesterday’s meeting for owners of J. C. Penney, a proposal to limit executive severance payments won majority support.

Advisory votes on executive pay are an annual event at public companies in Britain and Australia but most United States companies that have received such proposals from their owners have lined up against them. An exception was Aflac Inc., an insurance company that changed its policy this year, giving shareholders a say on its pay. beginning in 2009.

Stockholders at several companies have come close to passing such resolutions; at Merck, for example, 49.2 percent voted in support of an advisory vote on pay.

Last month, the House of Representatives passed a bill sponsored by Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Financial Services Committee, that would give shareholders the right to an advisory vote on executive pay.

The Verizon vote indicates that the legislation on pay is unnecessary, Mr. Foley said.

Amy Borrus, deputy director of the Council of Institutional Investors, said the results at Verizon showed investors’ growing desire to communicate views on executive compensation directly to corporate directors. “At Verizon this speaks very loudly to the board,” she said, “and the board should adopt the proposal.”
522 2007-05-20 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
523 2007-05-20 "We really do need a piano," Miss Eversman sighed, as the national and managing editors walked in. Mr. Corn and Mr. Noyes took up positions off to the side of things and remarked to each other, a bit shamefacedly, on the smallness of the spread.

"Well," said Mr. Corn, quoting the late Senator Taft's famously impolitic advice about higher food prices: "Eat less."

The party was making Tim feel nostalgic, and thus a bit foolish, since he'd been, after all, only a summer hire allowed to stay on through September-or, more exactly, this coming Friday afternoon. They'd put him in the city room, even though he'd never been to Washington before June and knew nothing about the District as a place where many citizens lived life quite oblivious to the federal government. His placement, he'd come to understand, was typical of the Star, a paper both venerable and feckless, produced each evening by an eccentric, occasionally brilliant staff. He had liked it here and would miss the place, but given the shortness of his tenure he wasn't sure he should even take a piece of the cake once it got cut.

A small stack of the paper's early edition lay atop an open drawer of the file cabinet he was leaning against. Ambassador Bohlen was flying home from Moscow to talk with Secretary Dulles, and this morning Louis Budenz, a Fordham professor and former red, had testified to the McCarthy committee that, in his "humble opinion," parts of an Army-commissioned pamphlet about Siberia-something put together to educate the Far Eastern Command-contained large chunks of Soviet-sympathizing stuff that had been taken, without footnotes or refutation, from Communist writers.

Cecil Holland, the reporter who'd written the Budenz story, now saw Tim reading it and asked, "Laughlin, you just graduated from Fordham, didn't you? Ever study with this guy who says the army's been indoctrinating itself?"

Tim smiled. "I had somebody else for Economics, Mr. Holland." He grimaced. "I think I got a C-plus." Holland laughed and walked over to claim a piece of the cake that had finally been sliced.

At Fordham, Tim had mostly studied American history and English literature, and his plan in coming to Washington remained, even now, to combine his major and minor into a job writing for a politician, though throughout the city's hot, depopulated summer he'd made little headway finding anything on Capitol Hill. Well, he'd have plenty of time and motivation come Friday afternoon!

The party conversation had turned to Senator McCarthy's imminent wedding. "What kind of guy picks lunch hour on Tuesday to get married in a church?" asked the financial-page editor.

"That's why he's marrying a girl on his staff," added the police reporter. "Maximum efficiency. She'll be able to crank out the press release for Joe's firstborn as soon as she's cranked out the baby."

"Well, from what I hear," said Miss Eversman, "McCarthy's mother might be more surprised by all this than Liberace's." Everyone had heard the rumors.

Would the president show up for the wedding? People began to take bets. Ike's contempt for McCarthy was by now well developed, but it would be hard, some argued, for him not to put in an appearance, now that he was back from vacation, and with St. Matthew's being only a few blocks from the White House.

Miss McGrory, who appeared to regard this talk of McCarthy on the order of a frog in the punch bowl, returned to an earlier subject and insisted that they didn't need a piano. She patted Mr. Yost's arm and dared him to get everybody started singing "Oh, You Beautiful Doll"-Woodrow Wilson's absolute all-time favorite, the retiring pressman had reminded them.

Tim, who had been to all the West Side weddings of his uncountable cousins, right away felt Irish instinct trump shyness. He joined in as soon as Mr. Yost and Miss McGrory got things going, and within a moment, even as he remained alone with his thoughts, was singing the same words as everyone else:

Let me put my arms about you, I don't want to live without you.

His job at the Star had come through the nephew of an old pal of his dad's from Manhattan Criminal Court, where Paul Laughlin had worked during what everyone in the family now called the old days-the ones before Mr. Laughlin, nearing forty, put himself through LaSalle, by correspondence and then at night, completing his transformation from process server into accountant, making possible his family's move from Hell's Kitchen to the unimaginably big and bright new rooms of Stuyvesant Town. Those rooms seemed even larger now that Tim's older sister, Frances, the Laughlins' only other child, had gone off to Staten Island to live with her husband.

If you ever leave me, how my heart would ache, I want to hug you but I fear you'd break-

While singing these lines, Tim realized that most of the partygoers' eyes were on him. His pleasing tenor voice-a surprise to those who'd heard only his soft, polite speech with its occasional stammer-had risen above everyone else's in volume, though to anybody paying attention to the lyric, it seemed far more likely that any hugging to involve this five-foot-seven, 130-pound young man would result in his breakage, not the girl's. Realizing what had provoked the attention and smiles, Tim blushed and lowered his voice, while everybody else raised theirs for the song's big finish:

Oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, you beautiful doll!

Mr. Yost led the revelers' applause for themselves, and when it subsided, Mr. Brogan, Tim's boss on the city desk, announced: "It's clear to me that we kept too much of Laughlin's light under a bushel this summer. I wish we'd had more for you to do, Timmy."

Tim smiled and thanked him. Since June he'd mostly typed and done rewrites, bringing the perfect grammar of the nuns to the fitfully produced copy of the oldest city reporters, who teased him about being a college man, and about a pretty girl named Helen, another summer hire who answered a phone in Classifieds and sometimes stopped to chat at his desk.

They might have kept on teasing him now, but they didn't really know enough about this conscientious, if cheerful, boy, and so the spotlight soon moved elsewhere. Tim shrank back into himself as Cecil Holland redirected the conversation to-what else?-the senator from Wisconsin.

What would McCarthy do next? people wanted to know. Holland advised them to watch what was going on up in New York: Cohn had been running subcommittee meetings there, taking testimony in closed sessions when he wasn't snooping around Fort Monmouth over in Jersey. You watch: McCarthy would soon be taking shots at the army for whatever security breaches he could discover or invent.

"I'm gonna love you, like nobody's loved you, come Cohn or come Schine," crooned the police reporter, reprising a song spoof from last spring, when McCarthy staffers Roy Cohn and David Schine, colleagues and pals (some people said more), had gone on their tour of USIA libraries in Europe, ridding the shelves of anti-American books by American authors.

No one ever talked half so much about Eisenhower as they did about McCarthy, Tim reflected; the senator was as constantly on people's lips as FDR had been when he was a boy, even if the only other thing Roosevelt and McCarthy might have in common was the admiration of Tim's father. Paul Laughlin still revered FDR (Mrs. R was now another story), as he had since the First Hundred Days. Before the arrival of the New Deal, already the father of two babies, Mr. Laughlin had spent plenty of afternoons playing stickball on the pavements of the West Fifties, unable to scare up any work pushing dress racks or plastering or even delivering groceries to widows in their Ninth Avenue walkups. But by the end of '33, Paul Laughlin had become, according to the family joke, "the oldest man in the CCC," upstate for weeks at a time, cutting down trees or planting new ones for what was at least half a living wage. Some kindhearted supervisor took notice of his hard work and referred him to a pal in the courts, where he worked his way up toward something like security and, at last, the cessation of sleepless nights.

Nothing-not even Grandma Gaffney's cutlery-tapping recaps of every Father Coughlin broadcast-had ever put Mr. Laughlin off Roosevelt. He remained true to the president's memory even when the war ended and the accounting money started coming in and he began bringing the Journal-American instead of the Post home to Stuy Town, which he eventually took to reminding them had been built by a private insurance company, not as a government project. By the time Tim was finishing high school, he'd gotten used to hearing his father say that Bishop Sheen-fine anti-red that he might be-nonetheless had a foolish sympathy for some of the labor unions. And a couple of years after that, once the television came into the living room, Dean Acheson could not come on it without Mr. Laughlin announcing, in sarcastic imitation: "I will not turn my back on Alger Hiss." The line always made Tim and Frances laugh, as if Acheson were not a person but a corporation with a trademark pledge, like "Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco."

But for all that, Tim saw no reason why his father-the mildest of Cold Warriors, really, looking eastward not so much for invading Soviets as for the house he now hoped to buy in Nassau County-wasn't right about the fundamentals of politics.

Mr. Brogan, Tim now noticed, had been buttonholed by Betty Beale, one of the society reporters.

"Miss Canby isn't pulling her weight?" asked Brogan, laughing. "You shock me, Miss Beale."

"Joke if you want," said the reporter, to whom the women's-page editor was a constant thorn in the side. Miss Beale took her own work seriously and made a point of actually going to the events she covered, not just relying on a phone call to the hostess to ask what cabinet wife had "poured" for which white-gloved ladies in attendance. "I cannot do this wedding alone," she now told Mr. Brogan. "We need more than one piece out of it-something for tomorrow's edition, something for the next day, and something for my weekend column. You know, Mr. Brogan, tonight McCarthy and his fiancÈe are having a buffet supper at some friend's farm out in Maryland, and thanks to Miss Canby there will be no one present from the Star."

The city editor continued listening as Miss Beale thrust home. "It's McCarthy, Mr. Brogan. It may be just a wedding, but surely this spills into your bailiwick-and even Mr. Corn's. May I please get a little help?"

Brogan looked around thoughtfully, until he spotted Tim, still standing against the filing cabinet. "How about making use of this fine fellow, Miss Beale? He can spell, he's got a few Hibernian freckles, and he can even sing. Surely he can get the goods on an Irish wedding."

"How about it, cookie?" Miss Beale asked Tim. "Do you think you can get the names of the people in as many pews as possible? And get as many quotes as they're willing to sling along with the rice? The reception's at the Washington Club right afterward. You can go to that, too."

Tim moved away from the filing cabinet and said sure. It was the only word he'd ever spoken to the still youthful but formidable Miss Beale.

"Good, then," said Brogan, having settled the matter.

"Better than good," said Cecil Holland, who'd overheard the exchange. "If Laughlin ever gets hauled in and investigated for anything, he can always say, 'But, Joe, I was at your wedding, for God's sake!' "

The bottle Miss McGrory had brought in was by now pretty well drained, and a sizable body of those in attendance were thinking about adjourning to the Old Ebbitt Grill over on F Street. Tim's momentary celebrity earned him an invitation to join the group, but he decided he'd be better off boning up for this opportunity he'd just been given, however late in the game it had come. And so within ten minutes he was on his way home with someone's copy of the Congressional Directory, the deluxe edition with photographs. He could study the pictures tonight and increase the percentage of guests he'd recognize.

Passing the Old Post Office on the other side of Pennsylvania Avenue, he was reminded that he'd yet to mail home the letter he'd been carrying around for the past two days. In it he made his job prospects sound a lot rosier than they actually were-but then again, who knew? Maybe this assignment was a portent of better things that might be coming once he left the paper and got back to passing out his rÈsumÈ, this time in earnest, on Capitol Hill.

Should he go up to Hecht's and get a new white shirt? The collar was frayed on the only laundered one he had left. No, too expensive, he decided; he would settle for getting his shoes shined at Union Station tonight. Walking along Fifth Street, above Indiana and D, he continued on his career-conscious train of thought, contemplating the signs for lawyers and bondsmen, knowing that the former profession was still too much to aspire to, even if the latter one, like process-serving, now resided in a realm his father had lifted the Laughlins permanently above.

He bought a pint of milk and a sandwich before reaching his room on the Hill, in the two-hundred block of Pennsylvania, one flight above a hardware store. His occupancy was illegal, the lower floors of the building being zoned only for offices, but a landlady with no vacancies a couple of blocks away had tipped him off to the nice Italian owner here, who told him he could have the room cheap and not to worry. It came with a hot plate and tiny icebox, and a hall shower one flight up, where apartments were legal.

Tim always made sure to keep the radio low; he clicked it on now and waited for the tubes to warm up while he poured his glass of milk. A promo for One Man's Family became audible as he sat down and began to drink.

The job ads from Sunday's paper were on the table, and for a few minutes he gave them a second, mostly hopeless, look. The "Situations Wanted" had a hierarchy as discernible as the legal pecking order on Fifth Street.

YOUNG MAN, COLORED, desires evening or night work of any kind. Phone LI 8-5198.

After three months down here, the "colored" had ceased to shock; it was the "work of any kind" that now arrested his attention and made him wonder how many weeks might be left before he'd have to consider putting that phrase into an ad of his own.

Pretty vague, to say the least, but except for the telephone, which he didn't have, it pretty much matched his own circumstances. He certainly couldn't compete with the ad just above it:

He wondered if Helen had taken any of these down over the phone.

Setting the paper aside in favor of the Congressional Directory, he decided to put a ruler over the names beneath the pictures. He would see if he could correctly distinguish, say, Prescott Bush (R-Connecticut) from Bourke Hickenlooper (R-Iowa). At least he was familiar with his assignment's location, having gone to St. Matthew's last month on the Feast of the Assumption. . . .
524 2007-05-20 Mrs. Clinton is competing for black support with other rivals for the Democratic nomination, particularly Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, who is black and who has also championed hurricane recovery efforts in New Orleans.

Mrs. Clinton, who proposed a “Gulf Coast Recovery Agenda” during a stop here Friday, unveiled more details of that plan during a commencement speech Saturday at Dillard University, where she spoke before several thousand African-Americans. She proposed a “Gulf Coast Corps” of workers to complete high-priority projects; the program would also provide financial incentives to teachers, doctors, and other professionals who are in high demand in the region.

And for the first time, Mrs. Clinton endorsed the idea of holding one of the 2008 presidential debates here.

While Mrs. Clinton was warmly received by the Dillard audience, she came in for harsh criticism from Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, whom she had assailed on Friday as not doing as much as Democrats to assist with the recovery here.

“Throughout this difficult recovery work, I’ve always strived to focus on helping people and solving problems, not playing politics,” Mr. Vitter said. “I think our whole delegation has. I, for one, sure hope we keep doing that and leave the divisive partisanship and political games to Hillary and others.”

While Mrs. Clinton was campaigning here, the early primary state of New Hampshire saw its share of presidential politicking on Saturday: Mr. Obama opened a vote-canvassing drive and delivered the commencement speech at Southern New Hampshire University, while Mr. Clinton and former President George Bush gave a joint address to graduates at the University of New Hampshire.

Mr. Obama, in his speech, described his anger and rebellion growing up as a black man. He also described himself as someone who liked to party, and referring to the milestones of life, cited graduation, a first job, and “the first time you throw a party where you also serve food.”

Mr. Obama also talked about lessons from his own life, telling the 1,000 graduates that they would have to persevere to overcome a pettiness in society and “politics where debates over war and peace are reduced to 60-second sound bites and 30-second attack ads.”

At the University of New Hampshire, meanwhile, the two former presidents recalled their collaboration raising and disbursing more than $115 million for Hurricane Katrina relief efforts, and they also reveled in their postpresidential friendship.

“I cannot tell you the selfish pleasure I get out of working with President Clinton,” Mr. Bush said. “It’s a very selfish feeling I have in my heart to be out there transcending politics.”

The men talked about the importance of public service and philanthropy, with Mr. Clinton saying that Americans must take their citizenship seriously and not simply focus on their professional goals.

Mr. Clinton also drew some laughter when he thanked the university’s interim president, J. Bonnie Newman. “Madam President,” he said. “That has a nice ring to it.”

More women should be in charge, Mr. Clinton added, “so George and I can spend more time playing golf.”
525 2007-05-20 The compromise bill has offered a glimmer of hope to illegal immigrants here, 60 miles from the border, and elsewhere. But they and others, through news reports, advocates and lawyers, are just now learning the fine print.

Advocacy groups here said they would lobby lawmakers to reject the bill, saying it would place onerous restrictions on illegal workers who want to win legal status and also hurt efforts to unify immigrant families.

“This is an unprecedented shift from family unity being the cornerstone of our immigration policy,” said Isabel Garcia, a lawyer and a chairwoman of Derechos Humanos, an advocacy group here. Ms. Garcia also objected to what she called “insurmountable” obstacles in the bill.

The compromise Senate bill proposes an initiative to give legal status to an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. It also portends a major shift in the priorities and values of American immigration for the future. It would gradually change a system based primarily on family ties, in place since 1965, into one that favors high-skilled and highly educated workers who want to become permanent residents.

In the future, low-skilled workers like the men waiting for work here would largely be channeled to a vast new temporary program, where they would be allowed to work in the United States for three stints of two years each, broken up by one-year stays in their homeland.

“This is a different architecture,” said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, and commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1993 to 2000.

Illegal workers already here would gain a provisional legal status, known as a Z visa, fairly quickly. But to become permanent residents they would have to pay the big fines and get in an eight-year line behind others who have already applied legally for green cards, as permanent resident visas are known.

Still, despite the outcry from immigrant advocates, a reading of the details of the legislation suggests important benefits for relatives of legal immigrants and naturalized American citizens who have been waiting for green cards for as long as 22 years in some cases.

A first step is to eliminate, within eight years, the backlog of 4 million people who have applied to come legally to the United States, allotting 440,000 visas a year for that purpose, according to summaries provided by the Department of Homeland Security and the office of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who was a chief author of the bill.

“We are adding to our family-based system, we are not substituting merit for family,” said Laura Capps, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kennedy.

After the backlog is cleared, a slowly increasing number of permanent visas would be approved through a merit system, based on points granted for English language proficiency (an acute hurdle for the men waiting for work here, as none spoke English), level of education and job skills, among other factors.

Siblings and adult children of legal immigrants will no longer be able to apply for visas, and visas for parents of United States citizens will be limited to 40,000 a year.

In his weekly radio address on Saturday, President Bush said that the measure “will improve security at our borders. It will give employers new tools to verify the employment status of workers and hold businesses to account for those they hire.”

Mr. Bush added, “The legislation will clear the backlog of family members who’ve applied to come to our country lawfully, and have been waiting patiently in line. This legislation will end chain migration by limiting the relatives who can automatically receive green cards to spouses and minor children. And this legislation will transform our immigration system so that future immigration decisions are focused on admitting immigrants who have the skills, education, and English proficiency that will help America compete in a global economy.”

The immigration debate has long stirred politics, sometimes dividing members of the same party and forcing lawmakers to reconsider positions. This bill is no different.

Last year, as he sought re-election, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a Republican, was critical of giving illegal immigrants legal status. But this week Mr. Kyl stood with John McCain, Arizona’s senior senator and a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, as the compromise was announced, saying ideological sacrifices had to be made.

The proposal, though, divided the two Democratic members of Congress from here in southern Arizona, Gabrielle Giffords and Raúl M. Grijalva.

Ms. Giffords called it a positive step while Mr. Grijalva, whose father was a migrant farm worker, told The Arizona Daily Star it was “tentative and unfinished.”

In south Tucson, outside the Southside Presbyterian Church, where immigrants — mostly men — have gathered for decades to find work, the immigration debate is also playing out as the men wait for jobs.

There are people like Mr. Ramírez, who spent several years just over the border in Sonora before finally coming to Arizona for construction and other work. He has not seen his family, he said, for 10 years.

Sipping from a bottle filled with ice as the day’s heat soared, Mr. Ramírez occasionally broke away when pickup trucks and other vehicles approached, joining others begging for a day’s work.

The biggest obstacle, Mr. Ramírez said, would probably be paying the $5,000 in fines on the way to permanent legal status. He does not have health insurance now, which he would be required to provide for his family if he decided to return to Mexico and come back as a temporary worker. “I don’t know who sells that or what it costs,” he said.

Still, all in all, “the important thing is saving. The fines are similar to what we pay polleros,” Mr. Ramírez said, using a Spanish slang term for the smugglers who guide people across the border.

Teoforo Valdés, 32, nodded in agreement. He has lived in and around Tucson for 10 years and still makes occasional trips home to Sonora, evading the Border Patrol.

But Mr. Valdés has grown tired of the journey, he said, and, at least upon first look at the proposal, sees reason for optimism.

“Right now, we have nothing, no real way to legalize ourselves,” he said. “This government is giving us steps and so we have to think how we can take them.”

As the morning wore on, the number of potential employers driving past grew thin. The workers began to disperse, though some stayed behind to use the bathroom and a shower at the church.

Jesús Antonio Rodríguez, 49, who said he was a legal resident and acts as an informal adviser to the men, summed up the dilemma.

“People do not believe it but we really do come to work,” Mr. Rodríguez said. “We are not delinquents here. We have to work. And we want to cooperate, but everything is always so hard here.”
526 2007-05-20 The invasion of what has been almost sacred ground suggests that past traumas are starting to fade even as Cambodia prepares to begin a long-delayed trial of some Khmer Rouge leaders, said Youk Chhang, a leading expert on the period.

“I think it has become a memory, rather than a physical thing any longer,” he said, speaking of the pain of the past. “There will be no more tears. There are no more feelings to express. Only a flash of memory when you see a piece of bone.”

For younger Cambodians, who know remarkably little about the Khmer Rouge period, he said, “It’s just a dead person.”

Youk Chhang heads the Documentation Center of Cambodia, which has researched the killing fields and amassed a huge archive on the Khmer Rouge years. Visiting here on Thursday, two of his investigators said there could be as many as 9,000 bodies buried in the woods behind this village 100 miles south of Phnom Penh.

Though the pain of the past may have faded, the bones and the ghosts of Khmer Rouge victims still terrify many rural people. After the assault on the burial ground, this little village seemed filled with remorse and dread.

The digging has stopped and several people said they had been awakened at night by screams from the graves.

“People heard voices calling out, ‘Help me! Help me!’ ” said Svay Saroeun, 50, a deputy village chief. “Maybe they are angry at the villagers for digging up their graves. Or maybe they were tortured to death, and now they are being tortured again by people who are disturbing their sleep.”

Srey Noeun, 47, a farmer with four small children, said she could not sleep for three nights after digging two small gold earrings out of a grave.

“I’m afraid that the owner will take revenge on me because she died with nothing but her earrings and now I have taken them,” Srey Noeun said. “She’ll say, ‘Please give them back. They are all I had.’ ”

Ms. Srey Noeun said she sold the earrings as quickly as she could and bought things that she really needed: four pounds of pork, a sack of rice, oil for cooking and for oil lamps, salt, pepper, seasoning and milk powder for her youngest child.

“We never have enough rice,” she said. “Normally we can’t afford to buy pork.”

The buried treasure seemed paltry after nearly a week of digging: one gold necklace and 27 small gold earrings. But it was dazzling to people who live without electricity or running water, far from the nearest clinic, school or paved road.

The luckiest villager was Pen Chia, 27, who recovered the necklace and sold it to buy a cow. But most people found nothing but shattered skulls, bits of bone that looked like broken sticks and scraps of moldering clothing.

“I dug all day without eating,” said Pron Sythoeun, 36, a farmer. “I dug for four days. And I got nothing.”

He has gone back to poke through the scraps with a stick, but few other villagers have returned except to light incense and pray for forgiveness from the restless souls.

The killing field sits empty now in the pouring rain, cratered with shallow pits and mounds of freshly turned red mud, silent under the trees except for the lowing of thin white cattle in a nearby field.

Some villagers said they had not known it was there, although its existence had not been a secret. It was beside them through the decades, like the suppressed traumas of the past, a blank spot in their minds.

They rediscovered it by chance, when Vietnamese soldiers came by searching for the remains of their own missing men. The Vietnamese Army drove the Khmer Rouge from power in 1979, then occupied Cambodia for a decade.

Helping the soldiers dig, Pon Khlaut, a farmer, saw the glint of an earring in a pit. When he showed it to his neighbors, they abandoned their homes and fields and rushed to the woods to dig.

Among them was Srey Net, who knew the graveyard well. As a teenager, she said, she had been enlisted to bury the bodies of people who had died in labor gangs building one of the huge irrigation dikes that were a particular folly of the Khmer Rouge.

Nearly 20,000 killing fields, holding anywhere from a few bodies to hundreds, served as burial grounds for Khmer Rouge victims as well as execution sites.

Like many of the victims, Ms. Srey Net said, the people here died from accidents, exhaustion and starvation as well as fevers, malaria and an epidemic of diarrhea. Many of them were sent to a small, crude clinic nearby from which she said few emerged alive.

“Whenever a patient died, they would ring a gong or blow a whistle,” she said. “Even in the middle of the night, I had to run up there to help carry away the bodies.”

Last week she was among the graves again, whacking at the ground with a hoe, unearthing what may have been some of the same bodies she had buried years ago. And then, finding no gold, she reverted to her former role, retrieving and reburying some of the bones.

“I felt pity for them, that’s why I collected the bones,” she said. “They were scattered all over the place.”

Ms. Srey Noeun, the farmer who sold two earrings to buy food, also had a connection with the bodies in the graves. Like many of them, she had been a member of a work brigade here, but unlike them she had survived.

“I went to see what was happening but I didn’t have a hoe,” she said of the raid on the burial ground. “I said to someone, ‘Give me your hoe, I want to dig too.’ ”

The first thing she found was clothing, she said, then bones, then gold.

“I dug downwards to the feet, and then I started upwards,” she said. “I found the teeth and the skull. I moved them down around the feet and I cleared the ground around them with my hands. I saw the earrings, first on the left and then on the right.”

She said they were exactly like the small gold rings she had worn in her ears as a girl until they were taken from her when she was forced to join a work brigade.

Ms. Srey Noeun said she had no idea whether she had ever met the woman whose grave she raided, and she said she did not know why the Khmer Rouge had let the woman keep her earrings.
527 2007-05-20 But other fans defended the policy.

“This is being done to reward the folks who provide the most,” one fan posted on the message board, adding that he would accept being moved if he decided not to increase his annual donation. “It is like any business, your top paying clients get perks.” The policy establishes a “priority points” system for awarding seat assignments based on current and past giving.

“Seating allocation in Scott Stadium has never been completely based on Virginia Athletics Foundation contribution priority, and, as a result, many season-ticket holders do not sit in seats commensurate with their level of giving or priority within the Virginia Athletics Foundation,” the foundation said in a statement on its Web site.

The foundation said the policy would allow donors to keep or improve their seat assignments and enabled nondonors to move up to better seats by becoming contributors.

“Nondonors now have an opportunity to come out of the end zone and upper deck and get significantly better seats,” Katstra said.

Parking will also be reallocated based on the new formula.

Information about the policy was sent Friday to season-ticket holders. Katstra said the foundation was hearing from critics and supporters of the change, as well as fans who simply want to know how they will be affected.

“We’re getting those that are unhappy and those looking at it like, ‘Finally, I’m able to get seats I’ve been wanting for years,’ ” Katstra said. “It’s nothing we did not expect. Any time you change your seating plan, you’re going to hear from people that it affects.”

Katstra acknowledged that some fans facing the choice of either boosting their donations or being moved to worse seats would opt for a third choice: giving up their tickets. But others are expected to take up the slack.

“If people react the way we think they might, we will see a little bit of an increase in gift revenue,” Katstra said.

The foundation manages an endowment of $57.9 million and had raised $12.3 million of its $14.3 million annual campaign goal as of May 4, according to its Web site.

Last year, Virginia sold out its 39,347 season tickets for the third consecutive year. Scott Stadium seats 61,500.
528 2007-05-20 The mutual responsibilities of marriage include parenthood — a husband is the legal father of any child born to his wife regardless of biological paternity — and shared tort liability. Why not allow people to parcel out these marital privileges?

Take my own marriage as case in point: My wife is a foreigner who is applying for citizenship, and her marriage to me will make that possible. But as the law stands, I, as a straight American man, theoretically could become a green card machine. As long as I can convince the overstretched Department of Homeland Security that my penchant for falling in love with foreign women is genuine, I can divorce and remarry as many times as I like, obtaining permanent residency for each of my failed loves along the way.

Is that really fair to the gay man who falls in love with a foreigner he can’t sponsor? For that matter, is it fair to the many Americans who can’t sponsor aging grandparents or, in some cases, even parents? Or even to straight Americans who are happy marrying their own kind, but don’t want to see the country fill up with my romantic baggage?

Why not instead give all Americans the right to sponsor one person in their lifetime — a right that they could sell, if they so desire? This would mean that if I wanted to marry a Kenyan after divorcing an Australian, I could, but I would need to purchase — perhaps on e-Bay — the right to confer citizenship from someone else who didn’t need it.

Likewise, why not let all Americans name one person (other than their lawyer, priest or therapist) who can’t be forced to testify against them in court? This zone of privacy could be transferred over the course of a lifetime, perhaps limiting such changes to once in each five-year period.

While we are at it, how about allowing each of us to choose someone with whom our property is shared, with all the tax (and liability) implications that choice would imply? We might even allow parenthood to become contractual, by letting people name the people they want to be stepparents to their biological children.

We could go down the list of rights and responsibilities embedded in the marriage contract. Ideally, most people would choose one person in whom to vest all the rights, but everyone would have the freedom to decide how to configure his domestic, business, legal and intimate relationships in the eyes of the law.

Other people have proposed changing marriage by making it more flexible. A prominent group of gay rights advocates argues that the law should recognize a variety of households — from conjugal couples to groups of elderly people living collectively — as “legal families.” But they have not specified the rights that should go along with such arrangements. Nor have they addressed the problems and paradoxes that might arise if legal rights and responsibilities were extended to groups of more than two. Unbundling marital rights would achieve the same end without creating new inequities based on group size.

It might also take some of the vitriol out of the marriage debate. Marriage itself could stay in church (or in Las Vegas, as the case may be). And each couple could count their own ways to love.
529 2007-05-20 Bill Doyle, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., sees much similarity among all these incentives. He said the companies were using their lesser-known products and services essentially as loss leaders.

In Schwab’s case, Mr. Doyle said, the recent move was also a sign that the company was “back on track” after losing its way earlier in the decade. “Schwab’s fees began to creep up,” Mr. Doyle said. “But now it is rediscovering its roots as a low-cost investing firm.”

Indeed, Charles R. Schwab, the founder of the company, says he wants to focus on lower, more transparent fees in order to attract younger investors. Mr. Schwab, who will turn 70 this summer, defines younger investors as ranging in age up to their early 40s.

“I think we sinned during the explosion of the Internet in 2000 to 2003, by imposing all of these minimum fees on accounts,” Mr. Schwab said. “That sort of gave the message to the younger investor that they weren’t desirable here.”

For example, before Schwab raised the interest rate on its checking account last month, a customer needed to have at least $100,000 in the checking account to qualify for the 2.58 percent rate; a customer with less than $100,000 in checking earned 0.96 percent. Now all that customers need to do to qualify for the 4.25 percent rate is to link their checking accounts with their Schwab brokerage accounts. They don’t need to keep a minimum balance in either.

Schwab, based in San Francisco, is perhaps best known for its online brokerage accounts. But four years ago it created the Charles Schwab Bank, a subsidiary offering checking and deposit accounts, as well as common bank loans like mortgages and home equity lines.

Fidelity Investments, based in Boston, does not own a bank, but it does allow its customers to write checks against their “core” accounts, where their money goes whenever they sell stocks or mutual funds, for example.

Fidelity customers have a few choices for their core accounts. They can select a municipal money market account, which has certain tax advantages and an interest rate of around 3.5 percent. Or they can select a cash account, with interest rates ranging from 3.2 percent for accounts with balances under $10,000 to 3.7 percent for balances of at least $100,000. In retirement accounts, cash may be swept into a cash account that is currently yielding 4.97 percent.

Investors at TD Ameritrade, a subsidiary of the Toronto-Dominion Bank, can write checks against their cash accounts, which have interest rates ranging from 0.1 percent for accounts with less than $5,000 to 2.9 percent for accounts with at least $200,000.

All of these online brokers also provide customers with cards that provide access to automatic teller machines. Schwab and E*Trade go so far as to rebate fees that other companies charge their customers for using A.T.M.’s. Fidelity rebates such fees, too, but only for customers who either have over $500,000 in household assets at Fidelity or who trade more than 120 times a year.

Mr. Doyle said now that both E*Trade and Schwab were offering much better interest rates on their checking accounts, he would not be surprised if some other big brokers moved to match some elements of their offers — for example, by reimbursing more A.T.M. fees. But he doubted that many traditional banks would match Schwab’s new 4.25 percent interest rate for checking with no minimum balance. “They couldn’t afford to bring their interest rates up to that level. It would kill them,” he said.

Consumers should think carefully before combining their financial accounts with one company, said Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington. She said the flip side to the convenience may be a decrease in investor privacy and data security.

FIRST, she pointed out that if a hacker broke into a company’s computers, “then potentially they will know all of your sensitive information.” She also said that people who combine their checking and brokerage accounts with one company should be prepared for “cross-selling,” the industry’s term for marketing many different financial products and services to customers.

She advised customers to shop around before buying additional financial products, like mortgages and certificates of deposit, and not just to accept the rate at a company where they already have an account. “Mortgages are a great example,” she said, “because the difference in cost over the life of a mortgage can be truly astronomical.”

Mr. Schwab said he hoped to sell more bank products to his brokerage customers. Rather than “cross-selling,” he said, “I like to use the word ‘cross-servicing.’ If one of our customers needs a mortgage,” he said, “I want to give it to them.”
530 2007-05-20 The lack of a P/E expansion could also be tied to the surprising strength in corporate earnings growth. At the start of April, the consensus forecast for first-quarter S.& P. 500 earnings growth was a modest 3.7 percent. But now, it looks as if first-quarter profits will jump 8.1 percent when all is said and done, according to Thomson Financial.

And when the “E” — the earnings — in the P/E ratio grows at a faster-than-expected rate, it’s not so surprising when the “P” doesn’t keep pace.

Of course, “as earnings slow from here, the markets will need an extra boost,” Mr. Kleintop said. And there are some early indications that investors may be willing to pay slightly higher prices for stocks in coming months.

Sam Stovall, S.& P.’s chief market strategist, noted that at the end of March, the P/E ratio of the S.& P. 500 was 16.8 (again, based on trailing 12-month GAAP earnings). The multiple grew to more than 17 by mid-May. And if the S.& P. 500 breaks its all-time high of 1,527.46 within the next few days, the market’s P/E will rise to around 18.

Yet this is only a short-term move. And few are expecting the type of P/E expansion that the market enjoyed in the mid-1980s and the mid-1990s.

From 1984 to 1986, for example, the P/E of the S.& P. grew to about 14 from around 8. The move was even bigger from 1996 to 1998. Investors started that period paying 14 times trailing 12-month earnings. But by the end of it, the multiple had grown to 24.

Market strategists note, however, that those periods were marked by significant declines in long-term interest rates and inflation — both of which have an inverse relationship with market P/E ratios.

Given that 10-year Treasury notes are already yielding less than 5 percent — and given that core consumer inflation is running about 2.3 percent, according to the Labor Department — it’s hard to imagine a huge kicker from similar trends this time around.

As a result, Jim Dunnigan, chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia, argues that while P/E ratios are likely to expand, “it should be more muted than it was in the past.”

Mr. Kleintop agrees. Instead of a 6- to 10-point surge in P/E ratios, he says, we’re more likely to see a bump-up of about 3 or 4 points. Still, based on trailing 12-month earnings of nearly $90 a share for the S.& P. 500, a climb to a P/E of 19 — about 3 points above the level of last October — would bring the index to a record level of about 1,700.

That, of course, is based on a lot of ifs. Whether market P/E’s will climb this high in this bull market will depend on several factors, including these:

THE INFLATION OUTLOOK Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, says that there is “a perfect inverse correlation of inflation and P/E ratios.” Since 1960, whenever the annual inflation rate (as measured by core personal consumption expenditures) has been 2 to 3 percent — as it is today — the average P/E for the S.& P. has been 19.7. But when inflation edges just above 3 percent, that average P/E has dropped to 17.6, close to the current number.

THE BUYOUT BINGE Though P/E expansion isn’t likely to be aided by big drops in bond yields, the recent flurry of mergers and acquisitions could spur the market to bid stock prices higher — at least to better reflect recent earnings growth, Mr. Dunnigan said. According to Thomson Financial, global merger-and-acquisition activity is on pace to shatter last year’s record of $3.6 trillion of deals. If that holds true, there could be an uptick in P/E multiples.

THE PATH OF TECH AND HEALTH CARE STOCKS Historically, these stocks have had high P/E’s, but both of these sectors have generally been out of favor since the start of the decade. That is one reason the P/E ratio of the S.& P. hasn’t greatly expanded, Mr. Kleintop says. But now that tech and health care companies are again among the market’s earnings leaders, the ratio could be driven higher.

Of course, the multiple could surge for another reason: if earnings fall off a cliff, as they did at the start of this decade. That would be about the worst type of P/E expansion imaginable, but, fortunately, few are predicting it. In fact, though earnings are slowing, the consensus is that earnings for the S.& P. will still grow 7.1 percent this year.
531 2007-05-20 A LIGHT economic calendar and a winding-down of earnings announcements may keep traders focused on deal-making this week. The proliferation of mergers and acquisitions, especially by private equity funds, appears to be accelerating, and one market strategist views it as confirmation that stocks have further to rise.

One tool that is used to compare valuations of stocks and bonds — said to be popular with the Federal Reserve — suggests that stocks are quite cheap, according to Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. You may not believe it, with key indexes so high, but managers of private equity funds make similar calculations when determining the viability of acquisitions, he said, and the fact that they are spending so liberally on them indicates that they believe it.

The valuation model compares the market’s price-to-earnings ratio (how much a dollar of earnings costs) with the inverse of the yield on 10-year Treasury notes (how much must be invested to produce a dollar of interest income). Stocks are a good value now, he said, because the first number is much lower, meaning that it takes less money to extract each dollar of returns from stocks than from bonds.

Would-be corporate acquirers engage in similar arithmetic gymnastics, Mr. Yardeni said. In their case, the low interest rates that make bonds a relatively poor investment make it sensible to borrow and put the money to work buying stock, one company at a time. Low financing costs and low P/E ratios mean that “private equity investors are getting the right prices to make deals work,” he said.

But if the numbers crunch favorably when examining the prospects for one deal or another, are stocks in general a solid investment at these prices? Mr. Yardeni noted that some corporate deals depend on borrowing at very low interest rates available on debt denominated in Japanese yen.
532 2007-05-20 An article last week about the photography of Leonard Nimoy referred imprecisely to his acting career. He had some minor roles beginning in 1991; he did not stop acting in 1990.
533 2007-05-20 BURIED in State Treasurer Bradley I. Abelow’s testimony last week before legislative budget committees was a seemingly innocuous announcement that Gov. Jon S. Corzine had transferred $25 million in his proposed budget to the nearly depleted Garden State Preservation Trust, which buys land to maintain as open space.

But the move confirmed longstanding fears among environmentalists that Mr. Corzine was abandoning his earlier commitment to support a referendum in November to authorize $1.75 billion in borrowing to replenish the fund. The bonds would be paid off with annually dedicated revenue from the state sales tax and other taxes.

A spokesman for the governor, Brendan Gilfillan, denied any weakening of Mr. Corzine’s environmental credentials. Mr. Gilfillan said the fund could best be replenished and sustained with proceeds from Mr. Corzine’s plan to sell or lease state assets like the New Jersey Turnpike, other toll roads or the lottery, called monetization, rather than more borrowing and earmarking state tax revenue for its repayment.

Mr. Gilfillan said the approach meshed with the goal of ridding the state of its crushing debt by retiring much of it with sale or lease proceeds. And Mr. Abelow, in his testimony, said the administration generally opposed dedicating tax revenue to particular programs.

Assemblyman John F. McKeon, a West Orange Democrat and a sponsor with nearly 30 others of the trust fund replenishment referendum, said the governor had
534 2007-05-20 Dr. Jennifer Leighdon Wu was married yesterday to Harold Storey Zernike at Middleton Place, the historic plantation, in Charleston, S.C. William H. Seals Jr., a judge of the municipal court in Marion, S.C., officiated.

The bride, 32, is an obstetrician and gynecologist with Manhattan Women’s Health, a private practice in New York. She graduated from Harvard and received her medical degree from the Medical University of South Carolina.

She is a daughter of Li Wu and Dr. Donald Wu of Marion, S.C. Her father is an obstetrician and gynecologist in private practice in Marion and her mother is a registered nurse who does obstetrics ultrasound tests in his office.

The bridegroom, 41, is a freelance photographer in New York who specializes in architectural and portrait photography. He graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design.

He is the son of Barbara Zernike and Frits Zernike of Essex, Conn. His mother retired as the founder and owner of the St. Clair Ice Cream Company in South Norwalk, Conn. His father is retired as a director of optical design at both PerkinElmer, the instrument maker in Wilton, Conn., and Silicon Valley Group, a computer chip company in Wilton.

The bridegroom’s grandfather, Frits Zernike, won the Nobel Prize in physics in 1953.
535 2007-05-20 Emily Jean Sheehy, the daughter of Theresa Towle of Plaistow, N.H., and John Sheehy of River Vale, N.J., was married on Friday to Robert Reed Carey, a son of Roberta and John Carey of Easton, Md. The Rev. Kevin D. Bean, an Episcopal priest, officiated at St. Bartholomew’s Church in New York.

The bride, 28, and the bridegroom, 30, met at Columbia, from which they received law degrees. They are both associates at law firms in New York. She is in the real estate group at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison and he is in the tax group at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton.

Mrs. Carey graduated from Yale and Mr. Carey from Georgetown. He has a master’s degree in European studies from the London School of Economics.

The bride’s father is the owner of Avalon Plant Systems, a nursery and landscape design company in River Vale. Her mother, a biologist, works on biodefense systems at a laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Lexington, Mass.

The bridegroom’s mother, who is retired, was an overseas development officer at the International Monetary Fund in Washington. His father, also retired, was the associate deputy undersecretary of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the Commerce Department.
536 2007-05-20 Jessica Rodriguez and Severiano Emile Lisboa IV were married yesterday. The Rev. Raymond Rodriguez, a nondenominational minister, officiated at Crossed Keys Inn in Andover, N.J.

Mrs. Lisboa, 31, is a theater teacher and a director at North Star Academy, a charter middle and high school in Newark. She is also an acting coach for child actors at Hudson Talent Management in Nyack, N.Y. She graduated from Rutgers and received a master’s degree in educational theater in January from New York University.

She is the daughter of Etheline Sanchez and the stepdaughter of David Sanchez of Jersey City, and the former stepdaughter of Mario A. Morales of Hazlet, N.J., a firefighter with Ladder Company 7 in the Jersey City Fire Department. Her mother retired as a dental hygienist in Jersey City.

Mr. Lisboa, 30, is an associate in the law offices of Brian J. Neary in Hackensack, N.J. He also graduated from Rutgers, where he also received his law degree.

He is the son of Maxine Lisboa and Judge Lisboa III of Wyckoff, N.J. His mother is an assistant dean at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey School of Nursing in Newark. His father sits on the Superior Court of New Jersey in Jersey City.
537 2007-05-20 Emily Katherine Larned, a daughter of Beatrice L. Larned and Michael C. Larned of Stamford, Conn., was married last evening to Christian Eric Ruggiero, a son of Laura W. Ruggiero and Dr. Paul J. Ruggiero of Redding, Conn. Barbara Canali, a Connecticut justice of the peace, officiated at the Carousel at Lighthouse Point Park in New Haven. Masa Tsuyuki, a friend of the couple and a Universal Life minister, helped lead the ceremony.

Ms. Larned, 30, is keeping her name. She is an artist in Bridgeport, Conn., who creates the text and design for books that she prints and binds. Her work has been collected by more than 60 universities, libraries and museums, including the Artist’s Book Collections at the Brooklyn Museum Library and Archive and the Tate Museum Libraryin London. The bride graduated from Wesleyan and recently completed her second-year studies toward a Master of Fine Arts degree in graphic design at Yale.

Her father is the chairman of the Brooklyn Improvement Company, founded in 1866 by Edwin C. Litchfield, the bride’s maternal great-great-great grandfather, to create the Gowanus Canal. The company now manages the financial affairs of the descendants of Mr. Litchfield.

Mr. Ruggiero, also 30, is a freelance music and video producer, also in Bridgeport. In 2005 and 2006 he was an associate producer of “AOL Sessions,” a series of recorded video performances by musical celebrities on America Online. He has also composed and produced the theme music for several MTV shows. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown.

His father, an ophthalmologist, is a founding partner in Danbury Eye Physicians and Surgeons in Connecticut.
538 2007-05-20 THE Big Top toy store on East Hartsdale Avenue reopened May 11 just as signs were being stripped from the shuttered HSBC Bank nearby.

Both businesses were closed after being damaged by flooding in the northeaster that ripped through Westchester on April 15. While owners of the Big Top decided to reinvest, HSBC is taking its business elsewhere, a reflection of the struggling state of the shopping district that runs along the street above the Hartsdale train station.

“As one business goes, it takes away some business to me,” said Munish Kapur, owner of the Big Top, which depends heavily on foot traffic. “We still don’t know how many of the closed businesses will go and how many will stay. That’s a concern.”

More than a month after heavy rains flooded many parts of the county, about a half-dozen businesses along the avenue are still closed — including at least two restaurants, a bagel shop, a bakery, a fitness center and a green market. The two that have completely reopened — Tip Top and Hartsdale Wine and Liquors — are watching closely to see if shoppers return.

“I’m a little nervous,” said Robert Troy, the wine shop owner.

Kar C. Kwok, owner of K. Fung’s, a Chinese restaurant, said he was unsure how he would come up with the $250,000 to $300,000 needed to make repairs. Water filled the basement of the establishment and reached more than six inches high in the first-floor dining room. Flooring was destroyed, furniture and restaurant equipment was ruined and mold is beginning to grow in the basement. His insurance did not cover the damage.
539 2007-05-20 Sabina Slavin, president of the symphony’s board, said the decision to replace Mr. Rothstein was based on complaints from musicians about his performance and concerns about his ability to conduct.

Mr. Rothstein, who lives in Reading, Pa., was also the conductor of that city’s orchestra for 30 years. He announced his retirement there six months before his stroke but planned to stay on in Ridgefield. His contract there called for him to be paid $6,000 to $10,000 for conducting the symphony’s subscription concerts, and smaller amounts for other performances.

He said he was devastated when he had the stroke, and was concerned that he would not be able to lead an orchestra again. But he said that after months of intense physical therapy, he regained his strength and was cleared to perform by doctors.

Mr. Rothstein said that by August 2006, he had fully recovered. But the board had made its decision a month earlier to replace him.

Ms. Slavin said several musicians had complained after Mr. Rothstein returned from his stroke. “His tempo was not clear and they could not understand what he wanted them to do,” she said.

Ms. Slavin said that while watching concerts, she grew concerned about Mr. Rothstein’s ability. “He couldn’t turn the pages of the score with his right hand, which would mean that he would have to stop conducting while he turned the page,” she said.

Ms. Slavin said that after the musicians complained, the board conducted an investigation and felt there was no choice but to remove Mr. Rothstein from the stage.

Several orchestra members said Mr. Rothstein demanded excellence from his musicians and was unafraid to voice his displeasure. In the weeks before his dismissal, he sent letters to three members of the woodwind section expressing his dissatisfaction with their performance.

Despite an occasional outburst, Mr. Rothstein received credit from orchestra members with raising the quality of the symphony.

“His sense of professionalism was right on through all these years,” said Suzanne Corey-Sahlin, the orchestra’s principal violist.

On his relationship with orchestra members, Mr. Rothstein said, “I always considered we had a love affair.” But, he added, “When you have 80 musicians, not everyone is in love with you.”

Mr. Rothstein said he planned to teach conducting at Bard College this summer. He said that he had a bit of trouble writing and used voice recognition software to operate his computer, but that his conducting skills were sharp.
540 2007-05-20 Seasonal employers across the East End depend on the H-2B visa program to compensate for what they say is a shortage of domestic labor. The program enables employers to hire temporary foreign workers after proving that advertising for them locally has failed. The temporary employees are not permitted to work for any other company and must return home at the end of the season.

The federal government sets a biannual cap of 33,000 workers nationwide under the H-2B visa program, although those who have previously received an H-2B visa are not counted against the cap.

This year, employers and their lawyers said they were stunned by what they saw as arbitrary denials and an unusually long application review process. When the Citizenship and Immigration Services announced March 23 that the cap had been reached a week earlier, petitions for visas that had been submitted in November still remained unanswered. The cap was reached earlier than usual, employers said.

The United States Department of Labor and the New York State Department of Labor cited similar reasons for the backlog: a decrease in appropriations for their programs and an increase in visa applications.

William L. Carlson, administrator of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification, said in a call broadcast during a visa discussion at Gurney’s Inn last month: “We’re not issuing denials to get rid of a backlog. It actually takes longer to process a denial.”

Mr. Carlson said the national approval rating for H-2B visas is 80 to 85 percent. But John Gallo, a work visa specialist and head of US Americans, the company that represented Mr. Bustamente in the application process, insisted, “This year there have been more denials than in the 20 years total of the program.”

Mr. Bustamente’s application was denied, according to a letter from the federal Department of Labor, because the help-wanted pages he submitted were “unacceptable” — they were only a portion of the newspaper page and were folded.

Melinda Rubin, a lawyer in Hampton Bays, said 15 applications she submitted on behalf of clients — restaurants and delis, hotels, pools and landscapers and nurseries — were denied on similar grounds. “There is no real reason to deny someone unless the company doesn’t exist,” she said.

Employers may appeal, but the initial review process took so long this year that the cap was reached before many could begin the appeals process. They were left scrambling to find returning foreign workers who do not count against the cap yet still need to pass the tedious review process of applications, which is required annually. Some employers have turned to other sources of foreign workers.

Mr. Monte of Gurney’s Inn has filled the gap with foreign workers holding four-month J-1 visas. These tend to be college-age workers looking to experience another culture while also earning money. Historically, the East End has had a steady supply of Irish J-1 workers, but this year Czechs have augmented the pool.

“Usually we only have half a dozen J-1 workers,” Mr. Monte said. “This year we have over 30.”

Jay Schneiderman, a Suffolk County legislator, owns the Breakers Motel in Montauk and said he depends on a pool of Jamaicans to work each season. He speculated that the labor shortage might force him and other hoteliers to increase room rates.

“Or I may have to change my business model,” he said. “Maybe rent rooms for a week without maid service.”

Employers say they must rely on foreign workers because domestic workers are not interested in such service jobs, especially for the wages the businesses say they can afford. “If you pay someone $25 to make a hamburger, who can afford to buy the hamburger?” Mr. Monte said.

Overloaded consulates have compounded certification delays for H-2B visas. Consulates in Mexico and Guatemala have been particularly overwhelmed with visa requests, said Leah Sullivan, an aide to United States Representative Tim Bishop of Suffolk County.

Mr. Gallo said he believed the H-2B visa program was “the best form of foreign aid.” But the system is broken, he said, and “it had to be fixed yesterday.”

Ms. Rubin agreed. “Going forward there has to be a more streamlined method,” she said, suggesting online petition submittal. “Employers feel they can’t depend on the program. It puts them in a very fearful state.”

Mr. Bustamente said he felt disoriented. Pausing to view a $7,500 Japanese cedar still rooted in the nursery, he shook his head. “There’s so much work,” he said, “I don’t know what to do.”
541 2007-05-20 But by now 90 had turned into 120.

He’d drunk those two cups of coffee without tasting them but knew from his heartbeat that they’d been good and strong. Hadn’t been alone either: two of his crew, Johnno and Glenn, sat with him. But after paying the bill, Chib decided he’d had enough. Glenn had already been outside on a recce, reporting back that there was no one loitering.

“In one of the shops maybe, pretending to browse?”

“I already said, if they’re out there, they’re better than good.” Glenn sounded annoyed. Chib was gnawing at his bottom lip, the way he did sometimes.

“O.K.,” he said at last, “then the two of you can naff off.”

“Boss?” Johnno trying to work out if he’d heard right.

Chib’s thinking: If it was the Angels or someone like them, they’d be more likely to make their move if he was alone. And if it was the cops . . . well, he wasn’t sure. But it was a plan. It was something.

The look on Glenn’s face was telling him that didn’t mean it was better than nothing.

Chib’s idea was to hit the shopping crowds on Princes Street. Cars weren’t allowed down there, so any tail would have to come after him on foot. He could then climb the steep flight of steps at the side of the Mound, head for the quieter streets of the Old Town, streets where anyone following on foot would be easy to spot.

But not much better than nothing, as he soon learned. Problem with those steps was, they were steep. He wasn’t used to walking. The shoppers on Princes Street hadn’t helped his blood pressure. He was breaking into a sweat as he crossed the road, dodging buses. What was the point of banning cars when the place just became a racetrack for cabs and double-deckers? By the time he reached the steps, he knew he couldn’t face them. Stood there for a moment, then turned back, but couldn’t stomach Princes Street either. There was a big, Greek-style building in front of him; two of them actually, one behind the other. Art galleries: he knew that much. He remembered a week ago, those three guys in the bar. . . . He’d gone over to their table knowing a 15-second stare would put the frighteners on them, and it had. They’d been perusing a catalog full of paintings. Now here he was outside the National Gallery of Scotland. Yeah, why not? If anyone followed him inside, he’d know for sure. As he walked up to the door, it was held open by one of the staff. Chib hesitated, hand in pocket.

“No charge, sir,” the guard said. Even gave a little bow.

Ransome watched as the door swung shut behind Chib Calloway.

“Now I really have seen everything,” he muttered to himself, reaching into his coat for his cellphone. Ransome was a detective inspector. His colleague Ben Brewster was in the unmarked car, parked somewhere between the Mound and George Street. Brewster picked up straightaway.

“He’s gone into the National Gallery,” Ransome explained.

“Meeting someone?” Brewster’s voice was tinny; sounded as if he were on a space station somewhere.

“Dunno. Looked to me like it was either that or the Playfair Steps.”

“Can’t say I was looking forward to hauling myself up them. Where are you?”

“Hanover Street. Are you going inside?”

“But he’s on to us, right?”

“Then why ditch his two stooges?”

“Another good question.” Ransome was looking around him. He checked his watch. “Stay put, Ben, I’m going to give it 5 or 10 minutes.”

He put the phone back in his pocket and wandered over to the iron railings, from where he could look down into Princes Street Gardens. All so neat, so orderly. And the railway station behind them, trains running to schedule — more order. Turning around, he was faced with the castle itself, which seemed to him sometimes like a stern parent, frowning on any impropriety below. If you looked at a map of the city, you were struck by the contrast between the New Town to the north and the Old Town to the south. The New Town planned and geometric, the Old Town higgledy-piggledy and seemingly chaotic, buildings erected wherever space permitted. Ransome had always wanted to live in one of the New Town’s elegant Georgian terraces but couldn’t afford it. Chib Calloway, on the other hand, could afford it, but chose instead to live on a new-build estate on the outskirts of the city.

There was no accounting for taste.

Ransome didn’t think Chib would linger in the gallery. There was at least one other exit, however — directly below him into the gardens themselves. Didn’t really matter: the meetings Chib was supposed to be having were no longer going to happen. No evidence would be gathered; several more hours of Ransome’s life would be wasted as a result. Ransome was in his early 30s, ambitious and alive to possibilities. Chib Calloway would be a trophy, no doubt about that. Perhaps not as much of a trophy as four or five years ago, but back then Ransome was a lowly detective constable and unable to direct (or even suggest to his superiors) a long-term surveillance operation. The time felt right to him. Everything he knew, everything he suspected, led to one imminent prospect.

Chib Calloway was about to implode. It might well be messy, might happen without any action from Ransome himself. But that didn’t mean he couldn’t take the credit.

It was quiet in the gallery. A few middle-aged tourists and overseas students were walking slowly and silently past the huge canvases. Not too many guards either. Chib sat down on an upholstered bench in the middle of one room and felt his heart rate begin to slow. He pretended to be interested in the painting opposite, a landscape with mountains and temples and sunbeams. There were a few figures in the foreground, wearing flowing robes. One student blocked his view for a moment, then moved to the side to check out the information panel, oblivious to Chib’s glower: Hey, pal, this is my painting, my space, my city.

Another man walked into the room: older, better-dressed. Black woollen overcoat and polished shoes. He carried a folded newspaper, looked as if he was killing time. Chib gave him the stare all the same, seemed to know the face. His stomach tightened — was this his tail? Where had he seen him before? The man barely glanced at the painting and was out of the room by the time Chib placed him.

Chib got to his feet and made to follow.

Mike Mackenzie recognized the gangster straight off, hoping it wasn’t too obvious when he exited the room pronto. This collection wasn’t really his thing anyway; he’d come here only because he’d been shopping for shirts. Not that he’d found any; his mind was too clogged. The past week, he’d been thinking about Robert Gissing, turning over the art professor’s drunken words: Help some of those poor imprisoned paintings to escape. Not from public galleries, of course, but from wall safes and bank vaults and the unvisited rooms and corridors of all those corporate buyers. First Caledonian Bank, for example, had a “portfolio” running into the tens of millions — most of the usual suspects, plus the cream of new talent, snapped up by the bank’s portfolio curator. Other companies in Edinburgh owned their own hauls and were sitting tight on them, the way a miser would sit on a mattress stuffed with cash.

Mike had come into the gallery to do a little more thinking. The last person he expected to see was Chib Calloway. And now, turning around, here was Calloway sauntering toward him, smile fixed but eyes hard and unblinking.

“Didn’t take you for a patron of the arts,” was all Mike could think to answer.

“Sorry, that came out wrong. My name’s Mike Mackenzie, by the way.” The two men shook hands.

Calloway just shrugged. “That book of paintings you had with you, it’s the reason I’m here.”

Calloway gave a twitch of the mouth. “You know about art, Mike?”

“So this one we’re standing beside. ...” Calloway took a step back. “Guy on a horse, as far as I can see. Not a bad likeness. How much would it fetch?”

“Unlikely it would ever come to auction.” Mike gave a shrug. “Couple of million?” he guessed.

“It’s Rembrandt . . . tens of millions. But it’s not really about the money, is it?”

“What would you rather look at — a work of art or a framed selection of bank notes?”

“Ten million in cash wouldn’t be on the wall long enough to find out.”

They shared a laugh, and Calloway eased his hands into his pockets. “So what’s it all about then, if not the money?”

“Money plays its part,” Mike was forced to agree. He glanced at his watch. “There’s a cafe downstairs. Do you fancy a coffee?”

“I’ve had a stomachful,” Calloway said with a shake of the head. “Might manage a cup of tea though.”

So they headed down the winding staircase, Calloway asking about prices, Mike explaining that he’d been interested in art for only a year or so and wasn’t exactly an expert. One thing he didn’t want the gangster to know was that he had a collection of his own. But as they lined up at the service counter, Calloway asked him what he did for a living.

“Software design,” Mike said, deciding that he would elaborate as little as possible.

“Flexible hours,” Calloway commented. “Bit like my line of work.” He then got into a discussion with the girl behind the counter about which of the many teas on offer — lapsang, licorice, green and ginger — tasted most like actual tea. After which they took their table, with its views on to Princes Street Gardens and the Scott Monument.

“Ever been to the top of the monument?” Mike asked.

“Mum took me up when I was a kid. Scared me stupid. That’s probably why, a few years back, I dragged Donny Devlin up there and threatened to sling him off. Owed me money, you see.” Calloway had his nose in the teapot. “Smells a bit weird, this.” But he poured some out all the same, while Mike stirred his own cappuccino, wondering how to respond to such a warped confession. The gangster didn’t seem to realize that he had said anything out of the ordinary. The memory of his mother had merged seamlessly into a momentary depiction of horror. Mike couldn’t tell if Calloway had set out to shock him; maybe it wasn’t even true. The Scott Monument was a stupidly public place for such a scene. Allan Cruikshank said the rumor was that Calloway had engineered the First Caley heist. Difficult now to envisage him as a criminal mastermind.

“Anyone ever tried breaking into this place?” Calloway asked at last, studying his surroundings.

Calloway wrinkled his nose. “Paintings are too bloody big anyway — where would you stash them?”

“But you’d need to shift them eventually — sell them on, I mean.”

“True,” Mike agreed, nodding slowly. Then: “We were at the same school, you and I.”

“Really?” This seemed to tickle the gangster.

“You were three years above me. As far as I remember, you ran the place; even told the teachers what they could and couldn’t do.”

Calloway shook his head but seemed flattered nonetheless. “I was a tearaway back then.”

“And I did my level best to avoid you.”

Calloway stretched his arms out. “Yet here we are, proper grown-ups and no damage done.”

Tell that to Donny Devlin, Mike thought.

And so the conversation continued — fluidly; lightheartedly — neither man aware of the figure who twice passed by the window.

Next week: The professor starts to hatch a caper.
542 2007-05-20 And if the real-life story doesn’t end so happily, Ms. Lefkowitz has books for that, too. “I Had a Friend Named Peter,” by Janice Cohn. “Where Is Grandpa?” by T. A. Barron. “Daddy’s Chair,” by Sandy Lanton. “Mama,” by Eleanor Schick.

When parents need help, they talk to school psychologists, to therapists, social workers, their own parents, friends — themselves — and more than you might think, the local librarian. In the nearly 20 years since Ms. Lefkowitz became children’s librarian here, she’s seen an enormous growth in children’s services. When she began, she was the only children’s librarian for three buildings; today there are 10 children’s librarians in the three buildings. The town opened a new main branch last year, and a major reason was to expand children’s services from 2,000 to 10,000 square feet.

If there’s a parenting problem, Ms. Lefkowitz — a former president of children’s services of the New Jersey Library Association — probably has a lengthy bibliography for it. Allergies? Pick an allergy, any allergy. For a pet allergy there is “Aaron’s Awful Allergies,” by Troon Harrison, or “Harry’s Dog,” by Barbara Ann Porte. A general food allergy? “No More Pizza for Louie,” by Katy Hall, or “Taking Food Allergies to School,” by Ellen Weiner. Peanut allergy? Try “Allie the Allergic Elephant,” by Nicole Smith, or “No Nuts for Me,” by Aaron Zevy.

Some parenting problems are universal. As Rose Schulman, another librarian, says, “If there’s one thing that affects every parent, regardless of race, religion or poverty level, it’s potty training.”

Some are quite individual. An immigrant from the Mideast told Ms. Lefkowitz he wanted a book for his 14-year-old daughter that would be “good for her.” “As I listened, I realized he wanted something where the daughter would not interfere with the father’s desire for obedience,” Ms. Lefkowitz said. “Now, I’m here to serve people’s needs, it’s not my place to judge, this is a public library.” Ms. Lefkowitz recommended “Little Women,” by Louisa May Alcott. She figured that Jo — the sister in the novel who is hot-tempered yet devoted to her father — might please the real-life father.

For a Christian fundamentalist who is homeschooling her children, Ms. Lefkowitz suggested “Genesis for Kids: Science Experiments That Show God’s Power in Creation!” by Doug Lambier.

Ms. Lefkowitz was asked for help by an African-American mother whose son goes to a mostly white preschool. The boy came home upset that the other children didn’t want to touch his skin. The mother was looking for books to give to the teacher to make those 4-year-olds understand they were being hurtful. Ms. Lefkowitz sent her off with several picture books, including “Amazing Grace,” by Mary Hoffman, the story of a black girl who’s determined to play Peter Pan in the class play.

Sandra Stahr’s daughter Rachael, now 12, is a voracious reader, which caused its own problems. “She was running out of things to read,” Ms. Stahr said. “At 8, she could’ve read Anne Frank, but I didn’t want that yet — it was too horrific for 8.” She said Ms. Lefkowitz “knows so many books.” Rachael particularly liked the Betsy-Tacy books written in the 1940s and ’50s, about spirited girls growing up in Minnesota at the turn of the last century.

For parents with children with the opposite problem — teenagers who read poorly but crave mature themes — Ms. Lefkowitz recommends “Who Owns Kelly Paddik?” by Beth Goobie, a novel about an abused teenager in juvenile lockup that’s written on a third-grade reading level.

For that flustered parent with a middle schooler who has waited until the last moment to do a report, Ms. Lefkowitz pulls out a reference book, “The World’s Best Thin Books: What to Read When Your Book Report Is Due Tomorrow.” Young adult books are listed according to thickness, from thin (“Maniac Magee,” by Jerry Spinelli, 180 pages) to thinner (“The Cay,” by Theodore Taylor, 144 pages) to thinnest (“The Winter Room,” by Gary Paulsen, 112 pages).

Sadly, one of the larger bibliographies is books on divorce. They start with Mr. Rogers’s “Let’s Talk About It: Divorce,” which advises boys and girls to express their feelings by drawing pictures or pounding some clay. And they progress to “My Parents Are Getting Divorced,” by Florence Cadier, which tells teenagers: “Your childhood is coming to an end and with it goes the illusion that nothing bad is ever going to happen to you.”

“We get requests for books that will teach a small child, ‘It’s not your fault Daddy didn’t show up for visitation,’ ” Ms. Lefkowitz said. “I’ve looked, but I can’t find anything on Daddy not coming to see me.”

Lately, Ms. Lefkowitz has been purchasing a new group of books about what it’s like when a parent goes off to war. “I like this one,” she said, holding up “Love, Lizzie: Letters to a Military Mom.” “It’s got a good ending. Mommy gets home safe.”
543 2007-05-20 An article last Sunday about a new DVD version of “The Naked City” referred incorrectly to the 1948 film. It was considered a prestige release, not a B movie. (B movies were low-budget features that played second on a double bill.)
544 2007-05-20 “Animation is supposed to be like a dream, pretty and nice,” he said. “When you see a Disney cartoon, you’re in a dream world of sweet animals and pretty flowers. The dream world in ‘Paprika’ is quite the opposite — frightening and horrible, a surprising notion coming from a cartoon.”

It was Walt Disney who accustomed American audiences to the idea of the animated film as a privileged environment, free from the banal concerns of the adult world and open to the infinite, innocent imaginings of a child.

But Japanese animation is based on a very different set of assumptions. The fantasy world of anime is not necessarily a benign one. Even the death of Bambi’s mother pales in comparison to the bloody war between a mining camp and the resident spirits of a mountain forest at the center of Hayao Miyazaki’s “Princess Mononoke,” a 1997 film by the animator most often called the Walt Disney of Japan.

A generation of anime directors — led by Katsuhiro Otomo and his revolutionary “Akira” of 1988 — has pulled the genre away from fairy tales and funny animals of the Disney films. The work of filmmakers like Mr. Otomo (“Steamboy,” 2004), Mamoru Oshii (“Ghost in the Shell,” 1995) and Mr. Kon owes less to the Brothers Grimm and Mother Goose than it does to Philip K. Dick and William Gibson.

In “Paprika” the dream world has become a bright, hysterical, hyperkinetic nightmare: a realm of violence and chaos closer to the Freudian subconscious than the Disney fantasy. In this densely plotted story, set in the familiar anime world of the near future, a revolutionary device called the DC Mini allows an elite group of researchers, led by the stern female scientist Dr. Atsuko Chiba, to enter the dreams of psychiatric patients, record them and even make therapeutic interventions.

But when four of the prototype devices are stolen, a wave of madness breaks out among the research crew and slowly spreads into the Japanese population. Dr. Chiba joins a thoroughly rational policeman, Detective Konakawa, to track down the mysterious malefactor who is holding the sanity of Japan in his hands; they are joined in their quest by the title character, a pixielike redhead (drawn in a more traditional, wide-eyed anime style than the rest of the cast) who acts as a dream guide and trip doctor for those undergoing DC therapy. No one is quite sure where she comes from.

“In Japan not just children but adults in their 20s and 30s will chose anime and manga as a means of escape from their real lives,” Mr. Kon said, referring to the thick, novelistic Japanese comic books. “But I think there is a danger too. If you go into that world, it is very vivid and colorful and seductive, but there are big traps within that, particularly if you let your real world deteriorate as a result.”

A character in “Paprika” describes the dream world as inhabited by creatures who no longer have a place in reality. This idea has particular resonance in Japan, where remnants of Shinto and its animistic belief that every object contains a spirit are still part of daily life.

The strange creatures who follow the household appliances in the parade are representations of various Shinto gods and other Japanese traditions. The drunken, potbellied spirits are incarnations of Tanuki, an impish god who is part raccoon, part dog, and a talented shape shifter often invoked to protect the barrooms of Japan.

Western audiences are often unaware of these kinds of references, and some distributors have actively snuffed them out. When Disney released Isao Takahata’s 1994 “Pom Poko” on video here, it was de-sanctified in the dubbing, its mischievous Tanuki spirits becoming little more than talking critters.

“I was very aware of the animistic traditions in Japan when I created the parade scene in ‘Paprika,’ ” Mr. Kon said. “We see all of these objects, and whether those objects are a Shinto gate or a Buddha, they are all things that should not have a life of their own.”

But yet, he said, they live on: “I understand that, from the Christian point of view, animism — where you give a soul and spirit to all sorts of objects — is wrong and incorrect. But I don’t think that is a reason to oppose any other country’s culture. In Japan, Shintoism is a polytheistic religion in which you believe in many different gods for many different people. Shintoism acknowledges the Christian God. Why not? There are many gods. But when I think about how that respect doesn’t go in the other direction, I get a little bit sad. I think that’s something that contributes to world cultural conflicts and problems.”

Clearly Mr. Kon has been contemplating issues that lie beyond the drawing board. “I’ve had more interviews related to this film that with any other I’ve made by far,” he said. “I’ve already done over 200 in Japan. Within those interviews it’s not something that I come out and say or announce very much. But I am very aware of the social events of the world at large.

“On television and through the Internet people are being seduced by the sweetness of illusion and the sweetness of dreams,” Mr. Kon continued. “It is necessary to have that relief, because without it life is too difficult. But I think the amount of fantasy that people are being fed through the media has become disproportionate. I believe in a balance between real life and imagination. Anime should not be just another means of escape.”
545 2007-05-20 I have no idea what book wears the crown of longest nonfiction title ever published. Whoever holds the record, it is about to be challenged by Vincent Bugliosi, whose new work, “Reclaiming History,” a cellular-level re-examination of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, clocks in at 1,612 pages. That’s not a typo. One thousand six hundred and twelve pages. Plus notes. On a CD-ROM. Bugliosi, best known as the prosecutor of Charles Manson and a co-author of the best seller “Helter Skelter” three decades ago, writes that his new offering, if chopped into books of 120,000 words each, would fill 13 full volumes. Note to editor: You owe me big time.

This is an awfully easy book to mock. When a 13-volume-length study of the Kennedy assassination is published, one expects it to be the life’s work of an Arthur Schlesinger or a Robert Caro. Bugliosi’s career suggests a poor man’s Alan Dershowitz, a peripatetic lawyer who cranks out a book every few years on the tabloid topic of the moment; his interests have run to tomes on O. J. Simpson and Paula Jones. None have exactly roiled the national conversation. Worse, his research originated with an imaginary trial of Lee Harvey Oswald on British television in the halcyon days of the 1980s. Bugliosi prosecuted. Judge Wapner should’ve presided. Gerry Spence mounted the defense, lost, then vented to Arsenio Hall. Or maybe it was Pat Sajak.

Not Bugliosi. He decided to start a book. Now, 21 years in the making, it has finally arrived. How on earth does one justify such an endeavor? Surely, you must be thinking, Bugliosi cracks the case. Here, finally, is concrete proof that Kennedy was killed by the C.I.A. or the Mafia or aliens from Planet Z. But no. It turns out Bugliosi spent 21 years coming to the same conclusion Gerald Posner reached in his 1993 book “Case Closed,” the same conclusion reached by the much-maligned Warren Commission: Oswald acted alone. Let me repeat: Twenty-one years. 1,612 pages. Oswald. Alone.

So this is where one expects the reviewer to savage Bugliosi for all those wasted years and pages. Well, I can’t do it. The fact is, the darned book is pretty good. Putting aside its ridiculous length, I have to say “Reclaiming History” is in spots a delight to read. Bugliosi is refreshing because he doesn’t just pick apart the conspiracy theorists. He ridicules them, and by name, writing that “most of them are as kooky as a $3 bill.” Bugliosi calls the dean of conspiracy buffs, Mark Lane, “unprincipled” and “a fraud.” He quotes Harold Weisberg, the author of eight conspiracy-themed books, admitting that after 35 years of research, “much as it looks like Oswald was some kind of agent for somebody, I have not found a shred of evidence to support it.”

What Bugliosi has done is a public service; these people should be ridiculed, even shunned. It’s time we marginalized Kennedy conspiracy theorists the way we’ve marginalized smokers; next time one of your co-workers starts in about Oswald and the C.I.A., make him stand in the rain with the other outcasts. “Reclaiming History,” though, is more than a critical analysis. Bugliosi knows how to construct a narrative, and his 316-page retelling of those “four days in November,” a book in itself, is as good a second-by-second reconstruction of the assassination and its aftermath as I’ve read.

The book’s best section, however, has to be the 276 pages Bugliosi devotes to tracing Oswald’s life from his birth in New Orleans through dozens of run-down apartments in Texas and New York — we get an address and a description of every one — his time in the Marines, his defection to the Soviet Union and eventually his fateful return to Dallas. A more intimate portrait of a loser would be hard to find. Oswald was a troubled child, a library Marxist, a wife beater and a delusional paranoiac. It’s easy to forget how young he was. At the time he killed Kennedy, Oswald was 24, a year older than Seung-Hui Cho, the killer of 32 at Virginia Tech.
546 2007-05-20 Within minutes of learning of President John F. Kennedy’s murder on Nov. 22, 1963, Robert F. Kennedy was working the phones, looking for answers to how his brother had died. “There’s so much bitterness,” he told a colleague that day. “I thought they would get one of us.” But who were “they”? Robert Kennedy gravitated immediately to a shadowy nexus of forces he believed were at odds with the policies of his brother’s administration. Was it the C.I.A.? he asked John McCone, the director of central intelligence. Was the assassination the work of anti-Castro Cubans? Was it the American Mafia? Or was it — since there were hidden but important connections among these groups — a combined effort by them all? Before he had ever heard the name Lee Harvey Oswald, Robert Kennedy was considering scenarios that would eventually become the foundation of the myriad conspiracy theories that have haunted the American imagination for more than 40 years; according to David Talbot, he continued to explore those scenarios until his own death in 1968, even while publicly denying his belief in a conspiracy.

Talbot, the founder and former editor of Salon, the online magazine, is the latest of many intelligent critics who have set out to demolish the tottering credibility of the Warren Commission and draw attention to evidence of a broad and terrible conspiracy that lay behind the assassination of John Kennedy — and perhaps the murder of Robert Kennedy as well. “Brothers” is a fearless, passionate, often angry book that both summarizes much of the vast conspiracy literature and attempts to add new evidence that Talbot himself amassed through dogged interviews with many people connected — directly or indirectly — with the Kennedy years.

But this is not just a book about assassination. It is also a story of how the Kennedy brothers tried to change the world. “There was a heroic grandeur to John F. Kennedy’s administration that had nothing to do with the mists of Camelot,” Talbot argues. “It was a presidency that clashed with its own times, and in the end found some measure of greatness.” Indeed, it was the courage and vision of Kennedy’s presidency — and the dangers it posed to many entrenched interests in and out of government — that Talbot believes was the reason for his death. Kennedy had angered the C.I.A. by refusing adequately to support the Bay of Pigs invasion and by considering a rapprochement with Communist Cuba. He had infuriated some of the hard-core anti-Castro émigrés for the same reason. He and his brother had antagonized the Mafia through the Justice Department’s relentless efforts to break its power. At the same time, the president had made bitter enemies of conservative Southerners because of his embrace of the civil rights movement; he had invited the contempt of the military by his cautious response to the Cuban missile crisis; and he had alarmed much of the intelligence, military and foreign policy establishments with his plan to end the Vietnam War. John Kennedy, in Talbot’s view, had challenged virtually all the premises that were at the heart of the cold war — that an unremitting conflict with Communism was inevitable as long as the Soviet Union survived; that compromise was tantamount to surrender; that domestic upheaval was a threat to the nation’s international interests; and that almost any means could be justified in the struggle with the nation’s many enemies. Kennedy had offered an alternative path, one that rejected reckless military action and sought to find common ground for peace, justice and conciliation. Little wonder, Talbot suggests, that so many potent forces were eager to see him dead.

The “heroic grandeur” of the Kennedy presidency, and of Robert Kennedy’s later effort to revive it, is central to almost all the conspiracy theories that have emerged in the last four decades. But few writers have made as strong a connection as Talbot has between that grandeur and the forces he believes were determined to destroy it. There were no petty motives behind the killing of the Kennedys, he says. The future of the world was at stake. “History cracked open” that day in Dallas, Talbot maintains, quoting the playwright Tony Kushner. Solving the mystery of Kennedy’s world-changing death, therefore, is essential to any hope of putting history back on track. It is a powerful story. But is it true?

Talbot’s interpretation of the Kennedy years is at odds even with many of the most sympathetic accounts. Kennedy did show signs in the last months of his life of reconsidering some of the premises of the cold war and of doubting the wisdom of Vietnam. But few historians would describe his presidency as a radical challenge to the status quo. Kennedy declined to escalate the Bay of Pigs invasion and the missile crisis, to be sure, but his differences with the hard-liners who opposed him were mostly tactical, not strategic. He wavered between bold, liberal visions of the future and conventional cold war thinking. His inspiring American University speech in the spring of 1963, calling for peaceful cooperation with the Soviet Union, was followed weeks later by a bellicose denunciation of Soviet power in Berlin. His private suggestions that he wanted to end the Vietnam War were accompanied by public actions that made terminating the conflict far more difficult for his successors. He and his brother were skeptical, at times even contemptuous, of the C.I.A. But as Talbot himself makes clear, that did not stop Robert Kennedy (presumably with the support of his brother) from continuing to encourage the C.I.A. to undertake covert actions to undermine Castro. John Kennedy was a smart, ambitious and capable president, with moments of greatness. If he had lived, he might well have become the heroic figure Talbot claims he was. But the reality of his foreshortened presidency was much more complex and inconsistent than Talbot acknowledges.

One would expect such an important historical argument to be accompanied by substantial evidence. Talbot has relied heavily on his own extensive conversations with Kennedy friends and colleagues and their widows, sons and acquaintances. He has immersed himself in the published literature on the assassination. And he has prowled through the various archival records that have slowly been opened to scholars. But he has uncovered little that conclusively challenges or fully confirms the many previous conspiracy theories. He does provide a thorough account of the many efforts to uncover the truth of the Kennedy assassination — summarizing the theories of Mark Lane, Jim Garrison, Oliver Stone, Anthony Summers and many others — and he sees these efforts, however flawed, as heroic contributions to the search for the truth. He assembles the suspicions of countless Warren Commission skeptics; provides substantial circumstantial evidence that appears to support one or another theory; and ridicules the dwindling but still significant band of believers in the Warren Commission story, which he sees as a corrupt and politicized attempt to transform a great historical tragedy into a tawdry and trivial crime. To his credit, Talbot does not choose among the many theories he dutifully describes. All of them are credible, he implies. None of them have been definitively proved. Talbot concludes his book with a powerful plea for a new effort to uncover the truth — a task that would, he says, be akin to the “truth and reconciliation” efforts that have helped heal terrible wounds in countries like Chile, South Africa and Argentina. “It is not too late, even at this remote date, to revive the J.F.K. investigation,” he insists. “The trail has not receded entirely into history’s far horizons.”
547 2007-05-20 On Wednesday, the Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing titled “Breaking Up the Oil Companies” and ask whether consumers have been harmed by industry megamergers like those of Exxon and Mobil, Chevron and Texaco, or Conoco and Phillips. “It’s just an instinct, but my instinct is that the lack of real competition in different phases of the oil business could be causing longer-term problems,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the joint committee.

On Tuesday, the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on investigations plans a hearing into evidence of possible price gouging and other market manipulation by oil companies.

The chairman of that hearing will be Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, who has introduced a bill that would define price gouging as a price that is “unconscionably excessive” or that “indicates the seller is taking unfair advantage of unusual market conditions.”

Ms. Cantwell, on the Senate side, has introduced a similar bill. But the two bills suffer from vague language that would probably prove agonizingly difficult to enforce. Both bills would instruct federal investigators to look for a “gross disparity” between prices before and after a supply emergency, without defining “gross”; or prices that represent “unfair leverage or unconscionable means” by a fuel supplier during an emergency, without defining “unfair” or “unconscionable.”

It goes without saying that gasoline retailers and oil companies will seek to maximize their profit, which usually means charging the highest price markets can bear.

But is that price gouging?

Because the demand for gasoline is what economists call inelastic, which means that people cannot quickly reduce their consumption when prices rise sharply, abrupt supply shortages lead to steep price increases without any immediate decline in sales.

The most common reason for such increases in gasoline prices is a steep increase in the price of crude oil. But crude oil prices are set in global markets, and even the biggest American or European oil companies are modest players compared with state-controlled oil companies in the Persian Gulf, Russia and Latin America.

Even the mighty Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which defines itself as a competition-limiting cartel, has only a limited grip on world oil prices. OPEC countries watched helplessly as oil prices plunged in the early 1980s and remained mired below $20 a barrel for most years (excluding the time of the Persian Gulf War in 1991) through the mid-1990s.

It seems hard to believe today, but world oil prices briefly drifted below $11 a barrel in 1998. Not surprisingly, few lawmakers in Congress took that opportunity to denounce “unconscionably excessive” price declines.

The Federal Trade Commission has been skeptical about accusations of price-gouging on gasoline prices. In 2004, the agency studied price changes in gasoline from 1991 through late 2003. It concluded that about 85 percent of the price variability — both up and down — reflected changes in crude oil prices.

To be sure, this year is different. Crude oil prices are actually a bit lower right now, at the onset of the summer driving season, than they were at this time last year. But gasoline prices are slightly higher than they were a year ago.

The Energy Information Administration is predicting that crude oil prices will average about $66 a barrel this summer, versus $70 last summer. But it predicts that gasoline will average about $2.95 a gallon this summer, up from an average of $2.84 last summer.

INDUSTRY executives say the anomaly reflects a temporary drop-off in refinery activity, partly because of scheduled maintenance and partly because of unscheduled interruptions. On top of that come ethanol prices, which have soared, because refiners now blend a small percentage of ethanol into standard gasoline.

The broader issue is that refinery capacity has not kept up with American demand for gasoline. Oil companies, caught with vast amounts of excess refining capacity in the early 1980s, systematically reduced capacity during the long lean years when energy prices and profit margins were the pity of Wall Street.

In theory, the allure of fat profits will attract heavy investment in more refinery capacity. And John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, told reporters last week that oil companies have indeed been investing heavily in recent years.

But Congress could face an entirely new quandary in its desire to expand the use of renewable fuels. President Bush has called for producing 35 billion gallons a year of alternative fuels — from cellulosic ethanol to coal-based diesel — by 2017. Congressional Democrats might be even more aggressive.

If that’s the plan, will oil companies want to invest in more refineries? “You’ve got to ask whether the demand will be there,” Mr. Felmy said.
548 2007-05-20 Spas went over the top long ago. And now that we live in an age when ''colonic'' is a punch line, they're looking inward -- or really far out. Here, rated for wackiness on a scale from 1 to 10, the current State of the Spa Treatment.   Christian L...
549 2007-05-20 GERI RUSSELL's daughter Kate was almost 4 when the mother first became ill. The prognosis was good, and Ms. Russell repeatedly reassured Kate, but it scared the little girl more than the mother understood. ''We had trouble getting her to sleep,'' ...
550 2007-05-20 MIRAZUR At the Côte d'Azur's most-talked-about new restaurant, the chef Mauro Colagreco -- from Alain Passard's L'Arpège in Paris -- trains his monklike reverence for fresh ingredients on local markets. The result is a sublime, nearly all-raw me...
551 2007-05-20 COYLE--Elizabeth McConnell, died in her sleep on Monday, May 7th at her home in Tequesta, FL at the age of 83. Born in Bronxville, NY and raised in Middleburg, VA, she then graduated from the Baldwin School and attended Sarah Lawrence College. She...
552 2007-05-20 The once-rarefied sport of polo -- with its style and its studs -- is gaining ground from St. Moritz to Mongolia. So how is it playing out?   Julie Earle-Levine...
553 2007-05-20 Bill Finley of The Times highlights some critical moments of the race. Odds are those at post time.    At the finish, Robby Albarado and Curlin, left, edged out the Kentucky Derby winners Calvin Borel and Street Sense. Hard Spun, along the rail, w...
554 2007-05-20 The best reason yet to jump on the boat-shoe trend: the 32nd America's Cup yacht race in Valencia, Spain. This summer, the regatta returns to Europe after 150 years -- and to one of its buzziest cities. Here's how to join in the maritime mania....
555 2007-05-20 Among the jet set, Luxe City Guides have achieved a near cult status for their exacting, opinionated and deliciously bitchy takes on cities including Hanoi, Rome and, next month, New York. The Hong Kong-based founder and editor Grant Thatcher took...
556 2007-05-20 GERI RUSSELL's daughter Kate was almost 4 when the mother first became ill. The prognosis was good, and Ms. Russell repeatedly reassured Kate, but it scared the little girl more than the mother understood. ''We had trouble getting her to sleep,'' ...
557 2007-05-20 GERI RUSSELL's daughter Kate was almost 4 when the mother first became ill. The prognosis was good, and Ms. Russell repeatedly reassured Kate, but it scared the little girl more than the mother understood. ''We had trouble getting her to sleep,'' ...
558 2007-05-20 At Vik-Hum's, a late-night dive on Harbour Island in the Bahamas, the writing is on the wall -- literally. Were it not for the fact that nearly every inch, including the ceiling, is covered with the signatures of beautiful people like Naomi Campbe...
559 2007-05-20 Tyler Clippard is listed at 6 feet 4 inches and 170 pounds, but consider this: When the Yankees drafted him in 2003, he weighed 10 to 15 pounds less. The skinny right-hander will get his first start in the majors tonight at Shea.     Clippard is n...
560 2007-05-20 London is the new Rich.     With the pound outweighing the dollar around two to one, affording the British capital is the latest travel status symbol. Not a high roller? Try the new Haymarket Hotel, ''affordable'' at about $490 a night....
561 2007-05-20 Boho chic . . . nantucket now . . . Polo rides high . . .riviera restaurants . . . valencia sets sail....
562 2007-05-20 Jessica Rodriguez and Severiano Emile Lisboa IV were married yesterday. The Rev. Raymond Rodriguez, a nondenominational minister, officiated at Crossed Keys Inn in Andover, N.J.     Mrs. Lisboa, 31, is a theater teacher and a director at North Sta...
563 2007-05-21 In my Findings column, I inveigh against spam from friends. Now it's your turn to rail against what Dan Ryan calls violations of "notification norms." Dr. Ryan, a sociologist at Mills College, is studying who's expected to tell what to whom in wha...
564 2007-05-21 A sharp attack amid the passions of the immigration fight....
565 2007-05-21 Fresh from his dustup with Republican Senate colleague John Cornyn last week, John McCain used a conference call with bloggers today to take on a more obvious intra-party rival, Mitt Romney. Ryan Sager of The New York Sun's Latest Politics blog gi...
566 2007-05-21 The EMI Group, the British music giant that has drawn heavy takeover interest in the last year, said Monday it had agreed to be bought by Terra Firma, the private equity firm led by the financier Guy Hands. EMI, whose recent talks with another buy...
567 2007-05-21 Merrill Lynch said Monday it would buy a minority interest in GSO Capital Partners, a hedge-fund firm with about $8 billion in assets under management. GSO was founded in July 2005 by Bennett Goodman, Tripp Smith and Doug Ostrover, all of whom had...
568 2007-05-21 Germany has switched tactics in its efforts to police the fast-growing global hedge fund industry, hoping to overcome skepticism by other Group of Eight member countries by encouraging the industry itself to compile a voluntary code of conduct. Wa...
569 2007-05-21 A number of hedge funds that have significant stakes in Odyssey Marine may reap the rewards of sunken treasure after the company recently gained title to a colonial-era shipwreck. The exploration company based in Tampa, Fla., said Friday that its ...
570 2007-05-21 Corporate takeovers helped spur the Dow Jones industrial average to its 24th record close this year on Friday, even as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index came within striking distance of its record high. The latest takeover news, including deal...
571 2007-05-21 Footwear brands Skechers USA and Genesco, which has retail brands such as Lids and Journeys in its stable, are emerging as two leading targets to be taken private in the retail and footwear sectors, according to Women's Wear Daily. In April, Genes...
572 2007-05-21 The Illinois Teachers' Retirement System said Friday it would allocate more than $1.6 billion of its $39.7 billion pension fund to hedge funds strategies and $425 million to private equity firms as part of a new fund manager mix. Among those chose...
573 2007-05-21 The Jazz had not reached the conference finals since 1998, back in the heyday of John Stockton and Karl Malone, when Williams was 14.

In Utah’s first playoff appearance since 2003, the Jazz defeated the Houston Rockets in seven games in the first round and then dispatched the darlings of the postseason, the Golden State Warriors, in five games.

It was obvious that San Antonio, with its top-rated defense and three stars who have been together for five years, presented a far more daunting challenge.

“They’re going to play well, they’re going to execute and do things they’ve been doing for a long time,” said guard Derek Fisher, the only Jazz player with three championships rings, all with the Los Angeles Lakers. “You have to be able to elevate yourself and as a team. We didn’t quite understand that today. As the game went on, we started to get a feel for it.”

Game 2 will be Tuesday in San Antonio, where the Jazz has lost 17 consecutive games dating to February 1999.

Since then, Tim Duncan and the Spurs have won three N.B.A. titles. Tony Parker and Manu Ginóbili joined Duncan to form a daunting core that won titles in 2003 and 2005.

Duncan finished with 27 points and 10 rebounds Sunday. Ginóbili scored 23 points and Parker added 21.

“We had a good rhythm to our game in the second quarter and just had the ability to jump out a little bit,” said Duncan, who scored 14 points in the second quarter. “We hit some shots and got some layups, just easy baskets. I don’t think we had a whole lot of that in the second half, which gave them an opportunity to get back in the game.”

Boozer, confronted at all times by the 7-foot Fabricio Oberto or the 7-foot Duncan, shot 1 for 6 in the second quarter. Only Mehmet Okur and Williams made more than one field goal (three each) as the Jazz shot 29.3 percent in the first half.

“My first half was terrible,” Boozer said. “They did a great job taking me out a little bit.”

The Spurs’ Bruce Bowen, who had defended the Suns’ Steve Nash in the last series, held Williams in check for most of the first half.

“On the court, you could see guys getting discouraged when we got down close to 20 points,” Williams said, adding that 20 points can feel like 40 against the Spurs.

Sloan said: “I told them they got to learn to compete. I mean, we were shaking our heads at each other. If one guy made a mistake, it was somebody else’s fault. We have to fight together.”

This was supposed to be a series pitting two teams that execute well, but the comparisons were useless Sunday as the Spurs made 65.6 percent of their field goals and scored 54 points in the first half.

The Spurs were not just dismantling Utah’s inexperienced players, they were toying with them, too.

At the end of the first quarter, Parker bounced a pass ahead to Ginóbili — by going through the legs of an unsuspecting Okur as if he were knocking the ball through a croquet wicket.

By the time the Spurs went ahead by 18 points in the fourth quarter, they seemed to exhale. But neither Williams nor Boozer were done. Williams cut the Spurs’ lead to 9 points with 1 minute 18 seconds to play, while Boozer grabbed 9 of the Jazz’s 30 second-half rebounds in the fourth quarter.

Still, each time the Jazz threatened, it seemed that a veteran member of the Spurs responded. Guard Michael Finley scored 8 fourth-quarter points.

“We were too satisfied with the first half, I guess,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich said.

Sloan was not satisfied at all, and only slightly encouraged by Williams’s performance.

“That’s what you are looking to see from players,” Sloan said. “We know we are playing against one of the great, great teams, and you find out who you are. You don’t find out anything about yourself if you don’t compete.”
574 2007-05-21 Erin Thorn scored a career-high 28 points yesterday to rally the new-look Liberty to an 82-71 victory over the Chicago Sky in the W.N.B.A. season opener for both teams.

The Liberty matched a franchise record with 13 3-pointers, including a career-best seven by Thorn. The Liberty, which also hit 13 3-pointers at Chicago last July 25, topped its Madison Square Garden record of 12 against Phoenix last July 9.

Shameka Christon scored 14 points, Loree Moore had 12 and Cathrine Kraayeveld added 10. The Liberty, playing their first regular-season game since trading three-time All-Star Becky Hammon in the off-season, snapped a seven-game losing streak in season openers.

Monique Currie had 20 points and 11 rebounds to lead Chicago, and Candice Dupree added 12 points.

Thorn’s fifth 3-pointer of the game in the opening minute of the fourth quarter gave the Liberty a 61-59 lead, its first advantage since midway through the second.

“First-game jitters,” Liberty Coach Pat Coyle said. “It took a long time to settle into the game. I think once we did, we started executing and finally started getting some stops.”

The Liberty used an 11-0 run, including two more 3-pointers by Thorn, to push its lead to 75-63 with 2 minutes 56 seconds remaining.

Currie made two free throws and added a basket with 1:37 left to pull Chicago within 8 points, but that was as close as the Sky got.
575 2007-05-21 “So what did we lack? Winds,” Dickson said. “We felt we used the time well. We certainly felt we used the money well and we developed a lot of good hardware. And we had a great crew and a great team. If we were sitting here tonight and we could point a finger and say we had a slow something or there was one thing, we would probably be a lot happier.”

Ellison replaced Dickson at the helm of the American boat with Sten Mohr, a Danish helmsman aboard the crew.

“The decision to take me off the boat was Larry’s decision, and he’s the owner and that’s his call,” Dickson said.

The crew took the unusual step of sailing to the course early and practicing prestart maneuvers with the Spanish team, Desafío Español, which was also down by 4-1 and trying to avoid elimination against Emirates Team New Zealand.

The Spanish team fought back despite some harrowing moments with a twisted sail, beating Team New Zealand by 15 seconds to stay in the semifinals. The teams will race again Tuesday. The Louis Vuitton Cup final, which determines who will face the defending champion Alinghi in the America’s Cup, is scheduled to begin June 1.

BMW was hoping for a comeback of its own with Mohr managing the wheel. The two yachts sailed on in a drag race on the right side of the course, but Luna Rossa took better advantage of the winds, relentlessly building a gap between the yachts from 30 meters to more than 140 meters at the finish line.

“I think the racing was much harder than the score reflects, “ said Francesco de Angelis, the skipper of Luna Rossa.

The two teams are next-door neighbors in Valencia’s sparkling new marina and, they have watched each other across the fence for months. Their bases reflect two distinctive styles: the American quarters look like silver suburban corporate headquarters while Luna Ross’s base is draped with recycled, webbed sails.

Throughout the America’s Cup challenge, BMW Oracle has acted, in effect, like an efficient market leader. It employed more than 150 people, many of them working during the off years of the America’s Cup, with departments for information technology, human resources and finances. The racing syndicate boasted two full-time, 17-man crews and leading boat designers from different generations, Bruce Farr and Juan Kouyoumdjian.

Ellison formed the racing syndicate in 2003 and backed it with his own money, but he quickly attracted other high-spending corporations like BMW. Many of the sponsors signed on with high expectations that the team would make it to the finals, which offer the highest television exposure.

But as the losses mounted in the one-on-one duels with Luna Rossa, disgruntled supporters and rival fans sent e-mail messages to the BMW Oracle team calling Ellison of an egomaniac and questioning the team’s confident, corporate approach that had propelled it to the top ranks of the favorites to face off against Alinghi.

Asked if the American team had problems with “human chemistry,” Dickson flatly denied it. “If there had been a glaring weakness to do something about we would have done it,” he said, adding, “Nobody did a bad job on the team, our friends across the fence just did a better job.”
576 2007-05-21 What do consumers have in common with earthquakes? Both, researchers say, broadly conform to patterns described by a formula known as Zipf’s law.

In the 1930s, the Harvard linguist George Kingsley Zipf found that “the” — the most-used English word — occurred about twice as often as “of” (second place), about three times as often as “and” (third) and so on.

Since then, scientists have found similar relationships between the size and frequency of earthquakes and in a variety of other natural and artificial phenomena.

Jan H. Hofmeyr, an expert on consumer behavior at Synovate, the market research arm of Aegis, said he recently discovered that Zipf’s law also applied to the brand preferences of consumers and their spending habits.

“Marketers have always known it’s better to be No. 1 than No. 2, but now you can attach a revenue consequence to that,” Mr. Hofmeyr said.
577 2007-05-21 European banks are trying to position themselves to profit from an increasingly integrated market in the European Union and in the 13 countries that use the euro.

ABN Amro, the largest Dutch bank, is currently the target of the biggest takeover battle in the financial services industry, which has pitted Barclays of London against a consortium led by the Royal Bank of Scotland.

The takeover by UniCredit, which is based in Milan, will keep Capitalia, which is based in Rome and is the country’s third-largest bank, from falling into foreign hands. It also will create a large Italian bank to compete in Europe with rivals like BNP Paribas, the French bank that has been buying into Italy.

Italy has attracted the attention of foreign buyers because its banks are among the most profitable in Europe. The Italian loan market expanded last year at an annual rate of 11 percent and consumer credit advanced at an annual rate of 18 percent.

UniCredit agreed to pay 1.12 of its own shares for each of Capitalia’s and said it would issue new shares to pay for the deal. The price represents a premium of 23.5 percent over Capitalia’s closing share price on May 8, the day before rumors about a combination started to circulate, the two banks said Sunday.

Through acquisitions, Alessandro Profumo, UniCredit’s chief executive, has turned the bank into one of the fastest-growing in Europe. He has spent more than $25 billion in the past two years to expand in Germany, Austria and Russia, including the $21 billion purchase of the HVB Group of Germany a year and a half ago.

“Whenever mergers are in the air you either seize opportunities or you miss out,” Mr. Profumo said at a news conference in Rome on Sunday. “We realized that there were the right conditions in place to seize the opportunity.”

Mr. Profumo repeatedly said he believed in a truly unified European banking system and would like to be at the forefront of its creation.

He introduced English as a common language at the bank’s headquarters and changed the final letters of employees’ e-mail addresses to .eu, from .it, to illustrate that he sees UniCredit as being European as much as Italian.

The pace of deals involving Italian banks has increased since Antonio Fazio, who opposed foreign takeovers, resigned as governor of the Bank of Italy in December 2005.

But Italy has recently taken some steps to protect its companies from foreign buyers. The government last year opposed a foreign takeover of Autostrade, an Italian highway operator, and encouraged investors to team up to keep Telecom Italia, the telephone company, in Italian hands.

Mr. Geronzi said Sunday that Capitalia had held takeover talks with several other banks in the past, including Banca Intesa and ABN Amro, one of its shareholders, but that he always saw a deal with UniCredit as “the one deal that would protect our banking system.”

The combined bank will have a 16 percent market share in Italy, where it will have 5,000 branches. It will have 9,200 bank branches globally and 40 million customers.

UniCredit, which has a strong business in Eastern Europe, will still generate more than 50 percent of its revenue from outside Italy.

UniCredit was advised by Merrill Lynch and its own investment banking unit. Claudio Costamagna, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker, advised Capitalia.

The combination is still subject to approval by shareholders, who will vote this summer. If the takeover is approved, the two companies expect to complete it by the end of this year.
578 2007-05-21 Pfizer’s head of research, John L. LaMattina, said yesterday that he was leaving the company, five months after Pfizer was abruptly forced to cancel development of torcetrapib, a heart medicine that was its highest-profile drug candidate.

Dr. LaMattina, who has a doctorate in organic chemistry, said in a statement that he would retire no later than the end of 2007. Previously, Dr. LaMattina, who is 57, had said that he expected to stay for several years, possibly until he reached Pfizer’s mandatory retirement age of 65.

Pfizer said it would immediately begin a search both inside and outside the company to replace Dr. LaMattina, who has worked at Pfizer for 30 years. In a statement, Jeffrey B. Kindler, Pfizer’s chief executive, said Dr. LaMattina had laid the foundation for a new generation of drugs at Pfizer.

Despite a $7 billion annual research budget, Pfizer has suffered a series of research setbacks in the last several years. In December, Pfizer was forced to cancel torcetrapib, a drug that Dr. LaMattina had championed, after a clinical trial showed that patients taking it were more likely to die that those who did not. Pfizer had spent more than $800 million developing torcetrapib.

In the last two years, regulators have also rejected the company’s applications for drugs for osteoporosis and pain, and Pfizer has discontinued development of a medicine for schizophrenia. And Exubera, an inhaled insulin, has sold far more slowly than the company expected.

Still, the company has had some successes recently, including Sutent, a drug for kidney cancer. Dr. LaMattina, who described himself last year as optimistic about both Pfizer and the future of the pharmaceutical industry, said he decided to leave because he had put a foundation for future drug development in place.
579 2007-05-21 PARIS, May 20 — Few mobile phones have created more buzz before becoming a reality than Apple’s iPhone — even in Europe and Asia, which will not see the talked-about handset for many months.

Apple says that sales of iPhones will begin in the United States in late June, in Europe later this year and in Asia next year. But the company has been silent on how the iPhone will be distributed in Europe, prompting speculation about operator alliances and retail partnerships.

The approach in the fragmented European market is widely expected to be different from the one employed in the American introduction, which is AT&T’s exclusively.

For European and Asian mobile service providers, the stakes could be high because of Apple’s strong brand loyalty.

Almost half of current iPod owners would consider the iPhone as their next mobile phone, according to a survey of 2,000 Europeans by Canalys, a research firm based in Reading, England. And an online poll conducted in April by the British online publisher Shiny Media found that 25 percent of those surveyed would be willing to switch service providers to own an iPhone.

A determining factor in which mobile carriers offer the iPhone in Europe will be whether it includes the “third generation” mobile network technology that service providers across the Continent have spent so much money to license and build. Apple has said its United States handsets would not employ 3G technology.
580 2007-05-21 In one of the largest recent account consolidations, Verizon Communications is combining duties for its consumer and business services with assignments for Verizon Wireless to increase effectiveness and efficiency. Verizon, which spends about $1.9 billion a year on advertising, will reduce its agency roster to 10 from more than 20.

Gaining the most in the consolidation is the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. For instance, McCann Erickson Worldwide, which creates ads for Verizon Wireless, gains the consumer assignment from McGarry Bowen in New York and the business assignment from Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, part of Havas.

The MRM division of the McCann Worldgroup takes the assignment for direct marketing from another Interpublic agency, Draft FCB, and the Momentum division gains the duties for sponsorships and event marketing from IMG. Some assignments are unaffected; for example, the Zenith unit of ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, continues to handle media buying.

Miller Brewing, Milwaukee, part of SABMiller, chose the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty to create campaigns for Miller Lite beer. The assignment, with spending estimated at $150 million, had been at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, which resigned in March.

Toys “R” Us, Wayne, N.J., selected Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, Boston, a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its creative agency, replacing Y&R Advertising, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group. Spending was estimated at $90 million. Toys “R” Us is owned by private equity firms and a real estate developer.

Heineken USA, White Plains, N.Y., picked the Richards Group, Dallas, as the creative agency for Amstel Light beer, with spending estimated at $20 million. The assignment had most recently been handled by Publicis USA, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe. Richards was a creative agency for two other beers, Corona Extra and Corona Light, from the early 1990s until October.
581 2007-05-21 He worried about every risk that eye surgery would entail, including the impermanence of new vision and the use of a possible carcinogen to keep his body from rejecting corneal transplants. As he explained to his wife at the moment of decision, there was every good reason to refrain from taking this chance. The only reason to do it was curiosity. But Mr. May, as “Crashing Through” repeatedly emphasizes, would never err on the side of caution.

“Look at all this stuff!” the book has an old flame of Mr. May’s exclaiming during a walk through a Swiss town. “Why wouldn’t you want to see it?”

Much of “Crashing Through” is colloquial in that way, sometimes with an additional voyeuristic intimacy, as it enters the Mays’ lives and bedroom to recreate what went on between them. So the book divides itself between feel-good, supercozy moments of domesticity (a far cry from Mr. Kurson’s earlier submarine tale) and the scientific experiment in which Mr. May became a guinea pig.

According to Mr. Kurson, there have been no more than 60 such cases of eyesight restored after long periods of blindness — in Mr. May’s case 43 years — “between the dawn of time and the year 1999.”

And the track record for such procedures, even when they nominally succeeded, was discouraging. At the core of the highly personal “Crashing Through” is an abstract issue: Will a blind person be improved by gaining eyesight, or will an already-complete person become impaired in unexpected ways?

Past evidence suggested that eyesight brought anxiety and depression to people who had learned to live contentedly without it, to the point where fits of crying and bitterness were not unexpected reactions to such unsettling change. Would Mr. May be as different and upbeat about vision as he had been about overcoming the challenges of blindness?

While that is not exactly a silly question, neither is it a suspenseful one: Everything about “Crashing Through” points to inspirational optimism. “I believe in you,” his wife, Jennifer May, tells her husband, echoing Mr. Kurson’s obvious sentiments throughout the book. She even believes in her husband to the point of helping him ogle other women once he becomes able to do so, thanks to two extraordinarily delicate eye surgeries. But when the sighted Mr. May, newly obsessed with topless women, merrily suggests that his wife wear fewer clothes at home, the reader is told that “Jennifer threw a playful punch.”

“Crashing Through” becomes most interesting when the flaws in Mr. May’s new eyesight become apparent. He makes wondrous discoveries of things blind people never hear about — shadows, freckles, the movement and transparency of running water — but has more difficulty with the cognitive aspects of pattern recognition. He can see facial features but cannot decipher facial expressions.

The book, which includes a number of illustrations to explain how visual perception works, includes a scarifying dual portrait of the same woman; in one picture her eyes and mouth are normal and in the other they are inverted to ghastly effect. Mr. May would not have differentiated between them.

Eventually the joy of sight fades for him and the investigatory challenges begin. But “Crashing Through” is such a determinedly happy book that it is not about to let its main character experience defeat.

Ingenious as ever, he finds ways to meld everything he has learned with everything new he can see, and to navigate the world imaginatively. And Mr. Kurson, whose earlier book was so much more surprising, accompanies each development with the appropriate hooray. “You turned it around,” a doctor tells Mr. May at one such moment. “You did it. This is the most dramatic reversal I’ve ever witnessed.”
582 2007-05-21 Few mobile phones have created more buzz before becoming a reality than Apple's iPhone -- even in Europe and Asia, which will not see the talked-about handset for many months.     Apple says that sales of iPhones will begin in the United States in...
583 2007-05-21 CHINA INVESTS IN BLACKSTONE The Chinese government said that it would acquire a $3 billion stake in the Blackstone Group, the private equity firm, in the country's first effort to diversify its $1.2 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves beyond Uni...
584 2007-05-22 Wind turbines next to a farm house in Kansas, U.S. Lawrence Journal/AP People who don't want utilities – or any sort of messy public facility – near their homes long have been known as NIMBYs in the English-speaking world. NIMBY stands for not...
585 2007-05-22 Wallstrip, the offbeat financial Web show whose host has been known to frolic with hogs for a segment on pork producer Premium Standard Farms, has found a home with Big Media. CBS on Tuesday confirmed that it bought the quirky start-up, whose back...
586 2007-05-22 If any state symbolizes the new Democratic Congressional majority, it might be Montana: a former Republican bastion that now has two Democrats, Max Baucus and Jon Tester, in the Senate. Matt Singer at Left in the West however, is beginning to have...
587 2007-05-22 As he faces criticism from members of his own party over his immigration stance, Senator John McCain points to positions on the issue held by one of his chief G.O.P. rivals....
588 2007-05-22 The legacy of the concentration camp survivor and Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal is one of unimpeachable bravery, but "I Have Never Forgotten You," a new documentary, is a suspect monument to his courage.

Directed by Richard Trank, also its co-author, the film effectively sketches Mr. Wiesenthal's life, from his tenacity in surviving the genocide that claimed much of his family, to his determination to identify, find and punish ex-Nazis after World War II, at a time when many governments would have preferred to "move on."

Using file footage, photographs, newsreel snippets and interviews with friends, relatives and former colleagues, "I Have Never Forgotten You" is a testament to Mr. Wiesenthal's bulldog stubbornness. We learn, by his own admission, that he didn't spend nearly as much time with his wife and daughter as he might have wished, and that he demanded that they continue to live in his hometown, Vienna, despite decades of threats against the family by former Hitler supporters and neo-Nazi agitators.

Near the end of the movie Mr. Wiesenthal, now 90, breaks down while accepting an award and begs his audience not to characterize him as a hero because his good deeds came out of an epic sense of survivor's guilt.

Alas, Mr. Trank refuses to heed his subject's advice. "I Have Never Forgotten You" works overtime to make Mr. Wiesenthal seem quirky and lovable, and dilutes its complex, inherently dark subject matter by deploying every documentary film cliché in existence. (These include the still-photo-becomes-3-D gimmick popularized by "The Kid Stays in the Picture," which seems especially inappropriate when applied to the haunting sketches that Mr. Wiesenthal, a former architectural draughtsman, made in the camps. Didn't Mr. Trank think they were interesting enough as is?)

Mr. Wiesenthal and other survivors are rarely allowed to recount the horrors of concentration camp life without the filmmaker's reflexively cutting to atrocity footage. The tactic seems meant to jolt jaded viewers out of their complacency. But it eventually has the opposite effect, turning some of the most disturbing images ever recorded into the cinematic version of gratuitous exclamation points.

Meanwhile, every key moment is drowned by a score that screams "Weep!" and "Shudder!" The aesthetic apes that of "Schindler's List," but so crudely that the results come perilously close to Holocaust kitsch. Mr. Trank has made a compelling film on a powerful subject, but he doesn't trust audiences to feel for themselves.
589 2007-05-22 When an activist hedge fund makes headlines, it's generally raising a ruckus over a company's poor management decisions. But now, two activist hedge funds seemed to poised to go head to head over a deal for software company Acxiom. MMI Investments...
590 2007-05-22 Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison said it hired Jennifer A. Spiegel as counsel in its corporate department. Ms. Spiegel, previously of Debevoise & Plimpton, will be part of Paul Weiss's investment funds group, which advises on fund organizatio...
591 2007-05-22 Chevron, the oil behemoth, intends to sell what amounts to a stake of about 12 percent in the energy company Dynegy through a public stock offering. Chevron U.S.A. will offer 96.9 million Class A Dynegy shares in a sale that will be managed by Gol...
592 2007-05-22 With its deal to buy a 20 percent stake in the New York hedge fund GSO Capital Partners, Merrill Lynch appears to be buying a piece of the "nascent competition," The Financial Times' Alphaville blog concluded Monday. The blog contends that Merrill...
593 2007-05-22 Lawmakers passed a bill last week protecting executioners’ anonymity and letting them sue anyone who discloses their names. The Missouri Press Association said the measure would violate the First Amendment. state’s corrections director, Larry Crawford, said the bill should make it easier to recruit doctors to assist in executions. For a year, Missouri has been unable to recruit a physician with expertise in anesthesia, as a federal judge ordered, and has not executed anyone. A spokeswoman for Gov. Matt Blunt, a Republican, would not say whether he would sign the bill.
594 2007-05-22 The drug’s maker, GlaxoSmithKline, issued a news release defending Avandia’s safety and saying it “strongly disagrees” with the conclusions of the journal article, which it said was based on incomplete evidence.

Glaxo’s stock fell by nearly 8 percent on the news.

While the analysis took Wall Street and many doctors by surprise, Glaxo and the F.D.A. disclosed yesterday that they had known about the signs of potential cardiovascular risk since last August, when the company, on its own initiative, submitted a similar analysis to the agency. That disclosure prompted questions on Capitol Hill about why patients and doctors had not been informed earlier.

Explaining its delay, the F.D.A. said the significance of the studies had not been confirmed and in fact was contradicted by some other studies of the drug.

“We decided we needed to reanalyze the complex dataset ourselves to make a better informed decision,” Dr. Robert J. Meyer, a director of the agency’s office of drug evaluation, said in a news conference yesterday.

Dr. Meyer said that the agency was close to completing its analysis and would convene an advisory panel as soon as possible to review the drug. The F.D.A. is conducting an estimate of excess heart attacks that might be attributed to the drug, but Dr. Meyer said that the results were not final, declining to disclose the number. He noted that Avandia’s label already carries a warning of cardiovascular risks.

Meanwhile, the F.D.A. advised Avandia patients to check with their doctors.

“We’re expecting dozens if not hundreds of phone calls tomorrow,” said Dr. John B. Buse, chief of endocrinology at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. “I’ve told our staff to tell people who call that this is not cause for panic. We can discuss it further at their next visit.”

But Dr. Buse, a president-elect of the American Diabetes Association, said he would not be surprised if some doctors ultimately switched patients to an alternative drug unless additional details were released supporting Avandia’s safety.

The New England Journal of Medicine posted the paper on its Web site, ahead of its planned print publication on June 14. Early Web postings are made by the journal’s editors in matters that they consider to have public health importance.

The study was not supposed to be released until 5 p.m. yesterday, after the closing bell on Wall Street, but it was inadvertently published yesterday morning by two wire services. The company’s stock began falling almost immediately and was down more than 8 percent by midafternoon, before finishing down 7.85 percent, at $53.18.

The research method employed by the lead author, Dr. Steven E. Nissen of the Cleveland Clinic, was a so-called meta-analysis, which combines the data of various studies. Such analyses, generally used to develop hypotheses, are seen as less reliable than uniform controlled studies.

In an interview, Dr. Nissen said that the average diabetic has a 20.2 percent risk of a heart attack over a seven-year period. A diabetic taking Avandia has a 28.9 percent risk during that same seven-year period, according to his analysis.

“It’s a huge risk,” he said, estimating that “tens of thousands of people” had heart attacks as a result of taking the drug.

An editorial that accompanied the article questioned why doctors would continue to prescribe Avandia, which is known generically as rosiglitazone. But the editorial cautioned patients not to stop taking the medication without discussing it with their doctors.

“The totality of the data show that Avandia has a comparable cardiovascular profile to other oral antidiabetic medicines,” the release said. “GSK stands firmly behind the safety of Avandia when used appropriately, and we believe its significant benefits continue to outweigh any treatment risks.”

In a conference call with reporters yesterday, the company’s chief medical officer, Dr. Ronald L. Krall, said that Glaxo had submitted similar data to the F.D.A. last August after noticing a signal of increased cardiovascular risk. Its data indicated a 31 percent increased risk, based on a similar meta-analysis. That information was also posted on the company’s Web site last year, Glaxo said.

But the company submitted its analysis along with another study that supported the drug’s safety — a look at 30,000 patients taking Avandia and other diabetes drugs enrolled in an unidentified insurer’s managed care plan. And the company also said that a drug safety monitoring committee overseeing a continuing study of the drug’s cardiovascular risks had not raised any red flags.

Avandia, a pill on the market since 1999, is used for the treatment of Type 2, or adult-onset, diabetes. It is sold alone as Avandia and in combination with other drugs as Avandamet and Avandryl. With $3 billion in worldwide sales last year, it was Glaxo’s second-biggest product after the asthma inhalant Advair.

Patients who are newly discovered to have Type 2 diabetes generally receive another oral drug, metformin, as the first-line treatment, with Avandia among several medications recommended when metformin alone no longer works. If those treatments fail, patients typically move to insulin injections.

Some doctors contend that another drug that works by a similar mechanism to Avandia — Actos, made by the Takeda Pharmaceutical Company and jointly marketed by Eli Lilly — has been shown in studies to have a superior cardiovascular risk profile.

The journal editorial, by Dr. Bruce M. Psaty of the University of Washington and Dr. Curt D. Furberg of Wake Forest University, said that they could see no reason doctors would prescribe Avandia, given the alternative treatments available.

“In view of the potential cardiovascular risks,” the editorial said, “and in the absence of evidence of other related advantages, except for laboratory measures of glycemic control, the rationale for prescribing rosiglitazone at this time is unclear.” Glycemic refers to blood sugar.

The editorial said that problems with Avandia had once again spotlighted flaws in the nation’s drug approval and monitoring system. They asserted that those problems had not been fully addressed by legislation recently passed by the Senate that is meant to strengthen the agency’s powers. Both Dr. Psaty and Dr. Furberg have been critical of the F.D.A.’s drug approval process in the past.

On Capitol Hill, several lawmakers questioned whether Avandia could be another Vioxx — a painkiller that Merck pulled off the market in 2004 after it was shown to cause heart attacks in some patients.

Rep. John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said the agency’s handling of questions about Avandia might reflect dangerous shortcomings in its drug safety monitoring. Those questions, he said, would figure in his committee’s efforts to force the agency to be a tougher regulator.

“We learned from an F.D.A. briefing that the agency has known about this problem for at least eight months and perhaps even longer,” Mr. Dingell said in a prepared statement yesterday. “What we don’t know is why diabetics and their doctors haven’t been notified of the substantial risk to the heart from a drug prescribed to protect the cardiovascular system.”

Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said yesterday that he had started an investigation of Avandia and would call Glaxo officials and Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, the F.D.A. commissioner, to testify at a hearing on June 6.

The finding — that Avandia raises the risk of heart attack by 43 percent — was based on a review of 44 studies of the drug. The review was conducted by Dr. Nissen and Kathy Wolski of the Cleveland Clinic, where Dr. Nissen is the chief of cardiovascular medicine.

Dr. Nissen, who had been among the first doctors to raise questions about the cardiovascular safety of Vioxx, first publicly raised concerns about Avandia in a letter published last December in the British medical journal Lancet.

Dr. Nissen’s letter noted increased cardiovascular problems in a 5,000-patient clinical study, called Dream. Glaxo had sponsored the Dream trial in an effort to expand the product beyond a treatment for diabetes by using it to prevent the disease.

In the Dream trial, intended to determine if Avandia could prevent diabetes, patients taking Avandia had 66 percent more heart attacks, 39 percent more strokes and 20 percent more deaths from cardiovascular-related problems compared with a placebo. That outcome, Dr. Nissen wrote, “virtually precludes the possibility of an overall benefit and suggest an unexpected mechanism for harm.”

Both Avandia and Actos, the Takeda drug, are members of a class of compounds with a troubled history. One drug in the group, Rezulin , was withdrawn in 2000 because it caused liver problems.
595 2007-05-22 A man has been charged with animal cruelty for allegedly starving his cocker spaniel and then trying to pass off the dog as a stray at an animal shelter, the police said. William Winters, 31, was arraigned yesterday on charges of aggravated cruelty to animals in First District Court in Central Islip. The Suffolk County police said that when Mr. Winters took the 3-year-old dog, Bailey, to the Brookhaven Animal Shelter in March, the animal was so weak from malnutrition that he could not lift his head. Under questioning, Mr. Winters later admitted that Bailey was his, the police said. The dog has since recovered and will be available for adoption, shelter officials said.
596 2007-05-22 Gov. Jon S. Corzine yesterday appointed Susan Bass Levin, left, to the post of deputy director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Ms. Levin, 54, has served as the state’s commissioner of community affairs since 2002 under three Democratic governors, except for a brief period in late 2005, when she worked for Mr. Corzine’s campaign for governor. She succeeds James P. Fox, a former chief of staff to Gov. James E. McGreevey. Mr. Fox is forming a transportation and economic development consulting firm with George D. Warrington, the former head of New Jersey Transit, and Eric Shuffler, a former top aide to Mr. McGreevey.
597 2007-05-22 Searchers responding to a distress call from the scallop boat Mary James found a body in the ocean along with an empty life raft and a life ring from the vessel, the Coast Guard said yesterday. The Coast Guard said that it received the Mayday call about 11:15 p.m. on Sunday, and that the empty life raft was spotted at 2:30 a.m. yesterday about 22 miles southeast of Manasquan. The search continued for the other person believed to have been aboard the 40-foot boat.
598 2007-05-22 When the N.B.A. has its draft lottery tonight, the team with the ninth-best chance of winning will be the Knicks. But their logo will be absent from the proceedings and their seat on the stage will be filled by a man they have probably never met.

And when it is all over, the true cost of acquiring Eddy Curry will finally be clear.

The Knicks obtained Curry two years ago in a trade with the Chicago Bulls. In exchange, the Knicks gave up their first-round pick in 2006 and gave the Bulls the right to swap first-round picks in this year’s draft.

Although Chicago has not yet made the trade official, it is academic: The Bulls are slotted 23rd in the draft (based on regular-season record), and the Knicks are ninth. Both clubs are proceeding as if the exchange of picks has been made.

No Knicks officials are planning to attend the lottery. The Bulls will be represented in the Secaucus, N.J., studio by Steve Schanwald, their executive vice president for business operations. His name — and the gleam of his incisors — will soon be familiar to a national television audience if the Knicks’ lottery spot turns into the No. 1 pick in the draft.

There are two major prizes in the draft: center Greg Oden of Ohio State and forward Kevin Durant of Texas. Both are considered elite talents by N.B.A. talent evaluators.
599 2007-05-22 City transit officials found dozens of safety lapses during spot checks of track work on the subway system just weeks after the deaths of two track workers, officials said yesterday.

“I was a little bit surprised, because normally what you would expect is for a couple weeks everybody would abide by 100 percent of the rules,” said Howard H. Roberts Jr., the president of New York City Transit.

Transit officials said that the safety audits at 60 work sites in the subway system between May 9 and May 12 turned up what they described as 44 “deficiencies.”

In some cases, workers failed to properly set up warning lights to alert approaching trains that work was going on ahead; in others, workers walked with their backs to train traffic. The audit teams also found flaggers on the tracks whom they described as “inattentive” and at least one flagger without a whistle, which is needed to warn workers of oncoming trains.

Paul Fleuranges, a spokesman for New York City Transit, said in an e-mail message that none of the violations were considered flagrant, but that some procedural changes were being considered as a result of the findings.
600 2007-05-22 The music company EMI Group, which has been the subject of takeover speculation since the 1990s, said yesterday that its board supported a new $4.7 billion offer from a private investor, Terra Firma Capital Partners.

EMI, which is based in London and releases music by the Beatles and Coldplay, said it would recommend the offer to shareholders. EMI said the enterprise value of the company was $6.3 billion, including debt.

If approved, the acquisition by Terra Firma, a private equity company started in 2002 by the financier Guy Hands, would take EMI off the market at a time when the company has been delivering poor financial results and industrywide CD sales are plummeting.

The sale would be a setback — though perhaps a temporary one — for the Warner Music Group. EMI and Warner have circled one another for seven years, and advanced talks last summer stalled after a European Union court ruling raised questions about regulators’ previous approval of another music merger involving the labels of Sony and Bertelsmann.

The offer for EMI by Terra Firma for 265 pence a share topped Warner’s bid of 260 pence a share earlier this year. Analysts had expected Warner to be better positioned to outbid a private investor because it could incorporate cost savings from cutting overhead. Warner could still come back with a higher bid. Shares of EMI rose to 271 pence, up more than 9 percent, evidently on speculation that Warner would do just that.
601 2007-05-22 It doesn’t look much like there is a McCain-Romney ticket in the offing.

Senator John McCain of Arizona, whose support of a bipartisan immigration proposal has drawn criticism from Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, answered yesterday with a pointed riposte.

“In the case of Governor Romney, you know, maybe I should wait a couple of weeks and see if it changes because it’s changed in less than a year from his position before,” Mr. McCain said on a conference call. “And maybe his solution will be to get out his small-varmint gun and drive those Guatemalans off his lawn.”

That was at least three political jabs packed into one. First, Mr. McCain was painting Mr. Romney as a flip-flopper, in a nod to the fact that he has expressed support for similar immigration proposals in the past and changed his position on abortion before running for president.

Next, Mr. McCain took a dig at a memorable line Mr. Romney used this year after his attempt to portray himself as a lifelong hunter was challenged, and it surfaced that he had not taken out hunting licenses in the states where he lived. “I’ve always been a rodent and rabbit hunter,” Mr. Romney said. “Small varmints, if you will.”

Finally, the Guatemalans. That was a reference to an article in The Boston Globe late last year that quoted several people from Guatemala who said they had worked on Mr. Romney’s lawn in suburban Boston while in the United States illegally, as employees of a lawn care company that Mr. Romney hired.

It was an early taste of one Republican presidential candidate naming, and criticizing, another. The Romney campaign answered with a statement that only referred to Mr. McCain as “a certain candidate.”
602 2007-05-22 One result is a doubled tax bill for a family with four children under 17 and income of $75,000 that takes the standard deduction. That family pays an alternative tax of $3,800 instead of the $1,997 that would be owed under the regular tax, the Tax Policy Center calculated. Under either levy, the couple would get the tax credit of $1,000 a child championed by Republicans.

The joint committee’s estimate came in response to a request by Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee. Democratic tax staff members of that committee made the document available yesterday. The estimate assumed no change in behavior by taxpayers seeking to minimize the impact of the alternative tax.

About 23 million Americans will owe the alternative tax this year, up from about 3 million last year.

Both parties have promised to address the alternative levy this year, but no agreement exists on how to replace the revenue that would be lost, which estimates put at about $70 billion this year. The only three options are less spending, more borrowing or shifting the tax burden.

The Tax Policy Center proposed a surtax of four percentage points on couples earning more than $200,000 and on single taxpayers and heads of household who earn half that, a relatively small group of taxpayers.

Over 10 years, the surtax would replace all but $92 billion of the estimated $850 billion the alternative tax would bring in over the same period, said Leonard E. Burman, co-director of the center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution whose economists include former tax policy advisers to Presidents Reagan and Clinton and the first President Bush.

Almost everyone making less than $200,000 would pay the same amount of taxes or get a tax cut.

Mr. Burman said the proposal “is simple, eliminates a lot of complexity” in the tax code and shifts the burden back onto those the original alternative levy was meant to affect.

The original levy focused on investors, however, while the center’s proposal would have an equal impact on Americans with million-dollar-plus salaries and no investments.

It would also undo most of the Bush tax cuts for the highest-income Americans, effectively creating a top tax rate of 39 percent on wages and 19 percent on capital gains. When Mr. Bush took office, the top rates were 39.6 percent on wages and 20 percent on capital gains.

More than three-quarters of the burden of the center’s surtax proposal would be borne by those making more than $500,000. The surtax plan would roughly halve the alternative tax burden on those making $100,000 to $500,000, and would eliminate any burden for those with incomes under $100,000, which includes nearly 9 out of 10 Americans.
603 2007-05-22 Neither the buyer nor the price came as a surprise to analysts who follow G.E. In January, when G.E. confirmed longstanding rumors that it was putting its plastics business on the block, most analysts expected the unit to go for $8 billion to $10 billion, and for the probable buyer to be a private equity firm.

But in recent months, G.E. executives had signaled to analysts that they expected to get $10 billion to $12 billion and that the business would probably go to a strategic buyer — that is, a company that would make use of the operation and its products, rather than groom it for an eventual public offering or resale.

Most analysts quickly homed in on Sabic, because of its access to Saudi Arabia’s vast petroleum supplies. After all, it was the ever-rising cost of benzene, a petroleum derivative and an essential raw material for G.E.’s plastics products, that had sucked the profitability out of the unit for G.E. A company like Sabic, with an inexpensive and huge supply of benzene, could far more easily turn a profit.

The sale, which is expected to close in the third quarter, is unlikely to have much of a strategic impact on G.E. In January, G.E. agreed to spend $4.8 billion to buy the aerospace business of the Smiths Group, $1.9 billion to buy the oil and gas operations of Vetco Gray and $8.1 billion to buy a diagnostics business from Abbott Laboratories. G.E. said it would use most of the proceeds from the plastics sale to buy back stock, but analysts expect that some of the money will be used to pay for those acquisitions.

It is also unlikely that the divestiture is heralding a larger-scale trimming of the G.E. portfolio. Many investors have tried to pressure G.E. into selling NBC Universal, the entertainment division that has suffered through many quarters of lackluster profits.

There has been widespread speculation that if G.E. did decide to sell the unit, it would also shed its consumer finance division. The reason for that speculation is that NBC Universal is part of G.E.’s industrial group, and a sale would skew the company’s portfolio too far toward financial products. Shares of financial services companies generally trade at lower multiples than those of industrial companies, and G.E. would not want to risk having itself recategorized in investors’ minds.

NBC Universal’s profits have, however, been rising, and consumer finance is a growing area for G.E., so many analysts say G.E. would have no reason to sell either. While plastics seemed to play no role in G.E.’s vision of its future, they played a huge role in the company’s past. G.E. formed its first plastics department in 1930, and by 1941 it had become the country’s largest plastics producer. In 1953, a G.E. scientist discovered a high-strength polycarbonate that the company branded Lexan. To this day Lexan is a huge seller, used for bulletproof glass, water bottles and even Apple iPods. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were wearing Lexan visors on their historic walk on the moon in 1969. In 1973, G.E. made the booming plastics department an official division of the company.

G.E. Plastics has become a major supplier to industries as diverse as automaking, electronics and appliances. Both Mr. Immelt, G.E.’s current chairman, and John F. Welch Jr., his predecessor, worked at the plastics group.

But competition and price increases in raw materials have squeezed profit margins, even though the unit has increased product prices. For 2006, the plastics division reported about $6.6 billion in revenue, virtually unchanged from the previous year. Profit fell to $674 million, down 22 percent from 2005.
604 2007-05-22 Nostalgia for the vanished tradition of salon concerts appears to be on the rise. Two years ago a series of piano recitals at the Rainbow Room put listeners at dinner tables with glasses of wine, and the Baryshnikov Arts Center and Lincoln Center (in its post-Mostly Mozart concerts) has been doing the same. Last year Arium, a hybrid restaurant, gallery and concert space on Little West 12th Street in the West Village, began presenting recitals for which the ticket price included a glass of wine, hors d’oeuvres before the performance and dessert afterward.

The atmosphere at Arium is relaxed, but judging from Ursula Oppens’s recital on Sunday afternoon the performers are asked to make no compromises. Ms. Oppens played a hefty program with music by Beethoven, Schubert and Ravel interspersed with works by Tobias Picker.

Three of Mr. Picker’s scores were arrangements of works for larger forces. “Where the Rivers Go,” based on a section of his 1996 opera, “Emmeline,” is suffused with a neo-Romanticism that evokes the opera’s 19th-century New England setting. Yet stripped of its orchestral coloration, the music has a sharper, more contemporary edge. The short, involving “Old and Lost Rivers” (1986), originally a symphonic score, matches an angular, range-jumping melody to a nonstop vigorous counterpoint. And “The Blue Hula” (1982), arranged from a similarly propulsive chamber piece, draws on jazz and stride piano moves.

Many currents in these three works come together in “Four Études for Ursula” (1997), Ms. Oppens’s closing piece. Calling them études seems wrong; these are character pieces as vivid as the others, and they don’t seem calibrated to particular technical challenges. Not that they make no demands. The first is as freewheeling and rhythmically vital as “The Blue Hula.” Another sounds almost French in spirit, with an undercurrent of early Stravinsky; the last two dance between lyricism and muscularity.

Ms. Oppens has been performing Mr. Picker’s music since the mid-1970’s, when he was just out of the conservatory, and she was the pianist in Speculum Musicae. These technically spiky, picturesque works suit her, and her imaginative use of the piano’s color and dynamics made a persuasive case for them. She also offered an inventive, high-contrast performance of Beethoven’s Sonata in E flat (Op. 27, No. 1), an unusually hard-driven reading of Schubert’s Impromptu in B flat (D. 935) and a powerful, often poetic account of Ravel’s “Valses Nobles et Sentimentales.”
605 2007-05-22 The EMI Group, the world’s third-largest record company, said today that it would recommend to shareholders that they accept a $4.7 billion buyout offer from a private equity firm, Terra Firma Capital Partners.

EMI, which releases music by the Beatles and Coldplay, has spent years in and out of merger talks with various suitors. If approved, the deal to sell to Terra Firma would remove EMI from the public markets, where its financial problems include two profit warnings this year. But Terra Firma itself could profit on the deal by subsequently selling EMI, in whole or part, to a rival, the Warner Music Group. EMI, based in London, and Warner had been in advanced merger talks last summer. They stalled after a European Union court ruling raised questions about the regulatory approval of a previous music merger between Sony and Bertelsmann.

Terra Firma offered 265 pence a share for EMI, a premium to Warner’s last offer, of 260 pence a share. But that is considerably less than the figures under discussion last year, when EMI and Warner made a series of offers and counter-offers for each other. EMI shares rose to 271 pence, up more than 9 percent, evidently on speculation that Warner might come back with a higher offer.

Warner had been seen as able to offer a higher bid than a private investor because of the money it would save by absorbing EMI and cutting overhead costs in the combined operation. But EMI, in recommending Terra Firma’s offer, said it came “without regulatory uncertainty and with the minimum of operational risk to the company.”

EMI also announced that it had swung to a net loss of £288.5 million for the year because of restructuring charges. Earlier this year, the company ousted the head of its recorded music division and said it was considering a securitization of its music-publishing catalog.
606 2007-05-22 Treating depression in older adults may be a life-saving intervention, a new study suggests.

It has been known for some time that depressed people are more likely to die, but it has never been clear that treating their depression would help extend their lives.

Researchers studied 1,226 patients over 60 in the care of general practice doctors; of those, 599 met the diagnostic criteria for either major depression or clinically significant minor depression. The researchers randomly assigned about half the patients to a depression treatment program within the general practice that included psychotherapy and drugs. The study was published in the May 15 issue of The Annals of Internal Medicine.

The scientists found no difference in the survival of people with minor depression in the treated or untreated groups. But after controlling for age, sex, smoking status, education level and current physical illnesses, people with major depression who were treated were about half as likely to die during a five-year follow-up as those who were left untreated. For reasons that are unclear, the reduction in deaths seemed to come almost entirely in the group of patients who had cancer.

The authors acknowledge that they cannot rule out the possibility that the reduction in deaths was caused by some factor other than the treatment for depression, and they also recognize that errors in diagnosis could have affected their results.

Still, said Dr. Joseph J. Gallo, the lead author and an associate professor of family practice at the University of Pennsylvania, “This shows that for people who meet the criteria for major depression, it’s important to get treatment, whether it’s psychotherapy or medication, and a place to begin can be with one’s own doctor.”
607 2007-05-22 Scientists have discovered yet another reason that alcohol might be good for you. Using pooled data from 12 studies and more than 750,000 subjects, researchers found that moderate alcohol consumption — about a drink a day — is associated with a decreased risk of renal cell carcinoma, one type of kidney cancer.

The paper, which appears in the May 16 issue of The Journal of the National Cancer Institute, covered only prospective studies that involved at least 25 cases of renal cell cancer, that assessed long-term intake of a variety of foods and beverages, and that included information on nondietary factors. During the 7- to 20-year follow-up, researchers found 1,430 cases of renal cell cancer.

The researchers found that people who drank two-tenths of an ounce to one-half an ounce of alcohol a day — beer, wine or liquor — reduced their risk of renal cell cancer by 18 percent, and those who drank a half-ounce or more reduced their risk by 28 percent. There is about a half-ounce of alcohol in 1 ½ ounces of hard liquor, 12 ounces of beer or a 5-ounce glass of wine.

The study had limitations in that it lacked a measure of alcohol use over time, depended on self-reports and had no information on family history of renal cell cancer.

Jung Eun Lee, the lead author and a fellow at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, would not encourage anyone to start drinking. Rather, she said, maintaining a healthy weight and avoiding smoking are essential as the “principal means to reduce renal cell cancer.”
608 2007-05-22 Before his election in 2001, Mr. Bloomberg talked about four jobs that interested him enough to leave his information and communications company. They were mayor of New York, president of the United States, secretary general of the United Nations and president of the World Bank.

Let’s see. Mayor of New York? Been there, done that. Secretary general? That job is newly filled by Ban Ki-moon. President of the United States? Not interested, Mr. Bloomberg insists, even if not everyone takes him at his word.

That leaves the World Bank. And wouldn’t you know it, the position is suddenly vacant, thanks to the resignation of Paul D. Wolfowitz, who was pretty much told by the bank’s board not to let the door hit him on his way out. Might the mayor be tempted now to raise his hand?

To find out, we caught up with him yesterday in Downtown Brooklyn, where he had gone to boast that New York high school students are graduating within four years at record high rates.

He announced this at the offices of the Council of School Supervisors and Administrators, on Court Street, where he sat and schmoozed with several dozen school officials. If we didn’t know better, we might have compared the scene to the sort of retail politicking found every four years in a place like, oh, New Hampshire.

In time, we got to ask about the World Bank job.

“I will not be selected,” Mr. Bloomberg replied, somewhat curtly. “I have a great job. I will stay here.”

There you have it. We have exhausted his list of ideal positions. Don’t be surprised, though, if the presidency speculation persists. In that regard, the mayor may want to bear in mind a possibly disturbing development.

HIS reputation, obviously, depends on a perception that he has been an admirable steward of City Hall. There are storm clouds brewing, however. They are called the New York Yankees.

Over the last six decades, it has been fair to say that as the Yankees go, so goes the city. In the 1950s, when the ball club was all but invincible, New York was in its glory. When the team began to fall apart in the mid-’60s, so did the city. Its three World Series appearances in the mid-to-late ’70s matched the start of New York’s recovery from near-bankruptcy.

Then came lean times for the Yankees in the ’80s and the early ’90s, years of soaring crime rates and fear. But for the last decade the team has ridden the top of the waves. So has the city.

You think these are coincidences? If so, then you may not be troubled by the fact that the Yanks have been mediocre this year, trailing far behind the dreaded Boston Red Sox and finding themselves uncomfortably close to last place in their division.

But if you are a mayor who wants a well-run city, and who also may aspire to higher office, this is a situation ignored at your own peril. If only for his own good, Mr. Bloomberg may want to give the Yankees the same advice that he offered Tufts University graduates in a commencement speech on Sunday: “Don’t wuss out.”
609 2007-05-22 Use of fossil fuels is down 45 percent (and net greenhouse gas production, by weight, is down 60 percent), he said, while sales are up 49 percent. Globally, the company’s carpet-making uses one-third the water it used to. The company’s worldwide contribution to landfills has been cut by 80 percent.

“He bet his entire company,” said Bob Fox, an architect who specializes in “green” buildings and who, like Mr. Anderson, is a member of the advisory board of the Harvard Center for Health and the Global Environment. “It worked out probably better even than he hoped. He has set the mark for every other corporation in this country.”

And in the process, Mr. Anderson has turned into perhaps the leading corporate evangelist for sustainability. He had a head start, he acknowledges, because he ran his company and controlled its voting stock. But he can make the case effectively, he said, because his Interface experience teaches that sustainability “doesn’t cost, it pays” — in customer loyalty, employee spirit and hard cash. He says Interface sustainability efforts have saved the company more than $336 million since 1995.

In fact, sustainability has been such a successful strategy that Interface established a consulting arm last year, to market its methods to other companies.

As befits an evangelist, Mr. Anderson, a trim 72-year-old, has taken his message on the road, preaching the sermon of sustainability in at least 115 speeches around the world last year alone.

Since last year, when he turned operating responsibilities over to Dan Hendrix, his successor as chief executive, selling sustainability has been “pretty much my full-time job,” Mr. Anderson said, and several people on the company payroll work more or less full time on it too, handling his schedule and fielding inquiries. “I think he was a typical corporate executive: the bottom line was everything,” said Eric Chivian, director of the Harvard Center. “He really did not think about the impact of his work.”

But today, Dr. Chivian said, Mr. Anderson is “a model of creative thinking about sustainable business practices.”

When Mr. Anderson began his crusade, there were those who thought it was quixotic, and some in the company worried that he was a bit too intense about it. Others thought carpet tiles — squares of nylon pile glued ubiquitously underfoot in offices, classrooms, hospitals, airports and elsewhere — were an unlikely focus for an effort to change the way business does business.

“Well, he won us all over,” said Jo Ann Bachman, one of Mr. Anderson’s assistants.

And for him, carpet tiles were an inspired choice.

For one thing, he is a carpet tile enthusiast. After a short stint at Procter & Gamble, Mr. Anderson, a Georgia native and 1956 graduate of Georgia Tech, was working in the carpet division of Callaway Mills when he discovered carpet tiles on a trip to England that he also describes in his book “Mid-Course Correction” (Chelsea Green, 1998).

It was the early 1970s, he said, and “the office of the future was just then emerging,” with more and more electronic equipment fed by more and more wires running under the floors, as walls gave way to cubicles. Carpet tile allowed businesses to move equipment at will, and the tiles could be replaced individually as they wore out. “It just made so much sense,” he said.

So he put together the necessary financing and started Interface in 1973. Today, the company says it has about $1.1 billion in annual sales and 38 percent of the global market for carpet tiles.

But when it comes to the environment, he eventually realized, carpet “is a pretty abusive industry.”

Carpet makers use lots of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, both as components of synthetic carpet and to power its production. Dyeing carpet is water- and energy-intensive. And when people are finished with the carpet, “it goes into landfills where it lasts probably 20,000 years,” Mr. Anderson said. “Abusive.”

So he challenged his employees to find ways to turn all of that around. And he forestalled objections from his own stockholders, he said, by making the elimination of waste the first target. “We saved money from Day 1,” he said.

He acknowledges that some of the advances the company has made so far are relatively obvious and easy, and that some of its claimed progress relies on steps, like carbon credits, that are far from ideal. For example, the company pays to plant trees that, in theory, take up enough carbon to compensate for the greenhouse gas generated by airplane flights on company business.

“All you are really doing is inventorying the carbon for 200 years,” Mr. Anderson said of the company’s tree-planting efforts, which it subcontracts to a company in the carbon credit business. “It’s better than nothing, but it’s temporary.”

In the future, he said, progress will come “in a lot of little steps and a few very big ones.”

Developing recyclable nylon — “that’s a big step,” he said. (Whoever does it will get all his company’s business, he has said.) Substituting “carbohydrates” — using corn dextrose instead of petroleum — would be even bigger. Renewable energy at a reasonable price would be another big step. Transportation remains “a huge issue,” in spite of the carbon credits.

Even so, customers responded to the campaign, he said, noting that it was questions from customers that prompted the sales force to ask for his environmental views in the first place. “In the aggregate, our products are not costing any more,” he said, and customers do not seem to resist those that are more expensive. “Our profit margins are up, not down,” he said.

One key to the effort’s success, he said, was its comprehensive, across-the-board approach to the entire company. “If you begin with a company and say, ‘We are going to green this company by bolting on these green programs,’ you are going to end up with costs up, not down,” Mr. Anderson said. “We stepped back and said, Let’s look at the whole system.’ ”

The audiences for his speeches are changing, too, he said. In the beginning, he often found himself preaching to the choir, he said, but in the last five years, his audiences have more often been business groups.

“I always make the business case for sustainability,” he said. “It’s so compelling. Our costs are down, not up. Our products are the best they have ever been. Our people are motivated by a shared higher purpose — esprit de corps to die for. And the goodwill in the marketplace — it’s just been astonishing.”

Mr. Anderson, who has two grown daughters from a first marriage, commutes to his office in a Toyota Prius. He and his second wife, Pat, also have a home on 86 acres in the mountains near Highlands, N.C. It is off the grid, its landscaping designed to minimize environmental disruption.

And after an argument with the landlord, Interface’s office space here is now illuminated with low-energy, long-life light bulbs.

Mr. Anderson is also proud to say that as a member of an advisory council at Georgia Tech, he persuaded the institution to modify its mission statement to proclaim the goal of “working for a sustainable society.”

But there is a lot that even business cannot accomplish on its own, he said.

For example, he said, the tax code is “perverse,” in that it puts heavy taxes on good things, like income and capital, and leaves a lot of bad things, like energy use, relatively unscathed. And economists typically underestimate the true cost of doing business because they exclude “externalities,” like environmental damage from pollution.

If it were up to him, he said, he would reduce income taxes and raise the gasoline tax (with subsidies for the poor). But he conceded that the Clinton administration, which he served as co-chairman of the Council on Sustainable Development, could not get an energy tax through Congress.

“The country wasn’t ready for it,” Mr. Anderson said, adding that when the sustainability council had a cocktail party for members of Congress, only a handful of members showed up, some of them possibly drawn more by drinks than doctrine.

But since then, he said, environmental groups have been spreading the message. He gives them credit for the success of Al Gore’s global warming documentary, “An Inconvenient Truth.”

“Their work created a supersaturated solution,” he said in the language of chemistry. “Gore drops his crystal in it, and the whole thing precipitates.”

The movie was “fabulous,” he added. And would he support Mr. Gore for president? “Oh, in a heartbeat!”

Mr. Anderson’s schedule is only getting more hectic. He is on track to easily surpass last year’s speech-giving pace, he said, “and I don’t have to send an invitation, they just keep finding me.”

But the effort is worth it, he said, not just for the opportunities he has to spread his message, but for its business-building effect. His favorite audiences are “rich in potential customers,” he said, and among them the sustainability effort “has done more to lift the company’s image than all the advertising we have ever done.”

All of which makes him smile when he looks back on that sales meeting of 1994.

After the speech, he said, “I heard the whispers, ‘Has he gone round the bend?’ ” Mr. Anderson recalls proudly how he confessed at once that he had. “That’s my job,” he said. “To see what’s around the bend.”
610 2007-05-22 Harvard is tough to get into. To be admitted to a school like that, students spend years earning good grades, doing community service and working hard to demonstrate their skills. The system has its excesses, but over all it’s good for Harvard and it’s good for the students beginning their climb to opportunity.

The United States is the Harvard of the world. Millions long to get in. Yet has this country set up an admissions system that encourages hard work, responsibility and competition? No. Under our current immigration system, most people get into the U.S. through criminality, nepotism or luck. The current system does almost nothing to encourage good behavior or maximize the nation’s supply of human capital.

Which is why the immigration deal reached in the Senate last week is, on balance, a good thing. It creates a new set of incentives for immigrants and potential immigrants. It encourages good behavior, in the manner of a demanding (though overly harsh) admissions officer. It rewards the bourgeois virtues that have always been at the heart of this nation’s immigrant success, and goes some way to assure that the people who possess these virtues can become U.S. citizens.

Let’s look at how this bill would improve incentives almost every step of the way.

First, consider the 10 to 12 million illegal immigrants who are already here. They now have an incentive to think only in the short term. They have little reason to invest for the future because their presence here could be taken away.

This bill would encourage them to think in the long term. To stay, they would have to embark on a long, 13-year process. They’d have to obey the law, learn English and save money (to pay the stiff fines). Suddenly, these people would be lifted from an underclass environment — semi-separate from mainstream society — and shifted into a middle-class environment, enmeshed within the normal rules and laws that the rest of us live by. This would be the biggest values-shift since welfare reform.

Second, consider the millions living abroad who dream of coming to the U.S. Currently, they have an incentive to find someone who can smuggle them in, and if they get caught they have an incentive to try and try again.
611 2007-05-22 DIABETES DRUG IS QUESTIONED -- An article in The New England Journal of Medicine raises safety questions about the GlaxoSmithKline diabetes pill Avandia while also restarting debate over the quality of work by federal drug regulators. [Page C1.]  ...
612 2007-05-22 Scientists have discovered yet another reason that alcohol might be good for you. Using pooled data from 12 studies and more than 750,000 subjects, researchers found that moderate alcohol consumption -- about a drink a day -- is associated with a ...
613 2007-05-22 Gov. Jon S. Corzine yesterday appointed Susan Bass Levin, left, to the post of deputy director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Ms. Levin, 54, has served as the state's commissioner of community affairs since 2002 under three Demo...
614 2007-05-22 Treating depression in older adults may be a life-saving intervention, a new study suggests.     It has been known for some time that depressed people are more likely to die, but it has never been clear that treating their depression would help ex...
615 2007-05-22 Photo of fires burning in refugee camp in Tripoli as Lebanese troops battle radical Islamists for second day...
616 2007-05-23 An ad for the launch of Apple's iPhone.
617 2007-05-23 With an agreement to buy aQuantive under its belt, Microsoft is playing down rumors - in the air for at least a year, most recently stoked by the New York Post - that it might try to buy Yahoo. "We have all of the pieces we need to move forward" i...
618 2007-05-23 In the documentary "Orange Winter" orange blooms throughout Kiev, Ukraine, the epicenter of dissent over that country's stolen 2004 presidential elections. Outraged Ukrainians adopted the color that winter to express support for the pro-Western presidential candidate, Viktor A. Yushchenko, who was poisoned with dioxin by unknown enemies to protect his establishment-supported rival, Viktor F. Yanukovich.

The film's director, Andrei Zagdansky, and his co-screenwriter, Alexander Genis, depict Ukraine's political and social realities, showing riot police facing throngs of orange-clad protestors and television newscasts repeating the official story of an inevitable and legitimate Yanukovich victory. (One sign-language interpreter breaks ranks, wearing an orange wristband and telling deaf viewers that the government is lying.)

But "Orange Winter" is more than a mere history lesson. Like Norman Mailer's nonfiction novel "The Armies of the Night," about the 1967 antiwar march on Washington, this movie characterizes a body politic as a living thing, and charts its internal changes as if it were the protagonist in a drama. (After three rounds of voting and legal challenges, Mr. Yushchenko was declared the winner.)

Mr. Zagdansky interweaves this narrative with footage from Alexander Dovzhenko's dreamy silent film "Earth," in which a peasant becomes a Christ figure-liberator showing Ukrainians their role in history, and snippets of two operas performed in Kiev that winter: "Boris Godunov," about the dynamics of political power, and "La Traviata," about intense, doomed love.

Directed and edited by Andrei Zagdansky; narration written by Alexander Genis; narrated by Matthew Gurewitsch; directors of photography, Vladimir Guevsky, Igor Ivanov and Pavel Kazantzev; music by Modest Mussorgsky and Giuseppe Verdi; score by Alexander Goldstein; produced by Mr. Zagdansky and Gleb Sinyavsky; released by A Z Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 72 minutes. This film is not rated.
619 2007-05-23 When Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine released its annual list of the highest paid hedge fund managers last month, the eye-popping sums caused grumblings among some investors about the high fees that hedge fund managers are collecting. Toda...
620 2007-05-23 Sichuan Xinhua Winshare Chainstore, which will be the first bookstore operator to list in Hong Kong, has priced its initial public offering at the top of the range for a total deal size of 2.2 billion Hong Kong dollars ($274 million). The pricing ...
621 2007-05-23 Merrill Lynch said yesterday that Ben Weston, the chief of its hedge fund development and management group, left the firm after two years. Mr. Weston is leaving Merrill immediately, according to a memo sent to employees on Tuesday. The memo was fr...
622 2007-05-23 In a move to shed an unprofitable business as its turnaround gains traction, Intel said Tuesday it would join with STMicroelectronics, a Swiss semiconductor maker, to form a new company to sell flash memory chips. Flash memory is used in cellphone...
623 2007-05-23 Arnold Scwarzenegger, the goose that laid a golden catchphrase....
624 2007-05-23 It took EMI Group years to reach a consensual takeover agreement, but another bidder may emerge much, much sooner. The New York Post reported Wednesday that at around 12:30 p.m. Tuesday - exactly 24 hours after EMI agreed to be acquired by Terra F...
625 2007-05-23 The use of "big boy letters" - which often appear in deals where one party has confidential information about a stock or bond - is about to face its first significant legal challenge in the form of a lawsuit filed by R2, a Texas hedge fund. Go to ...
626 2007-05-23 Canadian buyout firm Onex said Tuesday it plans to sell another billion-dollar share of its stake in Spirit AeroSystems Holdings. Nigel Wright, managing director of Onex, said the sale will come through a secondary offering of about 31.5 million C...
627 2007-05-23 The police said the two men named Adam were brothers of Anthony Garcia, 25, who was among five men jailed in April for planning fertilizer bombings around London.

A police official, speaking on the condition of anonymity under civil service rules, said the men had been restricted because they were suspected of planning to travel outside Britain for “terror-related purposes.” They had been living in the London area and had been required to report to the police and to a company monitoring their whereabouts. They had not been regarded as presenting a direct threat to the British public, the official said.

The police did not say where the men had planned to travel. In the past the authorities have sought to prevent terror suspects from going to Pakistan for training or to Iraq, where they might join insurgents attacking American-led coalition troops.

British-born terrorists also traveled to Tel Aviv in Israel to carry out a suicide-bombing at a nightclub in 2003. And, in recent court testimony, several British-born Muslims convicted of terrorism or who blew themselves up in the July 7 bombing were said to have trained at camps in Pakistan.

Peter Clarke, the head of Scotland Yard’s SO15 Counterterrorism Command, said in a statement that the three men were “associates and may well be together.”

He added, “I am asking members of the public who actually see these men not to approach them, but to call 999 immediately.” The number is the equivalent of the American 911.

The police also published photographs of the three men, which were shown on television screens across the land. In a statement, the police said the two men named as Adam were “tall, slim build with light complexion and short dark brown hair.” The man identified as Cerie Bullivant was described as being shorter with brown receding hair and brown eyes. “He is understood to have recently cut his hair very short,” the police statement said.

Apart from the men reported missing today, three other people subject to control orders have also disappeared, focusing attention by civil rights campaigners on the practice of imposing control orders — a central part of Britain counterterrorism policies.

Shami Chakrabarti, director of a civil rights group called Liberty, said the system of control orders was “completely discredited, compromising both security and fundamental fairness.”

He added, “Innocent people are punished without trial and the potentially less innocent easily escape.”

Nick Clegg, a spokesman for the opposition Liberal Democrats, said: “We have long argued that consigning people to a legal limbo beyond the reach of the courts is bad enough. But when these control orders are weakly enforced, it is inevitable that attempts will be made to escape from them and some will succeed.”

Earlier, the human rights group Amnesty International in its annual report had criticized what it called the government’s emphasis on deporting terror suspects or placing them under control orders rather than subjecting them to criminal prosecution.
628 2007-05-23 Mr. Baroody was the latest in a line of industry executives and lawyers who have been put forward by President Bush to head safety agencies. Some of them have been vocally critical of federal regulation and have called for rolling back many rules.

His nomination began to founder after the disclosure last Wednesday that he would be receiving a $150,000 special payment from the association, and that the severance package was amended by the association shortly after he was identified as the top candidate for the post.

The White House had continued to defend Mr. Baroody publicly, but, in contrast with other contentious nominations, it refused to expend any significant political capital to lobby on his behalf. Nor did President Bush appear to be willing to appoint him during a Congressional recess, as he has sometimes done with other nominees who have run into problems on Capitol Hill.

The manufacturers’ association and its business members have many issues before the commission. The association recently persuaded the agency to relax rules that dictate when companies must notify it about defective products. And the association’s member companies are often involved in proceedings before the commission to determine whether their products are safe or may need to be recalled or withdrawn from the marketplace.

It was not clear how much the White House knew about Mr. Baroody’s severance agreement before last week. Last Tuesday, a White House official said the administration had been assured by the general counsel of the association that the payment was unconnected to the nomination. That appeared to suggest that the White House had not seen the actual agreement.

According to Mr. Baroody’s financial disclosure statement, the severance agreement was originally written in January 2006, long before a vacancy arose at the commission, but was amended last January, days after Mr. Baroody was publicly identified on Web sites and in trade publications as the leading candidate.

The White House refused to release details of the agreement or the amendment, and rejected Congressional requests for copies of them.

In a letter to the commission’s general counsel that neither the White House nor Mr. Baroody would make public, Mr. Baroody said that, because of the $150,000 payment, government regulations required him to remove himself from agency matters involving the association for two years. He also said that the payment would not preclude him from hearing cases involving individual companies that are members of the association. Such cases are common.

In accepting Mr. Baroody’s withdrawal today, the White House attacked his critics.

“Obviously we feel that he was a strong candidate who would have done a wonderful job at the Consumer Product Safety Commission,” said Emily Lawrimore, a White House spokeswoman. “After some in the Senate rushed to judgment about Mr. Baroody and his qualifications, it became evident to Mr. Baroody that he would not be confirmed.”

Mr. Baroody did not respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.

John Engler, the president of the manufacturers’ association and former governor of Michigan, issued a statement today saying that Mr. Baroody’s withdrawal had come after an “unprincipled smear campaign waged against Mike, aided and abetted by an unethical release of his financial records.”

“Watching this abuse of process, apparently without consequence for the wrongdoers, makes me wonder why any qualified citizen would submit to run today’s Senate gauntlet,” Mr. Engler said.

Many of the Democrats on the commerce committee, including Barbara Boxer of California, John Kerry of Massachusetts and Mark Pryor of Arkansas, said they had serious concerns about the nomination.

Mr. Baroody met on Monday with a leading Democratic critic, Senator Bill Nelson of Florida. Mr. Nelson said today that Mr. Baroody had provided an explanation of the payment, which prompted Mr. Nelson to ask for copies of the severance agreement and the revisions to it. Two Illinois Democrats, Richard Durbin and Barack Obama, also sought details of the severance package. Mr. Baroody told Mr. Nelson that he would consider the request.

But Mr. Nelson said today that he never received the information.

“Mr. Baroody is a consummate professional, but his ties to the industries he would have had to regulate were just too strong, creating at least the appearance of a conflict of interest,” Mr. Nelson said.
629 2007-05-23 Mr. Djindjic was a popular prime minister who helped engineer both the fall of Mr. Milosevic in 2000 and his dispatch to The Hague in 2001 for trial. Mr. Milosevic was found dead in his cell in March 2006.

If the assassination of Mr. Djindjic had been meant to turn back Serbia’s political clock, it succeeded only in part: A crackdown on the Serbian underworld that thrived during the Milosevic era took place after the killing, and thousands were jailed.

However, the political and economic changes championed by Mr. Djindjic were set back by his death. His eagerness for closer ties to the West was replaced by the more defiant tones of Vojislav Kostunica, a prime minister who placed increasing importance on Serbia’s ties with Russia and who was reluctant to pursue some war-crime suspects.

Serbia’s talks on closer ties with the European Union are currently on hold because of the government’s failure to help track down the region’s two most-wanted war crimes suspects — Ratko Mladic, the Serbian military leader in the Bosnian war from 1992 to 1995, and Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb political leader during that era.

The first judge in the trial resigned last September, and the entire prosecution team was replaced — prompting accusations of government interference in the judicial process. Two leading witnesses were killed. In February, Judge Mesarevic received threats by phone in court.

Mr. Ulemek published a novel during the trial, based loosely on his time as a paramilitary soldier in the Bosnian war.

Despite the verdicts, many analysts say the case has not fully explored who else was involved in the killing. “I don’t think the people who carried out the assassination could have done it on their own,” James Lyon, an analyst with the International Crisis Group in Belgrade who has followed the trial, said in a telephone interview. “They would need political instructions. These people were operatives, they weren’t planners.”

The Djindjic family has alluded to the possible involvement of Mr. Kostunica’s Serbian Democratic Party, and provided evidence during the case that some of his advisers had met with Mr. Ulemek in the weeks running up to the assassination.

Nenad Vukasovic, lawyer for the gunman, Mr. Jovanovic, contended that Mr. Djindjic had been killed for disobedience by “the same powerful Western interests that brought him to power,” Reuters reported.
630 2007-05-23 Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign minister of Germany, whose governments are under pressure at home to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, made separate visits to that country and met with the president, Hamid Karzai. Mr. Karzai urged the international community to stay engaged. Mr. Steinmeier also visited the province of Kunduz, where a suicide bomber killed three German soldiers over the weekend. Mr. Steinmeier expressed concern about insecurity in Afghanistan and told reporters that the Group of 8 was calling the foreign ministers of Afghanistan and Pakistan to their talks in Germany next week.
631 2007-05-23 So in a good year, a fund’s managers bring in stunning amounts of money, and in a bad year, they still do very well. Some quick math shows why: 2 percent of a $5 billion portfolio, which was roughly the cutoff for making Alpha’s list of the 100 largest funds, equals $100 million. A fund’s managers get to take that fee every single year.

Last year was actually a pretty tough year for the industry. Because hedge funds tend to make a lot of countercyclical bets — thus the name — they can often turn a profit even when the stock market falls. When it’s rising broadly, though, many struggle to keep up. Last year, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index jumped 14 percent, while the average hedge fund returned less than 13 percent, after investment fees, according to Hedge Fund Research in Chicago.

But the men — and they are all men — who appear on Alpha’s list of top earners don’t manage average hedge funds. They manage the biggest funds in the world, the ones that are winning the Darwinian competition for capital, and many of them aren’t having any trouble beating the market. One of the funds at Mr. Simons’s firm, Renaissance Technologies, delivered a net return of 21 percent last year. The other returned 44 percent after fees. And Mr. Simons, who relies on a fantastically complex set of algorithms, doesn’t charge “2 and 20” — as the typical industry fees are called. He charges “5 and 44” — a 5 percent management fee and 44 percent of profits — yet he has still been doing very well by his investors for almost two decades.

I realize that a lot of people find 9- and 10-figure incomes to be inherently excessive. Or even immoral. From a strictly economic point of view, however, they are also perfectly rational. You cannot find anyone else who is providing the same returns as the best hedge fund managers at a lower price. If you don’t like it, you don’t have to give them your money.

Thanks to their incredible performance, the biggest funds have grown far bigger in recent years. The 100 largest firms in the world managed $1 trillion at the end of last year, or 69 percent of all the assets in hedge funds, according to Alpha. At the end of 2003, the top 100 had less than $500 billion, or only 54 percent of total hedge fund investments.

“The best performance is coming from the largest funds,” said Christy Wood, who oversees equities investments for the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, which, like a lot of pension funds, is moving more money into hedge funds.

But there is an irony to this influx of money. It all but guarantees that hedge fund pay over the next few years won’t be as closely tied to performance as it has been. The hundreds of millions of dollars that have flowed into hedge funds have made it all the harder for fund managers to find truly undervalued investments. The world is awash in capital.

All that capital, of course, also translates into ever-greater management fees, regardless of a fund’s performance. The flagship hedge fund at Goldman Sachs lost 6 percent last year, but it still brought in a nice stream of fees. Bridgewater Associates, which is based in Greenwich, has earned a net return of less than 4 percent in each of the last two years. Yet its founder, Raymond T. Dalio, made $350 million in 2006.

“When we have a bad year, we’re essentially flat,” Parag Shah, a Bridgewater executive, told me. “And when we have a good year, we have a great year.”

Goldman and Bridgewater may well bounce back, but the combination of extraordinary pay and ordinary performance is going to occur more and more in the coming years.

Outside of the highfliers on the Alpha list, it’s already the norm. Since 2000, the average hedge fund hasn’t done any better, after fees, than the market as a whole, according to research by David A. Hsieh, a finance professor at Duke. Still, even mediocre managers, after a lucky year or two, are able to attract gobs of capital and charge “2 and 20.”

So are today’s hedge fund managers really worth it? Sure, but only if they deliver the sort of performance that Mr. Simons has, and very few will in the years ahead. More to the point, it’s extremely difficult to know who the stars will be.

In all sorts of walks of life, people tend to think that the past is a better predictor of the future than it really is. That’s why journeyman baseball players — a Yankees pitcher named Carl Pavano comes to mind — are able to sign huge contracts based on a single good season. It’s also why so many investors chase returns.

The genius of the world’s hedge fund managers isn’t only in how they invest their money. It also lies in having set up an industry that takes advantage of a timeless human trait.
632 2007-05-23 “You sit there and watch Andy pitch, and he’s not blowing people away. He’s doing it, basically, on his guts and toughness. That’s the way he pitches now. He changes speeds and changes location, and he’s not afraid to challenge people. He’s a leader type, there’s no question.”

Pettitte said he had spoken recently with Roger Clemens, who starts for Class AA Trenton tonight, but could not predict when Clemens would be ready to rejoin the Yankees. But he said Clemens’s ability to leave the team on days he does not pitch would have no negative impact.

“I haven’t talked with him about what he’s going to do as far as when he gets here,” Pettitte said. “But I’m not concerned about it because I don’t think he’s going to do anything to bring any harm to the team or whatever. I just think it’s going to be nothing but positive.”

Positive and dramatic, that is. For a player who announced his return with an in-game address to the crowd from the owner’s box above home plate, who knows what is next? Clemens could return at the start of next week, in Toronto, or at the end, in Boston.

“He’ll tell us,” Torre said. “I don’t know if he knows for sure. But Roger likes the dramatics. When he shows up, he’ll have all the bells and whistles, whether it’s here or up north.”

GIAMBI WILL TALK TO INVESTIGATORS Jason Giambi will meet with representatives of the commissioner’s office soon to discuss his comments about steroids in USA Today last Friday. Major League Baseball is compelled to investigate, if only for the sake of appearances, and it is unlikely the matter will be pursued very far.

The Yankees are waiting for baseball officials to meet with Giambi before deciding whether to pursue voiding the rest of his seven-year, $120 million deal, which expires after next season. That possibility seems remote, as does the notion of Giambi accepting a trade.

Asked yesterday if he would allow the Yankees to trade him, Giambi said he had no desire to go anywhere.

“I’m a Yankee,” he said. “This is all news to me. It’s kind of fun to read. I never have asked for it.”

POSITIVE SIGNS FROM PITCHERS Phil Hughes has begun throwing from halfway up a mound in Tampa, Fla., but his return is still weeks away. Hughes strained his hamstring on May 1 during the seventh inning of a no-hit bid in Texas.

When Hughes returns, the Yankees’ projected rotation will also include Roger Clemens, Mike Mussina, Andy Pettitte and Chien-Ming Wang.

“It’s too soon to get excited about Philip because he’s still a little ways away, but I think it could be an impressive rotation, a mix of young guys and veterans,” Joe Torre said. “The only way you’re going to get back in this thing and have a record you can be proud of is to pitch. And the better the starters are, the better your bullpen is going to be, too.”

The Yankees have already seen evidence of bullpen improvement. Taking out Saturday’s loss to the Mets, when starter Darrell Rasner left with a broken finger before the first out of the first inning, the Yankees’ relievers have allowed one earned run in their past 22 1/3 innings, dating to May 11 in Seattle.
633 2007-05-23 Merrill Lynch said yesterday that Ben Weston, the chief of its hedge fund development and management group, left the firm after two years.

Mr. Weston is leaving Merrill immediately, according to a memorandum to employees yesterday. The memo was from Rohit D’Souza, global head of the stock trading and alternative investments unit, which includes hedge funds, and Mac Gardner, head of the United States private client division.

Merrill, the world’s biggest brokerage house, reorganized its hedge fund division in January 2006 and named Mr. Weston, a former Credit Suisse First Boston executive, to oversee sales of hedge funds to clients. That included the fund-of-funds unit that allocates investors’ cash to fund managers. Merrill said centralizing the business would improve its performance. It does not break out revenue or profit for the division.

Mr. Weston did not immediately return a call and e-mail messages seeking comment. A spokeswoman for Merrill, Jessica Oppenheim, declined to comment.
634 2007-05-23 Up to 40,000 Palestinians have been trapped inside Nahr al Bared with no water or electricity and dwindling supplies of food as the shelling has continued since Sunday, preventing aid groups from entering the camp.

Even when aid did arrive on Tuesday afternoon, the convoy came under mortar fire. No one was injured in the attack, a United Nations official said, but three damaged trucks were abandoned as aid workers quickly evacuated the area.

As the aid workers drove in, a stream of private cars took advantage of the calm as people scrambled out the camp, many carrying wounded women and children and waving white flags out their car windows. Snipers perched on a hill above the last stretch of road leading from the camp — some belonging to Fatah al Islam, others to the army — opened fire on the cars as they sped past, fleeing refugees said.

In another lull on Tuesday night, thousands of Palestinians piled into cars and raced for the exit gates and presumed safety. Most drove to stay with relatives in the nearby Badawi camp about 10 miles away.

“It was worse than hell,” said Yasmin Abdel Ain, who left the camp on Tuesday night. “The army and Fatah al Islam would fire on each other, but the bombs and bullets landed on us. We were waiting for death.”

The fighting, the most serious of its kind in Lebanon since the end of the civil war in 1990, began Sunday when security officials raided a building in pursuit of bank robbers tied to Fatah al Islam. The raid quickly exploded into all-out warfare when men belonging to the group began attacking army outposts at the edges of the refugee camp.

Early Tuesday, security men surrounded the same building in the center of Tripoli, where a suspected militant was believed to be hiding. But as the security forces closed in on him, he blew himself up, a senior security official said.

“This was terrorism, and no other group could have done what the man did,” said a security official, who was not authorized to speak publicly. He said the Internal Security Forces had sealed the building after Sunday’s fighting, but said the militant had apparently hidden in an apartment on another floor.

In yet another reminder of Lebanon’s bloody past, a group of young men in civilian clothing, carrying brand new M-16 rifles and ready to fight, arrived at one entrance to the camp on Tuesday afternoon and demanded that the army allow them to enter. After a brief scuffle, the army appeared to allow them to guard a nearby area, but strictly forbade them to enter. The Bush administration once again pointed to Syria as a source of the unrest, possibly to deflect attention from the United Nations investigation into the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri, for which Syria has been blamed.

“We will not tolerate attempts by Syria, terrorist groups or any others to delay or derail Lebanon’s efforts to solidify its sovereignty or to seek justice in the Hariri case,” the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, said in a statement.

The European Union foreign affairs chief, Javier Solana, in Beirut on Tuesday countered the administration’s claims, saying he had seen no evidence of Syrian involvement.

The conflict has tugged at Lebanon’s fragile social fabric, inflaming already difficult relations between the Lebanese and the Palestinians. Many Lebanese see the Palestinians as a growing blight on their country, and blame them for harboring groups like Fatah al Islam. Some residents of Tripoli openly called for the army to destroy the camp altogether, insisting that the Palestinians be forced to move away.

Palestinians, who already feel discriminated against, say the shelling and machine-gun fire appears to have targeted them, not just the militants. On Tuesday demonstrators at other refugee camps — including Lebanon’s largest, Ain el Hilwe, and the Rashidiye camp — burned tires and chanted against the fighting, insisting, “We will not let our Palestinian brothers be slaughtered,” The Associated Press reported.

Sultan Abu Aynayn, the leader of the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon, speaking to reporters after concluding a meeting with Prime Minister Siniora, warned, “If the random shelling does not stop, there will be uprisings in all the camps in Lebanon.”

Ali Arabi, who escaped from the camp with his family on Monday night, said the fighting was accomplishing nothing except killing the innocent. “There can only be a political solution to this conflict,” he said. “Each shell that lands on the camp takes with it two or three people. If they intend to do this militarily, they will have to destroy the whole camp.”

WASHINGTON, May 22 (AP) — Lebanon has asked the United States for $280 million in military assistance to help put down an uprising by Al Qaeda-inspired militants operating from a Palestinian refugee camp, the State Department said Tuesday.

About $220 million would go to the Lebanese Armed Forces and another $60 million to security forces, said Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman. He added that the United States was weighing the request.
635 2007-05-23 In advance of the test, skeptics in Congress have been threatening to cut the missile defense budget, and Russia has warned that relations with Washington could rupture if the United States moves ahead with plans to base interceptors and radar equipment in former Soviet states.

Just last Thursday, the House of Representatives cut more than $764 million from the administration’s proposed spending of $8.9 billion on missile defenses in the next fiscal year. A new amount of $205 million was added during floor debate to the House military authorization bill for antimissile projects with Israel, but that money would come from outside the Pentagon’s programs for ballistic missile defense.

Representative Ellen O. Tauscher, the California Democrat who is the chairwoman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, said the House bill, among other things, deleted money for preparing proposed missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic, and instead focused spending on technologies viewed as having more immediate promise.

“We want the Missile Defense Agency to deal with the near-term threats to the war-fighter, to the American people here at home, and to our European allies and deployed troops,” she said. “Too much of the assets were for the future, for yet-to-be-defined science projects.”

The House version protected money for three missile defense systems: the Patriot Advanced Capability 3, the Aegis and the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense. Those all aim at warheads as they close in on their targets, rather than being designed to strike missiles in space during the middle course of their flight, which is the type of system scheduled for this week’s test. Money for an experimental airborne laser was also approved.

In the Senate, the Armed Services Committee has been debating its own version of the military spending legislation this week. The House bill and what emerges from the Senate will have to be reconciled before both houses of Congress vote on the Defense Department budget for the 2008 fiscal year, and both Democrats and Republicans say the results from this next missile defense test will weigh heavily as they decide how to cast their ultimate votes on the antimissile portion of the bill.

The administration’s diplomatic efforts also moved ahead this week, State Department officials said. John C. Rood, the assistant secretary of state for international security, was traveling between Warsaw and Prague for what one department official said was “the start of formal negotiations” to deploy 10 interceptors in Poland and tracking radar in the Czech Republic.

The previous major test, conducted Sept. 1, was graded a success even by skeptics. It was designed specifically to test the radar at Beale Air Force Base, near Sacramento — but the interceptor actually hit the attacking missile, even though that was not a goal of the test.

Weather is an issue this time around, with military meteorologists warning of foul weather. Safety rules require that the attacking missile be visible to monitors who can push a destruct button if it veers off course.

Richard Lehner, a spokesman for the Missile Defense Agency, said that even though a general time and location for the test would be known to operators of the interceptor, “This will be as realistic as it can be, based upon what we are allowed to do within various safety regulations.”

That does not satisfy skeptics.

“The test is highly choreographed, and much simpler than what the system would face in a real battle engagement,” said Frederick K. Lamb, a professor of physics and astronomy at the University of Illinois.

Professor Lamb, who conducted a missile defense study for the American Physical Society, expressed concerns that a successful test this week would be cited as proof that “the system has a substantial capability in a real battle situation. That would be a gross exaggeration.”

The main engagement radar for this next test is at Beale Air Force Base, but the test will allow two seaborne tracking systems — naval radar aboard an Aegis destroyer and an X-band radar atop a mobile base the size of an oil platform — to track the attacking missile.
636 2007-05-23 Eleven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have said they will adopt the California standards if the federal government approves them. Together they account for roughly 30 percent of the American population and 30 percent of the vehicles on the road. Tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks account for about a third of all the greenhouse gas production in the United States.

California is seeking a waiver under the federal Clean Air Act to enact its own emissions standards with a goal of reducing greenhouse gas production from vehicles by 30 percent by 2016. California officials argue that affordable technology exists to make cars run cleaner and burn less fuel, and thus produce less carbon dioxide and other pollutants that may contribute to global warming.

E.P.A. officials gave no indication how or when they would rule on California’s petition. Another public hearing is scheduled for next week in Sacramento, and the agency is accepting public comment for several weeks after that.

Officials from the 12 states have said they will sue if the E.P.A. does not grant the waiver by October. The agency has granted California some 50 such waivers since the first federal clean air laws were enacted in the 1960s, and California has long been at the forefront of air quality regulation. California applied for the current waiver in December 2005.

Steven Douglas, director of environmental affairs for a consortium of auto manufacturers, said the California rules would be costly and reduce the types and sizes of vehicles available to consumers, arguments the industry has used to oppose new fuel-efficiency standards.

Mr. Douglas said the industry supported improving mileage standards, but warned that forcing automakers to increase mileage would cost jobs, make cars less safe and harm the economy.

He said California had not proven that its new regulations would actually help slow global warming. He urged regulators to reject the tough new California rules and move more gradually toward national standards on emissions and fuel economy.

“In this light,” Mr. Douglas said, “a patchwork of state-level fuel economy regulations as is now proposed by California is not just unnecessary but actually counterproductive.”

Numerous witnesses at the E.P.A. hearing on Tuesday rejected those arguments, saying they were reminiscent of claims made by the car companies over the years to try to delay or defeat various safety and environmental regulations.
637 2007-05-23 The rescue effort began at 11:15 Sunday night after the Coast Guard and many boats on the water heard one word from the boat: “Mayday.”

The boat had left Manasquan Inlet about six hours before, and although the Coast Guard station received no response when it asked the crew where they were, Petty Officer Edwards said it was able to triangulate an approximate position to focus the search.

At 2:30 a.m. Monday, the search crews found an inflated life raft and a life ring with the name Mary James on it. At 9 a.m., the body of Mr. Rubert was found about a mile away from the life raft. Mr. Rubert, who was believed to be in his 30s, had one arm through the sleeve of a life vest, according to Petty Officer Edwards.

The Mary James’s slip stood empty Tuesday behind Red’s Lobster Pot restaurant here, while its sister ship, the Nautilus, remained in dock. Both ships are owned by a local fisherman, Jim Elliott, according to other fishermen in the area.

Like many in this community, Marty Stillufsen, the owner of Red’s Lobster Pot and of the slips where the Mary James and the Nautilus were moored, was mystified by the disappearance of the boat, which he said was operated by experienced fishermen.

“I said goodbye to these guys Sunday night,” Mr. Stillufsen said. “Little did you know, that’s the last time you’re going to see them.”

The Coast Guard received no reports Sunday night of any accidents involving the Mary James and another boat. Last summer, another scallop boat, the Alex Mac, sank after colliding with a tow boat and a barge, taking the lives of two fishermen. According to the Coast Guard and local fishermen, weather did not seem to be a factor, either.

“The weather was good,” said Brian Stensland, owner of Fisherman’s Supply, where the Mary James went for fuel before heading out for the last time. “It was a normal, average day where you wouldn’t question not going out.”

Down the street at the Point Pleasant Packing Company, the manager, Bill Becica, questioned why the emergency signaling device that most commercial boats carry did not go off when the boat started to sink. He said crew members on two of his clamming boats heard the Mary James’s distress signal.

“They heard the Mayday call but they didn’t give any position,” Mr. Becica said. “It turned out our guys were about 12 miles away, but they couldn’t do anything.”

Facing the inlet across the street from Red’s Lobster Pot, a statue of a fisherman holding a lantern stands atop a rocky memorial that was erected after two local clamming boats went down within two weeks of each other in January 1999, taking the lives of eight.

Affixed to the railing around the statue are 48 brass plaques with the names of 114 fishermen who have lost their lives at sea since 1931. The last plaque commemorates last year’s sunken scallop boat.

Pointing across the street, Mr. Stillufsen said what was on many people’s minds, “One more plaque.”

“We’re going to miss them,” he said. “It’s a tough business.”
638 2007-05-23 SAN FRANCISCO, May 22 — In a move to shed an unprofitable business as its turnaround gains traction, the Intel Corporation announced Tuesday that it would join with STMicroelectronics, a Swiss semiconductor maker, to form a new company to sell flash memory chips.

Flash memory is used in cellphones, digital music players and digital cameras and is considered one of the most erratic segments of the semiconductor market.

Intel will sell only the part of its flash business known as NOR, used in cellphones, and will receive a stake of about 45 percent in the new company and $432 million in cash. STMicroelectronics, which will sell both its NOR and NAND flash memory businesses, will receive a stake of about 49 percent, along with a payment of $468 million.

The new company, still to be named, will also receive a $150 million investment from Francisco Partners, a private equity firm based in Menlo Park, Calif., which will hold a stake of about 6 percent. The companies also said that they had arranged for $1.3 billion in loans to help finance the venture.

The announcement came as little surprise to analysts, who had long expected Intel to spin off the unprofitable business to focus on its core business of supplying the processors for personal computers. Last year, Intel’s flash memory business lost $500 million on sales of $2 billion.
639 2007-05-23 WASHINGTON, May 22 (AP) — A special federal court that hears veterans’ disability appeals is facing its highest caseload ever because the government, receiving an increasing number of benefit claims, is also rejecting more of them, the court’s chief judge said Tuesday.

The judge, William P. Greene Jr., who presides over the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, told a House Veterans’ Affairs subcommittee that the court had had to recall five retired judges in recent months to assist with backlogs of appeals by veterans unhappy with the denial of benefits or with the level of benefits allowed.

In the first half of the current fiscal year, the court was among the busiest of any at the federal appellate level. In those six months, 2,542 appeals were filed, the most ever for two consecutive quarters, compared with 3,729 for all of the previous fiscal year.

The numbers reflect a sharp increase in denials by the Board of Veterans’ Appeals, an agency of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Denial of benefits jumped to 13,033 in the 2005 fiscal year, from 9,299 in 2004. Last year, the number of denials reached 18,107, according to the court.

If the court is to keep up with the workload, it will need a larger staff and more building space, Judge Greene told the subcommittee.

The judge testified against a backdrop in which several Congressional panels are studying ways to improve veterans’ care. One goal is to reduce the backlog of claims for disability benefits. In a study this year, a Harvard professor, Linda J. Bilmes, said it took up to 177 days for the V.A. to process an initial claim and then an average of 657 days to process an appeal, a pace resulting in significant hardship to veterans.
640 2007-05-23 Mr. Litvinenko, 43, died on Nov. 23, 2006, after weeks of debilitating illness. He became ill on Nov. 1, the day he met Mr. Lugovoi and Mr. Kovtun at the Pine Bar of the Millennium Hotel, across from the American Embassy, in Grosvenor Square. At the meeting, Mr. Litvinenko drank tea, which his associates have since asserted was laced with polonium.

The murder accusation did not mention Mr. Kovtun or a possible motive. From his deathbed, Mr. Litvinenko accused President Vladimir V. Putin of responsibility for poisoning him — a charge the Kremlin has dismissed as ridiculous.

The British accusation is likely to further strain relations between Britain and Russia, already damaged by Britain’s refusal to extradite Mr. Berezovsky, who had been Mr. Litvinenko’s main employer until mid-2006. Mr. Berezovsky offered no comment on Tuesday.

Sir Ken Macdonald, Britain’s director of public prosecutions and the leader of the Crown Prosecution Service, an official body that weighs police evidence before prosecutions, said the service had “carefully considered” a police file presented to it in late January after two months of investigations led by Peter Clarke, the chief of Britain’s counterterrorism police.

“I have today concluded that the evidence sent to us by the police is sufficient to charge Andrei Lugovoi with the murder of Alexander Litvinenko by deliberate poisoning,” Sir Ken said in a statement. “I have further concluded that a prosecution of this case would clearly be in the public interest.”

The statement called the killing an “extraordinarily grave crime.” Some of Mr. Litvinenko’s associates expressed surprise that only one person had been accused.

“I am almost in a state of disbelief that only Lugovoi was charged and not a group of at least three people,” said Yuri Felshtinsky, an associate of Mr. Berezovsky and the author with Mr. Litvinenko of a 2002 book, “Blowing Up Russia.”

“Only the Russian secret service could have executed this coup with nuclear material on British soil,” he said in remarks distributed by his publisher. “The hand of those around Vladimir Putin was clearly visible in the murder.”

Some other recent studies have speculated that Mr. Litvinenko was killed by vengeful former secret service associates for his perceived betrayal of his comrades in the 1990s when he sought to expose alleged corruption in the F.S.B., the domestic successor to the K.G.B. Mr. Litvinenko had cast himself as an anti-Putin crusader and whistle-blower.

Mr. Lugovoi did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday. His lawyer, Andrei M. Romashov, said Mr. Lugovoi had not been notified of any charges.

Later, in remarks reported by Russian news agencies, he denied any role in Mr. Litvinenko’s death. “I believe the decision is a political one,” he said, according to the official Russian Information Agency. He expressed “my distrust of evidence collected” by British investigations and suggested he would soon make statements that would be “a sensation for public opinion in Britain.”

In an interview with The New York Times in March, Mr. Lugovoi said he considered himself a victim of the poisoning that had killed Mr. Litvinenko. “Intentionally or accidentally, we had been assaulted,” he said.

Mr. Lugovoi and Mr. Litvinenko had been recruited in different sections of the Soviet-era K.G.B. Mr. Litvinenko reached the rank of lieutenant colonel as an interrogator in Chechnya and an investigator of organized crime in Moscow for the F.S.B.

Mr. Kovtun, Mr. Lugovoi’s associate, also declined to comment when reached by telephone. Although he faces no charges, he complained that the British had not notified him or Mr. Lugovoi of any resolution in the case. “It’s not clear to us,” he said.

British police officials and prosecutors, who spoke on condition of anonymity under civil service rules, said the evidence had been insufficient to charge Mr. Kovtun.

From the start of the investigation, Russia has said its laws forbid any extradition of Russian citizens. However, the Crown Prosecution’s statement on Tuesday noted Russia’s signature to a 1957 convention on extraditions and an agreement pledging to cooperate “in the sphere of extradition” signed by prosecutors of both countries in 2006, only days before Mr. Litvinenko died.

Marina Y. Gridneva, a spokeswoman for the Russian prosecutor general’s office, said that “a citizen who has committed a crime on the territory of a foreign state can be prosecuted with evidence provided by the foreign state, but only on the territory of Russia.”

But Genri M. Reznik, one of Russia’s leading defense lawyers, said he could not recall such a case.

Referring to the eventual trial of the man accused of killing her husband, Marina Litvinenko insisted that she was “absolutely sure that it has to be here in London, in England.” In a statement, Mrs. Litvinenko said, “It is important to me that my husband didn’t die in vain.”

She met with the Russian ambassador in London, under an arrangement made before the announcement on Tuesday. The purpose of that encounter was not clear.

Broadening the legal campaign, Mrs. Litvinenko’s lawyer, Louise Christian, said she had complained to the European Court of Human Rights about Russia’s handling of inquiries into Mr. Litvinenko’s death.

British officials showed unusual alacrity in demanding that Russia comply with the extradition request. The Russian ambassador, Yury V. Fedotov, was called to the Foreign Office. “This was a serious crime,” the foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett, said Tuesday in Japan. “We are seeking, and we expect, full cooperation from the Russian authorities in bringing the perpetrator to face British justice.”
641 2007-05-23 That, some consultants said, could make Mr. McCain more likely to criticize Mr. Romney by name in an effort to stem his progress.

“I think it’s a New Hampshire strategy, more than anything else,” said Edward J. Rollins, a Republican consultant.

On top of that, Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain are competing for conservative support. To some extent, that base of voters is up for grabs because of Mr. Giuliani’s current support of abortion rights, Mr. Romney’s former support of abortion rights and the distrust with which many conservative groups view Mr. McCain because of his sponsorship of campaign finance legislation and his initial opposition to President Bush’s tax cuts.

In recent days Mr. McCain’s role in negotiating the current immigration proposal has galvanized many conservatives who fiercely oppose it, creating an opening for Mr. Romney.

The issue prompted the first big Romney-McCain skirmish, at the May 15 debate in South Carolina. Mr. Romney referred to an old immigration proposal that Mr. McCain supported with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, not a name that engenders love among many Republican primary voters.

“My fear is that McCain-Kennedy would do to immigration what McCain-Feingold has done to campaign finance and money in politics,” Mr. Romney said.

Mr. McCain has taken more and more to pointing out Mr. Romney’s conversions, in an effort to portray him as a flip-flopper. At the debate Mr. McCain responded that he had not changed his position “because of the different offices that I may be running for.”

As the new Senate accord on immigration was criticized by conservatives, Mr. Romney created an immigration television commercial last week, and Mr. McCain stepped up his response, calling the current immigration system “unacceptable.”

Then he used the line about the small-varmint gun and the Guatemalans. That was a reference to Mr. Romney’s recent efforts to portray himself as a lifelong hunter, despite his lack of hunting licenses, by saying that he hunted “small varmints” and to a report that Mr. Romney had used a lawn company that employed illegal immigrants from Guatemala.

Brian Jones, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, said, “Senator McCain is highlighting what he sees as an example of political opportunism.”

“The race is mature enough now, and evolved enough now, where you can begin to draw clear distinctions between you and your opponents,” Mr. Jones said

Add to that the personal factor. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani have something of a political friendship. Mr. Giuliani, after all, bucked much of New York’s Republican establishment in 2000 when it tried to keep Mr. McCain off the primary ballot. The two men have taken in a number of ballgames together, not to mention meals in New York’s Little Italy. And while Mr. Giuliani has adjusted his positions somewhat on major issues, with months to go before the first votes are cast, it is still early for them to begin squabbling.

The McCain-Romney relationship, though, seems downright frosty.

Nelson Warfield, a Republican consultant who worked as the press secretary for Senator Bob Dole’s presidential campaign in 1996, said he saw Mr. McCain’s recent remarks as more evidence that he says what he wants, when he wants.

“I think with John McCain there is no three-second delay,” Mr. Warfield said.

Mr. McCain’s attacks are not without risks. To some extent, they elevate Mr. Romney, who still places third in many national polls. And they have already renewed questions about Mr. McCain’s temper and temperament, something the Romney camp clearly relished.

Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said that while Mr. Romney was raising “substantive” questions about the immigration proposal, “other campaigns have spent the last couple of days lashing out in anger and taking shots.”

Asked on the trail yesterday about Mr. McCain’s varmint-gun salvo, Mr. Romney laughed it off, telling The Associated Press, “I have respect for Senator McCain, and I guess it just shows that even when he’s wrong, he’s amusing.”
642 2007-05-23 Bishop Robinson said he was extremely disappointed at his exclusion and asked in a statement, “At a time when the Anglican Communion is calling for a ‘listening process’ on the issue of homosexuality, how does it make sense to exclude gay and lesbian people from the discussion?”

The archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev. Rowan Williams, who has expressed liberal views on homosexuality in the past, has been determined to keep the communion intact. In his invitation letter, Archbishop Williams wrote, “I have to reserve the right to withhold or withdraw invitations from bishops whose appointment, actions or manner of life have caused exceptionally serious division or scandal within the communion.”

The secretary general of the communion, Canon Kenneth Kearon, told reporters that the archbishop of Canterbury was contemplating inviting Bishop Robinson as a guest, rather than a participant, but not Bishop Minns.

Canon Kearon said that the leaders of the communion recognized that Bishop Robinson was “duly elected and consecrated according to the proper procedures of the Episcopal Church.”

But to invite him, the canon said, “would be to ignore the very substantial and widespread objections in many parts of the communion to his consecration and his ministry.”

He said there was “no parallel” between Bishop Robinson and Bishop Minns, a rector who was installed as a bishop in Virginia this month by Archbishop Akinola, a crossing of boundaries that the archbishop of Canterbury criticized.

Bishop Minns heads a consortium of churches that have left the Episcopal Church, the Convocation of Anglicans in North America. Canon Kearon said the convocation was not a recognized body of the Anglican Communion.

Bishop Minns said in a statement, “One thing is clear, a great deal can and will happen before next July.”

At the last Lambeth Conference, in 1998, the bishops passed a resolution “rejecting homosexual practice as incompatible with Scripture” and declared their opposition to blessing same-sex unions.

The archbishop of Canterbury said in his letter to the bishops that he wanted the next conference to focus on prayer and reflection more than setting policy.

Integrity, an advocacy group for gay Episcopalians, said its members were “outraged and appalled” at the ostracizing of Bishop Robinson and called on American bishops “to think long and hard about whether they are willing to participate in the continued scapegoating of the gay and lesbian faithful as the price for going to the Lambeth Conference.”

American bishops are reacting cautiously. Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori said in a brief statement, “I urge a calm approach,” and added that the situation could change over the next 14 months.

The bishop of Vermont, Thomas Clark Ely, said: “It’s hard for me to see my colleague in a different status than I am. I think there’s still time to try to work this through. I would hope there is.”

Canon Kearon said two other bishops risked being disinvited. Church officials said one was Nolbert Kunonga, the archbishop of Harare, Zimbabwe, and an ally of President Robert G. Mugabe, who has been accused of human rights abuses. The other bishop was not identified.
643 2007-05-23 “The Bretton Woods system has become outmoded,” said former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup. “It has served us very well for a long time, but these institutions haven’t changed with the times. They need to be rethought and restructured.”

Eckhard Deutscher, a German development official who serves as the dean of the World Bank’s directors, called for a re-examination of the role of all the institutions.

“The biggest challenge of the World Bank is to restore its credibility,” Mr. Deutscher said. “But the international community also needs to look at the whole system. There are governance problems across the board.”

The most immediate issue the bank and the fund must face, experts said, is who governs them.

The recent bank crisis erupted over a narrow dispute over charges of favoritism against Mr. Wolfowitz. But it exposed a larger fissure over whether the United States can retain its role of picking the bank president at a time when American contributions to the pool of grants and loans to the poorest have fallen in relation to what other countries do.

President Bush’s appointment of Mr. Wolfowitz, an architect of the Iraq war, as World Bank president in 2005 was not popular with the Europeans, but they went along with it. Now the administration wants to retain the power to pick the bank president, and Europe wants to continue picking the head of the monetary fund. But there is a growing consensus that this dual tradition is outdated.

“The Wolfowitz situation exposed what an antediluvian system the bank has,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of public policy and economics at Harvard, referring to how the head of the organization is chosen. “But I’m worried that this crisis is going to set back the reform process.”

Some vested interests within the bank, Mr. Rogoff said, do not want to admit that its role in lending — the total was $23 billion last year — has become less relevant to current realities.

Last year, more than $14 billion of the bank’s lending went to so-called middle-income countries like China and India. The bank borrows the money at low cost because of its peerless credit rating, then lends it at slightly above that rate. The money it makes on the loans helps pay the bank’s overhead, including the salaries of its 13,000 employees.

Some bank officials acknowledge that one reason for continuing loans to middle-income countries is that their repayments keep the bank staff large enough to provide technical assistance and analysis needed the world over by donors and recipients alike.

In 2000, an advisory commission created by Congress and headed by Allan H. Meltzer, professor of political economy and public policy at Carnegie Mellon, recommended stopping loans to middle-income countries and converting loans to the poorest countries to grants.

Mr. Meltzer said he once had high hopes that Mr. Wolfowitz would transform the bank in this direction and was disappointed that he did not.

“The basic problem for the bank is that it’s hard to see what good it has done anywhere,” Mr. Meltzer said. “The big gains in poverty reduction have come from opening markets, not from bank loans. The bank does not push programs enough for that.”

In the months before his resignation, Mr. Wolfowitz defended the lending to middle-income countries as a necessary part of providing technical assistance to help them alleviate poverty. That approach heartened many at the bank who argue that it cannot walk away from the poor of China and India, who outnumber the poor in sub-Saharan Africa.

“The bank cannot afford to withdraw from the middle-income countries, which face tremendous inequalities in their societies,” said Mark Malloch Brown, a former head of the United Nations Development Program who was chief of staff to the former United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. “The bank must continue to be involved.”

Another problem for the bank, however, is that while it lends and makes grants to the world’s poorest countries — $9.5 billion last year — the bank itself has become marginalized in the overall global effort for the poor.

World Bank figures show, for example, that the bank’s own contribution to the poorest countries amounts to only about 7 percent of the government-backed aid they get from 230 international aid agencies, including regional development banks and special funds in Europe for disease, education, maternal health and other programs. Large sums are also going to poor countries through private foundations.

During the crisis surrounding Mr. Wolfowitz, European countries threatened to channel money for the poorest countries through other agencies. Now that he is leaving, many experts said, that is bound to happen anyway.

The United States, moreover, is certain to step up its campaign to reduce corruption among recipient countries, continuing a policy that led to fights between Mr. Wolfowitz and the bank board. That demand could also cause European donors to turn away from the bank.

But if the bank becomes even more of a minor player in terms of money for the poorest, many experts said it is bound to remain important. The next bank president, they said, must champion the role of the bank more than ever.

“The bank is often the equivalent of a strategic partner in many poor countries,” said Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development, a policy research organization based in Washington.

While the bank faces power struggles over who gets to pick its president, a similar power struggle over voting rights is under way at the monetary fund.

Last year, the United States won approval for giving slightly more voting shares to China, Turkey and other fast-growing export-driven countries. But in the next year, as still more power goes to growing countries, it will come at the expense of smaller European countries.

Like the World Bank, the fund is becoming more marginal. The world economy has been so successful that the fund, which helped bail out Mexico, other Latin American countries and several Asian countries in the 1990s, is now underemployed. So many countries have paid off their loans that interest income is down and the fund is in a budget squeeze, looking at whether to sell gold bullion to meet expenses.

Its search for a new role has emboldened its critics, especially those who feel that its bailouts of the 1990s were ill advised on the grounds that they made countries complacent about their bad policies.

“In the past I have called for the abolition of the I.M.F.,” said former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, who is also a former Treasury secretary. “If it disappeared tomorrow, I don’t think people would miss it very much.”

Criticism of the monetary fund has also erupted from leaders in Asia and Latin America whose countries staggered under austerity programs imposed by the fund in return for the bailouts of the 1990s. These leaders have begun discussing plans for regional funds to compete with the International Monetary Fund.

But many economists say that the fund will be needed when, inevitably, the next crisis occurs.

“We happen to be in a very quiet time at the moment,” said Richard N. Cooper, a professor of international economics at Harvard. “People are saying, ‘Who needs it?’ I am morally certain that financial crises are not a thing of the past, and that we’ll see crises in the future. The I.M.F. is the obvious collaborative instrument to deal with them.”

The Bush administration has nonetheless made no secret of its disdain for the monetary fund, saying that the institution has been “asleep at the wheel” when it should be more aggressively monitoring currency manipulations and underlying economic inequities in China and other countries.

Monetary fund officials counter that the fund is monitoring these issues but is constrained by its charter from doing as much about them as the administration wants.

The World Trade Organization, established in 1995 as the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, is struggling mightily to salvage the current round of trade talks that started five years ago at Doha, Qatar.

Many trade experts fear that if the talks fail, it could lead to a reversal of 60 years of opening the trading system to more goods and services.

The Doha talks are at an impasse because the United States and Europe are refusing to lower barriers on farm goods, and both are demanding that India and other exporting countries lower barriers of their own.

A crisis mood has descended over the talks, with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. warning that if they fail, a new era of protectionism could be ushered in. The fear is that the World Trade Organization, which is supposed to promote trade, will become a vehicle for lawsuits and protectionist actions threatening higher barriers, leading to a slowdown in the global economy.
644 2007-05-23 CBS has bought Wallstrip, an online company whose Web site mixes finance with humor, to add to its daily financial news Web broadcast. The terms of the deal were not disclosed.

Wallstrip, which also produces blogs about financial news, will retain a separate identity, CBS said in a statement yesterday. The network will work with the creators of Wallstrip.com to develop Internet programs and information that can be sent to mobile phones and other devices.

The acquisition will increase the original Internet video offerings produced by CBS’s interactive unit. CBS has agreements with more than 10 companies, including AOL and YouTube, to distribute its shows online. It is also an investor in the video Web site Joost.

Wallstrip.com’s content is distributed through channels like YouTube, Google Finance and Apple’s iTunes store to a predominantly young male audience. Howard Lindzon, Wallstrip’s founder and chief executive, will become a consultant to CBS Interactive.
645 2007-05-23 “We should not easily blame the other side for our own domestic problems,” Ms. Wu said, as interpreted at the forum, which was open to the press for a while at the beginning. “Confrontation does no good at all to problem-solving.”

Ms. Wu said that efforts to “politicize” the Chinese-American relationship were “absolutely unacceptable.”

These were seen in the administration as code words intended as much for Congress as for the cabinet members in attendance. Administration officials say China continually expresses dismay at efforts in Congress to combat the trade deficit, saying that the moves are driven by politics, rather than being based on reason.

Ms. Wu introduced into the discussions the idea that China could improve the atmosphere by buying more American goods, rather than by opening its own markets to American products, according to James L. Connaughton, chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality.

He quoted her as saying that Chinese officials had gone to about 20 states in recent weeks and made billions of dollars in purchases to shore up American support for trade relations with China. Critics in Congress say such purchases will have no effects on their concerns, however.

Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, said that the Chinese complaints were nothing new and that she and others sought to allay Chinese concerns that there was rising protectionist sentiment in Congress, but she also said she urged the Chinese not to ignore anxieties on Capitol Hill.

“Those issues are of particular concern to members of Congress,” Ms. Schwab said she told the Chinese, adding that Congressional concerns, focused on loss of jobs from imports, are “not necessarily a reflection of protectionism and anti-Chinese sentiment.”

The meetings were the second session of what the Bush administration calls a “strategic economic dialogue” established last year by President Bush and President Hu Jintao of China. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has led the American side in the talks, in Beijing last December and in Washington this week.

A senior administration official, briefing reporters at the end of the day under ground rules that he not be identified, said that Mr. Paulson told the Chinese that they needed to “rebalance” their economy by relying less on exports and more on consumer spending.

He also said that the issue of China’s intervention in currency markets to hold down the value of its currency, the yuan, had become a symbol of its slowness in adopting change.

China has allowed its currency to rise by a fraction of a percentage point in the last few days, apparently as a gesture to address American concerns that when the yuan is valued low against the dollar, exports are artificially cheap and imports artificially expensive.

Manufacturers, as well as Democratic leaders in Congress, are threatening to impose trade barriers or sanctions on Chinese goods if China does not let the value of its currency rise. The American trade deficit last year soared to $765 billion, a record. China accounts for about a third of the overall American trade deficit with the world.

Congress is poised to enact one or more bills this year that would impose sanctions on China if it did not do more to open its economy to American goods and services and allow the yuan to appreciate.

American officials said that they expected the talks this week would yield a package of measures aimed at opening China’s economy to American goods and investments. Announcements are expected on expanded air routes for American cargo and passenger carriers and on the sale of energy technology to China.

Ms. Schwab, the administration’s senior trade envoy, said she and others tried to explain to the Chinese that recent American legal actions against Chinese subsidies and protection of intellectual property were not intended to disrupt the Chinese-American economic relationship.

She said she and Mr. Gutierrez took “great pains” to explain “why our agencies made the decisions they did” on subsidies and piracy.
646 2007-05-23 1 tablespoon chopped chipotle in adobo sauce, or more to taste

1. Bundle spinach in a clean dishtowel and squeeze very tightly to remove all excess moisture.

2. In a food processor, blend together all ingredients except spinach until very smooth, about 90 seconds. Pulse in spinach until just combined. Taste and adjust seasoning, if necessary. Serve with tortilla chips.

Note: You can omit the sour cream and increase mayonnaise to 1 cup.
647 2007-05-23 In this lesson, students learn about the May, 2007, bipartisan "compromise" Senate bill on immigration. They then consider the bill's components, raising questions about and weighing the pros and cons of each, and responding to one editorialist's ...
648 2007-05-23 Nortel Networks said it would pay 1 million Canadian dollars ($921,000) as part of a settlement with the Ontario Securities Commission. The payment is not a fine. The company called it a contribution toward the cost of the commission's investigati...
649 2007-05-23 PUBLIC DATA SHOWED DRUG RISK -- A cardiologist found that GlaxoSmithKline's popular diabetes drug Avandia posed a heightened cardiac risk by analyzing the studies that the company voluntarily posted online. The finding is liking to spur efforts to...
650 2007-05-23 Viacom and an Indian media company, the TV18 Group, said they would jointly create Viacom-18, a television, film and digital media company. Viacom-18 will start a Hindi-language entertainment channel later this year, and Viacom's MTV Networks, whi...
651 2007-05-24 If you are having trouble telling the difference between hedge funds and investment banks these days, the latest ranking from Alpha magazine probably won't help. In a further sign of how deeply Wall Street firms are getting into the hedge-fund bus...
652 2007-05-24 Reporting on McDonald's campaign to redefine "McJobs" in a more positive light....
653 2007-05-24 The Securities and Exchange Commission approved new guidelines on Wednesday that try to balance the need for tighter financial controls with the cost of complying with them. It said the new procedures will make it less costly for smaller companies...
654 2007-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
655 2007-05-24 The private equity firm Corvus Capital, controlled by the financier Andrew Regan, ruled itself out of the running for EMI Group, the British music group, yesterday, following a report in The New York Post that the company was preparing a rival bid...
656 2007-05-24 The Nasdaq Stock Market plans to offer venture capitalists and other private equity players a new avenue to liquidity when it rolls out a computerized trading platform intended to market private placements to institutional investors, such as mutua...
657 2007-05-24 A former secretary at Coca-Cola was sentenced Wednesday to eight years in prison for conspiring to steal trade secrets from the company, as her tearful plea for mercy failed to sway a federal judge. Judge J. Owen Forrester of Federal District Cour...
658 2007-05-24 Gas prices are spiking again - to an average of $3.22 a gallon, and close to $4 a gallon in many areas - and some oil executives are now warning that the current shortages of fuel could become a long-term problem, leading to stubbornly higher pric...
659 2007-05-24 New shows in New York include "Silverland," "Gaslight" and "Cirkus Inferno."...
660 2007-05-24 The minimum wage provision was an important sweetener for Democrats in dealing with the larger spending package, which included money for the military in Iraq and Afghanistan and had been held up by a partisan battle over imposing a timetable for the reducing American troop levels in Iraq.

While more than half the states have higher minimum wages than the existing federal rate, the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, estimates that about 4 percent of the work force, or 5.6 million workers, earn less than $7.25 an hour. President Bill Clinton signed the last minimum wage increase in 1997. Seven states currently have minimum wages higher than $7.25 an hour.

Once the bill is signed by Mr. Bush, the wage increase will become the first part of the new Congressional Democratic leadership’s agenda to become law.

A number of business interests lobbied aggressively against the increase. One group, the National Restaurant Association, said the last increase led to a reduction of 146,000 jobs in the industry and prompted owners to postpone plans to hire another 106,000 workers.

The debate in the House over the wage provisions was limited, as most of the lawmakers spent their floor time arguing over the bill’s spending measures on Iraq.

Representative John A. Boehner, the House Republican minority leader from Ohio, criticized the minimum wage provision along with a set of domestic spending measures that were attached to what was viewed as “must-pass legislation.”

“We’ve got a host of issues that don’t deserve to be put on the backs of the military,” Mr. Boehner said. “It’s a sneaky way to do business.”

But Democrats asserted that Congress had waited too long to raise the minimum wage and that many workers had suffered because of the lower hourly rate.

“Wages have been unconscionably frozen for the last decade,” said Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who leads the House Appropriations Committee.

“After 10 years of indifference, we are raising wages for the hardest-working Americans,” she said.

And Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House Education and Labor Committee, estimated that in the first year that the full increase takes effect, it would provide a family of three with money to buy an additional 15 months of groceries.

In addition to the tax breaks, the Iraq spending bill also included a number of benefits for American businesses. Major airline carriers successfully lobbied for a provision that would relieve them of some of their pension liability. And the National Association of Manufacturers succeeded in getting the lawmakers to strike a provision that would have prevented federal regulators from adopting rules that would pre-empt tougher chemical safety rules adopted by some states.

The bill also includes $6.3 billion in federal money for continued aid to areas damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, $600 million for health insurance for children of low-income families, and $3 billion for farm disaster aid.

The White House had opposed many of the $22 billion in domestic spending provisions, and Republicans managed to remove a number of them shortly before the legislation reached the floor, including a $660 million plan to stockpile pandemic flu medicines and a $400 million energy-assistance plan for low-income families.
661 2007-05-24 WASHINGTON, May 23 (AP) — The Bisys Group, a financial services provider, agreed Wednesday to pay $25 million in restitution to settle federal regulators’ accusations that it had violated financial reporting rules in a way that inflated earnings by $180 million over three years.

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced the settlement with Bisys, which was consistent with a tentative agreement that the company and the agency’s enforcement staff negotiated in November.

Bisys agreed to pay $25 million in restitution and interest. The money will go to investors deemed to have been harmed by what the S.E.C. said was improper accounting from July 2000 to December 2003, especially related to the insurance services division of Bisys.

The company, based in Roseland, N.J., neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing but agreed to refrain from violations of provisions of the securities laws dealing with financial reporting, books and records, and internal controls.

In a statement issued by the company, Robert J. Casale, its chairman, interim chief executive and president, said: “We have improved controls and procedures in our accounting practices, replaced key individuals throughout the firm, and worked to foster high ethical standards and produce reliable financial reporting for our shareholders.”
662 2007-05-24 But the difficulty of reaching that goal was made clear when Republicans and Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee released a tough letter to Ms. Wu, saying they had serious concerns about several Chinese economic practices.

The letter cited China’s “massive and constant interventions in the currency markets” to keep the value of its currency low, its use of subsidies to promote exports and its “inability to enforce intellectual property rights.” Over all, the letter accused China of not living up to its legal obligations under international trade agreements.

The letter sent a signal, if one were needed, that the talks were unlikely to deter Congress from trying to impose sanctions on Chinese exports this year. It was signed by Representatives Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, and Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the chairman and ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee.

Mr. Rangel, in a telephone interview Wednesday evening, said that the meeting with Ms. Wu went well but that he told her that whatever the value of the agreements her team made with the Bush administration this week, “the legislative process will go forward.” He said he told her that Congress represented “the will of the people” on trade with China.

Mr. Paulson, who opposes such legislation, said at a news conference that the talks, the second session of a “strategic economic dialogue” begun last year — the first session was in Beijing in December — were worthwhile. “While we have much more work to do, we have tangible results of our efforts thus far,” he added.

Later, in an interview, the Treasury secretary declined to predict the impact on Congress of this week’s session. “All I can say is that we’ve made important progress, and that it’s more progress than we would have without the S.E.D,” referring to the strategic economic dialogue.

There were no statements to the press from the Chinese side, so it was left to the American side to describe the tone of the meetings, which it said was constructive and friendly, despite signs of deep unhappiness among the Chinese over recent American legal challenges to Chinese economic practices.

On Tuesday, Ms. Wu said that efforts by some to “politicize” the Chinese-American relationship were “absolutely unacceptable.” This was taken as a reference to the American challenges to Chinese subsidies of exports and piracy of DVDs.

Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, speaking at the conclusion of the talks Wednesday, made it clear that her own session with Chinese leaders had done little to narrow differences on these issues. “Suffice it to say we had a healthy exchange of views,” she said.

Two other cabinet members — Mike Johanns, the agriculture secretary, and Michael O. Leavitt, the health and human services secretary — said they had used the dialogue to press the Chinese on strengthening the safety of food and medicine exports.

“I thought our conversation was helpful,” Mr. Johanns said.

Mr. Paulson offered mixed views about China’s movements on the currency issue, a particular flashpoint in Congress, where many lawmakers argue that China intervenes in the currency markets to keep the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar, a strategy that would promote its exports by making them cheaper for American consumers.

Noting that the value of the Chinese currency had appreciated a little more than 8 percent in two years, with a small increase in the last few days, the Treasury chief called on China to “move more quickly” on currency.

“We make the case, they listen and they are moving,” Mr. Paulson said. He said that an announcement last week that China was widening the band in which the currency could fluctuate each day was a “positive signal” but that more needed to be done over time.

Reaction to the announcements by Mr. Paulson and the other administration officials was generally positive among business groups. Groups critical of American trade practices were skeptical, sometimes extremely so.

“There was progress in some areas,” said Myron Brilliant, vice president for East Asia at the United States Chamber of Commerce. “From our standpoint, we want to see more in certain areas. But if you look at the overall picture, the glass is more than half full.”

But Alan Tonelson, a research fellow at the United States Business and Industrial Council, a group that generally opposes deals to reduce trade barriers and supports efforts to protect American industry from foreign competition, said the dialogue with China “stands exposed as a cynical Bush administration exercise in spin and P.R.”

He said the dialogue’s only purpose was to “fool the American people.”

Mr. Paulson, in the telephone interview, said the tone of the discussions was healthy even when both sides disagreed. “I think whenever you get a group of people that powerful together, you’re going to have a serious discussion on a range of topics,” he said.

Mr. Paulson said he was impatient for more concrete results himself and hoped there would be further progress before the third session of the dialogue, in Beijing in December.

“I have no doubt that we’re getting more results than we would have without this dialogue,” he said.
663 2007-05-24 Mr. Ivanov said Russia was not going to build a strategic missile defense system similar to that being developed by the United States, but would take “adequate steps” to respond to the American move.

“A more efficient sword can be found for every shield,” he said.

Mr. Putin and other Russian officials have said that Russia already has missiles capable of piercing any potential missile defense system and that it will develop even more powerful weapons.

Mr. Ivanov also criticized the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, signed in 1987 by the Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and President Ronald Reagan. It eliminated an entire class of medium-range missiles that were based in Europe at the time.

Dismissing the treaty as a cold war relic, Mr. Ivanov said that dozens of nations had developed intermediate-range missiles since the pact was signed, and that many were located close to Russia’s borders. However, he did not say Russia would opt out of the pact.

Mr. Ivanov, a former defense minister, was a colleague of Mr. Putin in the Soviet-era K.G.B. in the mid-1970s in St. Petersburg, then rose through the ranks to become the deputy head of the Federal Security Service, the main successor agency, in 1998.

Mr. Medvedev, widely considered the more liberal of the two, had been the sole first deputy prime minister before February, when Mr. Putin elevated Mr. Ivanov to the same position — an indication that both men were being groomed for potential presidential runs. Both have received lavish coverage in the Russian news media in recent months.

Mr. Putin is barred by law from a third consecutive term and has suggested that he may back a favored successor as the vote draws nearer. A candidate with Mr. Putin’s support would have a huge advantage, in particular because of the Kremlin’s influence over the news media.

During his news conference, Mr. Ivanov also defended Mr. Putin’s move to suspend Russia’s observance of another cold war-era agreement — the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty — which limits the number of military aircraft, tanks and other heavy weapons around Europe.

At the same time, he rejected claims of a new cold war, saying Russia and the United States had been cooperating productively in preventing the spread of unconventional weapons.
664 2007-05-24 Mr. Bush has long contended that withdrawing from Iraq would create a vacuum that would let Al Qaeda flourish, and he reiterated that argument on Wednesday, saying, “We are at a pivotal moment in this battle.” He painted a picture of a deepening terrorist threat even as he said Al Qaeda had been repeatedly thwarted by the United States and its allies.

In 2005, Mr. Bush said, Mr. bin Laden personally directed Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian terrorist who led the group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia until his death last year at the hands of American forces, to develop a new terrorist cell that would plot attacks against the United States and other countries. “Bin Laden emphasized that America should be Zarqawi’s No. 1 priority in terms of foreign attacks,” he said. “Zarqawi welcomed this direction. He claimed that he had already come up with some good proposals.”

The speech, given to 228 graduates, was a far cry from the president’s last Coast Guard Academy commencement address. That speech, delivered in May of 2003, came just a few weeks after Mr. Bush declared an end to major combat operations in Iraq, and the president used it to sound a theme of victory. “In Iraq, America’s military and our allies carried out every mission, and exceeded every expectation,” Mr. Bush said then.

Wednesday’s speech, by contrast, amounted to a defense of Mr. Bush’s policies, and drew immediate criticism from Democrats and some national security experts. Some argued that the speech, rather than building up Mr. Bush’s case for the war, undermined it by confirming that Iraq is already a haven for terrorists.

“The president today made the best case yet for why Congress must insist on a change of strategy in Iraq,” said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. “Intelligence analysts concluded long ago that Iraq has indeed become a training ground and recruiting poster for a new generation of terrorists.” Thomas Sanderson, a terrorism specialist at the nonpartisan Center for Strategic and International Studies, called Mr. Bush’s argument “completely ridiculous,” and said Iraq would not have become a training ground for Al Qaeda had the United States not invaded. “We created the biggest terrorism training ground known, which is Iraq,” he said.

The assertion that Mr. bin Laden is thought to be communicating with insurgents in Iraq is not new. But Mr. Bush sought to infuse it with details. He said intelligence officials believed Mr. bin Laden had asked another top terror operative, Hamza Rabia, to help Mr. Zarqawi develop his terrorist cell by providing him with a briefing about Al Qaeda’s “external operations,” including information on attacks planned on American soil. Mr. Bush said another senior Qaeda leader, Abu Faraj al-Libi, at one point suggested that Mr. bin Laden send Mr. Rabia himself to Iraq, with the idea that “Al Qaeda might one day prepare the majority of its external operations from Iraq.”

And Mr. Bush said Mr. bin Laden tried to send another Qaeda operative, Abd al Hadi al-Iraqi, to Iraq. But Mr. Bush said he was captured.
665 2007-05-24 In a telephone interview yesterday, Dr. Buse said that his opinion of Avandia had not changed since he wrote that letter. But he added yesterday that regulators should not rush to judgment by withdrawing Avandia from the market. Instead, he said, they should wait for the results of a larger study now being conducted by Glaxo that is meant to study the drug’s cardiovascular risks.

Avandia has been used by an estimated six million people in the United States since the agency approved it 1999. At the time, the company promoted Avandia as a safer alternative to a similar diabetes drug, Rezulin, which was withdrawn from the market in 2000 because it caused serious liver damage in some patients.

A Harvard professor who is a critic of the nation’s drug approval process, Dr. Jerome L. Avorn, yesterday drew parallels between the regulatory histories of Avandia and Rezulin, which had been a popular drug in its day.

With both drugs, “there were signals of a very dangerous side effect that were ignored,” he said. “Then massive marketing created a tremendous uptake of the drug.”

Last year, worldwide sales of Avandia exceeded $3 billion, making it one of Glaxo’s top-selling drugs.

The New England Journal of Medicine article, by the influential Cleveland Clinic heart specialist Dr. Steven E. Nissen, warned that the use of Avandia might significantly increase the risk of heart attacks. The extent of those possible risks had not been previously identified to the public.

Dr. Nissen has said that, according to his analysis, any person with Type 2 diabetes has a 20.2 percent chance of having a heart attack during a seven-year period. But with Avandia, he says, that seven-year risk would increase to 28.9 percent.

Glaxo has challenged the significance of Dr. Nissen’s analysis, which was developed by combining the results of more than 40 studies of the drug. Dr. Nissen has acknowledged that such studies, called meta-analyses, have limitations and are not as valid as controlled clinical trials.

As a result of Dr. Nissen’s article, the F.D.A. issued a safety advisory on Monday, suggesting that patients taking the drug consult their doctors. The agency also said that it planned to hold a meeting of outside advisers to review the drug’s safety. Among the options would be leaving it on the market with an even stronger warning — the drug’s label already alludes to the possibility of heart risks — or blocking its sale.

Even before Dr. Nissen had started working on his paper, Glaxo alerted the agency in 2005 and in 2006 that internal analyses had shown an increased risk of heart attacks. But the company also submitted a study of patients that it said showed Avandia was no riskier than other diabetes drugs. None of this analysis was specifically communicated to the public or doctors, although the company posted it on a Web site.

On Capitol Hill yesterday, agency officials explained their handling of Avandia to more than a dozen House and Senate staff members.

The briefing did little to settle concerns among some in Congress that the F.D.A. had been slow to alert patients about the drug’s potential risks to the heart, according to several staff members who were present and who spoke on condition of anonymity because the briefing was confidential.

Dr. Gerald J. Dal Pan, who leads the F.D.A.’s office of surveillance and epidemiology, told Congressional staff members that some in his office had disagreed with the agency’s actions regarding Avandia’s potential heart risk, several of those present said. Agency safety reviewers had been overruled by those in charge of drug approvals, staff members said.

No senators attended the meeting, but some commented afterward on the F.D.A.’s handling of Avandia.

“It’s unconscionable that F.D.A. found serious medical risks arising with Avandia and raised no red flags,” said Senator Max S. Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said that the agency’s inaction and internal dissension was further proof that legislation was needed to separate the agency’s approval and safety-assessment functions. Mr. Grassley had proposed such an amendment to a drug-safety bill that recently passed the Senate, but it lost by one vote.

The House will soon take up its version of F.D.A. legislation. Several staff members said that Mr. Grassley’s amendment has won new life.

In his letter to the agency, dated March 15, 2000, Dr. Buse was highly critical of the drug maker’s marketing of Avandia, accusing the company of “pervasive and systemic” efforts to play down the drug’s risks and overstate its benefits.

The F.D.A. was conducting its own investigation of Avandia marketing and found that company representatives were denying the existence of changes on the drug’s label that the F.D.A. had already ordered, which were meant to flag Avandia’s risks to the heart and liver.

The agency sent the drug maker a warning letter in July 2001, citing misleading statements made by company representatives at a recent meeting of the American Academy of Clinical Endocrinologists, where the agency had sent undercover investigators. The F.D.A’s letter criticized company posters displayed at the meeting, saying they did not carry adequate warnings.

It was the third time that the agency had chastised the company about its promotion of Avandia. Because of the repeated warnings, the agency demanded that the company send out a letter to doctors specifically warning them of the risks. The company subsequently sent out that “Dear Doctor” letter on Sept. 6, 2001.

In statement yesterday, a Glaxo spokeswoman, Mary Anne Rhyne, said that the company had “strongly disagreed” with the allegations in Dr. Buse’s March 2000 letter, “which we found to be unbalanced and unsubstantiated.”

“We took the time to meet and talk with Dr. Buse at length about his concerns,” Ms. Rhyne’s statement continued. “We explained our reasons for why we disagreed with his characterization of the cardiovascular safety profile of Avandia.”

As for the F.D.A.’s July 2001 warning letter, Ms. Rhyne said, “Action was taken at the time to ensure representatives of the company were accurately reflecting the label for the product in any commercial activity.”

Dr. Buse, as one of two incoming presidents of the diabetes association set to take office in September, has been widely quoted in media reports this week on Avandia. In that role, he has struck a neutral tone on the drug and urged patients not to panic. And yesterday, he said that the F.D.A. and doctors should wait for Glaxo’s study of Avandia’s cardiovascular effects.

But as a private doctor, Dr. Buse said that he does not generally prescribe Avandia to patients. He has been an outspoken critic of the drug in medical education meetings, some of them sponsored by Takeda and Eli Lilly, which jointly market a competing drug, Actos.

He was also an investigator in a study comparing Avandia with Actos, sponsored by Eli Lilly, that showed Actos had better effects on cholesterol than Avandia.

Dr. Buse said yesterday that he wrote the letter in 2000 in response to an F.D.A. petition filed by Dr. Sidney Wolfe, a consumer activist, who had asked the agency to place warning labels on Rezulin, Avandia and Actos.

Dr. Wolfe’s Health Research Group, a part of Public Citizen, has long warned patients not to use any of those drugs. At the time, the F.D.A. was considering removing Rezulin from the market, and Dr. Buse objected. Rezulin was made by Parke-Davis, a division of the Warner Lambert Company.

“The way I felt about it, after several years of clinical availability of Rezulin, we kind of understood the problems with it,” he said, “and we didn’t understand the problems of Actos and Avandia.”

Dr. Buse analyzed data submitted to the F.D.A. in support of Actos and Avandia and came to the conclusion that there was a “hint, a whisper” of cardiac-related deaths with Avandia as well as evidence of negative effects on cholesterol.

Referring to Avandia by its generic name, rosiglitazone, and to Rezulin as troglitazone, Dr. Buse wrote in the letter, “I do not believe that rosiglitazone will be proven safer than troglitazone in clinical use under current labeling of the two products.” He added: “In fact, rosiglitazone may be associated with less beneficial cardiac effects or even adverse cardiac outcomes.”

In the 2000 letter, Dr. Buse asked the agency to call for head-to-head studies of all the drugs.

Yesterday, he said, “I would say that in the last several years, there has not been a study that’s made me feel better about this.”
666 2007-05-24 Iraqi police officials said the body was partly clothed in an American military uniform and had a tattoo on one arm, bullet wounds and possible signs of torture. Residents said it was found floating in the Euphrates on Wednesday morning, several miles south of the road by the river where the attack occurred.

“Some people from our town — and I was with them — dragged the body from the river,” said Ali Abbas al-Fatlawi, 30, a resident of Musayyib. “We saw the head riddled with bullets, and shots in the left side of the abdomen. His hands were not tied, and he was not blindfolded.”

Ali Khalid, 27, a carpenter who lives near the river, said he had used his boat to take the body to shore. Residents say the police took the body to a local hospital, where American soldiers later collected it.

American military officials did not confirm the local accounts. A group of soldiers who had been searching near Musayyib this week — and who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak about the operations — said American troops might have cornered the gunmen, who then killed the soldier and dumped his body as they fled.

The area, they said, has one of the most entrenched insurgent populations in Iraq, with American troops regularly facing attack when they enter.

The three missing men are Pfc. Joseph J. Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif.; Specialist Alex R. Jimenez, 25, of Lawrence, Mass.; and Pvt. Byron W. Fouty, 19, of Waterford, Mich.

Late Wednesday, an aunt of Private Anzack said military officials had told the family that a commanding officer identified the body, but that DNA tests were still pending, The Associated Press reported. “They told us, ‘We’re sorry to inform you the body we found has been identified as Joe,’ ” said the soldier’s aunt, Debbie Anzack. “I’m in disbelief.”

Lt. Col. Robert Morschauser, commander of Task Force 2-15, Second Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, which has been searching the area, said, “Until we know, we’re going to continue searching.”

He added, “We need closure for the families.”

In the dining hall at a United States base here, American soldiers gathered around televisions, anxiously watching cable news reports about the discovery of the body.

Pfc. Ryan McClymonds, 21, of Miami, said that if the body found in the river proved to be that of one of the missing Americans, its discovery would at least represent some progress in a frustrating search dominated by false leads. “Something is better than nothing for the families,” Private McClymonds said. He said the troops hungered for something to show for their effort. “If we find out it’s nothing, it hurts,” he said. “It’s just three guys — we should be able to find them. But we are having a really hard time.”

At least two soldiers have already died during the search for their missing comrades, and several others have been wounded. Iraqi and American officials have reported that roughly 1,000 people have been detained since the search began. Of those, commanders have said, roughly 15 are believed to have direct knowledge of the ambush.

Seven of the nine American service members killed Monday and Tuesday were soldiers. Six were killed by roadside bombs and the seventh was hit by small arms fire, the military said in statements.

The other two were marines killed in combat in Anbar Province, the military said.

In Wednesday’s suicide attack, the bomber walked into a coffee shop in Mandali, 60 miles east of Baghdad in Diyala Province, and blew himself up. A police official said the blast had killed 11 people and wounded 25; news agencies reported that the police said at least 20 people had been killed.

It was at least the second major attack in a week in the area and seemed to reflect rising tensions between Kurds and Arabs over a disputed section of the province that Kurdish leaders are seeking to incorporate into Iraqi Kurdistan. On May 19, gunmen wearing Iraqi Army uniforms dragged 15 Shiite Kurds into the street in a nearby village and shot them dead, Iraqi government officials said.

Diyala, a religiously mixed area that has become one of Iraq’s deadliest regions, was also the site of several gun battles and bombings on Wednesday.

Security officials in Jalawla said three Iraqi soldiers had been among six killed there in a series of clashes. A bomb in the nearby city of Buhruz killed two women, officials said. And in Muqdadiya, two other civilians and a policeman were killed in separate attacks.

In Baghdad, the authorities found 30 bodies throughout the city, an Interior Ministry official said. Bombs and mortars killed at least four people, the official said.

Gunmen in armored vehicles also opened fire near the Shorja market, leading to clashes that killed at least five people and wounded 17, according to witnesses and the police.

Mustafa Hatem, 35, said the shots had set fire to his electrical goods store, causing more than $10,000 worth of damage. The Iraqi government, he said, should consider augmenting its own government forces and allowing Iraqis to create their own private security companies.

“I was expecting good things from the government succeeding Saddam’s, but unfortunately things have gone in the opposite direction to our hopes and dreams,” he said. “I wonder, how has the security plan benefited us?”

The United States military said gunmen attacked a convoy of State Department officials in Baghdad on Wednesday, requiring help from attack helicopters and American troops in the area. No American soldiers or civilians were hurt.
667 2007-05-24 “If it had been my son alone,” Mrs. Chaney said in 1967, “nothing would have been done. Two white boys were killed, so they did something about the killing of my child who was with them.”

James’s sister Barbara Dailey told The Courier Post of Cherry Hill, N.J., in 2005 that her mother had at first not understood the civil rights movement. “She was trying to find out as much about it as she could,” Ms. Dailey said, “so that she could understand what was happening, how dangerous it was for him and how she could keep him safe. But by the time she figured that out, he was dead.”

After her son’s murder, Mrs. Chaney sued five restaurants in Meridian for racial discrimination. She was fired from her job and could not find other work. Crosses were burned on her lawn, and a firebomb intended for her family’s house destroyed that of a neighbor.

She moved to New York, finding work at a nursing home changing linens and emptying bedpans, and then, after 30 years, to New Jersey.

In 2005, an eighth Klansman, Edgar Ray Killen, who had been released as a result of a hung jury in the federal trial, was cleared of murder by a state jury but convicted of manslaughter. He is serving a 60-year sentence.

Mrs. Chaney was the last witness for the prosecution at Mr. Killen’s trial. She shuffled to the stand with a cane and, in a voice hobbled by age, told of the last time she saw James alive. Ben was crying, she recalled, and wanted to go with his older brother, whom he idolized, on a round of civil rights activities. But she would not let him.

“J. E.,” as she called James, “never came back.”

Mrs. Chaney recounted the eggs thrown and gunshots fired at her house after the murders, as well as the telephoned death threats.

“They said they were going to put dynamite under my house,” she said, “and blow us to bits.”

Besides working in a bakery, Mrs. Chaney did odd jobs. Her husband, also named Ben, was a plasterer. One Sunday afternoon, when James was in his mid-teens, Ben Chaney called her to say he was leaving her. He never returned.

In addition to her son Ben, of Manhattan, and her daughter Barbara, of Willingboro, Mrs. Chaney is survived by two other daughters, Janice Chaney of Brooklyn and Julia Chaney-Moss of Willingboro.

Before her husband left her, Mrs. Chaney recalled, he had been concerned for his son’s safety. As a teenager, James had been participating in “freedom rides” to integrate bus travel, and his disapproving father had disciplined him for doing so.

Four days after James disappeared, Mrs. Chaney was interviewed by The New York Times and spoke of the day he had told her he was in the civil rights movement. James said, “I can probably do something for myself and help somebody else,” she recalled.

Her son’s murder was not Mrs. Chaney’s first experience with the disappearance of a family member. She remembered how her grandfather had refused to sell his house and land to white people. All that was ever found of him were a pair of shoes, his shirt and a watch, she told The Courier Post.

Mrs. Chaney felt scant satisfaction that Mr. Killen was, in 2005, finally brought to justice. “Mighty long time,” she told The Times, saying of the killers, “Most of them dead about now.”
668 2007-05-24 DETROIT, May 23 — A Michigan-based retail chain is trying to help customers save money by warning them several hours beforehand about price increases at its gasoline stations.

Meijer, a family-owned company based in Grand Rapids that operates 164 gas stations in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan and Ohio, offers to alert drivers about a pending price increase by sending text messages to their cellphones.

The warnings, which do not include the amount of the increase, usually result from price jumps at competing stations and the aim is to give drivers at least two hours to fill up before a higher price takes effect, a Meijer spokeswoman, Stacie Behler, said.

“To the extent that we can, we will give you the alert in the morning and raise prices around 1 or 1:30 to give you a chance to get in before that,” Ms. Behler said.

More than 6,000 people signed up for the service when Meijer tested it in Indianapolis and in western Michigan, and thousands more have done so since the service was expanded last week across the chain. At a few stations, the alerts have led to lines of cars trying to beat an increase.
669 2007-05-24 SEATTLE, May 23 (Reuters) — Microsoft said Wednesday that it did not need to buy Yahoo to gain scale in online advertising, because it had “all the pieces” to build a successful ad business.

Speaking at the Goldman Sachs Internet Conference in Las Vegas, Microsoft’s chief advertising strategist, Yusuf Mehdi, said that the company was already bigger than Yahoo in terms of users of its Web services like e-mail and instant messaging.

Last week, Microsoft said that it would acquire aQuantive for $6 billion to gain a foothold in the online advertising business dominated by its rivals Google and Yahoo.

Still, some analysts said Microsoft needed an established Internet player like Yahoo to gain scale to take on Google. Several newspapers reported this month that Microsoft was considering a deal to acquire Yahoo for $40 billion to $50 billion.
670 2007-05-24 Emissions of carbon dioxide from fuel burned in the United States dropped 1.3 percent in 2006 compared with an all-time peak reached the year before, according to preliminary data from the Energy Department. The United States remains the leading source of the carbon dioxide, the main emission linked to global warming. The White House quickly hailed the downturn, even in the face of economic growth, as evidence that President Bush’s policies for slowing growth in emissions without a mandatory cap were working. Some scientists and private environmental groups noted that the cause, according to the government, was mainly moderate weather and high prices for oil, natural gas and electricity. Over all, emissions were up 17.9 percent since 1990.
671 2007-05-24 Foul weather in Alaska has prompted the Pentagon to delay, until tomorrow at the earliest, a test of the new missile defense system, military officials said. The system can operate in all weather in a wartime environment, but safety rules governing tests require that the target missile, to be launched from Kodiak Island, be visible to monitors who can push a destruct button if it veers off course.
672 2007-05-24 Federal regulators have been under pressure from business groups and lawmakers to ease the requirements of the internal controls provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which was introduced after the Enron and WorldCom scandals.

Section 404, which requires public companies to assess the controls they have put in place in order to certify that their reports are reliable, was intended to discourage fraud and financial manipulation. Its critics, however, say its stringent requirements impose unnecessary costs on small companies and have caused United States financial markets to lose ground.

Congress left it up to regulators to determine how thoroughly auditors had to conduct their exams.

The commission’s action yesterday was the culmination of a fierce lobbying battle between accounting firms, which have reaped huge profits from the tighter standards, and an influential coalition of small public companies, which has called for relief for years.

The regulator of auditors, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, is expected to vote today on new rules for auditors, which reflect a similar emphasis on end results over process.

The S.E.C.’s new guidelines largely resemble those it proposed late last year, accounting experts say. They call on corporate managers to use a “top down” approach to identify the areas where fraud or errors are most likely and a “risk based” approach that allows room to avoid unnecessary testing. This contrasts with a more prescriptive approach that auditors had employed.

Among the most concrete changes is that the S.E.C. will now require a company to get an outside auditor’s formal opinion on whether its financial controls are working. Previously, companies were required to have outside auditors evaluate the quality of the assessment process as well. Accounting experts said this could lower a typical audit’s cost by 10 to 20 percent.

Among the rule proposals on the raising of capital, the S.E.C. has recommended changing its Rule 144 in a move that would allow investors in PIPEs — private investments in public equity — and other restricted securities to sell their positions six months earlier.

Currently, those investors must hold the securities for at least a year. Those who are shorting the stock — betting its price will fall — will still have to hold it for a year.

The S.E.C. also proposed expanding the number of small companies that would qualify for less stringent disclosure requirements and be able to take advantage of so-called shelf registration. While both areas are prone to abuse, regulators are seeking a balance between making it easier for small companies to raise capital and ensuring investor protection.

The commission will solicit comments on the proposals over the next 60 days.
673 2007-05-24 VALENCIA, Spain, May 23 (AP) — Emirates Team New Zealand wanted a challenging race, and Desafio Español gave it one.

With Luna Rossa of Italy already in the final, the Kiwis were pleased to get a tough contest from their Spanish opponents, taking the best-of-nine Louis Vuitton Cup semifinals, 5-2, in a series many expected them to sweep.

“There’s a sense of relief,” Terry Hutchinson, Emirates Team New Zealand’s tactician, said Wednesday. “The Spanish were always a very dangerous team to pick. The series we had with them was a really good test for us. They sailed a good series, and it’ll help us prepare for the next round.”

The Kiwis, two-time America’s Cup winners, disposed of the Spanish by 1 minute 18 seconds with some aggressive controlling from the helmsman Dean Barker.

Barker had some shaky starts in the series, but in a matchup in which the team that came off the line with the lead always won, Barker locked his counterpart Karol Jablonski out to the far right in the dial-up and crossed the start with a lead of two boat lengths and a 13-second advantage.
674 2007-05-24 ATLANTA, May 23 — A federal judge ignored the tearful plea for mercy from a former Coca-Cola secretary on Wednesday and sentenced her to eight years in prison for conspiring to steal trade secrets from the company.

Judge J. Owen Forrester of Federal District Court told the former secretary, Joya Williams, 42, that he was giving her a longer sentence than recommended by federal prosecutors and sentencing guidelines because “this is the kind of offense that cannot be tolerated in our society.”

Ms. Williams had faced up to 10 years in prison on one conspiracy charge in a failed scheme to sell Coke’s trade secrets to PepsiCo for at least $1.5 million.

Sentencing guidelines, which federal judges are not bound by, called for a sentence of five years and three months to six years and four months. Ms. Williams was convicted Feb. 2 in a jury trial in Atlanta, where Coca-Cola is based.

“I can’t think of another case in 25 years that there’s been so much obstruction of justice,” the judge said.
675 2007-05-24 WASHINGTON, May 22 — With Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. declaring “let’s get to work,” Chinese and American officials began two days of talks today to reduce mutual economic tensions. But they immediately ran into familiar disagreements and one new concern, food safety.

In the wake of reports about poison-tainted toothpaste and pet food from China, Bush administration officials said that both Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, raised the issue with the Chinese at a breakfast session and in later talks.

“They know this is an issue that concerns us and concerns the American people,” Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez told reporters during a break in the talks. But he had no information on how the Chinese side planned to handle the problem.

The Chinese delegation leader, Wu Yi, a vice prime minister, opened her presentation with a veiled criticism of American legal challenges to China over allegations of improper export subsidies and piracy.

“We should not easily blame the other side for our own domestic problems,” Ms. Wu said, as interpreted at the forum. “Confrontation does no good at all to problem-solving.” Ms. Wu said efforts to “politicize” the Chinese-American relationship were “absolutely unacceptable.”

These were seen as code words intended as much for Congress as for the ranks of the Cabinet members in attendance. The Chinese delegates will be meeting with Congressional leaders on Wednesday and Thursday as part of Mr. Paulson’s effort to deepen mutual understanding.
676 2007-05-24 The aluminum producer Alcoa said in a statement that it would continue to pursue its $27.4 billion cash and stock bid for a rival, Alcan, despite the Canadian company's rejection of the offer. But Alcoa's chairman and chief executive, Alain J. P. ...
677 2007-05-24 The European Parliament voted to impose retail price caps on roaming charges, fees that mobile phone consumers pay when making or receiving calls outside of their home calling zones. The European Council of Ministers, which has already endorsed th...
678 2007-05-24 HIGH GAS PRICES COULD LAST -- Gasoline prices are spiking again -- to an average of $3.22 a gallon and close to $4 a gallon in many areas -- and some oil executives warn that current fuel shortages could become a long-term problem, leading to stub...
679 2007-05-24 Foul weather in Alaska has prompted the Pentagon to delay, until tomorrow at the earliest, a test of the new missile defense system, military officials said. The system can operate in all weather in a wartime environment, but safety rules governin...
680 2007-05-24 BCE, the parent of Bell Canada, the largest communications company in Canada, said that a group led by Cerberus Capital had joined the bidding for the company. While the other investors were not identified, they will be vital to any deal because C...
681 2007-05-24 Linkin Park's ''Minutes to Midnight'' (Warner Brothers) entered the Billboard album chart at No. 1 with sales of 623,000 copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan. That's the best first-week showing for any album this year, though it is almost 200,00...
682 2007-05-24 Emissions of carbon dioxide from fuel burned in the United States dropped 1.3 percent in 2006 compared with an all-time peak reached the year before, according to preliminary data from the Energy Department. The United States remains the leading s...
683 2007-05-25 A description of what happens when a stroke occurs....
684 2007-05-25 On a recent trans-Atlantic flight with Air France, I was asked to pull down my window shade by the stewardess. I refused, as it was daytime and I had no desire to sleep. She insisted, but I held my ground and told her to take the matter up with th...
685 2007-05-25 Texas Tech hopes a chess institute will bring it better students....
686 2007-05-25 When Dinakar Singh isn't giving investment tips at charity events, the former head of Goldman Sachs's proprietary equities trading desk runs a long/short-oriented hedge fund. While there are plenty of hedge funds these days - and even a lot led by...
687 2007-05-25 The oldest presidential candidate isn't cutting the youngest any slack over the latter's "no" vote on the Iraq financing supplemental....
688 2007-05-25 The Coca-Cola Company said Friday it would buy Glaceau, the maker of Vitaminwater, for $4.1 billion. It would be Coke's largest acquisition ever, and the price tag is more than the amount of cash Coke had on hand at the end of last quarter, meanin...
689 2007-05-25 The leading defender of the war in Iraq denounces those who voted against the emergency war spending bill....
690 2007-05-25 Robert Greifeld can breathe a little easier. The chief executive officer of the Nasdaq Stock Market, who has been trying for at least 14 months to buy a European exchange, has finally gotten his deal with an agreement to buy Sweden's OMX for 25.1 ...
691 2007-05-25 An internal document from Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student lender, showed that the company sought a meeting with President Bush's budget office about two months before the company's chairman, Albert L. Lord, sold more than $18 million in s...
692 2007-05-25 A Buyout firm, Sun Capital Partners, has doubled its stake in Sharper Image, raising the prospect that the ailing specialty retailer might be taken private as it tries to bounce back. Sharper Image's stock rose 15 percent Thursday after it said in...
693 2007-05-25 When some of the biggest - and most reclusive - names in hedge-fund land took the podium this week at a charity event, they offered attendees more than just some inspiring words: They gave investment advice. As The New York Times's Jenny Anderson ...
694 2007-05-25 Jim Fifield, a former executive of the EMI Group, is still interested in making a bid for the company, which received a takeover offer from Terra Firma Capital Partners this week. Mr. Fifield, who had been working with Corvus Capital on a possible...
695 2007-05-25 In “Paprika,” a gorgeous riot of future-shock ideas and brightly animated imagery, the doors of perception never close. A mind-twisting, eye-tickling wonder, this anime from the Japanese director Satoshi Kon bears little relation to the greasy, sticky kid stuff that Hollywood churns out, those fatuous fables with wisecracking woodland creatures selling lessons in how to be a good child so you can grow up to be a good citizen. Model behavior isn’t on the menu in “Paprika,” and neither are dinky songs and visuals. Here, when a woman sprouts a pair of wings, she doesn’t only flit about like Tinker Bell; she’s also pinned captive to a table, a man’s hand slithering under her skin.

If this doesn’t sound like your childhood animated flick, it isn’t. But neither is it Ralph Bakshi, the guy who tried to make cartoon movies grow up in the 1970s by way of Fritz the Cat. It’s old news that the great Japanese director Hayao Miyazaki has done his part to steer animation away from Disney-influenced juvenilia, but in the past decade or so, directors like Mamoru Oshii (notably with the virtuosic “Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence”) and Mr. Kon have pushed animation film hard into more overtly adult realms. Like the “Ghost in the Shell” animes, “Paprika” explores that intersection between the human and the machine, including the lands of enchantment you can travel to when you plug in, boot up and drop out.

Based on a novel by the Japanese author Yasutaka Tsutsui, and written by Mr. Kon and Seishi Minakami, the dense, rather overly plotted story hinges on a nifty little gadget called the DC Mini, an experimental therapeutic device a psychiatric institute has developed to tap into patient dreams. This dream machine shows enormous promise — and obvious dangers — but several have gone missing, as has one institute employee. Most of “Paprika” concerns the search for the errant DC Minis and the employee, an endeavor that consumes the institute’s resident attraction, Dr. Atsuko Chiba (voiced by Megumi Hayashibara); her brainiac colleague Dr. Kosaku Tokita (Toru Furuya), a mountainous blob of a man and the inventor of the DC Mini; and the troll-like Dr. Torataro Shima, a k a the Chief (Katsunosuke Hori).

There’s more, including Toshimi Konakawa (Akio Ohtsuka), a detective with a comic-book flat-top and the kind of broad shoulders that tend to carry a world of troubles. Called in to investigate the scene by the Chief, an old friend, Konakawa comes equipped with his own alternative realities, namely a recurring nightmare set in a circus in which every performer and spectator resembles him, and a persistent dream that looks like a greatest-hits reel from big-screen entertainments. In this headily conceptual, gracefully edited interlude, Konakawa swings through a jungle on a vine like Tarzan, loincloth and all, only to end up tussling with a man in a genre thriller, inspiring one of the film’s most poignant philosophical riddles: Where do the movies end and our dreams begin?

Dr. Chiba and Konakawa each chase the wayward DC Minis down different paths. The detective starts visiting an Internet site that leads him deep into curious dominions where he revisits scenes from his distant and recent past, while Dr. Chiba infiltrates other people’s dreams by way of a DC Mini. In one of these reveries, she visits a near-deserted amusement park where an encounter with a chubby-cheeked doll nearly ends with her death. In time, the barriers separating the real and the imaginary dissolve like paper in water, as Dr. Chiba, Konakawa and a spritelike woman called Paprika — who springs into view whenever Dr. Chiba happens to be around — slip deeper into their substitute realities.

That sounds complicated and it is, a bit. That said, if you keep your eye on the screen and don’t overworry the plot particulars, you will be rewarded with a cavalcade of charming, gently outré and beautiful hallucinations. In “Paprika,” Mr. Kon bombards us with popping visual delights, including a dementedly cheery parade of inanimate objects in which household appliances, drumming frogs, beckoning cats, grinning dolls and even a red Shinto gate march in lockstep, sucking up human passers-by along the way. It can take a moment to situate yourself amid this splendidly controlled chaos. But this superabundance works to one of the film’s themes, namely that our fantasies, including those opened up by the Internet, are pulling us away from the material world and, perhaps, more dangerously from one another.

There’s something sinister about the dreamscapes in “Paprika,” fluidly rendered in both hand-drawn and 3-D animation, which may seem peculiar for moviegoers used to more benign animated fantasies. For all its gaudy glories, the film buzzes with a sense of unease about the rapidly changing relationship between our physical selves and our machines, a topic that Mr. Kon engages with as much sophistication as writers like Neal Stephenson and Michel Houellebecq, if rather more brevity. This anxious hum doesn’t dilute the delight of watching Paprika jump from one representation to another — from a pane of glass into an image on a T-shirt — but it invests this film with a fascinating tension. Mr. Kon shows us the dark side of the imaginative world in “Paprika” that he himself has perceptively brightened.
696 2007-05-25 Despite near-record gasoline prices, more Americans than ever were expected to travel on the long Memorial Day weekend, most of them by motor vehicle.

According to the AAA, 38.3 million people will travel more than 50 miles from home this weekend, an increase of 1.7 percent from last year, and 84 percent of them will go by car or truck.

In the New York area, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is anticipating that 1.4 million will pass through its three major airports, Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International between today and Tuesday.

The authority estimated that 3.4 million vehicles will use the two tunnels and four bridges that link various parts of the city with New Jersey during the long weekend.

In anticipation of the holiday rush, both New Jersey Transit and the PATH system said they would run extra trains out of the city today, then revert to a holiday schedule on Monday. New Jersey Transit was also planning to add bus service out of the Port Authority Bus Terminal.

The AAA said regular gasoline was averaging $3.04 a gallon nationwide, an increase of 15 cents over last year. In the New York area, gasoline prices were higher, generally more than $3.30 a gallon.

AAA officials said consumers were coping with higher gasoline prices by staying at less expensive hotels and eating in cheaper restaurants.
697 2007-05-25 It was late in introducing bottled water to the market. And in 2000, Coke’s chief executive signed a deal to buy Quaker Oats that included Gatorade, but the board turned him down. Quaker was then swept up by PepsiCo.

This year, PepsiCo’s share of the noncarbonated beverage industry in the United States — which includes bottled water, sports drinks and juice — was 50 percent. Coke’s market share was 23 percent, according to the trade publication Beverage Digest, which first reported the negotiations last month.

William Pecoriello, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, called the acquisition, a “potential game changer” in the market for noncarbonated drinks.

“It would fill a major gap in it’s noncarb portfolio,” Mr. Pecoriello said last week in a note to investors.

Glaceau also makes Fruitwater, an energy drink called Vitaminenergy and Smartwater, which contains electrolytes. Mr. Pecoriello said the sale of Glaceau’s products could be expanded overseas.

The jewel of Glaceau is Vitaminwater which is vitamin-fortified and offered in flavors. It is among a fast-growing category known as functional foods, which market themselves as offering an additional benefit beyond basic nutrition. Energy drinks fortified with ginseng, orange juice with added calcium and yogurt with live bacteria called probiotics are examples of fortified foods.

Each bottle promises a specific benefit. Kiwi-Strawberry flavored Vitaminwater, for example, promises “focus” and “healthy support for eyes and skin” with Vitamin A and lutein, described as a natural antioxidant that protects against eye disease. There is also a Vitaminwater with green tea extract, which promises to “rescue” because of its purported cancer-fighting properties.

Glaceau’s Web site says, “Welcome to the Center for Responsible Hydration.” The company was founded in 1996 by J. Darius Bikoff, who remains chief executive. He could not be located for comment.

Glaceau is based in Whitestone, Queens. Last year, an Indian tea company, Tata Tea, bought a 30 percent in Energy Brands for $677 million. At that time, a Tata executive told Dow Jones that Glaceau’s revenue for the year would be $355 million and would jump to $700 million in 2007.

The company sold 77 million 192-ounce cases last year, a standard industry measure, according to Beverage Digest, a 103 percent increase over the previous year.

By contrast, Coca-Cola sold 5.5 billion cases in the United States alone.

When he took over as chief executive in 2004, E. Neville Isdell, a longtime Coke executive who had retired to Barbados, said his turnaround effort would focus on ironing out turmoil within the company, improving morale and focusing on rebuilding its core soda brands.

He also vowed to improve the company’s innovation pipeline. But once the company was stabilized, Mr. Isdell said he would be prepared to make more transformational acquisitions.

“It’s the right play,” said Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark, a consulting firm to the food and beverage industry, including Coke. “When you look at what’s happening with Coke, they can’t innovate their way out. They have to buy their way out.”

In America, soft drinks account for 67 percent of the nonalcoholic beverage business, with bottled water making up 17 percent and other noncarbonated beverages, 16 percent, Beverage Digest said. But in 2006, soft drink volumes declined slightly while bottled water was up 17 percent and other non-carbonated drinks increased 13 percent.
698 2007-05-25 Consumer prices fell at a slower pace in April, the government reported. Core consumer prices, which exclude fresh food, declined 0.1 percent from a year earlier. The measure of inflation fell 0.3 percent in March, the steepest drop in two years, matching the median estimate of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Core prices in Tokyo, a harbinger of nationwide prices, were unchanged for a second month, also in line with economists’ expectations.
699 2007-05-25 The State University of New York nominated John B. Clark yesterday to be interim chancellor of its 64-campus system starting June 1. The current chancellor, John R. Ryan, announced in March that he would step down at the end of May. Dr. Clark, who worked on Wall Street for 17 years and has a doctorate from Teachers College at Columbia University, is currently interim president of the State University College of Technology at Alfred. This will be his sixth interim post at SUNY, including three other campus presidencies. SUNY said that if Dr. Clark is approved by its board on May 31, he will remain through Dec. 31, or until its trustees conclude a national search for a permanent chancellor. Dr. Clark, 56, will earn $340,000, but will not be a candidate for permanent chancellor, the university said.
700 2007-05-25 The barriers have come down in Surf City and the northern end of Ship Bottom on Long Beach Island after more than 1,100 pieces of unexploded military ordnance were removed. The 1.4-mile stretch was declared safe on Wednesday by the Army Corps of Engineers, though beachgoers are forbidden to use metal detectors, walk on the dunes or dig deeper than 12 inches. The beaches had been shut for two months for removal of the World War I-era munitions, believed to have been dumped from ships. They surfaced last fall after the Army Corps dredged up sand as part of a beach replenishment program.
701 2007-05-25 Frozen fish distributed in three states were recalled after two people in the Chicago area became ill after eating the fish, said the importer, the Hong Chang Corporation of Santa Fe Springs, Calif. The company said the product might contain tetrodotoxin, a potent toxin, and analysis by the Food and Drug Administration confirmed its presence. The product, imported from China, was labeled monkfish, but the company said it might be pufferfish, with which the toxin is usually associated. Tetrodotoxin can result in serious illness or death, and it cannot be destroyed by cooking or freezing. The fish were sold in California, Hawaii and Illinois. The fish are individually packaged in clear plastic sleeves and placed in a plastic liner inside a box. There are no lot numbers on the box. Consumers can return the fish to the place of purchase or call the company with questions at (562) 309-0068.
702 2007-05-25 The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an inquiry into whether two senior executives at Dow Chemical secretly tried to put the company into play as well as into the unusual trading in its stock that may have resulted, according to people briefed on the matter.

Dow fired a senior executive and a board member last month, accusing the two men of engaging in unauthorized buyout talks. Shares of Dow had spiked on a number of occasions in the months before the dismissals on speculation about a deal, stoked by news reports that a buyout was in the works and possibly by leaks about talks the former executives were accused of holding.

But the inquiry, still in the informal stage, may also look at a deal that the company actually pursued. Last fall, Dow made an overture to acquire DuPont in a deal worth more than $40 billion, according to people involved in the talks. If the approach had ultimately led to a deal, it would have combined the largest and third-largest chemical companies in the United States. ExxonMobil is No. 2.

Shares of Dow and DuPont traded somewhat erratically at the time, though neither company disclosed the approach. From September to December, shares of DuPont climbed 15 percent.

DuPont rebuffed Dow’s advances and never engaged in negotiations, these people said. Dow’s chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris, sits on the board of Citigroup with Alain J. P. Belda, the chief executive of Alcoa, who at the time of the overture was also a director of DuPont; Mr. Belda stepped down from DuPont’s board in March.
703 2007-05-25 “We have never in the past nor in this instance have ever gotten any advance inkling of the budget,” Mr. Joyce said.

A spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, Sean Kevelighan, also said meetings between company executives and the agency were normal. While he declined to offer more detail, citing the continuing investigations, he added that “as a general rule, we do not discuss details of the budget until it’s released.”

The document also set out a lobbying strategy as the student loan industry faced a new Democratic majority in Congress. Since this spring, lenders are facing investigations by Congress as well as by several state attorneys general, looking into their marketing practices and their relations to university financial aid offices.

The document called for Sallie Mae to hire a Democratic lobbyist to influence the new majority in Congress and for the company to develop “messages” that governors could deliver on its behalf to members of Congress. The company also wanted to orchestrate “communication to the Hill” from universities.

The document also suggested that the company wanted help from two important Republicans in Congress — Representative John A. Boehner, the Republican leader from Ohio, and Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the education committee — in pleading its case with the president’s budget office before the budget came out. Steve Forde, a spokesman for Mr. McKeon, said, “No one here remembers any contact from Sallie Mae on this issue, and no contact was made from Mr. McKeon or committee staff to O.M.B.”

Brian Kennedy, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, said that “neither Mr. Boehner nor his staff were contacted by Sallie Mae, nor did he or his staff contact OMB.”

In the last few days, Sallie Mae has announced that its chief executive, Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, is stepping down and that Mr. Lord will step down upon completion of the planned acquisition of the company by two private equity investors, J. C. Flowers and Friedman Fleischer & Lowe, and two banks, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase & Company.

J. Christopher Flowers, chairman of J. C. Flowers, said the departure of the top executives and the installation of a new board at Sallie Mae would give the company “a fresh start.”

“We think it’s abundantly clear,” Mr. Flowers said, “that students, universities, Congress and the public want to ensure that Sallie Mae is run in a transparent fashion where students come first.”
704 2007-05-25 Animal rights activists fighting a proposal to cull 3,200 kangaroos outside the capital, Canberra, welcomed a message from a Defense Department official who said alternatives were being considered. The department planned to hire professional shooters to cull the kangaroos, Australia’s national symbol, at two of its properties, arguing that an estimated 6,500 common eastern gray kangaroos on the sites risked starvation and were eating through the grassy habitats of endangered species.
705 2007-05-25 The former health minister, Ali al-Shammari, is the most senior official known to have sought asylum. He is said by his supporters to have fought corruption at his ministry.

But the Health Ministry itself is widely seen as deeply corrupt by those who have worked with it, particularly in the way it distributes drugs and medical devices.

The ministry also has a reputation for Shiite partisanship. A few weeks after Dr. Shammari took over in the spring of 2006, a Sunni physician who led the Diyala Province Health Department was kidnapped from the corridors of the Health Ministry itself, and was never found.

Among Dr. Shammari’s supporters is Dr. Jon Bowersox, who is a professor of surgery at the University of Cincinnati and was health attaché in the American Embassy in Baghdad from October 2005 to July 2006.

“There were widespread shortages, despite over 60 percent of the Ministry of Health budget being directed to procuring medicine, bandages and other essential supplies,” Dr. Bowersox said.

He and other supporters said Dr. Shammari tried to reform the ministry. Dr. Said I. Hakki, director of the Iraqi Red Crescent Society, said that after Dr. Shammari fired hundreds of corrupt or inept ministry employees, he began receiving death threats. “He tried to make changes,” Dr. Hakki said. As a result, “he was put on the death list.”

The Health Ministry is also thought to be under the sway of Shiite militias affiliated with the radical cleric Moktada al-Sadr; Dr. Shammari was in the Sadr political bloc. Colleagues say that even though Dr. Shammari reluctantly followed orders from Sadr political leaders to leave the government in April, along with five other members of the bloc, his anticorruption efforts made him unpopular with his former allies.

Whatever the reason, it is clear there is now substantial friction between Dr. Shammari and the Sadr bloc. Mahdi al-Mutairi, head of the political bureau of Mr. Sadr’s office, said in a telephone interview yesterday, “The performance of Ali al-Shammari as a minister was bad.”

“There are many problems between us and him,” Mr. Mutairi said. “He didn’t carry out his role as he was supposed to.”

Hours after landing in New York last week on a flight from the Middle East, Dr. Shammari spoke briefly with a reporter in the lobby of a Times Square hotel where he was staying with two American officials. The Americans asked not to be named because of concerns that their work in Iraq would be compromised, but one confirmed that he had accompanied Dr. Shammari from Iraq as part of the parole program.

“He is my parolee,” the official said, looking at Dr. Shammari.

Dr. Shammari declined to discuss his case but said he would like to talk about his work eventually, “I would like to tell a positive story about the Health Ministry.”

Responding to questions from Senators Kennedy and Levin in a previously unreported letter, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said last week that between 2004 and 2006, the Pentagon processed 117 cases in the parole program. The cases included “Iraqi nationals whose service in support of U.S. forces in Iraq has put their lives in imminent, documented danger,” Mr. Gates said, or who are in need of medical treatment not available in Iraq.

But he also disclosed for the first time the tally of about 22,000 Iraqis working for Pentagon contractors and subcontractors in Iraq.

In a statement yesterday, Senator Kennedy said: “Tens of thousands of Iraqis work for our military in Iraq, and it’s essential that we develop a comprehensive approach to meet their needs and those of Iraq’s countless other refugees who have supported our government in the past.

“We obviously need to know far more about how the Significant Public Benefit Parole program is being used to bring Iraqis into the country. Our priority ought to be saving the lives of those vulnerable Iraqis whose service to our military and our nation has left an assassin’s bull’s-eye on their backs.”

Michael Keegan, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the parole authority was granted to the secretary of homeland security under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

“Parole is a discretionary authority used only on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit,” Mr. Keegan said. “Parole is an extraordinary measure that is sparingly used to bring an otherwise inadmissible alien into the United States for a temporary period due to a compelling emergency. Parole does not convey any immigration benefit.”

A potential subject for parole is first identified by American military officials in Iraq, but the approval of senior Defense Department civilian officials is necessary to forward that parole application to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Pentagon and military officials said.

In making a parole decision, I.C.E. officers look at the entire situation, Mr. Keegan said. For example, officers look at whether the case rises to the level of an emergency. Officers also look at whether any other form of immigration relief or another immigration benefit applies in the case. Using parole to circumvent the normal visa process is not permitted.

Each parole request is weighed by two officers working independently, and a supervisor then reviews the decision, he added.

“Paroles are temporary, so they do have an expiration date,” Mr. Keegan said. “Paroles are authorized for the time required to address the emergency circumstances.”

Still, about 10 percent of the Iraqis brought to the United States under the program do apply for and generally receive permanent asylum through the State Department, said Dr. Shammari’s parole officer.

And the program is not restricted to officials. Dr. Laurence Ronan, a physician at Massachusetts General Hospital, said Dr. Shammari’s parole officer had also brought four or five wounded Iraqi children to the hospital for treatment. The parole officer confirmed that the children had been brought here on parole.

The program, Dr. Ronan said, had been able to bring children “from the villages and the very battlefield of the Iraq war to the steps of Massachusetts General in Boston.”
706 2007-05-25 The strength in sales was led by a 27.8 percent surge in the South. Sales were also up in the West by 8.5 percent and in the Northeast, where they rose 3.8 percent.

The drop in median prices in April compared with March was a record one-month decline. When the April sales price is compared with the sales price a year ago, the decline is 10.9 percent, the biggest year-over-year drop since 1970.

In other economic news, the Commerce Department said that orders to American factories for big-ticket manufactured goods posted a moderate 0.6 percent increase in April, helped by a continued rebound in business investment.

In a third report, the Labor Department said that the number of newly laid-off workers filing applications for unemployment benefits rose to 311,000 last week, an increase of 15,000. Even with the gain, claims remained at a level indicating a healthy labor market.

While the increase in orders for durable goods was less than had been expected, the government sharply revised the March performance to show a 5 percent surge, much stronger than the 3.7 percent gain previously reported.

Analysts say they believe that American factories, which have been buffeted by the weakness in housing and slumping demand for autos, are starting to stage a moderate rebound, helped by reviving interest on the part of businesses to spend money to expand and modernize.

The overall economy slowed in the first three months of the year to an annual growth rate of just 1.3 percent, the weakest performance in four years, as the housing slump continued to weigh on performance.

Analysts are hoping that spending by consumers and businesses will be able to overcome the weakness in housing and keep the country out of a recession.

The report on durable goods offered encouragement in the area of business investment. It showed that demand for capital goods excluding airplanes, considered a good proxy for business investment, rose by 1.2 percent in April, the second solid monthly increase.

The 0.6 percent rise in total durable goods orders came even though demand for transportation products fell by 1.3 percent. This reflected a drop of 10.7 percent in demand for commercial aircraft and a 1.9 percent fall in orders for motor vehicles.

Excluding transportation, orders would have been up by 1.5 percent, the same performance as in March.

There was strength in orders for primary metals like steel, which rose by 4.3 percent, and orders for electronic equipment and appliances, which rose by 3.8 percent.

But demand was weak for computers, which fell by 7.8 percent, and communications equipment, which dropped 5 percent.
707 2007-05-25 The Boston Celtics began marketing custom stamps to fans as collectibles, offering images of the basketball team’s logo and players. Sean Barror, the Celtics’ vice president for corporate partnerships and business development, said that the front office uses them for some mailings. Because custom postage costs extra and the Celtics send out a lot of mail, it “would be prohibitive” to use the fancy stamps for everything, Mr. Barror said.

“At the end of the day, the stamps are maintaining our brand, but we have to balance the business sense,” he said.

The Postal Service began permitting consumers to design their own stamps in 2004, and added businesses to the mix in May 2006. Though the vast majority of personalized stamps are ordered by individuals — children and dogs generally rank at the top of the list — some companies are catching on.

Custom stamps are sold through four vendors, and feature a bar code to validate their authenticity; the Postal Service itself does not make them. Stamps.com, the largest provider, charges $18.99 for a sheet of 20 first-class stamps — which, at 41 cents each, has a face value of $8.20. The other custom stamp providers are Endicia, Zazzle and Pitney Bowes.

All four companies offer lower prices for volume orders. Kenneth McBride, Stamps.com’s president and chief executive, said that businesses typically pay about 15 percent to 25 percent over the cost of standard postage, depending on the size of the order.

Mr. McBride said that cost has made businesses reluctant to use custom stamps for everyday mail, especially since, until recently, the post office has offered only standard first-class rates. Many companies, especially large ones, lower their mail expenses by presorting their mail — essentially qualifying for lower rates by delivering their outbound items to the post office in ZIP code order. The average presort rate is 37.3 cents, but for the first year of the commercial stamps program, the Postal Service did not allow custom stamps to be used in this mail category.

“That’s probably the biggest barrier to business usage,” Mr. McBride said.

Mr. Barranca of the Postal Service said that this policy has just changed. When the custom stamp program was reauthorized this month, the agency permitted custom stamp providers to offer presort postage rates.

The Postal Service says that about 17 million custom stamps were produced from the start of the government’s fiscal year in October to the end of April, and that only about 18 percent of them were for businesses. Mr. Barranca hopes that presort rates will make custom stamps more appealing to businesses.

“It’s a big challenge to get companies to move from first-class presort to a nonsort rate with an additional fee on top of that,” he said.

There are additional challenges. Patti Freeman Evans, an analyst with Jupiter Research, noted that with e-mail messages, text messaging, inexpensive phone service and overnight courier services, there was little incentive for companies to add frills to its snail mail. “Having your brand on your mail sounds like a nice idea,” she said. “but in many circles, the use of mail is not what it once was.”

There are exceptions. Real estate agents, who are accustomed to advertising their services with their own portraits in newspaper ads, have cottoned to the use of custom stamps. Nelson Llumiquinga, a real estate agent in Phoenix, uses several designs, with either his company’s logo or his photo and his Web site address. He said that he spent about $100 a month on custom stamps.

“In my business, marketing is everything. You need to find ways to stand out,” Mr. Llumiquinga said. Having a personalized stamp “just initiates a conversation, without having to move into the sales process,” he said.

He began using a custom stamp for personal correspondence in 2004, with a picture of his newborn son. The reaction from friends and family was so positive that he realized postage would be a great way to market his professional services.

Last year, shortly after sending out hundreds of Christmas cards, he saw traffic on his Web site surge. “I’m constantly marketing myself without having to say I’m a Realtor,” he said. “It’s one of the most remarkable marketing tools out there.”

Little Palm Island, a resort in the Florida Keys, started sending out mailings this year with a stamp showing the island’s pristine beach. Rebecca Kollaras, a publicist for the resort, said that the stamp “really allows us more space to share the experience of Little Palm Island.”

When people saw the photo, “it was like a brain dart,” she said. “It really hit home with them.”

But some companies use custom stamps only for special events. Dan Cotoia, a talent manager for Montel Williams’s management and development unit, Letnom Management & Production, ordered about 500 stamps with Mr. Williams’s photo for his 50th birthday party. Though Mr. Cotoia said people liked the stamps and he would consider using them again, he would not use them for everyday mail.

“It’s just a little too much,” he said. Too much money? “No, just a bit too much. Too over the top.”

Dale Olson, the owner of Dale C. Olson & Associates, a Los Angeles publicity firm that specializes in Oscar campaigns, ordered 290,000 stamps last fall to invite people to screenings and distribute copies of movies.

“I was looking for something subtle, that wouldn’t hit people over the head,” he said. “I wanted to remind them, as soon as they open the envelope, of the picture.”

The stamps featured images from five films released by Paramount Pictures and DreamWorks. The “Dreamgirls” stamp, for example, featured the three singers who starred in the musical, and the one for “World Trade Center” reproduced the movie poster.

Mr. Olson said that many recipients were struck by the images. “People were calling me up and saying ‘Where did you get those stamps?’ ” Mr. Olson said, adding that some calls were from his competitors. “I said I’d be happy to tell them — after the awards ceremony.”
708 2007-05-25 Riis and Ullrich have previously denied using illegal substances. Riis, a Dane who is the sports director of another cycling team, CSC, said that he planned to hold a news conference Friday. Ullrich was fired by T-Mobile last year after he and several other cyclists were implicated in a Spanish doping investigation and he and a teammate were suspended from the 2006 Tour. Ullrich retired from cycling in February.

The latest admissions come at a time when professional cycling has been shaken by a series of scandals. The Spanish police have implicated more than 100 riders in their investigation of blood doping. Floyd Landis, the American who won last year’s Tour only to test positive for synthetic testosterone, is continuing to fight the charge that he doped.

In Thursday’s edition of the Danish newspaper Politiken, the former Telekom team member Brian Holm, a Dane, said he also had used EPO in the 1990s.

This current wave of doping admissions began Monday when Bert Dietz, another former Telekom cyclist, admitted on German national television that he had used EPO. He accused two team doctors, Andreas Schmid and Lothar Heinrich, of providing the substance. On Wednesday, the doctors released statements confirming the accusation. Both were fired Thursday by the University of Freiburg clinic that employed them.

Two other former Telekom riders also admitted this week that they had used EPO.

In his statement, Schmid said that he “made doping substances, especially EPO, available to certain riders since the mid-1990s.” He also said that those actions did not include any T-Mobile riders.

T-Mobile has recently instituted one of the strictest internal anti-doping programs in professional cycling.

No test for EPO existed until 2000. After that, some cyclists turned to the use of blood transfusions to avoid being caught. Now, under new international cycling rules implemented during the last year, the blood of the top 600 riders will be profiled to provide a baseline to aid in evaluating future test results. There will also be a dramatic increase in random, out-of-competition tests.

The latest admissions of doping have led some German politicians to demand tighter rules, with some calling for German TV stations to end their coverage of cycling races if the allegations of widespread doping are proved true.

The chairman of the German cycling association, Rudolf Scharping, told the German Press Agency on Thursday that the organization will demand statements from all cyclists affected.

Christian Prudhomme, the director of the Tour de France, applauded Zabel and Aldag. “The law of silence is not totally broken, but the wall is crumbling,” Prudhomme said in an interview with The Associated Press. He urged lifetime bans for anyone who remained quiet but was later found to have doped. “There is an old culture of doping in cycling,” he said. “What we need today is to break the system.”
709 2007-05-25 Since the terrorist attack on the London transit system in July 2005, when four British suicide bombers killed 52 commuters, the British government has faced the challenge of persuading the public about the scope of the terrorist threat even as evidence against the suspects in trials cannot be disclosed — either to the jury or the public — until the trials are over for fear that jurors might be improperly swayed.

The news media are often strictly restricted by judges to avoid making links with other cases.

In voicing his concerns, Mr. Clarke was publicly expressing frustrations that the police had expressed more quietly in the past.

Mr. Clarke, who holds a law degree, was the keynote speaker at the conference here, held by New York University’s Center on Law and Security. The event was attended by leading counterterrorism officials, including the United States solicitor general, Paul D. Clement, and by Baltasar Garzón, Spain’s most prominent counterterrorism official.

Mr. Clarke singled out the recent trial of seven British Muslim men, in which five were convicted of plotting to use a fertilizer bomb to blow up heavily populated targets around London, as a case where information was withheld from the public in order to protect the jury.

In that trial, known as the Crevice plot, evidence that the police had gathered about the links between the seven defendants and the four suicide bombers who attacked the transit system in 2005 was suppressed by the judge until the trial ended last month.

The judge, Sir Michael Astill, ruled that making the information about the activities of the four suicide bombers in connection with the fertilizer bomb plotters would have prejudiced the jury.

Mr. Clarke also mentioned the trial of Dhiren Barot, a British convert to Islam, who was initially sentenced to a minimum of 40 years for plotting to blow up the New York Stock Exchange and to carry out attacks in Britain with limousines packed with gas canisters and a so-called dirty bomb that would spread radioactive material.

A gag order imposed by the judge in the case was lifted after challenges by the news media after Mr. Barot’s conviction last November. “I applaud media organizations” that took “a robust stance,” Mr. Clarke said. Mr. Barot’s sentence was reduced this month to 30 years.

Mr. Clarke lamented the breakdown in the public’s trust of the police, and the public’s unwillingness to “accept the government’s explanation of the threat” of terrorism.

Public criticism that the police were no longer impartial players has hurt their ability to win the confidence of the public. “It is now difficult for the police service, and I suspect others, to express a professional opinion on the subject without being accused of falling on one side or the other in what it seems to me an increasingly wide political divide,” he said.

The lack of trust in the police also severely affected the ability to collect important information from the public that could help tip them off to potential plots.

The British police obtain most of their intelligence about terrorist planning from classic methods, including electronic surveillance and foreign sources, he said, but very little from local residents.

Recent cases in which the police arrested terrorism suspects in Britain, held them for questioning and then released them without charges have created doubts about the integrity of law enforcement, he said.

“It is no exaggeration to say the lack of public trust in intelligence is in danger of infecting the relationship between the police and the communities we serve,” he said.
710 2007-05-25 MADRID, May 24 — Spaniards go to the polls on Sunday to elect local and regional officials who are responsible for such services as garbage collection, schools and running the village fiestas. But the way the campaign is being run, it feels like an election for the next prime minister.

José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Socialist prime minister, and Mariano Rajoy, the leader of the conservative Popular Party, have crisscrossed the country over the past two weeks, rallying supporters with fiery speeches dominated by issues like terrorism and immigration.

“It’s unusual for national issues to overshadow local ones” in a municipal election, said Fermín Bouza, a specialist in public opinion at the Complutense University in Madrid. The campaign, he said, has “revolved around a debate between the two leaders.”

In many ways, the election is a dry run for the general election next year, politicians and analysts say. It is the first test of Mr. Zapatero’s popularity since his effort to negotiate a peace with the Basque separatist group ETA collapsed in January, when ETA bombed a parking garage at Madrid’s new airport terminal, killing two people. The bombing prompted a crisis of confidence among many of his supporters and brought recriminations from the opposition on the right.

But the election is equally a test for Mr. Rajoy, who has failed to use Mr. Zapatero’s woes as an opportunity to reach out to the center of the voting base and instead has focused on the ETA question.
711 2007-05-25 The part of the rule that was perhaps most anticipated by investors and tax authorities was a requirement that companies warn shareholders of expected changes in tax reserves within the next year.

The prospect of that warning scared a lot of companies, which worried that a statement that a company expected $100 million of reserves to be freed up when an audit was completed could spur the I.R.S. to get tougher in the audit. The companies begged the standards board to delay the effective date of the rule, but in vain.

There have been some disclosures. Altria, the tobacco company, says “it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain U.S. state and foreign examinations will be resolved,” providing $105 million in profits for the company. Those profits would come if the taxing authorities allowed tax benefits that the company claimed but did not report to investors, presumably because it thought there was a risk they would not be approved.

But many companies found ways to talk without saying anything. “The disclosures have been handed over to the lawyers,” said Harvey L. Pitt, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (and a nonpracticing lawyer), “and the lawyers are obfuscating.” He spoke this week at a conference on the rule sponsored by Siegel & Associates, a consulting firm.

Consider a couple of disclosures. Here’s one from JPMorgan Chase: “It is difficult to project how unrecognized tax benefits will change over the next twelve months, but it is reasonably possible that they could change significantly.”

Here’s another from Occidental Petroleum: “It is reasonably possible that Occidental’s existing liabilities for uncertain tax benefits may increase or decrease within the next twelve months primarily due to the progression of audits in process or the expiration of statutes of limitation. Occidental cannot reasonably estimate a range of potential changes in such benefits due to the unresolved nature of the various audits.”

Under the rule, companies are supposed to report in their profits any tax benefit claimed on tax returns if there is at least a 51 percent chance that the tax authorities will agree.

That standard — called “more likely than not” in tax jargon — is a pretty generous one. Some companies previously posted tax benefits they thought would probably be approved, a higher standard. Book values for those companies actually increased under the new standard. But over all, more companies cut book values than raised them, said Sampriti Ganguli, managing director of the Tax Director Roundtable, a group of corporate executives.

The leader in claiming tax benefits that it fears may not be accepted appears to be Merck, at $7.4 billion, according to a survey by David Zion, an analyst at Credit Suisse. General Electric and AT&T also reported figures over $6 billion If those tax positions are ultimately upheld, reported profits will rise by those amounts. If they are rejected, profits will not suffer unless the tax authorities reject benefits that the companies expected to be approved and reported as profit. But cash flows will be hurt.

A big question now for many companies is whether the I.R.S. will change its policies and ask to see more internal corporate documents on how the numbers were calculated, and then use the figures in audits. The I.R.S. has said it is thinking about changing its policy, Saul M. Rosen, Citigroup’s tax director, said at the Siegel conference. “Is it fair,” he asked, “for an agent to know what level of reserves a company has set up for a particular issue, or where a taxpayer thinks his position may have a weak point?”

If the I.R.S. finds itself embarrassed by companies reporting billions in profits after audits are settled in their favor, Mr. Rosen’s question may become the next big battleground in tax policy.
712 2007-05-25 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said the increase was overdue.

“After 10 years of indifference,” Ms. Pelosi said, “we are raising wages for the hardest-working Americans.”

The House and Senate approved the increase months ago in different packages, but it stalled over disagreements about the tax breaks. Republicans had sought larger tax breaks for businesses.

The minimum wage was an important sweetener for Democrats in dealing with the larger package, which includes money for the military in Iraq and Afghanistan and which had been delayed by a partisan battle over imposing a timetable to reduce troop levels in Iraq.

Although more than half the states have higher minimum wages than the existing federal rate, the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, estimates that 4 percent of the work force, or 5.6 million workers, earns less than $7.25 an hour.

President Bill Clinton signed the last increase in 1997. Seven states now have minimum wages higher than $7.25 an hour.

A number of business interests lobbied strongly against the increase. One group, the National Restaurant Association, said the last increase led to a reduction of 146,000 jobs in the industry and prompted owners to postpone plans to hire an additional 106,000 workers.

The House debate over the wage was limited, as most lawmakers spent their floor time arguing over Iraq spending.

Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the House minority leader, criticized the wage provision along with a set of domestic spending measures attached to what was viewed as “must pass legislation.”

“We’ve got a host of issues that don’t deserve to be put on the backs of the military,” Mr. Boehner said. “It’s a sneaky way to do business.”

Democrats countered that Congress had waited too long and that many workers had suffered because of the lower rate.

“Wages have been unconscionably frozen for the last decade” said Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.

Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, estimated that in the first year that the full increase would take effect, it would provide a family of three with money to buy an additional 15 months of groceries.

In addition to the tax breaks, the Iraq spending bill had benefits for businesses. Major airline carriers, for example, successfully lobbied for a provision to relieve them of some pension liabilities.

The National Association of Manufacturers succeeded in having a provision stricken that would have blocked federal officials from lowering tougher state safety standards for chemical plants.

The bill includes $6.3 billion more for areas damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, $600 million for health insurance for children in low-income families and $3 billion for aid in farm disasters.

The White House had opposed many of the domestic spending provisions, which totaled $22 billion. Republicans managed to remove some of them shortly before the bill reached the floor, including $660 million to stockpile medicine for a flu pandemic and $400 million for energy assistance for low-income families.
713 2007-05-25 A picture with the Havens column last Friday about San Clemente, Calif., was published in error. The house shown in the photograph was recently sold; it was not a two-bedroom house priced at $2,687,500.
714 2007-05-25 “When you put 200,000 bikes together,” said Michael DePaulo, a Vietnam veteran from Berkley, Mass., who helps organize and run the rally, “it sounds like a B-52 strike.”

One rider is Steve Britton, a former marine from Dillon, Colo. With his leather vest, cowboy boots and grizzled mutton chops, he resembles a sheriff in a western. And like many of his comrades, Mr. Britton is very much a modern cowboy. “I love the freedom and the air and the bugs in my teeth,” he said of his attraction to motorcycles.

Riding also renews Mr. Britton’s sense of self-worth, which he said he lost after he received hostile and indifferent receptions upon returning from Vietnam in the late 1960s. He said post-traumatic stress disorder and alcoholism prevented him from holding a steady job. “I was at the point where I was saying, ‘God, either kill me or cure me,’ and I really didn’t care which.”

But Mr. Britton turned to Christianity, joined the Christian Motorcyclists Association and found salvation on the open road. He carries a small Bible on his annual ride to Washington. The art on the cover depicts handlebars and shining headlights. The caption reads: “Hope for the Highway.”

He serves as a chaplain for Rolling Thunder bikers. “That’s why I go on the ride,” he said. “To be able to share with people, to pray with people.”

Mr. Britton pilots a bright purple Honda Gold Wing. His bike is equipped with plush purple seats and velour arm rests. He fills his five-CD changer with Randy Travis recordings and keeps a pouch of Twizzlers on the dash to tame his cigarette addiction. At gas stations, he drinks cups of black coffee; even at 65 miles an hour, the bike can lull a rider to sleep.

Mr. Britton is one of 50 or so Rolling Thunder bikers who meet in California and ride their motorcycles to Washington each spring. They call themselves Carry the Flame, and they take an Olympic-style “torch of remembrance” to soldiers’ families who are unable to visit the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. The bikers stop at Harley-Davidson outfitters and V.F.W. posts to conduct flame-lighting ceremonies.

Most of the Carry the Flame riders are veterans who say they see the 10-day, eight-state, 3,000-mile journey as a powerful expression of identity and pride and a way to cope with the past.

“The ghosts get let out of the box,” said King Cavalier II, a founder of Carry the Flame. He said that during the ride from California to Washington “full-grown 250-pound men break down like babies” because the experience makes them confront memories and emotions that have “been repressed for 30 years.”

Mr. Cavalier grows somber and becomes teary-eyed when he stops in small towns to meet the parents and siblings of those who never returned from Vietnam.

He is not a veteran himself but rides in memory of his father, a career Air Force man who, he said, spent a lifetime fighting for complete military benefits (he received full disability status six months before he died, at age 90). “This is my service,” Mr. Cavalier said of his involvement in Carry the Flame. “To quit would be like going AWOL.”

Like many of the riders, Mr. Cavalier is also a member of Rolling Thunder National, an affiliated organization founded in 1995 that works year-round for veterans’ rights. Rolling Thunder National has 80 chapters in 28 states. While most of its members are veterans, mostly from the Vietnam era, Rolling Thunder National estimates that 40 to 45 percent are not.

Mr. Britton tries to help Iraq war veterans who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. He calls the motorcycle his tool — his way of reaching out.

But riding also lets Mr. Britton experience the emotion of combat. “I’m an adrenaline junkie,” he said, “and having been in a war situation, you don’t get that buzz doing many other things.”

It takes 10 days for the Carry the Flame riders to get from California to Washington. The veterans on the trip say they are not accustomed to the camaraderie that develops on the road; even those veterans in the group who have families say they generally feel a sense of isolation.

“We’re all loners, and that’s what you see here. That’s the common thread,” said Mr. Paolini, a small, wiry Vietnam veteran who rides with a cigar in his mouth and an iPod in his pocket. “But I’m here with these people, these wonderful men,” he added, looking at the rows of bikes and the veterans milling around under the trees. “We’ve shared in this experience.”

Mr. Britton agreed. “You don’t get the same brotherhood in the civilian world that you get in combat,” he said. “And all of us have looked for that since we’ve come back.”

THE veterans may have felt disrespected and disenfranchised, but tearing down the road cross-country from Barstow in California to Tuba City in Arizona, from El Reno in Oklahoma to Washington with military flags ripping the air, is a kind of psychological remuneration.

For them, freedom is not an illusory ideal but a physical thing composed of leather, chrome and whatever element the sky might throw in their faces.

And they know that some experiences cannot be had in a car.

A couple of days into the 2005 trip, Mr. Cavalier remembered leading his riders through a mountain pass outside Angel Fire, N.M., with Mr. Britton and Mr. Paolini following single file as they wound their bikes into the chilly heights. As the men began their descent, an eagle and two ravens burst from a cluster of trees. The eagle fled its pursuers, shooting into the blue sky. Suddenly, it swooped toward the bikers, gliding beside them for a quarter mile or more — just another rider out on a beautiful day.

“The bike is a totally different world,” said Germán Fernandez of Corona, Calif., another Vietnam veteran who was riding with Mr. Cavalier. “It’s not for everybody, but the ones who like it get on, and they never get off.”
715 2007-05-25 Death may still be certain, but taxes are something else entirely.     Disclosures are now appearing in quarterly reports from American public companies, showing that companies are betting billions on tax breaks that may not work out....
716 2007-05-25 The State University of New York nominated John B. Clark yesterday to be interim chancellor of its 64-campus system starting June 1. The current chancellor, John R. Ryan, announced in March that he would step down at the end of May. Dr. Clark, who...
717 2007-05-25 The barriers have come down in Surf City and the northern end of Ship Bottom on Long Beach Island after more than 1,100 pieces of unexploded military ordnance were removed. The 1.4-mile stretch was declared safe on Wednesday by the Army Corps of E...
718 2007-05-25 Russia won an incremental victory in the legal struggle for what remains of the foreign subsidiaries of Yukos. A Dutch court approved a request by the Russian bankruptcy administrator, Eduard K. Rebgun, to represent Yukos in court in the Netherlan...
719 2007-05-25 PAY GAP BETWEEN NO. 1 AND NO. 2 -- As executive pay has surged in most American companies, there has been a widening gap between the top executive's pay and the pay of executives a rank or two down. Few of these people are deprived, but the growin...
720 2007-05-26 Amy Smith, the sales director at Chesterton estate agency in London, had this to say about the importance of open days: "At Chesterton we find open days are a good way of marketing a property, especially in this competitive climate where there are...
721 2007-05-26 The tickets would be mailed later. At present, because blocking the box is a moving violation, a summons must be issued at the scene, something only police officers and a small number of enforcement agents are allowed to do.

“Here’s the insanity, to show you how crazy life is,” the mayor said yesterday during his weekly radio appearance on WABC-AM. “If you get in the middle of the box and you get stuck and you block the traffic in four directions and it backs up in all directions for three to four blocks, they call that a moving violation. The whole idea is that everything has stopped. It’s not a moving violation.”

He said that mailing tickets would help because officers now had to pull over cars and write summonses.

“Do you know how much traffic you would save?” he said. “When you drive in this city, that’s what causes most of the traffic jams.”

The host on the mayor’s radio program, John R. Gambling, posed the hypothetical question that anyone who has been behind the wheel in New York might ask. What about a truck that double-parks up the block, leaving you in an intersection that otherwise you could have cleared, Mr. Gambling asked. Why not also ticket the truck?

“I couldn’t agree more,” Mr. Bloomberg said, adding that the enforcement agent “shouldn’t just pick on you.”

“But it’s not a moving violation,” he said.

On the streets yesterday, traffic enforcement agents had mixed reactions to the mayor’s proposal.

“It’s good for us,” said a traffic agent at 59th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan who would not give his name, saying he was not authorized to talk to a reporter.

He squinted in the sun. He chewed his gum hard. The light turned green. Traffic swirled by. He was inches from a white Mack truck. The light turned yellow. His gestures kept pace with the cycle: calm on green, faster on yellow, insistent on red. One white-gloved hand pointed to the last lucky car as the light turned red.

“When we’re in the intersection, I am the red light and I am the green light,” he said, “but people don’t realize that.”

He suggested a change that, so far anyway, is not among the mayor’s proposals. He said the driving test should include a section on traffic agents’ hand signals. He finds it frustrating when drivers keep on moving — which can mean they keep coming toward him — when he holds up his palm.

Sometimes, when he realizes they just do not get it, he yields. That happened when he tried to block a cab that had pulled into the intersection after the light had changed.

The cabdriver honked, as if the agent were a wayward pedestrian. The agent moved out of the way.

Other agents said they doubted that the mayor’s proposals would make much difference in unblocking boxes and unclogging streets. And one agent at Broadway and Canal Street — who directed a black Chrysler Town and Country to back up after it nosed into the intersection, trying to make a right turn on red — sounded less than enthusiastic about being expected to issue tickets for blocking intersections.

“I never give tickets,” he said. “I give a lot of warnings. I’m also a driver. I’ve got to look at it from their point of view. I know what it is to want to get home.”
722 2007-05-26 North Korea test-fired several short-range missiles from its eastern coast into the Sea of Japan. The tests, believed to be part of annual drills, did not constitute a “grave issue for Japan’s security,” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said. The launchings occurred even as American officials continued to try to obtain the release of North Korean funds from a bank in Macao, a critical step in February’s nuclear agreement.
723 2007-05-26 The freeway that collapsed after a fiery tanker crash has reopened just 25 days after the accident. The elevated section of highway that carries traffic from the east end of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge was leveled April 29 after a gasoline tanker truck crashed and burned. Officials and commuters initially thought it would take weeks, possibly months, to fix. But traffic exited the bridge Thursday night and cruised for the first time over a new 165-foot stretch of highway. The lower deck reopened within 10 days of the collapse. The California Highway Patrol suspended the hazardous-materials license of the trucking company involved in the fire.
724 2007-05-26 Congress has agreed to a tenfold increase in special immigrant visas for Iraqi and Afghan translators and interpreters, whose work with American military personnel and diplomatic officials makes them targets for terrorists. The legislation, approved by voice vote in the Senate late Thursday, would authorize the issuance of 500 such visas a year over the next two years to translators. The government now issues 50 visas a year to translators who have worked a year for the American military.
725 2007-05-26 By all measures, April was a bad month for anyone with a “for sale” sign in the front yard.

Sales of previously owned homes declined last month as the supply of unsold properties on the market ballooned and prices declined compared with those a year earlier.

The National Association of Realtors said yesterday that sales of existing homes fell 2.6 percent on an annualized basis, to six million, which was the slowest rate in almost four years. At the same time, inventories grew to the largest supply in 15 years — 8.4 months’ worth — and the median price of an existing home fell 0.8 percent to $220,900.

The Realtors association report came one day after a government report on new-home sales showed that prices dropped last month by the largest amount on record. While that report also showed sales posting their biggest monthly increase in 14 years, many economists dismissed the reading as a fluke, noting that new-home sales data can be wildly volatile.

The state of the residential real estate market, as shown in recent days by income reports from home builders, sales figures and other industry barometers, remains dim, economists said.

“The market is lousy,” said David Sloan, senior economist with 4Cast, a market research firm in New York. “The overall economy is not growing particularly strong. The Fed is keeping interest rates reasonably high because it’s worried about inflation. So I don’t think much is going to change in the fundamentals of the housing market.”

Last week, a closely watched measure of builder confidence slipped to the lowest level in a year and a half. That sentiment has been reflected recently in the profit margins of the nation’s largest builders. On Thursday, the luxury homebuilder Toll Brothers said its profit fell 79 percent from the end of January to the end of April.
726 2007-05-26 Major Klatt took Vincent Laforet, a photographer for The New York Times, up in an Extra-300L aerobatic plane on Thursday.

“He took some pretty good shots while we were flying upside down, but I’ll tell you, he was turning green up there, so we came back,” Major Klatt said later.

I fared no better. After being briefed (including tips on muscle-tensing and breathing techniques to avoid passing out at “high G’s,” reminders not to pull the ejection lever, the basics of parachute-steering, and how to remove the oxygen mask to access the air sickness bag), I took the back seat in the glass-enclosed cabin of Major Skelton’s two-seater jet.

Set the ejector mechanism, he advised, warning that if the words “mayday,” “eject” or “bail out” came out of his mouth three times, we would soon be hurled out of and away from the aircraft, and our parachutes would automatically activate.

It was too late to back out.

Soon we were taking off from Republic Airport in Farmingdale, pinned to our seats as the earth below receded rapidly. In about five seconds, one could see clear across Long Island Sound to Connecticut; a few more seconds, and one could see Montauk Point to the east.

“That’s 4 G’s,” Major Skelton said, meaning the ascent — to 14,000 feet within seconds — exerted a force equivalent to four times Earth’s gravity.

Out over the Atlantic, Major Skelton, who has flown F-16s in combat, dropping bombs and firing missiles over Kosovo and Iraq, demonstrated spins and barrel rolls and tight turns used in dogfights.

He flew sideways and upside down. He pointed the nose straight up and then looped us backward. I looked down: There was the moon. Up: Fire Island. All the while, the major’s cheery voice crackled over the headphones. He had told me his nickname was Red, like the comedian. That made sense now.

He plunged the jet toward the ocean, from 12,000 feet to 200 in a matter of seconds, and then swooped down on a tanker ship as if to rake it with gunfire. He ascended and stalled the jet over a small prop plane for a few moments before zooming away. Some 20 miles offshore, south of the Shinnecock Canal, he accelerated to 700 miles per hour.

“We just broke the sound barrier!” he yelled.

We were wearing flight suits that inflate automatically to squeeze the lower body and force circulation up to keep blood flowing to the head. Crew members had shown me how to tense my lower body and do shallow breathing to avoid blacking out at high G’s. But when the force hit, it felt like a vise tightening on my head.

The blue sky went black and I awoke moments later to Major Skelton yelling, “We just pulled 9 G’s!” as we roared west.

Around Kennedy Airport, airliners and Cessnas seemed to hover motionless in the sky, compared with this war bird screaming down the coast and changing altitude at will.

Within minutes, we were blowing past the Parachute Jump at Coney Island, banking a right turn and flying over the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge into New York Harbor, which was dotted with freighters. A couple of tight circles around the Statue of Liberty left a trail of white smoke.

Passing the Rockaways and leaving Kennedy’s airspace, we heard the air-traffic controller over the radio, “Have a good show this weekend.”

“Looking forward to it,” Major Skelton said as he bore down on Jones Beach in his F-16.
727 2007-05-26 A member of Debtors Anonymous, who did not want to be identified by name, works as an accountant and said she was especially ashamed to admit that she didn’t have control over her personal finances, as she was racking up debt on credit cards and lines of credit.

“I felt like I was a bad person, like I’d done something really bad,” she said. “We live in a culture that tells us we are what we buy and you are what you look like on the outside, and not in a culture that tells you how to talk about it, that it’s O.K. to expose weakness.”

But it turns out that secrecy compounds our problems, and probably takes a toll on our physical as well as psychological health. Numerous scientific studies have shown the salubrious effects of confession, of opening up about what’s troubling us.

“Disclosure has shown to be beneficial, across cultures, across ages and across types of traumas and life experiences,” said James W. Pennebaker, professor of psychology at the University of Texas at Austin and a leading researcher in this area.

Among the benefits documented, Dr. Pennebaker lists: “Big changes in immune function, faster wound healing, sleeping better, making better grades in school, finding jobs more quickly, being less depressed, ruminating less.”

Helpful as it might be, most of us are still reluctant to come clean with others about our money troubles, even in one of the few settings created for this, like a meeting of Debtors Anonymous, a 12-step program that helps members stop incurring unsecured debt.

“Most people will do anything not to go to what seems like this strange cult,” said Joanne, a member of the program who asked to be identified only by her first name. “That was certainly my attitude. I thought, ‘I’m not really a debtor, someone maxed out on credit cards.’ ”

Yet Joanne had gone through a divorce and was piling up debt and feeling overwhelmed, she said. When she started going to D.A. meetings many years ago, she said she thought, “ ‘Thank God, there are people talking about this, and there’s somewhere I can go and hear others.’ I got relief. I loved it.”

Whether it’s in a group setting or just among friends, an honest discussion gets rolling only when someone, courageously, goes first. The taboo must be cracked before it can be broken.

In Debtors Anonymous, the icebreaker is often a longtime member. In a financial class, it’s the facilitator. In my circles, it’s me. I sacrifice tactfulness for potential helpfulness.

The money taboo isn’t doing us any good, and seems to be causing actual harm. The statistics tell us that most Americans are in financial trouble — on the whole, we’re spending more than we’re making; 70 percent of us report living paycheck to paycheck; few of us are on track with retirement savings — yet because we don’t share our financial situations, many of us feel that we’re the only ones in our immediate vicinity not doing so well. So our clamshells tighten.

“This stuff is debilitating,” said Dave Ramsey, creator of Financial Peace University, a 12-week seminar held at locations across the country. “You sit around thinking, ‘I’m the only one messed up with money’ in a society of new cars. It’s paralyzing.”

One antidote is to start talking.

An integral part of Mr. Ramsey’s course is small group discussions. “When you see Ken and Barbie sitting there, looking like the perfect couple,” Mr. Ramsey said, “and then you hear they’ve had a big fight about money, and they’re broke, too, it gives you encouragement.”

Getting people to come to such a class in the first place can be a challenge. When Jill Mintsiveris, stewardship director at Grace Church in Erie, Pa., organized a budget course, she said she expected “that people would be busting down the door to get help.” Not so. Fewer than 1 percent of the 800 members of the congregation signed up, although from her position, Mrs. Mintsiveris says she knows that much of the congregation is in need of guidance.

Mrs. Mintsiveris explains the congregants’ reluctance as what she sees as “an image issue, a pride issue, not wanting to come out in the open and admit there’s a problem.”

“Those are enormous barriers,” she said.

Mrs. Taylor, who attends Grace, said she had been too ashamed of her debts to show up at a class. She and Mrs. Mintsiveris are friends and belong to the same small discussion group, but they had never discussed their finances. Mrs. Taylor said she went from an attitude that debt was acceptable and something she could handle to stretching to make the minimum payments on credit card accounts. “I felt a lot more pressure to get rid of the debt,” she said, “but thought, ‘I don’t want Jill to know; I don’t want our friends to know.’ ”

She eventually overcame her embarrassment, and learned that Mrs. Mintsiveris faced her own challenges. “You do feel better when you hear Jill say, ‘I blew my grocery budget three months in a row,’ ” Mrs. Taylor said. “And I say, “Jill! Wow, I thought you were perfect!’ ”

In my case, I stood in front of a group of about 40 people at a Financial Peace University class in Queens and confided that my husband and I had scraped by for two years on one modest income, paycheck to paycheck. As I told strangers about the stress I had never discussed with friends or family, I saw many heads nodding. Even that small gesture of commiseration brought great comfort.

We can benefit, however, only when we share and share alike. As the anthropologist Margaret Mead said, “We are our culture.” The money taboo persists only because we observe it.

“When you just don’t care anymore, it really is freeing,” Mr. Ramsey said. “It’s like Saturday morning when you put on your sweats. Your whole life is that way, when you’re not keeping up appearances.”
728 2007-05-26 It is the latest combination in a market that is consolidating to meet clients’ demands to buy and sell stocks of companies anywhere in the world, at a faster pace, across different asset classes and for less money.

“Business and companies are becoming global and we need a free flow of transactions and platforms to represent that,” said Roger Nightingale, a global economist at Millennium Global Investments in London.

Stock exchanges are also combining to save costs in an industry where the largest single expense is developing the technology to run trading platforms.

“The future of exchanges is about technology, flexibility and scale,” Mr. Greifeld said. The combination with OMX “provides our organizations with the ability to grow and accelerate the global flow of equity capital.”

The purchase of OMX — which operates exchanges in Stockholm, where it is based; Helsinki; Copenhagen; and Iceland — followed two failed attempts by Nasdaq over the last two years to buy the London Stock Exchange, Europe’s largest exchange.

The London exchange rebuffed the offers of as much as £2.7 billion ($5.4 billion) as too low, but Nasdaq managed to acquire a 30 percent stake that it still holds.

Some analysts said a larger Nasdaq with an operation and some top management in Europe would have a better chance to combine with London’s stock exchange.

Magnus Bocker, OMX’s chief executive, who had been in talks with potential exchange partners including London in the past, will become president of the combined company.

The London Stock Exchange also turned down other takeover offers, including one from the Macquarie Bank of Australia.

London Stock Exchange shareholders have so far applauded Clara Furse, the chief executive, for her tough stance on price and her successful takeover defense strategy. The company’s shares have risen 23 percent over the last 12 months.

Since OMX, which was also a possible takeover target for the London exchange, is now in rival hands, it may be more difficult for the London Stock Exchange to remain independent as consolidation inevitably continues, said Richard Hunter, head of British equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London.

The acquisition of OMX is expected to have annual cost savings before taxes of $100 million and revenue savings of $50 million, the two companies said Friday. Nasdaq OMX had a pro forma revenue of more than $1.2 billion in 2006, they said.

Nasdaq was advised by JPMorgan Chase. The Credit Suisse Group and Morgan Stanley advised OMX.

OMX was founded in 1985 and two years later became the world’s first bourse to have its own shares traded on the stock market.

Competition for exchange ownership has heated up recently on both sides of the Atlantic. Nasdaq’s rival, the NYSE Group, bought Euronext of Paris, for $14.3 billion last month to create the first trans-Atlantic stock exchange.

Deutsche Börse, which operates the Frankfurt stock exchange, agreed in April to buy International Securities Exchange Holdings for about $2.8 billion to create the largest trans-Atlantic derivatives market.

Stock exchanges also started to buy minority stakes in each other to increase the chances of access to other markets. NYSE said in January that it would pay $115 million to purchase 5 percent of the National Stock Exchange in India.

The Tokyo Stock Exchange signed a cooperation agreement with the New York Stock Exchange in January and Deutsche Börse has agreed to buy 5 percent of the Bombay Stock Exchange for $43 million.

Exchanges may also face competition in Europe from their own customers as a group of investment banks plans to set up a pan-European share trading platform called Project Turquoise.
729 2007-05-26 Novak Djokovic Stable and huge, and his forehand is coming on strong, too.

Andy Murray A delight whether he is on or off balance, but most fun on the run.

Marat Safin Not what it was (like the rest of his game) but still a 21st-century classic.

Ivo Karlovic At 6 feet 10 inches, he had better have a great serve.

Ivan Ljubicic Shorter Croats can slam lots of aces, too.

Andy Roddick His coach and head cheerleader, Jimmy Connors, did not teach him this.

Ivan Ljubicic Shorter Croats can win quick points without aces, too.

Andy Roddick It does not fool Federer or Murray, but it beats virtually everyone else.

Tommy Haas It helped him reach this year’s Australian Open semifinals.

Lleyton Hewitt With Andre Agassi now a returner emeritus, Hewitt has become the dean.

Roger Federer The latest most-underrated part of his game.

David Ferrer Hard-working and hard-running, he leads the Tour in return games won.

Tim Henman Henmania has subsided, but this skill remains.

Roger Federer As if he did not have enough in the toolbox already.

Radek Stepanek He gets plenty of practice with it as a rare serve-and-volleyer.

Fabrice Santoro Savor the angles and the artistry; he is 34.

Andy Murray No rush; he is 20 (and out of the French Open).

Roger Federer Virtuosity is the mother of invention.

Rafael Nadal Brad Gilbert calls him the best mover on clay ever.

Roger Federer This was an underrated part of his game, until victims started rating it too highly.

Nikolay Davydenko Still quick, even after 32 tournaments last year.

Lleyton Hewitt Perhaps there is still time for Stallone to watch a Hewitt movie.

Rafael Nadal He has faltered here and there, but positive energy is the rule.

Roger Federer Why not believe after winning six of the last seven majors?

Svetlana Kuznetsova The big base of success for the most Spanish-like player among the Russians.

Ana Ivanovic If only she could move as well as she rips this shot.

Justine Henin Sliced or driven, an enduring thing of beauty.

Amélie Mauresmo Less spectacular than Henin’s, but heavier.

Maria Sharapova More technically sound than her unconventional forehand.

Jelena Jankovic Best when hit down the line on the run, with elastic limbs flailing.

Li Na It is the key to her (and China’s) rise into the top 20.

Serena Williams Best recent reference is her rout of Sharapova in the Australian Open.

Elena Dementieva With her serve, it is best to have world-class returns.

Lucie Safarova She sees serves very clearly.

Serena Williams It is the key to her revival, and more potent than many of the men’s.

Maria Sharapova It is better if she gets the first one in these days.

Nicole Vaidisova Smooth motion and 6-foot frame serve this 18-year-old well.

Samantha Stosur Needs to be great to give her a chance to get to the net.

Svetlana Kuznetsova The heaviest second serve in the women’s game.

Martina Hingis Still subtle after all these years.

Amélie Mauresmo A true all-court player, with the spins to match.

Justine Henin Having that one-handed backhand helps at the net.

Samantha Stosur Wins doubles titles all year, also by pushing forward.

Jelena Jankovic Hingis 2.0; more about anticipation than pure athleticism.

Venus Williams Huge wingspan with foot speed to match along the baseline.

Justine Henin Brittle early in career; hard (too hard?) later.

Maria Sharapova Despite the occasional meltdown, generally hard to crack.
730 2007-05-26 WASHINGTON, May 25 — A highly anticipated test of a new Pentagon system to defend against long-range ballistic missiles was halted early on Friday because the target rocket fell far short of the designated interceptor range in the Pacific, officials announced.

Since the attacking rocket and dummy warhead never reached the area to be defended, the missile interceptor was never launched from its base at Vandenberg Air Force Base, north of Santa Barbara, Calif., officials said.

The Missile Defense Agency will categorize the aborted mission as a “no test,” because no new information was generated on the overall system, including the interceptor, radar and command systems.

“We were not able to get the target downrange far enough or high enough to present a threat to the system,” Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering III, director of the missile agency, said. “It fell well short of the intended area. The system itself never had a chance to recognize it as a threat, and so did not respond to the target.”

In a telephone interview, General Obering said early information from the test range indicated that the failure was in the second motor of the three-stage target rocket, launched from Kodiak Island, Alaska.
731 2007-05-26 Some people, meanwhile, have been using the contests as an opportunity to scrawl digital graffiti on the sponsor and its brand. Rejected Heinz submissions have been showing up on YouTube anyway, and visitors to Heinz’s page on the site have written that the ketchup maker is clearly looking for “cheap labor” and that Heinz is “lazy” to ask consumers to do its marketing work.

“That’s kind of a popular misnomer that, somehow, it’s cheaper to do this,” said David Ciesinski, vice president for Heinz Ketchup. “On the contrary, it’s at least as expensive, if not more.”

Heinz has hired an outside promotions firm to watch all the videos and forward questionable ones to Heinz employees in its Pittsburgh headquarters. So far, they have rejected more than 370 submissions (at least 320 remain posted on YouTube). The gross-out factor is not among their screening criteria — rather, most of the failed entries were longer than the 30-second time limit, entirely irrelevant to the contest or included songs protected by copyright. Some of the videos displayed brands other than Heinz (a big no-no) or were rejected because “they wouldn’t be appropriate to show mom,” Mr. Ciesinski said.

Heinz hopes to show more than five of them, if there are enough that convey a positive, appealing message about Heinz ketchup, he said. But advertising executives who have seen some of the entries say that Heinz may be hard pressed to find any that it is proud to run on television in September.

“These are just so bad,” said Linda Kaplan Thaler, chief executive of the Kaplan Thaler Group, an advertising agency in New York that is not involved with Heinz’s contest.

One of the most viewed Heinz videos — seen, at last count, more than 12,800 times — ends with a close-up of a mouth with crooked, yellowed teeth. When Ms. Kaplan Thaler saw it, she wondered, “Were his teeth the result of, maybe, too much Heinz?”

Scott Goodson, chief executive of StrawberryFrog, an advertising agency based in New York, said the shortcomings of contest entries — not just those for Heinz — refuted predictions that user-generated content might siphon work away from agencies. “This Heinz campaign, much like the same ones done by Doritos, Converse and Dodge, only goes to show how hard it is to do great advertising,” he said.

In a traditional ad campaign, a client like Heinz will meet with its advertising agencies to come up with a central idea, often a tagline like MasterCard’s “Priceless.” The creative departments then design the ads while the media planners figure out where they should run. Except for the occasional focus group, consumers are largely on the receiving end.

In campaigns that solicit work from the public, the model appears to be quite different — consumers, after all, create the ads. But, in reality, ad agencies and brand marketers are still doing much of the legwork. Heinz and Doritos spent months planning their user-generated contests, hiring lawyers to vet them and designing advertisements to promote them. Then they assigned employees to wade through entries.

“These contests have nothing to do with cost savings,” said Jared Dougherty, a spokesman for Frito-Lay, the division of PepsiCo that owns the Doritos brand.

While the winners of the Doritos contest may have spent only $12, Doritos spent about $1.3 million on advertising in October, according to estimates from Nielsen Monitor-Plus. And that was when it was promoting the contest, which invited people to create a 30-second commercial that would run during the Super Bowl. Doritos received 1,020 videos and awarded prizes of $10,000 to five finalists.

And then Doritos, a unit of the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo, spent more than $8 million on advertising in February when it showed the top five commercials, more than any month in the last two years, according to Nielsen Monitor-Plus.

Other companies are also spending handsomely to present user-generated content to the public. Last Tuesday, KFC put on a commercial during “American Idol” that consisted entirely of clips about KFC that consumers had posted on the Internet — even without a contest. Heinz, too, says that customers have been making videos starring its bottle long before its contest and posting them on sites like YouTube.

Heinz has run ads for its contest during “American Idol” and other television shows (as well as in large newspapers like The New York Times), but it has gone a step further: it has converted all the labels on its bottles and ketchup packets into ads for the contest. This was a major initiative that involved everything from building new industrial printing plates to timing the shipment of bottles so they would appear on shelves at the beginning of May, said Mr. Ciesinski of Heinz.

And for all of Heinz’s effort, the interests of many of the contestants lie far outside its own. Steve Sass, 48, who taped two Heinz commercials, is running for president as a write-in candidate. Ed Barry, 34, writes sketches about a character named Vinny and is trying to get his work noticed. Some contestants say in interviews that they prefer mustard or mayonnaise.

Michelle Cale, a 39-year-old Web designer in Morgantown, W.Va., has a more traditional motive. “It is a substantial sum of money, which, of course, caught my eye,” she said.

In one of Ms. Cale’s two Heinz videos, after dropping her children at school, she spends the day playing with a bottle of ketchup at the park. As she plays with the bottle on the playground as if it were a child, she proclaims, “you mean so much to me.” Then she pours ketchup on a juicy hamburger to eat it.

Then there is Dan Burke, who brushed his teeth and shaved with ketchup, and said he hoped the vulgarity would help his video stand out. A 20-year-old college student in Centerville, Ohio, Mr. Burke wants to win and to use the prize money to attend a two-year training program in wrestling.

He described his strategy: “I just thought to myself, ‘What is the single strangest thing I can do with ketchup?’ ”
732 2007-05-26 Stock exchanges are also combining to save costs in an industry where the largest single expense is developing the technology to run trading platforms.

“The future of exchanges is about technology, flexibility and scale,” Mr. Greifeld said. The combination with OMX “provides our organizations with the ability to grow and accelerate the global flow of equity capital.”

The purchase of OMX, which operates exchanges in Stockholm, where it is based, Helsinki, Copenhagen and Iceland, followed two failed attempts by Nasdaq over the last two years to buy the London Stock Exchange, Europe’s largest exchange. The London exchange rebuffed the offers of as much as 2.7 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) as too low, but Nasdaq managed to acquire a 30 percent stake that it still holds in the company.

Some analysts said a larger Nasdaq with an operation and some top management in Europe would have a better chance to combine with London’s stock exchange. Magnus Böcker, OMX’s chief executive, who had been in talks with potential exchange partners including London in the past, will become president of the combined company.

The London Stock Exchange also turned down other takeover offers in the past, including one from the Macquarie Bank of Australia. London Stock Exchange shareholders have so far applauded Clara Furse, the chief executive, for her tough stance on price and her successful takeover defense strategy. The company’s shares have risen 23 percent over the last 12 months.

But with OMX, which was also a possible takeover target for the London exchange, now in rival hands it may be more difficult for the London Stock Exchange to remain independent as consolidation will inevitably continue, said Richard Hunter, head of British equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London.

The acquisition of OMX is expected to have annual cost savings before taxes of $100 million and revenue savings of $50 million, the two companies said Friday. Nasdaq OMX had a pro-forma revenue of more than $1.2 billion in 2006, they said.

Nasdaq was advised by JPMorgan Chase. Credit Suisse Group and Morgan Stanley advised OMX.

OMX was founded in 1985 and two years later became the world’s first bourse to have its own shares traded on the stock market.

Competition for exchange ownership has heated up recently on both sides of the Atlantic. Nasdaq’s rival, the NYSE Group, bought Euronext of Paris, Europe’s second-largest exchange, for $14.3 billion last month to create the first trans-Atlantic stock exchange. Deutsche Börse, which operates the Frankfurt stock exchange, agreed in April to buy International Securities Exchange Holdings for about $2.8 billion to create the largest trans-Atlantic derivatives market.

Stock exchanges also started to buy minority stakes in each other to increase the chances of access to other markets. NYSE said in January it would pay $115 million to purchase 5 percent of the National Stock Exchange in India.

The Tokyo Stock Exchange signed a cooperation agreement with the New York Stock Exchange in January and Deutsche Börse has agreed to buy 5 percent of the Bombay Stock Exchange for $43 million.

Exchanges may also face competition in Europe from their own customers as a group of investment banks plan to set up a pan-European share trading platform called Project Turquoise.
733 2007-05-26 It was late in introducing bottled water to the market. And in 2000, Coke’s chief executive signed a deal to buy Quaker Oats that included Gatorade, but the board turned him down. Quaker was then swept up by PepsiCo.

This year, PepsiCo’s share of the noncarbonated beverage industry in the United States — which includes bottled water, sports drinks and juice — was 50 percent. Coke’s market share was 23 percent, according to the trade publication Beverage Digest, which first reported the negotiations last month.

William Pecoriello, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, called the acquisition, a “potential game changer” in the market for noncarbonated drinks.

“It would fill a major gap in it’s noncarb portfolio,” Mr. Pecoriello said last week in a note to investors.

Glaceau also makes Fruitwater, an energy drink called Vitaminenergy and Smartwater, which contains electrolytes. Mr. Pecoriello said the sale of Glaceau’s products could be expanded overseas. The jewel of Glaceau is Vitaminwater which is vitamin-fortified and offered in flavors. It is among a fast-growing category known as functional foods, which market themselves as offering an additional benefit beyond basic nutrition. Energy drinks fortified with ginseng, orange juice with added calcium and yogurt with live bacteria called probiotics are examples of fortified foods.

Each bottle promises a specific benefit. Kiwi-Strawberry flavored Vitaminwater, for example, promises “focus” and “healthy support for eyes and skin” with Vitamin A and lutein, described as a natural antioxidant that protects against eye disease. There is also a Vitaminwater with green tea extract, which promises to “rescue” because of its purported cancer-fighting properties.

Glaceau’s Web site says, “Welcome to the Center for Responsible Hydration.” The company was founded in 1996 by J. Darius Bikoff, who remains chief executive. He could not be located for comment.

Glaceau is based in Whitestone, Queens. Last year, an Indian tea company, Tata Tea, bought a 30 percent in Energy Brands for $677 million. At that time, a Tata executive told Dow Jones that Glaceau’s revenue for the year would be $355 million and would jump to $700 million in 2007.

The company sold 77 million 192-ounce cases last year, a standard industry measure, according to Beverage Digest, a 103 percent increase over the previous year.

By contrast, Coca-Cola sold 5.5 billion cases in the United States alone.

When he took over as chief executive in 2004, Mr. Isdell, a longtime Coke executive who had retired to Barbados, said his turnaround effort would focus on ironing out turmoil within the company, improving morale and focusing on rebuilding its core soda brands.

He also vowed to improve the company’s innovation pipeline. But once the company was stabilized, Mr. Isdell said he would be prepared to make more transformational acquisitions.

“It’s the right play,” said Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark, a consulting firm to the food and beverage industry, including Coke. “When you look at what’s happening with Coke, they can’t innovate their way out. They have to buy their way out.”

In America, soft drinks account for 67 percent of the nonalcoholic beverage business, with bottled water making up 17 percent and other noncarbonated beverages, 16 percent, Beverage Digest said. But in 2006, soft drink volumes declined slightly while bottled water was up 17 percent and other non-carbonated drinks increased 13 percent.
734 2007-05-26 The Smithsonian Institution's proposed budget should be cut by $26 million, a House subcommittee voted on Thursday, down from the $678 million requested by the White House in February. The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment...
735 2007-05-26 North Korea test-fired several short-range missiles from its eastern coast into the Sea of Japan. The tests, believed to be part of annual drills, did not constitute a ''grave issue for Japan's security,'' Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said. ...
736 2007-05-26 It was third time lucky for Robert Greifeld, the chief executive of Nasdaq, who succeeded after failing twice to expand into Europe.     Nasdaq, the largest electronic stock market in America, agreed Friday to buy OMX, the operator of seven Nordic...
737 2007-05-26 Photo shows US and Iraqi soldiers searching house in Latafiya for two US soldiers who were seized during ambush...
738 2007-05-26 A combination of skills -- from shotmaking to mental toughness -- is required to win a Grand Slam event like the French Open, which begins tomorrow. But the individual strengths of players can make a difference at key moments in a match.     Here ...
739 2007-05-27 This story about good food begins in a quick-stop convenience market. It was our family's last day in Arizona, where I'd lived half my life and raised two kids for the whole of theirs. Now we were moving away forever, taking our nostalgic inventory of the things we would never see again: the bush where the roadrunner built a nest and fed lizards to her weird-looking babies; the tree Camille crashed into learning to ride a bike; the exact spot where Lily touched a dead snake. Our driveway was just the first tributary on a memory river sweeping us out.

One person's picture postcard is someone else's normal. This was the landscape whose every face we knew: giant saguaro cacti, coyotes, mountains, the wicked sun reflecting off bare gravel. We were leaving it now in one of its uglier moments, which made good-bye easier, but also seemed like a cheap shot-like ending a romance right when your partner has really bad bed hair. The desert that day looked like a nasty case of prickly heat caught in a long, naked wince.

This was the end of May. Our rainfall since Thanksgiving had measured less than one inch. The cacti, denizens of deprivation, looked ready to pull up roots and hitch a ride out if they could. The prickly pears waved good-bye with puckered, grayish pads. The tall, dehydrated saguaros stood around all teetery and sucked-in like very prickly supermodels. Even in the best of times desert creatures live on the edge of survival, getting by mostly on vapor and their own life savings. Now, as the southern tier of U.S. states came into a third consecutive year of drought, people elsewhere debated how seriously they should take global warming. We were staring it in the face.

Away went our little family, like rats leaping off the burning ship. It hurt to think about everything at once: our friends, our desert, old home, new home. We felt giddy and tragic as we pulled up at a little gas-and-go market on the outside edge of Tucson. Before we set off to seek our fortunes we had to gas up, of course, and buy snacks for the road. We did have a cooler in the back seat packed with respectable lunch fare. But we had more than two thousand miles to go. Before we crossed a few state lines we'd need to give our car a salt treatment and indulge in some things that go crunch.

This was the trip of our lives. We were ending our existence outside the city limits of Tucson, Arizona, to begin a rural one in southern Appalachia. We'd sold our house and stuffed the car with the most crucial things: birth certificates, books-on-tape, and a dog on drugs. (Just for the trip, I swear.) All other stuff would come in the moving van. For better or worse, we would soon be living on a farm.

For twenty years Steven had owned a piece of land in the southern Appalachians with a farmhouse, barn, orchards and fields, and a tax zoning known as "farm use." He was living there when I met him, teaching college and fixing up his old house one salvaged window at a time. I'd come as a visiting writer, recently divorced, with something of a fixer-upper life. We proceeded to wreck our agendas in the predictable fashion by falling in love. My young daughter and I were attached to our community in Tucson; Steven was just as attached to his own green pastures and the birdsong chorus of deciduous eastern woodlands. My father-in-law to be, upon hearing the exciting news about us, asked Steven, "Couldn't you find one closer?"
740 2007-05-27 MOSCOW, May 27 — Police officers and riot troops quashed a gay rights rally in Moscow today, detaining organizers as well as at least two European lawmakers, while members of Orthodox Christian and nationalist groups threw insults, eggs and fists at demonstrators.

Barely had Nikolai A. Alekseyev, the event’s main organizer, appeared in front of Moscow’s city hall, when the police pushed him and several other demonstrators into a police bus.

Skirmishes between gay rights protesters and counterprotesters broke out across from city hall along Tverskaya Street, Moscow’s main thoroughfare. The general disorder made it hard to determine the number of people actually participating in the demonstration. Mr. Alekseyev had predicted 200 people would participate.

A man in camouflage clothing struck Peter Tatchell, a British gay rights campaigner, in the face as he tried to speak to the press. Officers arrested the man who threw the punch and took Mr. Tatchell to a police van for his protection, a police spokesman said.

Later, Marco Cappato, a European Parliament member from Italy, traded blows with another man wearing camouflage as the riot police looked on.
741 2007-05-27 Amherst’s president, Anthony Marx, turns to stark numbers in a 2004 study by the Century Foundation, a policy institute in New York, to explain the effort: Three-quarters of students at top colleges come from the top socioeconomic quartile, with only one-tenth from the poorer half and 3 percent from the bottom quartile.

“We want talent from across all divides, wherever we can find it,” President Marx said. Amherst covered the full cost of Mr. Jack’s education beyond what he earned in work-study. The only debt he says he owes is the $41 it cost to make copies of his 107-page honors thesis.

Amherst also provides its low-income students important support, from $400 “start-up grants” for winter coats and sheets and blankets for their dorm rooms, to summer science and math tutoring. At the same time, low-income students are expected to put in at least seven hours a week at $8-an-hour work-study jobs.

But they get to use $200 a month in their work-study earnings as spending money to get a haircut, for instance, or go out for pizza with classmates so they don’t feel excluded.

Mr. Jack, who is black and had never been on a plane until he flew to Amherst for his first visit, arrived as an A student, and with a steely focus.

His mother, Marilyn, 53, had guided her son from Head Start to a gifted program in elementary school to a magnet middle school and, in his final year of high school, to the private Gulliver Preparatory School on a full scholarship. But she never had to push Tony, she said. “He was on a mission from Day 1,” she said.

Mr. Jack’s high grades and test scores — a respectable 1200 on the SAT — won him a full scholarship to the University of Florida. But the median score for his Amherst class was 1422, and he would have been excluded had the admissions office not considered his socioeconomic class, and the obstacles he had overcome.

“Tony Jack with his pure intelligence — had he been raised in Greenwich, he would have been a 1500 kid,” said Tom Parker, the dean of admission. “He would have been tutored by Kaplan or Princeton Review. He would have had The New Yorker magazine on the coffee table.”

“Tony Jack is not an anomaly,” he added.

Mr. Jack, Amherst officials say, would likely not have benefited under traditional affirmative action programs. In their groundbreaking 1998 study of 28 selective universities, William Bowen, the former president of Princeton, and Derek Bok, now the interim president of Harvard, found that 86 percent of blacks who enrolled were middle or upper middle class. (Amherst was not included in that study.) The white students were even wealthier.

“Universities have prided themselves on making strides in racial diversity, but for the most part they have avoided the larger issue of class inequality,” said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation.

For Mr. Jack, there were adjustments at this college, where half the students are affluent enough that their parents pay tuition without any aid from Amherst.

He did not let it bother him, he said, when wealthier classmates blithely inquired about the best clubs in Miami — as if he would know, Mr. Jack said dryly — before flying off to his hometown for spring break. Mr. Jack could afford to go home only at Christmas, and the end of the year, when Amherst paid his plane fare.

Mr. Jack is 6 foot 7 and built like the football player he used to be. In his freshman year, he said, he was walking to his dorm one night when a police car seemed to be following him. He recalled showing the officer his Amherst ID and explaining, “I’m a student here.”

In Mr. Jack’s class of 413, 15 percent, or 61, students, are from families with incomes of less than $45,000 a year; about two-thirds of those are from families earning less than $30,000. He was amazed to discover how much preparation wealthier students had.

“People are groomed for the SAT,” Mr. Jack said. “They take Latin to help them with their vocabulary.”

He seized every opportunity Amherst offered — the pre-freshman summer program in science and math, help from the writing center and faculty office hours. “They didn’t just invite me in,” he said. “They prepared the way.”

For his freshman year, he chose the most challenging classes, including Chemical Principles, even though he had no chemistry in high school. “I didn’t feel like I was in over my head,” he said. “I just felt like I was being pushed to the boundaries of my ability.”

He got all A’s and B’s his first year, except for a C-plus in chemistry. Sophomore year he plunged in even deeper, taking Organic Chemistry I and II. He got a B the first semester, and an A-minus the second.

“Organic chemistry was the happiest time of my life,” said Mr. Jack, who tends to gush about Amherst. “Everything started clicking.”

David Hansen, who taught Organic Chemistry II, called Mr. Jack’s improvement remarkable: “He had the motivation and the desire and the discipline to take advantage of the support that was here.”

Mr. Jack, who is as gregarious as he is studious, found time to mentor other students, serve on committees — and earn an A-plus in calculus last year, one of only 10 A-pluses the professor, David Cox, said he has given out in calculus in 30 years of teaching. This year Mr. Jack was Amherst’s nominee to be a Rhodes scholar at Oxford.

Squeamish about blood, Mr. Jack switched his major from pre-med to religion and gender studies. He said he intended to go to graduate school. For now, he loves Amherst so much, he is staying around as an “alumni fellow,” organizing events on campus. He says he thinks about teaching, or becoming a lawyer so that he can help his community. As for money, he says he just wants to be able to take care of his family.

At Amherst’s commencement on Sunday, Mr. Jack wept — and his classmates gave him a standing ovation — when President Marx awarded him the annual prize for the senior who has “shown by his or her own determination and accomplishment the greatest appreciation of and desire for a college education.”

Thanks to Amherst, Mr. Jack said, he has rewritten the narrative of his life. It isn’t about “a poor black student” going “from the bottom to the top,” as he once believed, he wrote in an essay about his family and all they have done for him. His mother, his older brother, his younger sister and his two nieces were here at graduation, having driven up in a rented van from Miami.

“Being a senior at Amherst is only one step along my journey through life,” he wrote. “You want to know Anthony Abraham Jack, then look behind the man you see walking around campus today. And you, in doing so, surely will never say that he came from the bottom and is now at the top.”
742 2007-05-27 Except that Frick never affixed an asterisk next to Maris’s 61 home runs. At least, not officially.

Frick had been a close friend of Ruth’s and saw himself as the self-appointed custodian of his legend. In the summer of 1961, aided by what seemed to be a livelier ball and an eight-game extension to the 154-game season, Maris, Mickey Mantle and other sluggers appeared to be closing in on Ruth’s mark. At a news conference that July, Frick declared, “if a player does not hit more than 60 until after his club has played 154 games, there would have to be some distinctive mark in the record books to show that Babe Ruth’s record was set under a 154-game schedule.”

Maris ended up hitting 59 home runs through 154 games, one short of Ruth, though he did hit two more before the season ended.

Frick never used the word asterisk; that was contributed by the acerbic New York Daily News sports writer, Dick Young, who suggested out loud at the news conference that an asterisk should be used, since, “Everyone does that when there’s a difference of opinion.”

There certainly was a difference of opinion among baseball’s old-timers. As Maris got closer to the record, it seemed that every day another former ballplayer threw oil on the fire. Rogers Hornsby said, “it would be bad for baseball if a .270 hitter like Maris broke a record like that.” Hank Greenberg, who nearly broke Ruth’s record in 1938 (ending up with 58 home runs) said he thought Frick’s idea of a “distinctive mark” was “just damned stupid.”

On the last day of the 1961 season, Oct. 1, the New York Times columnist James Reston, who got his start as a sports writer, wrote that Frick, by questioning Maris’s achievement, had reduced Maris “to an asterisk or footnote in baseball history.” He went on to say, referring to a political scandal of the time: “It may well go down as the worst judgment since Sherman Adams took that rug from his old friend Bernard Goldfine of Boston.”

To confuse matters, baseball did not even have an official record book in 1961. (Major League Baseball published its first official record book in 1995.) Frick had no authority to tell anyone what they could and couldn’t put in their record books.

In the minds of millions of fan, though, from old-timers who loved Ruth to younger fans who wanted Mantle to break Ruth’s record, Maris was suspect, and so the idea of the asterisk stuck and acquired the veneer of reality. Frick himself eventually tried to dispel it, writing in his 1973 autobiography, “Games, Asterisks and People,” that, “No asterisk has appeared in the official record in connection for that accomplishment.”

The myth persisted nonetheless. Dan Gutman, who wrote about Frick, Maris and the asterisk in his 1992 book, “Baseball Babylon,” says the reason was simple. “The majority of the fans believed that Maris should have had the asterisk, and so he did,” he said.

In 1991, Commissioner Vincent appointed an eight-member committee on statistical accuracy. One of the questions the group examined was whether Maris should be given sole credit for the single-season home run record. The committee’s answer was an emphatic yes, a response that Vincent, who chaired the panel, endorsed when he said he supported “the single record thesis.” As the baseball historian Bill Deane later noted, removing the asterisk from Maris’s name “was an easy job: the asterisk never existed.”

Except, of course, in the public mind.

It’s a safe bet that Bud Selig will steer clear of suggesting that Bonds receive an asterisk next to his name, should he break Aaron’s record. The fans, not Bud Selig or the press, will be the ones who make that decision.

Whether it ends up in the record book or not.
743 2007-05-27 But Mr. Isdell’s words aren’t entirely convincing: fun has been hard to come by at Coke headquarters here for quite some time.

A towering 63-year-old from Ireland, Mr. Isdell left a comfortable, tropical retirement in Barbados three years ago to return to one of the world’s most recognizable companies, but one that was in disarray after years of turnover, misdirection and internal squabbles. In doing so, he became the caretaker of one of the most storied legacies in corporate America, and a business that has set standards for savvy global expansion, lithe, and inventive brand management and marketing panache.

Yet the future of the company that Mr. Isdell took over in 2004 was in jeopardy. Coke’s tightly knit and long-serving board selected him after it had unsuccessfully pursued several other big-name chief executives. Meanwhile, PepsiCo, Coke’s longtime nemesis, was clobbering it in the United States, helping to cause Coke’s stock to lose nearly half of its value from its 1998 high of $88.

Now, nearly three years after Mr. Isdell created a “Manifesto for Change,” it remains unclear whether he can reclaim Coke’s former glory. He and his team have largely borrowed their turnaround strategy from the heroes of Coke’s past: blanket the landscape with Coke signs, push the product in developing markets abroad and spend more money on advertising — to recapture, as Mr. Isdell puts it, the idea that “there is a magic around the brand.”

Analysts widely credit Mr. Isdell with improving morale and stabilizing what many considered a dysfunctional company. Coke has a hit in a new product, Coke Zero, and a catchy ad in “The Coke Side of Life,” which focuses on its distinctive bottle; the company is also enjoying brisk overseas sales. Its most recent quarterly earnings were its best in years.

To be sure, Coke — which racked up earnings of about $5 billion on sales of $24 billion last year — remains a formidable presence, in the United States and overseas. The company’s own number-crunchers are fond of saying that a Coca-Cola beverage of some sort is swallowed 1.4 billion times a day in various spots on the planet. (That translates to 58,333,333 servings an hour; or 972,222 a minute; or 16,204 a second.) But Coke is at a crossroads, and it has been slow to make its mark in the booming American market for energy drinks, bottled water and other noncarbonated drinks. Mr. Isdell took a step toward addressing that problem on Friday when Coke announced a $4.1 billion takeover of Glacéau, a producer of vitamin-enhanced water.

The Glacéau deal is a milestone for a company that has never pulled off a takeover of this magnitude before. Even so, some analysts still wonder whether Mr. Isdell and his board remain too conservative to break from traditions that once served them well but may no longer be suited to a world in which consumer tastes are rapidly — sometimes constantly — shifting.

Tom Pirko, the president of the consulting firm Bevmark and a frequent critic of Coke’s soda-dominated strategy, says the Glacéau deal is a good move for the company. But he says Coke needs to be more innovative and invest more resources in emerging markets. With all of the new drinks flooding the market, he likens the beverage industry to television: there were once only three major networks, but now there is cable, the Internet, DVD, and TiVo, among others.

“Fabulous icon, but even icons must change with the times and new generations of young consumers,” he says of Coke. “Even a cursory examination of the Coke portfolio shows little creativity in taking risks or sinking serious funds into new products. Instead, Isdell has satisfied himself with baby steps.”

Not to worry, Mr. Isdell counters. In an interview in Coke’s sumptuous 25th-floor executive offices here, where he sits surrounded by Coke-themed artwork, he says Coke is now prepared to do more than take baby steps — as the Glacéau deal shows. And, he adds, Coke is large enough and has been around long enough act with deliberation.

“People are always in a hurry for instant gratification,” he says between slugs from a can of Coke Zero, one of a half-dozen or so he drinks each day. “For all of the problems, this wasn’t a company that was going bankrupt.

“There is no need to go bet the house,” he adds. “This is not a rescue situation.”

“What could be better than making your living by selling a product that makes billions of people happy?”

Invented in 1886 by an Atlanta pharmacist and Civil War veteran and marketed as a tonic for headaches and fatigue, Coca-Cola became a potent symbol of abundance and effervescence as it expanded around the globe. And much of the credit for Coke’s ubiquitous and special place in pop culture resides with a handful of visionary leaders, like Asa G. Candler, who bought the secret formula a few years later for $2,300 and then began a relentless marketing campaign that included plastering Coke’s distinctive script on everything from lampshades and napkins to sheet music and ashtrays.

Robert W. Woodruff, who was known as “the Boss” and who ruled Coke for nearly six decades, was largely responsible for spreading the cola throughout the world, starting in 1926 with the establishment of a “foreign department.” His masterstroke came during World War II, when he vowed that every American soldier would get a Coca-Cola for a nickel. It made lifelong Coke drinkers out of the soldiers and spread Coke’s appeal overseas.

Roberto C. Goizueta, a chemical engineer and Cuban refugee, became the chief executive of Coke in 1981 — the first non-Georgian to run the company — and spent the next 16 years dazzling Wall Street with the company’s growth. According to Coke, a share of its stock was worth $35.88 when Mr. Goizueta took office; by the time he died in 1997, that same share was worth the equivalent of $2,209.72 — pleasing investors like Warren E. Buffett, who owned boatloads of Coke stock.

By then, Coke had such a firm hold — rivaled by few other companies of any stripe — on the popular American imagination that collectors traded everything from vintage Coke vending machines to salt-and-pepper shakers bearing a Coke logo. After Coke opened the World of Coca-Cola museum in 1990, some 750,000 visitors a year paid to see it.

But like other ubiquitous American brands, from Ford and Polaroid to McDonald’s and Budweiser, Coca-Cola would begin to lose its magic. It seemed to happen almost overnight, as if unseen forces were conspiring against the company: the stock market bubble burst and foreign economies deflated; tainted cans of coke made Belgian schoolchildren sick; some of Coke’s African-American employees sued, citing an ugly history of discrimination.

Worse yet, soft drinks became a prime target in the national debate about why so many Americans were fat. Drinking Coke wasn’t so “fun” anymore, and Americans started reaching for bottled water and an expanding variety of other noncarbonated drinks that offered new tastes and better nutrition.

Coke was accustomed to being dominant, but its potent legacy — built on the principle of saturating markets with cola — shackled the company as it tried to adjust to new circumstances. It was slow to offer bottled water, bypassed a chance to buy Gatorade and dragged its feet in trying to acquire the South Beach Beverage Company, the maker of SoBe. (Pepsi now owns Gatorade and SoBe.)

Under Mr. Isdell, Coke is now trying to be a more spritely buyer. Coke’s deal for Glacéau, the company that makes Vitaminwater, offers evidence of that. Vitaminwater is a huge hit among young people, and is on its way to being a $1 billion brand. In other words, it is exactly the type of hip brand that Coke has unsuccessfully struggled to produce on its own or to buy outright in recent years.

If the deal goes through, it would be the biggest in Coke’s history and significantly bolster the company’s portfolio of noncarbonated beverages in the United States — a portfolio that pales next to Pepsi’s.

For his part, Mr. Isdell — who, like many chief executives, is looser in informal settings than in scripted public appearances — says that coming out of retirement to take the job has given him a freedom that he might not have had if he were younger and less secure. He says that he has been hearing about the need for diversification and acquisitions since he took over Coke and that — at least initially — he put little faith in the mantra because the company was so unfocused.

To the disbelief of investors and some members of his staff, he has routinely maintained that selling more soda, and Coca-Cola in particular, rather than diversifying into other beverages or foods, was a crucial first step to a turnaround. The problem was not the brand, he has said, but lackluster execution by Coke employees.

Soon after he took office, he was unusually blunt in pointing out what he considered to be flaws of his work force, from tepid marketing and innovation to a loss of faith in the trademark brand. “We looked in the mirror and saw that the enemy was us,” Mr. Isdell says. “We really didn’t have a coherent view of who we were.”

MR. ISDELL’S faith in the Coke brand is not hard to trace. The son of a policeman, he moved from Northern Ireland to Zambia when he was 10. He joined the local Coke bottling company in Zambia in 1966 and spent the next 35 years with the company and its bottlers, retiring in 2001 after serving as vice chairman of one of Coke’s biggest bottling operations. His career consisted of capturing and overhauling foreign markets, including South Africa, Australia, Germany, India, the Philippines and the Middle East. He counts among his finest memories Coke’s breakthrough in Eastern and Central Europe — what had been “Pepsi country”— after the Berlin Wall came down.

“We had a map that was all blue, and we were changing the color to red as we went through,” he says.

Mr. Isdell’s focus-on-soda strategy looked disastrous shortly into his tenure. By early 2006, the stock had sunk to less than $40, down from $51.07 when he was elected chief executive. The stock closed at $51.89 on Friday. Some analysts say the initial stock slump was attributable to Mr. Isdell’s intentionally painting a gloomy picture about Coke’s outlook.

“He kind of kitchen-sinked it, throwing everything in but the kitchen sink to lower expectations” says Walter B. Todd III, portfolio manager at Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood, S.C. “He kind of underpromised and overdelivered, which was smart.”

Mr. Isdell does not deny it, and he argues that getting bad news out early and focusing on the company’s core brands — Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Sprite and Fanta — is starting to pay off. Instead of looking for quick fixes, he says he needed to go slow to fix problems around the Coke brand before he could risk “transformational” acquisitions.

“We are in a pretty good place on a road that is a long road,” he says.

Coke’s soft-drink sales volumes increased 4 percent last year, and earnings per share rose 6 percent — respectable, but a far cry from the 15 to 20 percent numbers that Coke posted in the 1990s. In the first quarter this year, soft-drink volumes increased 5 percent, attributable largely to huge gains overseas. Earnings per share jumped 15 percent, as did company profits.

The company’s goal is 3 percent to 4 percent volume growth, with high single-digit growth in earnings per share. Asked if Coke could again reach double-digit growth, Mr. Isdell says, “that’s a question we’ll answer in small increments.” He says that much of the company’s growth will depend on the growth of the global economy.

Some analysts are cheered by Mr. Isdell’s results.

“They are focused on execution and letting the numbers tell the story instead of just talking about hope,” says Christine Farkas, a Merrill Lynch analyst. “It turns out in the end that Neville’s strategy has been pretty much correct.”

Mr. Pecoriello says Coke is capable of sustaining double-digit growth during the next five years if it maintains its momentum. “We do think the turn is real, but there’s more room for upside,” he says. “There’s still a lot to fix in North America. They’re still improving the innovation pipeline. They still need to execute all the productivity savings.”

But believing in Mr. Isdell means believing in a bright future for soda, and there are many who remain unconvinced. According to Beverage Digest, the industry publication, overall global soft-drink volumes were up by 2 percent in 2006; but in the United States, which accounts for a third of the overall consumption, soda sales are declining.

Mr. Todd of Greenwood Capital, for one, said he bought several thousand shares of Coke after Mr. Isdell was hired but eventually sold them because he became tired of waiting for promised changes. “I don’t think he’s addressed the bigger-picture issue, and that is that 80 percent of their business comes from carbonated soft drinks,” Mr. Todd says.

NOW the saying is you have to be global. We were global when global wasn’t cool.”

Coke is now available in more than 200 countries, the result of an aggressive global expansion that began in 1906 in Cuba, Panama and Canada. Today, about 70 percent of Coke’s sales are overseas. In the first quarter this year, Coke’s volume growth in China was 17 percent; in its Eurasia division, which includes Eastern Europe, India and Russia, volume increased 16 percent.

Coke officials say they have turned around problematic markets like Japan, India, Nigeria and Germany. But on Coke’s global map, the United States remains a glaring black spot that is not only embarrassing, but could potentially infect other markets around the globe. The United States, together with Canada, generates 21 percent of the company’s profits.

Last year, Coke’s overall beverage sales in the United States were flat, and soft-drink sales were down slightly. In the first quarter this year, Coke’s overall United States sales were down 3 percent.

And it could get worse.

Consider, for example, what is happening at a McDonald’s restaurant on the corner of 13th and Woodlawn in Wichita, Kan. The experiment does not look like much — just two unmarked coolers behind the front counter. But what’s inside the coolers is a surprise, because McDonald’s has always given Coke preferential treatment: not only are there Coke products like Dasani and Powerade, but there’s also Mountain Dew, Lipton Green Tea and Gatorade, each made by Pepsi.

McDonald’s installed the coolers during the last year in about two dozen restaurants, mostly in Kansas and Missouri, after it realized that a growing number of customers were buying their Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets and then heading elsewhere for drinks. Besides the coolers, the test-market McDonald’s are also offering free “flavor shots” that allow customers to personalize drinks.

“It’s really about us selling more beverages,” said Karen Wells, McDonald’s vice president for strategy in the United States. “Everything we’ve heard so far is very positive from our customers.”

Coke remains the first choice of McDonald’s and is working closely with the hamburger chain on the test marketing. But Ms. Wells said that consumers would ultimately decide McDonald’s beverage choices — a view that threatens a cozy relationship that began in 1955 with a handshake between the McDonald’s legend Ray A. Kroc and a Coke executive guaranteeing that Coke drinks would be given preference at the hamburger chain.

Indeed, Coke still dominates the fountain trade in America’s fast-food restaurants, a particularly lucrative slice of the business that accounts for 31 percent of the company’s soft-drink volume in the United States and Canada.

“McDonald’s seems to want to expand its beverage offerings to better compete with convenience stores,” says John Sicher, the publisher of Beverage Digest, an industry trade publication. “I believe most beverages they’ll serve in the future will still be Coke products, but what ‘most’ means will be the issue for Coke. Coke needs to keep expanding its noncarbonated offerings.”

All of these developments obviously thrill Pepsi officials. “This is all about giving people more choices, particularly when it comes to product variety, portability and health and wellness,” says David DeCecco, a Pepsi spokesman. “We’re pleased to be working with McDonald’s, and we hope consumers respond favorably to this market test.”

Over the last five years, PepsiCo’s stock has risen 37 percent, while Coke’s has fallen about 9 percent. In the last year, however, Coke stock has jumped about 17 percent, while PepsiCo’s has increased by about 14 percent.Coke is also encountering a seismic shift in consumer preferences — of the sort that is challenging the newspaper business and hamstringing automakers. Worried about their health and lured by new drinks, Americans are reaching for bottled water, sports drinks, green teas and juice instead of soda. The decline in soft-drink sales isn’t just for full-calorie sodas like Coca-Cola Classic, with about 10 teaspoons of sugar per 12-ounce can. Sales of diet soda are declining too, in part because artificial sweeteners make some consumers nervous.

The problem is so serious that Coke executives no longer refer to soda as just plain “soda.” “Soft drink,” “pop” and “carbonated beverage,” are also verboten. Instead, the favored term in Atlanta these days is “sparkling beverage.”

Information Resources, the market research firm, found that dollar sales of carbonated soft drinks declined by 1.4 percent in 2006, to $13.3 billion. (The company’s data does not include Wal-Mart.) By contrast, sales of energy drinks jumped 44.6 percent, to $637 million. In other categories, bottled-water sales increased 14.4 percent, to $4.6 billion; sports drinks rose 10.8 percent, to $1.6 billion; and ready-to-drink teas and coffees jumped 25.4 percent, to $1.2 billion.

Taken as a whole, soda sales still handily outweigh all other beverage categories combined, but the trend lines are ominous for a “sparkling beverage”-dependent company like Coke. William Pecoriello, a Morgan Stanley analyst, found in a survey last year that teenagers, who used to be among the biggest consumers of soda, increasingly prefer other beverages.

“If you lost that generation, as they age they aren’t suddenly going to start drinking carbonated soft drinks,” says Mr. Pecoriello. “That’s the importance of Coke closing the non-carb gap.”

Yet that insight has hardly been a secret. Coke and Pepsi executives have talked about the importance of noncarbonated beverages since the early 1990s and have rolled out all sorts of new products to attract cola-weary customers. But in that effort, Coke has seemed to always be a step behind.

“The difference was, Pepsi meant it and Coke didn’t,” said Emanuel Goldman, the veteran beverage analyst who retired from ING Barings in San Francisco and now works as a consultant. “Coke really didn’t mean it when they said they were an all-beverage company.”

Pepsi now commands a 50 percent market share for noncarbonated drinks in the United States, with Coke a distant second at 23 percent (without Glacéau). Coke has 43 percent of the soda business in the United States, compared with Pepsi’s 31 percent. Pepsi owns the leading brand in nearly every noncarbonated drink category in the United States: bottled water (Aquafina); sports drink (Gatorade); enhanced water (Propel); chilled juice (Tropicana); bottled tea (Lipton, a joint venture) and ready-to-drink coffee (Starbucks, a joint venture).

COCA-COLA is the “sublimated essence of all America stands for — a decent thing, honestly made, universally distributed, conscientiously improved with the years.”

— Attributed to William Allen White editor, The Emporia Gazette of Kansas, in 1938.

So how did Coke lose its magic? Macroeconomic factors played a role. So did a raft of bad publicity over issues of obesity, racial discrimination and food poisoning. But internal issues were also in play. Mr. Isdell surveyed his top executives about the problem when he took charge, and arrogance, he says, was a common answer. Complacency was another.

Trying to figure out why it has taken Coke so long to regain its swagger is an equally complicated question. But taking a look at turnover in the management ranks and stasis on the board of directors provides a clue.

During the 10 years since Mr. Goizueta died, Coke has had three chief executives, three general counsels, four chief operating officers, four heads for North America, and six chiefs of marketing (a particularly troubling metric, given Coke’s reputation for brilliant ads and promotions). The president’s post, the company’s No. 2 job, was vacant for nearly half the decade.

The chief marketing position is now vacant because Mary E. Minnick, who was touted as Coke’s most forceful voice for change and the highest-ranking woman in the company, resigned abruptly earlier this year after it became clear that Muhtar Kent, who was named president and chief operating officer in December, was the heir apparent to Mr. Isdell.

Of the top 150 employees at Coke, 61 are new to their jobs or the company, Coke officials say. The turmoil in Coke’s executive ranks contrasts sharply with its board, one of the most entrenched in corporate America. It has largely been in place since Mr. Goizueta’s term, when the demand for Coke seemed unlimited and double-digit growth was a given.

Of the 11 current members of the board, eight have served 10 years or longer, and four of those have logged 25 years or more. The average tenure for board members is 16.6 years, nearly double the average of Fortune 500 companies, according to an analysis by the Corporate Library, which tracks corporate governance issues and compensation for executives and board members. Coke has the 10th-longest-serving board among Fortune 500 companies, the analysis found.

The average age of the 11 directors is 68. Except for Mr. Isdell, all of the board members are American. One is African-American and one is a woman.

Though Coke’s board treated Mr. Goizueta with reverence and left him alone, it has taken a much more hands-on approach with subsequent chief executives. When Douglas N. Daft resigned as chief executive in 2004 after a turbulent tenure, the board embarked on a ham-handed, highly public search to land a hotshot chief executive from another company. The board ultimately turned to Mr. Isdell, who had already been passed over for the top job once, after Mr. Goizueta’s death.

Donald F. McHenry, a former United States ambassador to the United Nations and a board member since 1981, said in an interview that the board had not handled transitions well since Mr. Goizueta’s death. He called the process that led to Mr. Isdell’s selection “pretty sloppy.”

“The leaks were unconscionable,” says Mr. McHenry, who is also a professor of diplomacy and international affairs at Georgetown University. “It was not the way to run a railroad.”

Mr. McHenry says the board has given Mr. Isdell leeway to run the company as he sees fit; Mr. Isdell does not dispute that. As for the age and tenure of the board, Herbert Allen, a director since 1982, says it has the benefit of experience. Asked about the lack of diversity, he says: “When we are sitting in the room, the opinions are certainly diverse.”

Some have disagreed. Marc Greenberg, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a February note to investors that some of the board’s recent actions were “anathema to real, lasting structural change in how the company does business and may ultimately limit Coke to a high-single-digit earnings grower, even as more appears possible.”

But the Glacéau deal caused Mr. Greenberg to temper that view. On Friday, he said that the Glacéau deal signifies that at Coke “there is a recognition that the world is changing.”

SAILIN’ ‘round the world in a dirty gondola. Oh, to be back in the land of Coca-Cola!”

Muhtar Kent, who became Mr. Isdell’s sidekick in December as president and chief operating officer, has been traversing the United States in recent months, trying to figure out why Coke is having such problems in its home market.

“If you go south of the border to Latin America, you will see millions and millions of signs of Coca-Cola, over outlets that serve Coca-Cola,” Mr. Kent said. “Sixty-five to 70 percent of everything we sell is based on impulse. That’s our business. There isn’t one sign in the United States. No more.”

Mr. Kent is 54, balding and stocky, and has the frenetic energy of a teenager. The son of a Turkish diplomat, he was born in New York and grew up in Asia, before attending college in England. He joined Coca-Cola in 1978 and has worked around the world for the company. In 1996, Australian regulators accused Mr. Kent, who was working in Europe for a Coke bottler based in Australia, of insider trading after he sold 100,000 shares of the company just before a profit warning.

Mr. Kent settled the complaint without admitting guilt by repaying $400,000 in profits and $50,000 to cover the costs of the inquiry. He says that he considers the sale an “honest mistake” and that he was unaware of the timing of the sale because he relied on a financial adviser to manage his portfolio.

Mr. Kent says he is now focused on turning around Coke’s North American business, including Coke’s always-fragile relationship with its bottlers, who have struggled to grow and have started distributing other, non-Coke products, like Arizona Iced Tea, to remain competitive.

Since Mr. Isdell took over, Coke’s research and development budget has more than doubled. And Mr. Kent says the company is counting on a beefed-up innovation laboratory to deliver new products and packaging to lure customers. The lab is tucked away in a rather unsavory corner of the company’s sprawling headquarters, at the end of a cracked driveway at the back of a low concrete building that looks more like an elementary school than a tech center. A sign on a plain steel door reads “KO Lab.”

“It’s kind of got that skunk-works feel,” says Danny Strickland, Coke’s chief innovation and technology officer. But the KO Lab is less a laboratory than a showroom where Coke takes commercial clients to show off its latest products from around the world and to brainstorm about new ones.

Images of Coke’s patents cover one wall, and there are touch-screens throughout that describe the “need states” of consumers, like “comfort and relaxation” and “health, beauty and nutrition.”

The lab also displays all kinds of new products. “Mother” is a natural energy drink that has been introduced in Australia, while Nanairo Acha, a tea sold in Japan, changes color depending on its temperature. Coke Zero was created here. The lab is also exploring new ways to market Coca-Cola. A “super cool” vending machine keeps soda colder than its freezing point, so that when the cap is opened the bubbles form tiny ice crystals.

Coke is also pumping up the brand. On Thursday, Coke officially opened its new, 92,000-square-foot museum, replacing the old World of Coca-Cola Museum. What is remarkable about the museum is that visitors pay to walk through a building full of Coke ads, albeit interactive and slickly displayed. Museum officials say they expect more than one million visitors a year. (Admission is $15 for adults, $9 for children.)

The museum tour ends in a tasting room that offers Coke products like Bibo from South Africa and Vegitabeta from Japan. On the way out the door, each visitor gets an eight-ounce bottle of Coke before being deposited, inevitably, into a store jammed with Coke memorabilia. The whole experience is like a corporate version of Graceland, Elvis Presley’s former home: the same fresh-faced docents, the same reverent fans, the same relentless merchandising.

It also says a lot about how Coke wants consumers to view it.

In the “Advertising Theater,” visitors can watch some of Coke’s most famous ads. Now showing is one of Mr. Isdell’s favorites, a relatively new commercial called “The Happiness Factory” that takes a whimsical look at the inside of a Coke vending machine. A quarter descends into the guts of a machine, entering a surreal world of oddball characters that prepare the bottle for consumption and celebrate its famous hourglass shape with a parade.

The commercial is “fun.” It also represents the promise of Coke’s powerful legacy and the current aspirations of Coke’s executives: happiness, inspired by a Coke bottle.

“The magic of the bottle,” Mr. Kent says. “Nothing else comes close.”

Unless, of course, it proves to be a water bottle.
744 2007-05-27 After weeks of gains, the broad stock market gave up ground last week, while trading volumes declined in advance of the Memorial Day weekend.

Economic reports were equivocal or outright contradictory. For example, data provided Friday by the National Association of Realtors on sales of previously owned homes showed an unexpectedly sharp decline in April, while a government report a day earlier showed that sales of new homes had surged, perhaps because developers had cut prices to spur demand.

Is the housing slump deepening or easing? Last week’s data provided no clear answers.

Amazon.com gained 8.3 percent, among the biggest weekly gains in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. A Citigroup analyst raised his price target for the stock.

For the week, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 7.02 points, or 0.05 percent, to close at 1,515.73. The Dow Jones industrial index dropped 49.25 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 13,507.28. The Nasdaq composite index declined 1.26 points, or 0.05 percent, to close at 2,557.19.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.86 percent from 4.80 percent the previous week.
745 2007-05-27 Cities that have tried congestion pricing, like London, show that particulate matter emissions — “soot” — were cut by 12 percent inside the charging area and by 1.5 percent in the surrounding area. In Stockholm, congestion charges cut emissions by 14 percent in the tolled central area of the city and by several percent regionally. Stockholm authorities estimate that this drop in pollution will help to reduce the number of premature deaths in the city by 20 to 25 per year. This experience shows that Dr. Crain’s fears are unfounded.

Congestion pricing also provides revenue to pay for much-needed transit improvements, including better subways, new clean-fuel bus lines and expanded rail service. That way, emissions reductions can extend far into the future.

Re “A Solution to Crawling City Traffic? Not So Fast,” by Julia Vitullo-Martin (Op-Ed, May 20) and “Red Light for Breathing”:

Residents of neighborhoods just outside the proposed congestion pricing zone have reason to be concerned about the development of a park and ride industry. In Brooklyn, that possibility could become a reality very soon with the Atlantic Yards project, where Forest City Ratner has announced it will clear two city blocks in order to build parking for as many as 1,400 cars.

Although the developer describes it as an “interim” lot, the project’s landscape architect has suggested it could operate for decades. By 2010, Atlantic Yards will have more than 2,300 parking spots — all conveniently located within a two block walk of Atlantic Avenue, the city’s third largest subway hub.

For Brooklyn this will mean more cars on the streets and more pollution in an area that has already been identified as an asthma hotspot. London’s experience indicates that careful planning is needed to reduce effects on the neighborhoods forming the congestion zone’s perimeter. The mayor should insist on an alternate plan for the seven acres that Forest City Ratner plans to raze for parking.

I am a resident of TriBeCa and play tennis at the John Jones court. If it wasn’t for Mr. Jones, there would never have been a tennis court. His time and hard work in having the court built is an asset to the community, And on his own, unofficially, he has maintained and managed the court for all tennis players in the city.

There are no refugees, no one gets sent away, no times are reserved, the rules are followed by all players.

If you want to ensure court time at a certain hour, you have to be there before 8 a.m. and stand in line to sign up, because it gets filled up quickly, especially now during the summer.

It’s first come, first serve (a pun there). That is the Parks Department rule, and the court is open to all players with a city permit.
746 2007-05-27 Ordinarily, a steep fall in the Fed funds rate might be expected to set off a rally in bonds, whose prices rise as interest rates fall. But for many reasons, Mr. Ryan and other strategists are not rushing to bonds. Mr. Ryan notes that 10-year Treasury notes moved very little in response to the recent skein of 17 Fed rate increases. “It’s improbable to expect a sustained rally in the longer end of the Treasury market given the fact that we didn’t get a significant sell-off when the Fed was raising rates,” he said.

He advises investors in corporate bonds to stick to quality issues. “The risk premium on lower-quality issues is very narrow,” he said. “It doesn’t pay to dip down in quality.”

Don Alexander, fixed-income researcher at Citi Global Wealth Management Investments, is also leery of bonds, particularly those of longer maturities. “We don’t think the credit sectors have focused on risk correctly,” Mr. Alexander said. He favors short-term Treasuries over longer-term issues, seeing “some potential for gains in the two-year sector.”

But he worries that long-term Treasuries are exposed to the risk of an economic rebound later this year or in 2008. “There’s still a chance that long-term rates rise if a rebound materializes later this year,” he said.

And he is especially negative on corporate bonds. “Keep minimum exposure to corporate bonds,” he said, “because you’re not being adequately compensated for risk.”

Mr. Alexander expressed concerned about signs of rising leverage among corporate borrowers at the same time that “profit margins are beginning to be squeezed.” Over all, he said, “we think the financial markets are more susceptible to risk.”

Some strategists say that several stock sectors are still attractive. Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, recommends health care and consumer staples stocks. With both the economy and inflation losing steam, she explained, “investors should put a slight premium on stability of earnings growth.”

Consumer staples, which include household products, food, tobacco and beverages, tend “to be a sector that’s appealing when economic growth is slowing,” she said.

In addition, she would avoid the consumer discretionary sector, which includes sellers of non-essential goods. Currently, she said, consumer spending on essentials like energy, food and mortgage debt is at an all-time high as a percentage of disposable income: just over 55 percent. That leaves less for things like nightlife and shopping sprees.

At UBS Wealth Management Research, Jeremy A. Zirin, senior equity strategist, also recommends the traditionally defensive sectors of health care and consumer staples. Health care stocks are trading at a slightly lower premium to the overall market than they usually do, Mr. Zirin said. And consumer-staples companies like Procter & Gamble, Clorox and Colgate-Palmolive use huge quantities of chemicals and other commodities whose prices could stabilize in a slowing economy with mild inflation. Under those economic circumstances, the earnings of such companies typically grow faster than those of many other sectors.

Despite the possibility of an economic slowdown, some strategists are still keen on industrial companies, particularly machinery and equipment makers, that can benefit from strength in overseas economies. Already, the market has begun to favor such stocks. In the 12 months ended April 30, the stocks of companies in the S.& P. 500 that had above-average international exposure advanced by 16 percent, noted Mr. Zirin. Those of companies with below-average international business gained just 8 percent. “That’s a sustainable trend for the next one to two years,” Mr. Zirin said.

Market optimists cite continued economic strength overseas — along with subdued inflation — as major reasons for their bullishness. International economies are growing more strongly than that of the United States, noted Mr. Schweitzer at JPMorgan. Europe, especially, is benefiting from increased trade with Asia. In the fourth quarter of 2006, European exports to China soared 25 percent over the fourth quarter of 2005. Mr. Schweitzer urged investors to tilt slightly away from domestic equities toward investment in European companies.

But even bullish strategists like him are counseling caution.

“I’m an optimist about inflation, and therefore I’m optimistic on a long-term basis about the market,” he said, but he immediately conceded that he might be wrong. “I want a hedge against being wrong about inflation,” he said.

Toward that end, he advises investors to opt for short-term bond maturities, to increase their cash holdings and to tilt more toward the stocks of developed countries outside the United States.

MS. SONDERS at Charles Schwab sees some warning signals in the stock and bond markets.

“There’s a lot of complacency about risk,” she said, citing as evidence a proliferation of high-risk debt, the narrow differences in yield or “spreads” between high-quality and high-risk debt, and low market volatility. So why wouldn’t investors jump off the runaway train before it comes to an abrupt, bone-jarring halt?

“Realistically,” she said, “when the light starts to flash yellow about too much complacency, it can flash for a long time before the markets turn down.”
747 2007-05-27 The stores were born fully formed and have not required any fundamental changes. The best innovation was present on Day One: the “Genius Bar,” with a staff of diagnostic wizards whose expertise is available in one-on-one consultations — free. Pure genius. More than half of the retail store’s staff is assigned to post-sales service.

Customer response is told in the numbers. Last month, Apple released results for the quarter ended March 31. More than 21.5 million people visited its stores, which now number more than 180. Store sales were $855 million, up 34 percent from the quarter a year earlier, and they contributed more than $200 million in profits.

For perspective, look at the parallel story of Sony, which in 2004 began its attempt to create a branded retail chain. That was the same year Gateway closed the remnants of its 188-store chain. Today, Sony has 39 Sony Style stores, built out from the flagship stores in New York and San Francisco. The company’s breadth of product lines in consumer electronics and related accessories, as well as computers, would seem to give it a significant advantage over Apple. But because Sony does not release data on the stores’ sales or profits, it is hard to assess how its retail venture is doing.

Last Sunday, I set out to have a look for myself. I began at Sony’s flagship in San Francisco, at the Metreon Center, the shopping and entertainment complex. The mall was crowded, but Sony’s store, measuring an enormous 20,000 square feet, was all but deserted. The two uniformed members of the store security staff matched the number of customers I could see browsing the store’s wares.

Then I headed for the Stanford Shopping Center in Palo Alto, where I could see a Sony Style store compete almost directly across from an Apple retail store. The weather was gorgeous, drawing the usual weekend throng to the shopping center.

Sony’s mall store was long and large — 6,000 square feet — and filled with curvy panels and chirpy taglines like “My Style” on the walls and plush theater nooks. Here, too, the sales staff seemed to outnumber customers.

A group of five young salesmen and saleswomen who stood near the door when I entered were so engaged in a private, and apparently amusing, discussion that my imploring presence failed to draw anyone’s attention. The only other customers in the store were at the far other end, near the PlayStations. I suppose that the employees near me had become accustomed to busying themselves with their own entertainments.

A few yards away was the Apple store, which is one of Apple’s newer “mini” stores, introduced in 2004 and only about an eighth the size of Sony’s Stanford store. It was simplicity itself: a rectangular space with products lining the two sides, laptops placed on a small table, open space taking up most of the room, and, of course, the Genius Bar. The store was packed, yet the sales people were alert and attentive.

Last week, I shared these impressions with Dennis Syracuse, senior vice president for Sony Retail, who assured me that Sony’s stores drew an average of 350,000 visitors annually per store. Mr. Syracuse rejected the idea that his store concept could be compared to Apple’s. His stores were conceived, he said, as a “fashion boutique for women and children” that incidentally happened to carry electronics instead of clothing.

When describing how Sony had entered a new retail world as “fashion merchants,” he pointed with pride to the choice spot he had secured for the first store, next to Gucci and across from Versace. Indeed, if you would like to accessorize an outfit with a color-coordinated laptop, the Sony Style store offers models in pink, violet, champagne and many more.

But Sony’s offerings have not impressed retail consultants with whom I spoke. Willard Ander, a senior partner at McMillan Doolittle in Chicago, was unsparing in his assessment: “Sony doesn’t get retail. The stores are not energized and not shop-able.” Apple stores extend an “emotional connection” to their customers that Sony’s do not, Mr. Ander said. The absence of such a connection, he said, was a common failing of manufacturers who venture into retail on their own. (Dell, meanwhile, announced last week that it would soon begin selling its computers in stores — but not its own. It will offer its machines in 3,000 Wal-Mart stores.)

Wendy Liebman, the founder of WSL Strategic Retail in New York, was equally critical of the Sony Style store, which she faulted as being merely “a place of stuff.” She said that a successful brand excites a passionate attachment, the way Starbucks or Target do, and that Apple’s stores exemplify “emotional connection.”

“People can just walk in, absorb the fumes and feel like the smartest technophile in the world,” she said. Let’s add that there is only one place to buy computers that features Geniuses at all times.

IT may be that as long as personal computer makers stick with Windows, no amount of merchandiser ingenuity will be able to gin up passion matching a Mac enthusiast’s. But the proposition really has not been put to a fair test in a store. Imagine having the opportunity to test-drive a high-performance Windows machine made by a boutique manufacturer like Voodoo, based in Calgary, Alberta. Voodoo offers a variety of configurations for different kinds of uses and varying performance levels that it labels as medium, high, extreme and insane. What’s “insane”? A Voodoo Omen, configured for serious graphics work — two dual-core processors, liquid cooling, four 15,000-RPM hard drives — costs more than $16,000. No Apple retail store carries anything like it.

Then again, no store selling Windows machines does, either. You have to go online to order it. Hewlett-Packard acquired Voodoo last year but has not expanded distribution channels to allow customers to test-drive these babies out on the road. I don’t think I can point my spousal unit to the Voodoo Web site and persuade her that a $5,563 Voodoo configured for the home office is just what we need: “You see, dear, we’ll actually be saving $3,500 by going ‘extreme’ rather than ‘insane.’ ” Come to think of it, I’m not ready to make the purchase, either. That’s a sale that has no chance without a family visit to a store for a hands-on trial.

Sony already has the stores. What it lacks among its offerings is a machine so extraordinary that people would come just to gawk at it, and then, perhaps, would notice surrounding products that shine in the reflected light.

Mr. Ander says he believes that any company, if clever enough, can use intangibles to attract retail customers. “If Payless ShoeSource can reposition itself as a place that markets ‘cool,’ ” he asked, “then why can’t Sony?”
748 2007-05-27 Now I’m not ashamed to admit that I enjoy watching the dog shows on Animal Planet. I like to think that I know a thing or two about how to identify certain breeds. And while the fur on the dog’s ears in question was distinctly curly, like a cocker spaniel’s, I didn’t think the spots were right. So I said, “No, I don’t think cocker spaniels have spots like that.”

I was about to say that I thought perhaps it was a springer spaniel when, without warning, he asked the woman, “Excuse me, what kind of dog is that?”

And with that, Steve started down a path he should have known was not going to be pleasant. “See, I told you,” he said to me, gloatingly. “Now you have to buy me dinner.”

I was still fuming because he was right and I was wrong, and because he and the woman had sided against me, when she asked jovially, “What do I get?”

“You get a smack in the head,” I told her.

Hearing this horribly nasty remark, I looked around to see where it had come from.

“Well, thanks,” the woman said. “That’s awfully neighborly of you.”

Steve was staring at me wide-eyed, in almost as much shock as I was. “Why did you say that?” he said to me quietly as we kept walking. “That was terrible!”

“I don’t know,” I replied. “It came out all wrong. I was kidding, but it sounded really mean.”

What surprised me most was that usually I was Miss Congeniality, agreeable to a fault. On the subway, I was always giving up my seat to pregnant women and older people. I give lost, vulnerable tourists correct directions.

If only Steve hadn’t been so smug. He knew I hated to be wrong. Yet he egged me on. I was angry at him — it was all his fault. Why was I even participating in a debate over a mutant form of cocker spaniel? Because Steve suggested we needed new curtains. For our awful apartment. On Memorial Day weekend, when I should have been at the beach, instead of in the city with shoppers walking around with dogs of ambiguous pedigrees.

WE headed to the curtain section while Steve pointed out a dozen or more items that we “needed.” A $250 humidifier. New mats for the bathroom. Towels to go with the new mats. A set of musical mugs that played a song that sounded like “99 Bottles of Beer.”

I was afraid that we would not be able to agree on curtains. Earlier, I had delivered a diatribe about how I didn’t want to just settle for anything simply because we made the trip and didn’t want to leave empty-handed. Steve was a different kind of shopper from me, which was always a source of tension between us. He saw something he liked, he bought it. I, on the other hand, looked around for other possibilities, compared prices, thought about other stores I could check out before making a purchase. Steve had neither the patience nor the inclination for that sort of thing. He found my habits exasperating.

Knowing this, I was trying to be on my best behavior. My venomous comment on the street had scared me.

In about 15 seconds, we found a pair of chenille curtains in an eggplant color. They were the last four panels, enough for our two bedroom windows, so we tossed them into our wagon.

On our way to the checkout, I saw the woman with the so-called cocker spaniel. I wanted to apologize, to convince her that I was actually a nice 40-something woman apparently suffering from some PMS-like symptom that was the root cause of my unwarranted display of rudeness. But I wondered how creepy it would seem to be shopping in a crowded store, and have a belligerent woman with whom you thought you were finished interacting tap you on the shoulder as you tried to select the perfect salad spinner.

“Excuse me,” I thought about saying. “I truly don’t know what came over me back there on the street. I’m very sorry for suggesting that I would slap you. But I didn’t really mean like an actual slap. I was thinking more like a soft playful cuff to the head the way some friends do affectionately when they kid around. You know what I mean?”

And, of course, she wouldn’t know what I meant, and she would call for the manager or some passer-by to save her from this crazy woman who wouldn’t leave her and her dog alone.

So I kept walking, following Steve to the cash registers. Waiting in line to pay for the curtains I might or might not choose to keep, I thought, this is a fine way to start the summer.
749 2007-05-27 A RECENT sale of 33 Ferraris at the company’s factory in Maranello, Italy, brought the highest price paid for a Ferrari at a public auction.

A 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa sold for 6.9 million euros ($9.3 million) at the May 20 auction by RM Auctions and Sotheby’s. It was driven to a Le Mans win in 1962 by Phil Hill and Olivier Gendebien.

The winning bid came from an unidentified telephone bidder. According to RM and Sotheby’s, the price is among the top half-dozen highest for a car sold at auction. The top spot is generally agreed to be the $9.8 million sale by Christie’s in 1987 of a 1931 Bugatti Type 41 Royale Kellner Coupé. That would be about $18 million in today’s dollars. PHIL PATTON
750 2007-05-27 Dr. Melissa Henrie Kujawski, a daughter of Elizabeth Szancer Kujawski of Manhattan and Nathan Kujawski of Flushing, Queens, is to be married this evening to Andrew Phillip Rosen, the son of Arlene and Carl Rosen of Stamford, Conn. Rabbi Marcelo Bronstein is to officiate at the Tribeca Rooftop, an events space in Manhattan.

The couple met at Stanford University, from which they graduated.

The bride, 26, received her medical degree earlier this month from Mount Sinai School of Medicine and in July she is to become an intern at Mount Sinai Medical Center.

Her mother is an art curator who develops and manages art collections for private collectors and corporations. The bride’s father was until 2004 a math teacher at Middle School 137 in Ozone Park, Queens.

The bridegroom, also 26, received an M.B.A. this month from the University of Pennsylvania. He is to become an associate at the Related Companies, the real estate firm in Manhattan, in July.

His mother works in Tarrytown, N.Y., as the head of performance management for Ciba Specialty Chemicals, the Swiss manufacturer; she evaluates the distribution of the plastic additives produced by the company. His father is the senior vice president for worldwide operations at the Bulova Corporation, the watch and clock manufacturer in Woodside, Queens.
751 2007-05-27 Kimberly Elizabeth Kissam, a daughter of Nancy L. Kissam and the late James B. Kissam of Wellesley Hills, Mass., was married yesterday to David Lawrence Lucchino, a son of Roberta F. Lucchino and Judge Frank J. Lucchino of Pittsburgh. The Rev. Shannan R. Vance-Ocampo, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Country Club in Brookline, Mass.

The bride, 39, is the president and a founder of Isabel Harvey, an online company in Boston that specializes in the importing and retailing of designer jewelry. She graduated from Wittenberg University.

Her mother is the former owner of Boston Fruit Slices, a confectionary company.

The bridegroom, 38, is a senior associate specializing in health care and sports and entertainment at Polaris Venture Partners, an investment firm in Waltham, Mass. He is also a founder and the chief executive of SteriCoat Corporation, a biotechnology firm in Cambridge, Mass. He graduated from Denison University and received a master’s degree in broadcast journalism from Syracuse University. He also has an M.B.A. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

His father serves as the administrative judge of Orphans’ Court Division of the Fifth Judicial District of Pennsylvania in Pittsburgh. He is a life trustee and a former chairman of the Carnegie Library, and a former trustee of the Senator John Heinz History Center, both in Pittsburgh.

Ms. Kissam and Mr. Lucchino met in June 2004 at a birthday party for Mr. Lucchino’s college roommate, Peter Powers. At the time, Mr. Lucchino lived in Manhattan, and he had traveled to Boston for the celebration.
752 2007-05-27 Alissa Tamar Schecter, a daughter of Pamela and Mitchell P. Schecter of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., was married yesterday to Aaron Jacob Wright, the son of Tena R. Wright of Cranford, N.J., and Charles E. Wright of East Elmhurst, Queens. Rabbi Nathaniel D. Benjamin officiated at Rockleigh Country Club in Rockleigh, N.J.

The bride and bridegroom graduated from Tufts, where they met.

The bride, 25, is a law clerk for Judge Louis L. Stanton of the Federal District Court in Manhattan. She received her law degree from Fordham.

The bridegroom, 27, is a general counsel and a vice president for development at Wikia, a commercial start-up company in Manhattan that is working to construct collaborative Web sites on a range of topics. He received his law degree from Yeshiva University.
753 2007-05-27 Sonali Dalsukh Madia and Nimesh Naresh Patel are to be married today at the Grand Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency in Cincinnati. Pandit Sree M. Aswath, a Hindu priest, is to officiate.

The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they each received an M.B.A.

The bride, 29, is a strategy consultant at Bain & Company, a management consulting firm in Boston. She graduated from Duke. She is the daughter of Dr. Ila D. Madia and Dr. Dalsukh A. Madia of Marion, Ohio. Her father is the president and the chief anesthesiologist at the Smith Clinic in Marion. The bride’s mother, also an anesthesiologist, works there, too.

The bridegroom, 30, is a vice president of Great Hill Partners, a Boston investment firm; he evaluates investment decisions. He graduated from Princeton. He is a son of Hemangini N. Patel and Naresh K. Patel of Federal Way, Wash. His father is an aerospace engineer at Boeing in Seattle.
754 2007-05-27 At a moment when no clear artistic movement or style dominates popular tastes, he is known as a master of the unexpected. And while often rooted in ancient mythology, philosophy and chemistry, artists and curators say, his work always seems new. The artist John Baldessari, 75, describes Mr. Polke as an artist’s artist. “Any one move can provide a career for a lesser artist,” he explained.

Collectors and museum directors line up to buy virtually anything Mr. Polke produces these days. When a group of black-and-white drawings — blown-up studies of paint brush strokes and splatters that evoked celestial constellations — went on view in February at a cocktail party at the annual Art Show in Manhattan, they sold out within 10 minutes.

His appeal also lies partly in his unavailability. Unlike Jeff Koons, Damien Hirst or Takashi Murakami, who work hard at maintaining their movie-star allure, Mr. Polke shuns the limelight and guards his privacy. He has been known to go for months without answering his phone, opening his mail or allowing visitors into his studio.

At the prodding of Mr. VeneKlasen, however, he allowed a reporter into his studio and backyard atelier to see what he has been up to in advance of the Venice Biennale. “I felt this body of work is a milestone and needed to be explained,” the dealer said.

As is always the case with his work, Mr. Polke said, the paintings for the biennale sprang from specific ideas yet evolved in mystical ways as he experimented. “This is the meeting point of ideas and materials coming together,” he said in his German-accented English. “You see what you want, but you have to work with the painting, and the results are always different.”

Altogether, it has taken him two years to apply and dry the poured lacquer surfaces of the seven abstract paintings he has created for the Biennale. Jointly titled “The Axis of Time,” they are to form the heart of the biennale’s signature exhibition in the Italian pavilion, called “Think With the Senses — Feel With the Mind. Art in the Present Tense.”

The show was organized by Robert Storr, the artistic director of the biennale and a former curator at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Given that he views the exhibition as “a meeting place of conceptual and perceptual art,” Mr. Storr said, it was a natural choice.

“Polke for a long time has been the most interesting, least predictable of the painters around,” he said by phone from Venice. “He’s almost impossible to get a bite of. People don’t know what to say right off the bat when they see his work. It has a deep kind of shrewdness.”

Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate in London, who has exhibited Mr. Polke’s work since 1995, said that quality of inscrutability played into the fascination. “He turns base metal into gold and base fabrics into great paintings,” he said. “But he is a very difficult artist to get hold of. He makes Richter, who’s complicated, look simple.” (Mr. Polke is often grouped with Gerhard Richter because both came of age and experimented in West Germany in the 1960s.)

Like the paintings themselves, Mr. Polke’s explanations are not always easy to parse. He pointed to a painting in which his fingerprints are visible through a film of deliberately applied dust. “This kind of painting tells many stories,” he said. “The fingerprints, like the fingerprints of a criminal, are something you fear, but at the same time something you want to touch.”

“For me the image isn’t important, it’s the human behavior of wanting to touch it that is,” he said.

Over the hours, he alternated between passionate absorption and detailed, almost scientific explanations of his materials and process, all the while nimbly juggling metaphors, turns of phrase and philosophical concepts. When he begins to apply the violet, he said, the surfaces will turn “gold as though they were drying against the sun.” Then he added: “Or a fragment of the moon. So many phenomenons belong to this kind of painting.”

His absorption in subjects ranging from art history to chemistry to celestial objects is reflected in the array of books and magazines packed into the shelves and stacked on tables in his atelier — from “Masterworks of Rubens” to “Astrology Today” to technical manuals on pigments and minerals. There is also an ancient Chinese gong, an electric keyboard and rolled-up old fabrics and maquettes. Tables that are not covered with books are adorned with curious objects like chunks of crystal and amber. The son of an architect, Mr. Polke was born in 1941 in Oels, Silesia, which was subsumed into East Germany at the end of World War II. He and his family — he is one of eight children — stealthily immigrated by tram to West Germany when he was 12. Having observed the contrast between the Communist east and the nascent affluence of West Germany, he made frequent reference to consumerism in his early work. He describes his education as “bourgeois” and recalls being forced to play the viola in his youth. “My father made us all learn a different instruments — he wanted a family orchestra,” he said.

He was heavily influenced by the old masters. “When I was young I was interested in Renaissance art,” he said over a lunch break in an airy wood-lined restaurant in Cologne. “As a child I copied Dürer drawings and Bruegel. All this for me was very familiar.” Today, he said, he relies on drawing “to fix an idea.”

“Mostly drawings are things I make for myself — I do them in sketchbooks,” he said. “They are mental experiments — private inner thoughts when I’m not sure what will come out.”

Later he studied glass painting, which helps explain his fascination with translucency. (He often pours resin on a canvas and then paints images over it, or douses fabrics with lacquer before sketching patterns on top of them.) Then he studied painting at the Art Academy in Düsseldorf, where Joseph Beuys was teaching.

His career has been a constant stream of experiments. During the 1960s, while a student in Düsseldorf, he joined with Mr. Richter and Konrad Fischer to found the German rejoinder to Pop Art, an ironic style they called Capitalist Realism. He took everyday objects like matchsticks, chocolate bars, sausages and biscuits, and painted them as though they were advertisements, always with a skeptic’s eye.

“American Pop for us was a new world,” he recalled. “It was a time of big change.” Yet the work he produced was quite different from the slick images of, say, Andy Warhol or Roy Lichtenstein. Whereas many Pop artists relied on silkscreen techniques, Mr. Polke always executed his paintings by hand — reproducing each dot in a blown-up image of something machine-made like a newspaper. (From childhood he has been preoccupied with dots — undoubtedly, he quips, because he has always been “short-sighted.”) The flaws in the end product are as important as what is depicted.

Sometimes the black-and-white dots in his paintings are tiny, a nod to pointillism, it would seem, or the Benday dots of newsprint. Other times they have been large, serving as puddlelike backgrounds for portraits or for still lifes of a mundane table and vase. Some paintings employ even larger dots interspersed with images, like a mixed-media work from 1971 in which he painted characters in milky, semitransparent white on strips of flowered fabrics. It was part of a trippy “Alice in Wonderland” series that many link to his experimentation with drugs.

He stopped painting for a while in the ’70s and turned to the chemistry of photography. He has also delved into film and video and still travels with a camera and camcorder, using them to explore in much the same way that he draws.

Mr. Polke returned to painting in earnest in the 1980s, exploring new materials and pigments so voraciously that his studio became an alchemist’s playground. He began experimenting with toxic substances, he said, because store-bought pigments often lacked the brilliant hues that he craved. He has used everything from arsenic and jade to azurite, turquoise, malachite, cinnabar and beeswax. He even extracted mucus from a snail and subjected it to light and oxygen to produce a vivid purple, in much the way the ancient Mycenaeans, Greeks and Romans created dye for their rulers’ robes.

In “Lump of Gold” (1982), he smeared arsenic directly on the canvas. Implicit was the notion that physical materials are as potent as the image itself. “He likes the idea that paintings can provide more than visual stimulation,” Mr. VeneKlasen said. “Large amounts of arsenic can kill, while small portions can heal.”

At various points he has alluded to the “higher powers” controlling his work. As early as the 1960s, Mr. Polke said, he created 16 photographs and 4 drawings of subjects like palm trees and female wrestlers and placed them inside a box. His notion was that the box — a sort of visual and metaphysical diary — would be sold to someone who would commune with the ideas within.

“I was interested in parapsychology, in conceptual ideas,” he said. In a 1968 edition of works, “At the Command of Higher Powers,” every box features unique drawings and seven photographs, including one titled “Polke as a Palm,” for which he photographed himself clad only in underwear and feathers.

Art history plays a strong role, too. Ruminating on Rembrandt, he created a series as a commentary on the 1972 theft of a Rembrandt from the Kunstverein in Münster, Germany. Titled “Original and Forgery,” it explored the notion of authorship in an assemblage of large paintings, collage elements and mirror fragments. Beyond Rembrandt and Dürer, Mr. Polke says he has been influenced by Goya, particularly his haunting black paintings, which inspired him to create a series of photographs and glass-panel paintings in the early 1990s.

He also cites the macabre poems and images of William Blake, and more recent figures like the Surrealist artist Francis Picabia, whose transparent paintings from the early 1920s have had an obvious influence on his work. He calls Mr. Beuys his hero because he paved the way for so many German artists, created in so many different mediums and refocused attention on the issue of “what is art?”

Drawing on his early glass-painting training, Mr. Polke is now at work on a series of stained-glass windows for the Grossmünster cathedral in Zurich. On the floor of his studio proper were experimental maquettes with a variety of configurations of window designs as well as an array of stones and minerals.

“Alabaster has its own mystical history, people can understand it, but tourmaline is more sophisticated, glowing,” he said, pointing to a tourmaline sample, with its prismatic crystals. “It forms nice patterns, it’s not as ordinary. This is all about the idea of the most holy things.”

For themes, he has been mulling stories from the Old and New Testaments as well as less literal possibilities. “Figurative windows have to translate into a modern language” rather than recapitulate biblical images, he said.

But throughout this spring, he has spent most of his time in the backyard atelier finishing the paintings for Venice. Recently he has focused on how light changes the texture and colors of the canvases. “Light is a metaphoric thing,” taking on diverse emotional meanings, he explained over cups of tea in his living area. “There is green light and red light. Then there is black light, which is mostly danger.”

“I am trying to create another light, one that comes from reflection,” he said of the glow that emanates from the layers on his canvases. “Like celestial light, it gives the indication of new, supernatural things.” Some of the works will resemble golden landscapes, and another a sunrise. Their dusky texture is intended to induce a sort of drowsiness in the viewer.

Only one painting includes human figures: a line of children who peer down at an obscure abstract image. That image is an enlargement of a decayed photographic slide that Mr. Polke found in a graveyard, projected onto the canvas and then painted over.

As ever, Mr. Polke assumes that the audience in Venice will strain to interpret his paintings. But he adds that even he cannot distill a single meaning from any of his works.

“A finished painting is an impression of millions of impressions,” he said.
755 2007-05-27 “Isn’t that,” Gissing whispered, “the rogue we had the run-in with at the wine-bar?”

“You can’t always judge a book by its cover,” Mike whispered back. “Any chance of a word?”

At the end of the hallway there were some stairs leading to the second floor. Mike stopped at the foot of the staircase.

Mike nodded slowly but couldn’t think of how to start the real conversation. Gissing smiled indulgently.

“It’s been preying on your mind, Michael,” he drawled. “What I said to you that night in the wine bar. I could see that you understood straight away, understood the absolute rightness of the proposal.”

“Stealing art? I like the idea of planning it, but I’m not sure First Caly would be too thrilled with the idea. And what would Allan say?”

“I’d say,” Allan replied, stepping from behind Mike who had his back to the auction room, “that our esteemed professor has already had a word with me.”

“And I was hoping all three of us might meet here today,” Gissing added, resting a hand on Mike’s arm. “Because it’s been preying on my mind too.” He looked around, checking no one else was in view or hearing. “But First Caly won’t do, Michael.”

“Just listen,” Allan advised with a wink. Gissing leaned in closer, his grip tightening a little on Mike’s arm.

“What if there were a way to emancipate a number of paintings without them being noticed as missing?”

Mike looked from one man to the other, then gave a snort. “Yeah, right,” he said.

“No need for sarcasm, Michael,” Gissing went on.

“So we just walk in and take them, and no one’s any the wiser?”

“That’s pretty much the size of it. I can explain over a drink, if you’re interested,”

“Explain it to me now.” Mike folded his arms, making Gissing release his grip.

“It’s actually pretty simple.” Allan was grinning like a schoolboy, unable to contain his excitement. “All the galleries and museums in Edinburgh, they don’t have room to display half the stuff in their collections.”

“And those sad artifacts,” Gissing continued, “sit unloved and in the dark. They sit there for years, Michael. And no one ever sees them.”

“Paintings, statues, vases, pottery. . . .” Allan was counting on his fingers.

“From the Bronze Age onwards,” Gissing added. “Hundreds of thousands of items.”

“And you’re saying we can walk off with a few of them?”

“They’re stored in a huge warehouse near the waterfront in Granton ... including this.” Gissing had pulled out a piece of glossy paper, torn from a catalog. “Last year?” he reminded Mike. “The Monboddo exhibition at the National. This was your favorite, wasn’t it?”

It was a portrait of the artist’s wife, painted with such adoration and looking uncannily like Laura. Mike had thought he might never see it again.

“So we dress up as commandos and storm the place?” Mike asked.

“Doors Open Day,” Allan started to explain. “Every year, for one Saturday only, they allow the public into lots of official buildings we’re normally kept out of.”

“Including the warehouse?” Mike guessed, heart beginning to pound, eyes fixed on the portrait. “O.K., so we can walk in. Walking out again might be a problem. They’ll have guards, CCTV, the usual alarms.”

“That’s true,” Gissing admitted. “And I’m afraid it’s not my area of expertise. But here’s the thing.”

But as he paused for an intake of breath, Allan jumped in. “Nothing’s going to be missing. Everything’s going to still be there.”

“Now you’ve lost me,” Mike told them. Allan just laughed, while Gissing placed his hand once more on Mike’s arm.

“Come and have that drink,” he said, “and try to convince Allan and me that we’re both completely mad.”

Detective Inspector Ransome watched the three men leave the auction and head half a block down the street to the basement wine bar. He knew one of them, the one he’d seen a week ago, drinking coffee with Chib Calloway in the National Gallery. First the gallery, now an auction house. Ransome had checked the notice in the window. The sale had started at 10 a.m. Calloway arrived 20 minutes early, buying a catalog at the reception desk and being pointed in the direction of the actual sale room. What the hell was he up to? He’d brought Glenn and Johnno with him, as if some deal might be about to go down. Johnno had come out for a cigarette about 20 minutes in, looking bored, checking for texts on his cellphone. No chance of his spotting Ransome, who was standing 80 feet away behind one of the pillars outside the concert hall.

With no clue what was going on.

He was on his own today. Ben Brewster was back at the station working through a heaped in-tray. Ransome’s own desk wasn’t exactly empty, but the phone call tipping him off couldn’t be ignored. And now he had two for the price of one: Calloway and the handsome, well-dressed man. He was torn between going to the wine bar, maybe overhearing something, and staying put. Wished he’d dragged Brewster out with him. It was another half-hour before the auction house started to empty. Ransome watched from behind his pillar as Calloway emerged, flanked by Glenn and Johnno, Johnno lighting up at the first opportunity. But Calloway seemed to change his mind and darted back inside again, leaving the two goons rolling their eyes. When he came back out, he was talking to a woman. Calloway gestured along the street, suggesting a drink maybe, but she was shaking her head, trying to be polite. She shook his hand and went back indoors. Glenn patted his boss on the back, as if to say: worth a try. Calloway didn’t seem to like that, snapped some remark back at him, the three men making their way to — well, well, well — the self-same wine bar. Decision time again, and this time Ransome didn’t hesitate. He crossed road and threshold both, smiling in the direction of the receptionist as he followed Laura Stanton into the deserted sale room.

Not quite deserted, actually: chairs were being stacked by staff in brown overalls. Telephones were being unplugged from wall sockets. A lectern was being dismantled, plasma screens taken down. Someone handed Laura a sheet of numbers with a total at the bottom. Her face was difficult to read.

“Hiya, Stanton,” Ransome said. It took her a moment to place him, then a tired but genuine smile appeared.

The two were in the same class at college. Lost touch for more than a decade, until a reunion took them to their alma mater. More reunions followed, though they last bumped into each other at a jazz concert at the Queen’s Hall. Laura stepped forward now and pecked him on both cheeks.

“I knew you worked for an auctioneer, didn’t realize you actually run the show.”

“You’re way off the mark.” But she sounded flattered all the same.

“If I’d arrived a bit earlier, would I have seen you in full flow?”

“More of a constant trickle.” She glanced at the sheet of numbers again.

“I’m not interrupting?. . .” Ransome tried to sound concerned.

“Only, I was passing and I thought I saw you enjoying a chat with Chib Calloway.”

He met her stare. “You know, the gorilla with the shaved head. Was he shopping for anything in particular?”

She knew whom he meant now. “Didn’t seem to have much of a clue. He was asking at the end, how did all the bidding work.” Her face tightened. “Is he in trouble?”

“Since the day he climbed out of the cot. You’ve never heard of Chib Calloway?” He watched her shake her head. “Streak of violence a mile wide. Fingers in many and sundry shady pies.”

“Is he trying to launder money?” Laura asked.

She gave a shrug. “I know it happens. I mean, I’ve heard of it elsewhere, other auction houses.” Her voice drifted away.

“I’m not totally sure,” Ransome went on, rubbing the underside of his jaw, “but I’ve half a feeling one of his associates brought him here today.”

“There were two of them,” Laura started to correct him, but Ransome shook his head.

“I’m not talking about the performing monkeys. Tall fellow, wears a suit well, brown hair combed back from his forehead and over his ears. He left here with a big bear of a man in brown corduroy and a younger guy, skinny, short black hair and glasses.”

She smiled at the description. “The Three Musketeers — that’s how I always think of them, they seem to get along so well, even though they’re different.”

He nodded as if this made perfect sense to him.

Then he asked Laura Stanton for their names.

“Getting to be a regular occurrence,” Chib Calloway said as the table fell silent at his approach. When he reached out a hand for Mike to shake, he was gratified to see the one with the specs flinch, while the older man just glared. “Has Mike told you we were at the same school?” Calloway went on. “What’s your poison, Mike? This round’s on me.”

“We’re fine,” the old gentleman snapped. “Just trying to have a private conversation.”

Calloway returned the stare. “That’s not very friendly, is it?”

“It’s fine, Chib,” Mike said. “Robert’s just ... well, he was in the middle of telling me something.”

“So it’s sort of a business meeting?” Calloway guessed, nodding slowly and straightening up. “Well, come over to the bar when you’ve a minute, Mike. Want to pick your brains about the auction.” He paused. “And about the tasty auctioneer too.”

The three men watched him return to his henchmen.

“Mike,” Allan said warningly, “suddenly you and him are buddies?”

“Never mind Chib,” Mike replied quietly, eyes on Robert Gissing. “Tell me again about this painter. . . .”
756 2007-05-27 Q: Although you’re a former intelligence officer with the Israeli Army, your new book, “The Loved Dog,” which has zipped to the top of best-seller lists, advocates a nonmilitary, totally indulgent approach to dog training. Why do you say indulgent? Indulgence sounds a little bit L.A., and I am not about painting your dog’s toenails pink. I am more about connecting with your dog and respecting your dog.

Yet you recommend letting your dog beat you occasionally at a game of tug-of-war, which seems like coddling to me. You have to give the dog the feeling of victory every once in a while. How much interest would you have in meeting me for tennis on Sunday mornings if I beat you every time?

Your positive-reinforcement methods include what you call “making a party” when the dog does something right. How do you make a party, exactly? You clap your hands and you have a big smile and you say, in a happy singsong voice, “sit” or “come.” You make the dog feel special.

Your approach seems a little mothering-meets-Vegas, not least because you recommend that dogs occasionally be showered with “a jackpot of treats,” meaning four or five cookies simultaneously. Exactly. People give treats all the time, and then they gradually stop giving the treat. The way to do it is the Las Vegas way. B. F. Skinner, the behavioral psychologist, realized that random rewards give a more reliable and consistent response.

All this strikes me as a pointed critique of Cesar Millan, the TV-show dog behaviorist who prides himself on his leader-of-the-pack virility and toughness. He wants a dog to be a “calm submissive.” I do not. I do not want anybody in a relationship with me to be submissive.

For all your differences, you and Cesar are emblematic of America’s glamorization of pets. You each live in Los Angeles, run day care centers for dogs and boast of having helped train Oprah’s dogs. To say that we are both her trainers — that’s not really true. It’s really only me. As far as I know, he worked with Sophie, the cocker spaniel, twice. I train her three golden retrievers — Luke, Layla and Gracie. Oprah is a very good mom. She loves to “make a party” for her dogs; when they come to her, she shows her joy.
757 2007-05-27 Since then, modifiers have mostly been dropped. Deadline is the most final word describing a standard of measuring time; it was coined in the Civil War to denote a line drawn before a prison fence beyond which a prisoner could not venture without being shot. And flexible is no longer an adjective of antiwar choice.

“Timetable is a word emblematic of modernity,” observes Joe Pickett at American Heritage Dictionary, “the hallmark of an industrialized society, originally the train. Timetables are the things humans have to follow to achieve success in modern society.” He adds, “Guideposts, usually showing how something has been done, also tend toward moral or personal metaphors — life as a journey, pilgrim’s progress.” Milestone? “A related term, but one with very positive connotations.” Signposts are poles for directions, often including arrows, but the word has not made a figurative leap, as road map has.

Timeline, to my ear, is no longer synonymous with timetable; it is now “a historical chronology,” just short of a journalistic tick-tock, or a “minute-by-minute account.” Guideline has an economic coloration from long-past “jawboning” days. A schedule is a listing of planned events in time; the word is as dry as the papyrus strip in which it is rooted.

Now to benchmark. It has never meant “a mark on a bench” or a cigarette burn on your desk. The “bench” could be a hard, flat surface, a rock or an outcropping on which a surveyor could hammer in an elevation marker; or a bracket or “bench” in which to insert an angle iron to support a leveling rod. (Don’t try this on my account.) It gained a figurative meaning among stargazers in 1884 as “reference points and bench-marks of the universe,” coming to mean “touchstone, gauge, measure or criterion used to judge performance.”

Because the word has that reference-point meaning, it is not as soft as “goals” (anathema to those demanding scheduled withdrawal by a date certain) nor as rigid as a timetable (which Vice President Cheney this month derogated as “legislation that . . . would guarantee defeat”).

A benchmark in Iraq could be interpreted as objective and specific as “passage of legislation in Baghdad’s Parliament fairly divvying up the nation’s oil” or as subjective and general as “progress toward reducing the level of violence.” By its elasticity, the word could, with luck, turn out to be a term to build a pontoon bridge on.

I’ve been a friend of the remarkable Kurdish people for more than three decades, and before boarding his plane to return to Baghdad, Barham Salih returned a call. My question: How are these English words that are being used in the White House and Congress — benchmark, timetable, yardstick, deadline, guidepost and the other criteria terms — understood in Iraq?

“Deadlines are a bad idea; frankly, we’ve been unable to deliver on them in the past,” Salih says. “Signposts is better.”

I’m told that in Arabic, a rough equivalent to what we think of as a benchmark or “point of reference” is thawabit, and the word for schedule or timetable sounds like jadwal zamani; in Kurdish, ast.

“But a word, in Arabic,” Dr. Salih says, “that is not exactly the same but expresses a similar thought, is iltizamat — ‘commitments.’ In Kurdish, that word is ar akakan — ‘the responsibility of the government to act.’ ” (Another Kurdish word for that sense of duty is pewana.) “We know that if we want sustained American engagement, we have to adjust, and we know the clock is ticking. The words you use? Your leaders speak plain English well, and we understand.”
758 2007-05-27 “Forty years ago, you listened to the show, you read the book and said, ‘Let’s do that musical,’ ” the veteran producer Emanuel Azenberg said. “We never knew what we had before it was onstage, but the whole production only cost $400,000. Now, if you don’t know what you have, it costs $13 million. So you want to really look at it.”

A more simple and less expensive reading for a musical, Mr. Azenberg said, is “somewhat of a fake.” The best reading he ever attended for a musical, for instance, was for “The Goodbye Girl,” which he produced on Broadway in 1993 and which flopped. “We had not musical-ized the story,” he recalled. “It didn’t have transitions, it didn’t have dance. We got away with that easily in readings.”

The rise of workshops coincided with the virtual elimination of the tryout tour, during which shows played multiple cities before arriving on Broadway, working out kinks along the way. As musicals became more technically complex, this process became increasingly challenging and economically prohibitive. The workshop was, at first, a cheap and easy alternative; costs, however, soon increased.

These days, musical workshops tend to cost $250,000 to $500,000. The “Cry-Baby” workshop has an estimated budget of $276,760, a significant jump from the roughly $25,000 that was spent on each of the show’s two readings.

In the case of this particular workshop, each actor received $728 a week. In total, $135,131 was shelled out in salaries and fees to actors, stage managers, musicians, creative personnel, production assistants and production management. Other budgeted expenses ranged from hall rental ($17,520) and health insurance for participating Actors’ Equity Association members ($17,160), to CD and script copying ($1,500) and catering ($1,250).

Further complicating the bottom line, Equity actors and stage managers participating in commercial workshops share 1 percent of the weekly box-office gross of the majority of future professional productions (also thanks to “A Chorus Line”). These payments can be avoided by the participation of a nonprofit theater covered under League of Resident Theaters guidelines. La Jolla Playhouse in California, the nonprofit where “Cry-Baby” will have its premiere this fall, technically presented the “Cry-Baby” workshop in New York, and thus Equity participants were under such a contract. These individuals received more up front than the commercial workshop minimum (which would have been $606 a week) but don’t get a piece of the pie moving forward. If “Cry-Baby” is a hit, that will save the producers quite a bit down the line. (Without royalty payments, an Equity spokeswoman said, “Cry-Baby” did not have a bona fide workshop; a La Jolla Playhouse representative similarly referred to the process simply as “developmental work.” But these distinctions relate to contract wording and are largely a matter of semantics.)

Based on the 1990 John Waters movie, “Cry-Baby,” set in 1954 Baltimore, centers on the romance between the city’s baddest boy and goodest girl and its repercussions for a host of eclectic characters. The musical, directed by Mark Brokaw and choreographed by Rob Ashford, features a book by Mark O’Donnell and Thomas Meehan (the “Hairspray” team) and lyrics and music by David Javerbaum and Adam Schlesinger.

Mr. Epstein said he believed dance-heavy shows like “Cry-Baby” particularly benefited from the workshop process. His team did a workshop at this time so that major changes, if needed, can be made to the piece before its run at La Jolla.

“Our hope is that we’ll be tweaking there and not excavating,” he said.

But “Cry-Baby’s” path is not the only one a show can take. “The Color Purple” had a series of readings, then went to Atlanta’s Alliance Theater before having a commercial workshop before Broadway.

“We did significant rewrites after Atlanta, and I needed to put it up again,” said Scott Sanders, a producer of “The Color Purple.” “Another regional production would have been $1 million, and the workshop was $500,000. But more than that, for my team, I thought a workshop would be more useful.” It panned out: that workshop led to the involvement of Oprah Winfrey as a producer.

Many shows do succeed without workshops. Current hits — including “Hairspray,” “Spamalot” and “Wicked” — all had readings, out-of-town engagements and quick moves to New York. Other shows are not as charmed. “The Wedding Singer” from last season went the reading route, ran into trouble out of town in Seattle and closed at a substantial loss after nine months on Broadway.

“In hindsight, a workshop might have really helped us before we went to Seattle,” said John Rado, director of “The Wedding Singer.” “Workshops help the choreographer, the director and the design team conceive production numbers, test them out. Once we opened out of town, we had to reinvent things. And we had time before Broadway, but not that much time.”

Of course, having a workshop does not guarantee a great show, even when the workshop is a successful one.

In the late 1990s, the industry was abuzz after workshops of “Seussical” and “Sweet Smell of Success,” yet those musicals went on to bomb.

“Some spectacular failures felt spectacular in the room,” said Michael David, a partner in Dodger Theatricals, who prefers workshops over readings, but developmental productions over both. “If you are that close to a line of women in leotards, it looks good.”

Nevertheless, the general feeling is that workshops help. Good news if you can afford one; otherwise you may be out of luck. While expenditures are high at every stage of production, the costliness of workshops has repercussions beyond final show quality. “How many shows never get to be developed because someone can’t raise a half a million dollars against an idea?” Mr. Sanders asked. “That’s just so expensive, it’s like, ‘Let’s just do a reading.’ You don’t get a full sense from that. There could be a gem of a show that possible investors never get to see a true presentation of, and so it never gets done.”

Fortunately for the “Cry-Baby” team, money was not a prohibitive factor. The show changed during its four weeks, and more revisions are to come.

At that mid-May workshop, for instance, it was clear that the upbeat, full-company finale, “Nothing Bad’s Ever Gonna Happen Again,” went over much bigger than the opening number. There was a rousing crowd reaction to “Screw Loose,” a first-act tune sung by Alli Mauzey, a supporting player; and “I Did Something Wrong Once,” the actress Jan Maxwell’s second-act song. But other moments received fewer hoots and hollers. This is to be expected. After all, more than anything, these workshops are learning experiences.

“Think of a show as a kid,” Ms. McAllister said. “You have to send your kid to the right schools, you have to do what is right for him. Our kid needed a workshop to grow up right.”
759 2007-05-27 Mr. Scorsese may even have established the pattern — one for the studios, then one for himself — that directors like Steven Soderbergh have followed. Mr. Soderbergh sandwiched two extraordinarily inventive films between “Oceans 12” (2004) and “Oceans 13” (which opens June 8). The minuscule, digitally shot “Bubble” is like a fine short story; running all of 73 minutes, it follows the emotional tangle of workers in a spooky Ohio doll factory. The lush, black-and-white homage to ’40s movies, “The Good German,” may have been too stiff to work, but it was an intriguing experiment worth trying.

Mr. von Trier has never made popcorn movies, but he still needed to shake up his career, especially after “Dogville” and “Manderlay.” Two parts of a projected trilogy, “U.S.A. — Land of Opportunities,” they evoked such fierce responses that he was lionized by some for his daring and artistry, and reviled by others as an anti-American fraud.

To me “Dogville” is a great achievement, resonant and powerful. Nicole Kidman is Grace, who runs from her mob-boss father to the protection of a folksy Colorado town, only to be raped and forced into prostitution. The theatrical style, with walls indicated by chalk marks on the floor of a bare stage, enhances the focus on the characters’ moral twists and turns. There is no reason to reject this dark vision of American morality and redemption just because it comes from a Dane.

“Manderlay,” which brings Grace (now played by Bryce Dallas Howard) to an Alabama town where slavery still exists in 1933, is an ambitious failure. Where Ms. Kidman glows with inner radiance and delivers lines with the eloquence of an experienced stage actress, Ms. Howard recites speeches stiffly. Americans have a more complicated sense of our racist history than this incendiary film conveys, but Mr. von Trier didn’t deserve to be attacked for trying. No wonder he has abandoned the proposed third part of the trilogy, “Wasington.” (Now we may never know why he dropped that H from Washington.)

After this the lighthearted “Boss of It All” seems to come out of nowhere. It begins with sly self-reference as we see Mr. von Trier behind the camera, his distant image reflected in the windows of a high-rise office building. He says this is a comedy “not worth a moment’s reflection,” with “no preaching or swaying of opinion,” and asks “Why not poke fun at artsy-fartsy culture?” These comments sound like some pre-emptive rebuttal for those who find his films heavy going.

Yet “The Boss” quickly gets past that defensiveness, and simply allows us to be amused by Kristoffer, a self-important bad actor who has been hired by Ravn, the owner of a technology company who has always pretended to be the manager so he can foist off unpopular decisions on his phantom boss. This sounds like a recipe for a French farce, which the film sometimes resembles.

The office is crammed with neurotics, including a woman who screams in horror whenever she starts the copying machine. Because of the real boss’s manipulations, the fake finds himself trapped into making a marriage proposal to one employee and being seduced by another.

Despite the opening disclaimer, though, this trifle is also a wily examination of art and control, with Ravn the symbolic director trying to keep Kristoffer the actor from running amok with his own ideas. And artistic control is more than a casual theme for Mr. von Trier, who constantly transforms obstacles into aesthetic choices.

That was the game behind the Dogma ’95 filmmakers’ manifesto, which he helped mastermind, and which forbade such flourishes as artificial lighting. It was the theme of his dazzling “Five Obstructions” (2003), with the Danish director Jorgen Leth remaking one of his short films several ways, following draconian rules set by Mr. von Trier. (No scene longer than 12 frames is one of them.) “I want that feeling of a tortoise on its back,” Mr. von Trier tells Mr. Leth in that film, speaking just as much about the challenges he has thrived on to inspire his own creativity.

In making “The Boss of It All,” Mr. von

Trier played one especially silly trick on himself. He filmed in what he calls Automatavision, positioning the camera then letting a computer choose when to move within a shot. Viewers won’t notice; the film merely looks like a fly-on-the-wall documentary without the jittery feel of a handheld camera.

The important obstacle, which his voice breaks in halfway through to comment on, is more telling and productive: to follow the rules of comedy. Ravn plans to sell the company and get rid of his band of neurotics. Can Mr. von

Trier abide by the rules that say a comedy must lead to a happy ending?

You don’t need to know how it ends to see that “The Boss of It All” was a freeing step for him creatively. And for his fans this small, unexpected delight will just have to hold us while we’re waiting for the Antichrist.
760 2007-05-27 Hot dogs are probably one of the last choices for those in search of a healthful meal, but Soul Dog, a small but hip restaurant in the heart of Poughkeepsie, isn’t your typical hot-dog stand.

In addition to its standard Sabrett all-beef franks and daily sausage specials, Soul Dog offers Applegate Farms all-natural chicken hot dogs and Yves’ Veggie dogs ($1.75 to $3.25). Then comes the fun part: close to 20 toppings, from roasted poblano pepper salsa to spicy peanut sauce topped with scallions and cucumbers to vegetarian chili (50 cents each). All choices — as well as most of the baked goods, including buns, soups and sides — are house-made and gluten-free.

“We think of the hot dog as a good platform to dress up with lots of yummy stuff that anyone, no matter what their allergies or preferences, can eat,” said Adam Teague, co-owner with his wife, Jenny.

The Teagues opened Soul Dog in September 2004 after years of frustration dealing with the food allergies that they and their three children have. Ms. Teague was working as a caterer and looking for a commercial space when she came upon their current location and decided it could work as a restaurant as well. Today, Soul Dog offers an array of gluten-free cakes, pies and breads — even pizzas — for takeout and catering, but it’s the restaurant that drives the business. Hand-cut fries ($2.95), including barbecue, Jamaican jerk and Cajun versions; sandwiches; and specialty sodas, wine and beer round out the menu.

It’s all served in a relaxing atmosphere, with crayons at each table and Johnny Cash or jazz playing in the background. Locals and Hudson Valley day-trippers stop by for a bite, along with lots of Vassar College students. No one has to worry about mystery meat here.
761 2007-05-27 In theory, it’s the new millennium, with the Indy 500 as proof. In practice, it’s the jukebox era, with this spring as evidence. The last two months in college sports have illuminated the burden still placed on female athletes confronted with tired chauvinistic tropes, some in stereo:

¶Don Imus put misogyny on Line 1, and his radio empire on hold, when he degraded the Rutgers women’s basketball players with a riff of racial and sexist putdowns after they had ascended to the national championship game. Isn’t it enough for their brand of skilled ball to be discarded because its below-the-rim style isn’t parlayed into highlight material?

¶ESPN recently reported that several current and former members of the Clemson women’s track team had abortions over fear they would lose scholarships because of a team pregnancy clause in existence until the end of last season. Hard to imagine a star football player feeling the same parent-trap threat if he enters into fatherhood as a member of the Program.

¶The Georgia women’s golf coach Todd McCorkle resigned this month after an investigation by the university uncovered his lascivious how-to on sexual harassment. In redacted player testimony, which was reported last week by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, McCorkle made lewd remarks about team members and showed players his Victoria’s Secret catalog and a Paris Hilton video on his computer screen. The man certainly knows how to impress the ladies.

The women’s reactions to each societal regression — as in the confidence of the Rutgers team to find a teaching moment out of an ugly scene, as in the Clemson athletes’ courage to speak out, as in the Georgia players’ decision to say enough is enough — is a positive.

The atmosphere of bias against female team athletes is still alive, though, more than three decades into Title IX.

“There is a lot of good public speak about progress and change — and obviously there is a lot of progress and change — but there is a thread in all of this that lets us know there is still a sexist backdrop,” said Jeff O’Brien, a gender and sport expert at the National Consortium for Academics and Sports at the University of Central Florida. “There is always an asterisk when it comes to women in sports, at least in where we are currently.”

Asterisks apparently travel — even on ovals. At the Indy 500, where the former champ Dan Wheldon could go unnoticed in an auto-parts aisle, Patrick is perhaps under the most pressure to win, if only to validate her vamping on magazine covers and in sexy commercials. She has been ubiquitous, but not in victory lane.

“I do feel more pressure this year,” she told reporters this month, adding, “I think that there’s obviously many people that have invested into me and into me performing well and winning races.”

There is another time crunch, too: public impatience for proof. Even when it comes to gender benders, there is a put-up-or-shut-up expiration date. Already, there is Wie fatigue when she ventures onto the PGA Tour, and she’s only 17. Already, Patrick is pressed to produce, and she is only in her third year at Indy. Double-time expectations in a double-standard sports culture.

“We have had increases in opportunity and budget, but have we really changed people’s minds in understanding gender?” O’Brien said.

The femme stars of Indy earned their place in what has become the Lilith Fair of sports stages. They qualified as individuals. They play as solo acts. If only the ladies of team sports were treated as if they belonged on the same grid as the fellas.
762 2007-05-27 To the Editor:     I am pleased that medical technology has allowed young otherwise healthy amputees to participate in life more fully. And it will be a major achievement when the initial reaction to the disabled moves beyond pity....
763 2007-05-27 To the Editor:     Re ''Oil Price 'Gouging': A Phantom Menace?'' (Economic View, May 20), about reactions in Congress to the recent path of oil prices:     Selling at prices that some people feel are too high violates no one's rights -- there is n...
764 2007-05-27 Josie Natori, who left investment banking in 1977 to found the Natori Company, which makes women's clothing and bedding, has yet another talent: she is a classically trained pianist. She made her debut with the Manila Symphony Orchestra at 9, but,...
765 2007-05-27 How tiresome were the negative responses (Letters, May 13) to Jon Mooallem's refreshing article about Kink.com (April 29). To produce materials for adults' sexual enjoyment is decent and honorable when the performers are also adults, are fairly co...
766 2007-05-27 To the Editor:     Men don't take the classes because we know the only man in the room most of the women will want to be with is the instructor. It's basic human nature that women will usually only want the alpha male.    Andrew Bennett Spark  Sar...
767 2007-05-27 After weeks of gains, the broad stock market gave up ground last week, while trading volumes declined in advance of the Memorial Day weekend.     Economic reports were equivocal or outright contradictory. For example, data provided Friday by the N...
768 2007-05-27 To the Editor:     Re ''When Tennis Elbows Are Sharp'' (May 20):...
769 2007-05-27 GRIFFING--Melissa. May of 2006. Your family and friends miss you every day. You're in our hearts forever....
770 2007-05-27 BACK in 2001, Nissan badly needed a hit to revive its floundering business in North America, and the Altima delivered. The third-generation Altima, transformed from a dowdy, unloved compact into a sleek midsize sedan with sporty handling, brought ...
771 2007-05-28 Rain fell, on and off throughout the day. Tarps were pulled over the courts. Fans ran inside the stadium’s tunnels for cover. Only seven matches were completed, while the rest were postponed. World No. 1 Roger Federer’s match against Michael Russell was halted in the second set with Federer leading, 6-4, 4-1.

After two days of play, only 14 matches are complete, including Venus Williams, who beat French teenager Alize Cornet, 6-4, 6-3. Among the other winners today was Michaella Krajicek, the 18-year-old sister of the 1996 Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek. She beat No. 31 seed Severine Bremond, 6-3, 6-3. Also, Li Na, the 16th seed, defeated Sandra Kloesel, 7-6 (4), 6-0.

Davydenko was one of the other lucky ones to get the first-round match out of the way.

He is ranked fourth in the world and is thought to be one of the men talented enough to challenge Rafael Nadal or Federer for the title here. Still, Davydenko did not play entirely calmly against Galvani, who was fiery and animated throughout the match, yelling and gesturing nearly every time he lost a point.

Instead, Davydenko played like he had consumed 10 cups of espresso, his mind racing as he pushed to finish the match as speedily as possible. Fortunately, speed is his specialty. He moves around the court with more agility than most players, but is still skeptical that he can win here.

He could meet Federer in the semifinal, then Nadal in the final. But he thinks that competition is just too good.

“I don’t know about win, because Nadal is running fast,” Davydenko said.

When Davydenko was asked if he considered himself fast, too, he answered: “For 100 meters, maybe I lose to everybody. But if you’re moving right and left, maybe I’m fast.”

Venus Williams, who hasn’t played in a Grand Slam tournament since last July, was just as jovial after her match, which also finished before play was suspended this afternoon. She said she was thrilled to be back at a Grand Slam event, after missing the last two because of wrist injuries.

“I’m just very happy to be healthy and to have the opportunity to play,” said Williams, a five-time Grand Slam tournament winner.

“The most important thing is that I’m on tour, and as long as I’m on tour, I feel like really good things can happen to me,” she said.

At times during her match, things did not go smoothly, though. Williams struggled with her serve against Cornet, a 17-year-old from Nice and a wildcard entry in the tournament.

With the crowd cheering for Cornet, Williams faced 10 break points in the match. Cornet only converted three of those, but remain poised despite playing in front of a home crowd and on Court Philippe Chatrier, the main court.

“I was a bit afraid at the beginning, I really enjoyed it,” said Cornet, who is ranked 118th in the world. “When you have the opportunity of playing Venus Williams, whom you’ve seen on the telly for so many years, you need to make the most of it.”

Venus Williams’s match was nowhere near as thrilling as her sister’s match was Sunday. Serena Williams lost the first set, then cried during that changeover. She came back strong, however, to beat Tsvetana Pironkova, who is ranked 91st.

Today, Serena Williams watched Venus play from the stands. She wore a headscarf that resembled a babushka and dark sunglasses. The day before, Venus had watched Serena play, but only briefly.

“It was cold,” Venus Williams said. “I couldn’t be out there.”
772 2007-05-28 Using the new chips, scientists can compare breast cancer patients with healthy individuals, looking for variant sites on the DNA of the human genome which seem associated with the disease. Because the chips sample each patient’s entire genome, the new approach is known as a whole genome association study.

With this approach, a large consortium of breast cancer scientists, led by Douglas F. Easton of the Cancer Research-UK Genetic Epidemiology Unit in Cambridge, England, says it has found five new sites on the genome where a common variation confers a risk of breast cancer. Their findings were reported Sunday in the journal Nature.

Two of the same sites of variation have been found by a second team, led by David Hunter of the Harvard School of Public Health. Decode Genetics, a gene-finding company based in Iceland, has also identified two new sites of variation, one of which is the same as one found in Dr. Easton’s study. The reports from Dr. Hunter and Decode Genetics were published online in the journal Nature Genetics.

Scientists involved in the three studies expressed confidence that most of the genetic risk of breast cancer will be detected through the whole genome association approach. “Once the dust has settled, yes, it’s possible we may have captured most of the genetic variation,” Dr. Easton said.

Genes already known to be associated with breast cancer, such as BRCA1 and BRCA2, carry a high risk but are rare in the general population. The new DNA variations are quite common but confer a lesser risk.

A team lead by Simon N. Stacey of Decode Genetics reports that 25 percent of women of European descent carry one copy of a DNA variant on the second of the 23 human chromosomes, conferring a 44 percent greater risk of breast cancer than for women without it, and that 7 percent of women have inherited two copies, with a 64 percent greater risk.

The sites of variation discovered by Decode and the other two groups do not lie in genes and for the most part have no known biological function, though some are conjectured to control the activity of nearby genes. It is purely on the basis of statistics that the sites of variation on the DNA are believed to be associated with disease.

Their discoverers say that the sites will, when understood, reveal new biology that underlies the progression toward breast cancer. But not everyone is convinced.

Mary-Claire King, a biologist at the University of Washington in Seattle who pioneered the search for the BRCA1 cancer gene, criticized the statistical basis of the studies and suggested they should not have been published until the biological significance of the suspect sites had been established.

“I believe the motivation to publish based on so little biological or genetic evidence,” she said, “is that an enormous amount of money has been put into these efforts and hence the need to see positive results is huge.” Her principal criticism of the three studies’ statistics is that when 500,000 sites of variation are tested all at once for association with disease, many may come out positive just by chance, not because of any real link.

Dr. Easton, Dr. Hunter and Kari Stefansson, Decode’s chief executive, all said the criticism was correct in principle but could be sidestepped, as they had each done, by taking the few most promising sites in one whole genome association scan and testing them in a second population.

Dr. Stefansson rejected the suggestion that the three groups should not have published their statistical findings until the biology of the sites was worked out, saying that science proceeds in small steps and that “we never have the entire story on day one.” With publication, the sites are available for other scientists to investigate.

All three scientists expressed confidence that their whole genome association studies have avoided the many pitfalls of the past and are pointing to sites of variation that either cause disease or lie close to those that do so.

“This is the apotheosis of the genome project and the HapMap, to be able to look diagnostically at the whole genome,” Dr. Hunter said, referring to a map of variation in the human genome. “Suddenly all at once we have half a dozen robust associations.”

Dr. Stefansson said firmly, “The statistics are not leading us astray.”
773 2007-05-28 A Perth Amboy man who shot and killed a woman and wounded three other people outside a neighborhood bar on Saturday fatally shot himself in the neck as a police officer fired at him, the authorities said yesterday. An autopsy showed that Edwin Cordero Jr., 27, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to the Middlesex County prosecutor, Bruce Kaplan. Mr. Cordero was also hit by five rounds fired by Perth Amboy Officer Ganagioti Bouleris, although none of the bullets hit vital organs, Mr. Kaplan said. The shooting, which began shortly after 2 a.m. when Mr. Cordero opened fire at a parked car and people standing nearby, was still under investigation, Mr. Kaplan said. The woman killed, Fabia Aguilar of Plainfield, described by the authorities as an acquaintance of Mr. Cordero’s, was found dead inside the car with 12 wounds from his Tec-9 handgun. Two of the other people Mr. Cordero shot remained hospitalized yesterday, the police said. The third was treated for a gunshot wound to the leg.
774 2007-05-28 “As his teammate, he is one of the elite point guards in the league,” Boozer said. “I think he has proved that all season.”

This is how quickly things have changed for the Jazz and its legion of fiercely attentive fans. Only a year ago, Boozer was carrying the reputation of a perpetually injured, possibly sullen star with a rich contract. Williams, the No. 3 pick in the 2005 draft, carried his own question marks after a rocky rookie season.

Now it is nearly impossible to resist comparisons to their Hall of Fame-bound forebears. The conversation is certainly premature, but it becomes more legitimate with every Jazz victory in this playoff run.

Utah, despite a major deficit in playoff experience, has shown an impressive grit against the Spurs, who lead the series, 2-1. Game 4 is Monday night here. Boozer and Williams are the Jazz’s grit leaders, a pair of burly, tough-minded and resilient young stars in the making.

The 6-foot-3, 205-pound Williams is only 22 but is playing with the steadiness of a veteran, despite facing the best defensive team in the West. He is scoring at will despite often being guarded by Bruce Bowen, a forward on the all-defensive first team.

“This is like his coming-out party right now,” Bowen said.

Williams missed Sunday’s practice because of what the team said was the stomach flu, but he is expected to play Monday.

With his stocky body, quick feet and sure jumper, Williams has already been compared to Baron Davis of the Golden State Warriors. Bowen and his Spurs teammate Tony Parker compared him to the Nets’ Jason Kidd, who is probably bound for the Hall of Fame.

Stockton had been retired for only two years when the Jazz located his worthy successor. Utah had dragged through two seasons with the likes of Carlos Arroyo and Keith McLeod running the point, but the 2005 draft had three promising playmakers: Williams of Illinois, Wake Forest’s Chris Paul and North Carolina’s Raymond Felton.

Certain that all three would be gone by the time Utah selected at No. 6, the Jazz traded up to No. 3 by sending two picks to Portland.

When Milwaukee took center Andrew Bogut at No. 1 and Atlanta took forward Marvin Williams at No. 2, the Jazz had its pick of any available point guard. Paul went on to become the rookie of the year for the New Orleans Hornets, and Felton has shown flashes of promise with the Charlotte Bobcats. But it is Williams who is tearing through the Spurs’ vaunted defense and has his team three victories away from the N.B.A. finals.

“We just picked the guy that we felt was the best guy,” said Kevin O’Connor, the Jazz’ senior vice president for basketball operations, who quickly added, “We thought the other two guys were terrific players, too.”

The talent was evident. Boozer saw it, too, and they developed a quick chemistry — “since the first day,” Boozer said.

“He is motivated,” Boozer said. “He is hungry. He wants to be the best point guard on the floor.”

Coach Jerry Sloan made Williams work for the honor of running the Jazz. He played behind McLeod and Milt Palacio to start the 2005-6 season but wound up starting 47 games, including the final 24.

Williams returned for his second season in better shape, his confidence high, motivated to lock up the job for good.

“He came back a different guy,” Boozer said. “He was in better shape. His mind was fresh. He was pumped up to play basketball, and he carried that throughout the regular season.”

Jazz guard Derek Fisher said Williams carried himself with the confidence and “borderline arrogance” of a star, but with the edginess of a player who endured taunts and doubts as a rookie, when it appeared Paul was the better player.

“I think he in a sense is looking at it as kind of vindication, for the fact that people questioned his ability in the first place,” Fisher said.

Boozer has formed a bond with Malone. Williams has consulted with Stockton. But the pair of heirs would prefer not to indulge the fantasies of fans and news-media types.

“Those guys are legends, two of the best players that ever played the game,” Williams said. “We got a long way to go.”

“We just want to be Deron and Booze,” Williams said.
775 2007-05-28 MOSCOW, May 27 — Police officers and riot troops quashed a gay rights rally in Moscow on Sunday, detaining organizers as well as at least two European lawmakers, while members of Orthodox Christian and nationalist groups badgered the demonstrators with insults, eggs and fists.

Barely had Nikolai A. Alekseyev, the event’s main organizer, appeared in front of City Hall when the police pushed him and several other demonstrators into a police bus.

Skirmishes between gay rights protesters and counterprotesters broke out across from City Hall along Tverskaya Street, Moscow’s main thoroughfare. The general disorder made it hard to determine the number of people actually participating in the demonstration. Mr. Alekseyev had predicted that 200 people would participate.

A man in camouflage clothing struck Peter Tatchell, a British gay rights campaigner, in the face as he tried to speak to the news media. Officers arrested the man who threw the punch and took Mr. Tatchell to a police van for his protection, a police spokesman said.

Later, Marco Cappato, a European Parliament member from Italy, traded blows with another man wearing camouflage as riot police officers looked on.
776 2007-05-28 “I didn’t expect to blossom like I did,” the saxophonist Sam Rivers said at the Miller Theater on Friday, reflecting on his 60-year career. His quip sent ripples of appreciative laughter through the crowd, which was generously stocked with musicians, and generally skewed toward extreme jazz erudition.

The occasion was suitably exceptional: a reunion of the 1970s-era Sam Rivers Trio, with Dave Holland on bass and Barry Altschul on drums. It culminated a weeklong tribute organized by WKCR, the student-run radio station of Columbia University. More generally it celebrated the 83-year-old Mr. Rivers, a genial and indefatigable eminence in the jazz avant-garde. And it confirmed the expressive power of collective improvisation, not that the audience needed convincing.

In a pair of roughly hourlong performances Mr. Rivers and his rhythm partners created a jubilant strain of free jazz. Tempos and tonal centers moved in a restless swirl, frequently dissolving into textural abstraction. But there were discernable roots in bebop and blues, and the musicians often followed a traditional arrangement of roles. Mr. Rivers, playing tenor and soprano saxophones as well as flute and piano, mostly occupied center stage.

His playing was characteristic: effusive but not abrasive, with a stream-of-consciousness cadence. His style was perceptibly different on each instrument: on tenor saxophone he had a burred and slightly bleary tone; on soprano he sounded silvery and precise; during his forays on flute he balanced dartlike flurries against a multiphonic humming; and his brief piano interlude was disarmingly sumptuous, with a sweeping romanticism that felt transplanted from another show.

The shape and direction of the music fell to his band mates, who made the most of their freedom. Mr. Holland was an especially commanding presence: The physicality and proficiency of his playing often dazzled. So did his manner of implying chord progressions in open space through the shape of his lines and the occasional double-stopped chord. His insistent undercurrent gave the impression of momentum even when the music was harmonically static.
777 2007-05-28 DanceAfrica is always a trip, not only through African nations and their cultures but also into another world that proudly claims those cultures as its own. Chuck Davis, who founded this yearly festival 30 years ago, was the perfect towering, irrepressible guide, easing everyone into chanting, hugging and shaking hands during Friday night’s show at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.

In honor of the anniversary and of Mr. Davis’s 70th birthday, Karen Brooks Hopkins, president of the academy, announced the formation of a full-tuition college scholarship fund for children participating in its arts programs and the BAM/Restoration DanceAfrica Ensemble.

Two companies stood out in the ebullient celebration. One was the Ndere Troupe from Uganda, which presented a royal welcome dance, a war dance and celebrations of women, courtship, fertility and African energy. In “Okwerengyekyerera” women danced with up to eight small striped jugs on their heads, symbolic of the wise decisions that must be made to maintain peace.

The music, sung and performed on drums and ancient-looking instruments, was luscious and gloriously cacophonic to untrained ears. The costume colors warred with one another just as brilliantly. And the dancing was exquisitely detailed, each shift in complex rhythms made clear, and all of it laced with irresistible humor.

The second standout was Forces of Nature, and the powerful opening section of Abdel R. Salaam’s “Vision 5 — A Question of Modesty” looked back at the ways harsh representatives of Christianity and Islam tried to enforce foreign notions of morality as Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas. Mr. Salaam’s lilting, sensuous choreography for the women was particularly striking, as was the staging.

That work was followed by a tribal village dance performed in front of an imposing altar to the gods. Here the choreography looked very like the performing in the program’s first half, by the BAM/Restoration DanceAfrica Ensemble, the Bambara Drum and Dance Ensemble of the Bronx, the Drumsong African Ballet Theater from Brooklyn and the Kulu Mele African American Dance from Philadelphia. Though well executed by dancers dressed in sumptuous costumes, the pieces were like fireworks: vivid eruptions of finely articulated lines and shapes that soon became familiar.
778 2007-05-28 “And it really hits these girls on an emotional level,” she said of her readers, who are nearly all female and younger than 15.

After the boy bands from the 1990s like ’N Sync and the Backstreet Boys grew up, the tween fan magazines saw some drop in readership. But the genre — which commands impressive shelf space on newsstands and in checkout aisles — seems to have made a strong comeback, which contrasts with the retrenchment at more mainstream titles like TeenPeople, YM and ElleGirl. None of those magazines are still in print.

For girls from 8 and 14, J-14 and M are two of the country’s best-read magazines, according to an annual survey by Experian Simmons Research of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Last year’s survey found that J-14 tied with Nickelodeon magazine, with 32 percent of preteens reading or looking at each magazine and 30 percent reading or looking at M magazine. Nickelodeon has elements of a fan magazine, but also runs features and comics related to shows on the network, like SpongeBob SquarePants.

“I love reading about celebrities that are my age,” said Mallory D. Levy, 15, of Boynton Beach, Fla., a Popstar subscriber for four years. She said that she takes four or five such magazines to school every day.

But the Paris Hiltons of celebrityville do not regularly appear in these fan magazines. Nor do Britney Spears or Lindsay Lohan now that they have exhibited less-than-exemplary behavior.

“Our content is 100 percent positive,” explained Matthew Rettenmund, the editor in chief of Popstar, published by Leisure Publishing.

“We do not pick apart girls’ appearances and clothing choices,” he said. “We do not make fun of stars who are out of favor. We believe in keeping kids kids.”

Mr. Rettenmund said that Popstar, which began publishing in 1998, experienced a 25 percent rise in audited circulation to 217,183 an issue last year, helped by the “High School Musical” craze. The magazine expects to top 300,000 readers for each of its monthly summer issues.

Ms. MacDermot of Twist said that her magazine also is expecting a big circulation uptick this summer because of “High School Musical 2,” the new Harry Potter book and movie, and the latest sequel to “Pirates of the Caribbean.”

Twist, Popstar and their counterparts have been closely tracking the activities of the six “High School Musical” actors as well as Miley Cyrus, who plans to release her first CD in June.

The universe of stars the magazines cover is somewhat larger — it includes singers like Avril Lavigne and the “American Idol” finalists — but largely dominated by people who made their names in television, like Hilary Duff (formerly of “Lizzie McGuire”).

As stars like Ms. Duff graduate to more adult markets, younger performers hit adolescence and turn into heartthrobs. Two of the latest are the twins Dylan and Cole Sprouse, who star on Disney’s “The Suite Life of Zack and Cody” and have become usual suspects on the magazine covers. Their show, which has the brothers living in a fancy hotel in Boston, gave Ashley Tisdale of “High School Musical” her start.

Nickelodeon Channel has its hits like “Unfabulous,” “Drake and Josh” and “Zoey 101,” but the Disney juggernaut is a prime driver of the current crush on the young stars. Disney invites the magazines to visit movie sets and gives them access for interviews, photo shoots and brief videos that the magazines post on their Web sites.

The magazines say that they are attracting readers by posting celebrity videos on social networking sites. Some of the publications, like J-14, have sites on MySpace; Twist and others keep their own Web sites fresh with daily quizzes, games and sweepstakes.

Ms. MacDermot said that she receives instant feedback from blogging. Like competing publications, Twist posts videos on MySpace from “interviews with stars, from photo shoots or wherever the stars sit down with us.”

Several magazines, including Popstar, also are on YouTube, with videos, Mr. Rettenmund said, “that are short, but they get our name out there.”

Even with television, computers and iPods competing for their time, tweens are still reading magazines because they “tell them what’s hot, give them fashion looks and tell them stories,” said Jane Buckingham, the president of the Intelligence Group, a market research firm based in New York that tracks the age group.

“And portability is important,” said Michael Wood, a vice president of TRU, a market research group in Northbrook, Ill. “You can throw a magazine in a backpack, take it on the bus, pull it out in study hall and share it anywhere with your friends.”

Still, it is not all unalloyed sweetness on the teenager magazine scene. Longstanding magazines like TeenPeople, YM and ElleGirl pulled the plug on their print editions in the last two years. TeenPeople, which Time Inc. began in 1998, ended its print version last summer, and, like YM and ElleGirl, went solely online. TeenPeople’s electronic effort was merged on April 26 into People.com.

The print version of TeenPeople, part of the 1990s wave of teenage magazine start-ups, had a slip in circulation with the arrival of entertainment weeklies, because readers did not have to wait a month to find out the latest doings of Ms. Spears or ’N Sync. Mark Golin, the editor of People.com, said that the larger site drew more traffic so “why duplicate efforts?”

Magazines for early teenagers rely overwhelmingly on newsstand sales, and their $2.99 or $3.49 price makes them an easy impulse buy. According to Mediamark Research Inc.’s annual readership survey of youths from 12 to 19, called MRI Teenmark 2006, there were 22.7 million readers of J-14 last year along with 17 million readers of M and almost 9 million readers of Twist, all of which are published by Bauer Publishing.

Bauer, which is based in New York, said its 2006 revenues were $13.7 million, compared with $11.9 million in 2005. Privately held Leisure Publishing and Laufer Media of Glendale, Calif., publisher of Tiger Beat and Bop, do not disclose revenues.

With the advent of MySpace and celebrity gossip sites like tmz.com, and the shift of advertising spending from video-game makers and cosmetic companies to the Internet and away from magazines, analysts say teenager magazines face new challenges.

“Gossip is available online immediately,” said Barry Parr, an analyst at of Jupiter Research, which surveys teenage Internet usage. “It makes you wonder about the long-term viability of some of these magazines.”

Tinkering with the tween formula can be a tricky business, as the popular Sprouse twins discovered last summer. A new magazine aimed at boys in the preteen age group — the Sprouse Bros. Code — closed after the first issue.

“Tween boys are a totally separate audience,” said Mr. Rettenmund of Popstar, who oversaw the test magazine.
779 2007-05-28 Dr. Walter J. Koroshetz, deputy director of the National Institute on Neurological Disorders and Stroke, lists five things everyone should know about strokes:

A KILLER Strokes can cause permanent brain damage and are the leading cause of permanent disability in adults. They are the third-leading cause of death in the United States. There are two main types of stroke: ischemic, caused by blockage of a blood vessel in the brain, and hemorrhagic, caused by bleeding into or around the brain.

PREVENTION The best way to prevent most strokes is to keep blood pressure in the normal range.

WARNING SIGNS A number of conditions place people at high risk for stroke and should lead to intensive investigation and therapy.

¶The most dangerous warning sign is a transient ischemic attack, sometimes called a T.I.A. or a ministroke. The symptoms usually go away after a few minutes, but are otherwise identical to stroke symptoms. People suddenly cannot speak or move an arm or leg or they cannot see. Many go on to have a stroke in the next few hours to weeks.

¶Atrial fibrillation, a heart condition that results in an irregular heartbeat and that occurs in millions of elderly Americans, is a common cause of severe strokes in patients over 65, or in younger patients with other vascular risk factors.

¶A severe headache that occurs so suddenly that it is often described as a “clap of thunder” can be a sign of bleeding around the brain, called a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Immediate medical attention is necessary to treat the weakened blood vessel, an aneurysm, before it bursts, causing a hemorrhagic stroke.

REDUCING RISK There are ways to reduce stroke risk when these warning signs occur.

¶People who have had T.I.A.’s or strokes or whose carotid arteries are partly obstructed can protect themselves by taking low doses of aspirin (81-milligram tablets) and a cholesterol-lowering statin even if their cholesterol level is not high.

¶People with atrial fibrillation can substantially decrease their stroke risk by taking warfarin, a drug that inhibits blood clotting.

¶Some people with obstructed carotids may reduce their risk of stroke by having the obstruction surgically removed. Stents to hold back the obstruction may help patients who cannot have the surgery and have had symptoms of a stroke.
780 2007-05-28 I had an abortion when I was 21 years old. I am now 48, and not once have I regretted my choice.

Every choice we make contributes to our present reality. Mine includes two beautiful girls, a wonderful husband and a life rich with art, community service and lots of joy.

I cannot imagine what path my life would have taken had I carried my first pregnancy to term. I do know that it would have led to somewhere very different.

Perhaps groups like the Justice Foundation, which has collected stories from women who see themselves as victims of abortion, should add stories from people like me. I am sure we are in the majority.

Your article about the strategy of anti-abortion activists reveals their new claim that by pushing for mandatory counseling about abortion’s alleged psychological and physical risks, they’re working in the interests of women.

The Supreme Court narrowly endorsed that claim when it upheld the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, substituting political propaganda for medical science.

But meticulous research shows that there is no causal relationship between abortions and mental illnesses. Women’s mental health is jeopardized when laws require doctors to mislead them and is best served when women make their own decisions. That’s why the American Psychiatric Association stands in favor of women’s access to reproductive health care.

Anti-abortion activists have even made up a mental disease: “abortion trauma syndrome.” Recently I told Congress that the association recognizes no such disorder.

Doctors take an oath to work in the best interest of patients. Anti-choice activists merely claim that mantle as their tactic du jour.

Nada L. Stotland, M.D.

Chicago, May 22, 2007

The writer is president-elect of the American Psychiatric Association.

It is normal for people to feel depressed about life’s difficult events, including divorce, moving to a new city, job change, birth of a first child and, yes, abortion. Uncomfortable feelings are not the province solely of women who have had an abortion.

These feelings are an expected and healthy expression of a loss — just as a new puppy, child’s refrigerator drawing or marriage might elicit the normal emotions of joy.

Complex and varying emotions are part of being human. To be protected from them is to be robbed of the richness of an authentic life.

After writing a book on the emotional recovery from abortion, my co-author and I have found, from thousands of letters and e-mail messages over 10 years, that very few women feel serious distress after an abortion.

Most often they tell us that if they do feel regret, it is because they had to go through such a tough decision.

As a bioethicist who supports robust informed consent throughout the health care system, I am outraged by pro-life strategists who have hijacked and misused this important concept.

The point of informed consent is to offer the consumer the best medical facts about her condition, so that she can plug those facts into her value system and her life circumstances and make the best choice for her.

If there is good evidence that a significant number of women suffer emotional distress after abortion, that is important information women should know.

They should also be informed of the physical risks of carrying a pregnancy to term, the proportion of women who suffer postpartum depression and the emotional consequences of giving a baby up for adoption.

Dena S. Davis

Cleveland, May 23, 2007

The writer is a professor at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law.
781 2007-05-28 To the Editor:     Re ''Abortion Foes See Validation for New Tactic'' (front page, May 22):...
782 2007-05-28 Dr. Walter J. Koroshetz, deputy director of the National Institute on Neurological Disorders and Stroke, lists five things everyone should know about strokes:    A KILLER -- Strokes can cause permanent brain damage and are the leading cause of per...
783 2007-05-28 RECRUITING BATTLES As much of the high-tech industry is enjoying a renewed boom, the competition for top recruits in engineering and other fields is as intense as ever. Companies like Google, Microsoft and Yahoo find themselves going after the sam...
784 2007-05-29 Federal prosecutors on Tuesday charged a high-profile investment banker in Pakistan with taking part in a $7.5 million insider-trading scheme that they say was run by a former Credit Suisse banker. In a new complaint filed in federal district cour...
785 2007-05-29 Amazing: Home prices are rising again in Boston and San Francisco....
786 2007-05-29 Is Warner Music Group teaming up with Cerberus Capital Management for an 11th-hour surprise bid for the rival music outfit EMI Group? The Sunday Telegraph reported that Warner and the private equity firm have explored a novel two-stage bid for EMI...
787 2007-05-29 A well-known property analyst at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong has left the Wall Street firm for an alternative investment manager based in the United States, joining an industry-wide migration in recent years. The analyst, Kenny Tse, who had been a...
788 2007-05-29 At a charity event in New York last week, during which some of the biggest names in hedge funds offered investment advice, James Chanos, the short seller who catapulted to fame by questioning Enron, offered the Macquarie Bank, the Australian finan...
789 2007-05-29 South Korea's financial regulators are looking into whether Credit Suisse violated disclosure rules in its purchase of shares in a small domestic building material company. Credit Suisse said in a public disclosure on Friday that it bought a 5.2 p...
790 2007-05-29 Three recently departed executives of Citigroup's Global Special Situations Group have announced plans to open a Hong-Kong based hedge fund. The fund, Newtonian Asia Fund, plans to open at the end of July with $50 million to $100 million in assets...
791 2007-05-29 In a showdown over shareholders' rights to be decided Tuesday, the largest public pension fund in the nation is fighting to give investors the power to nominate directors at UnitedHealth Group, the biggest company entangled in the stock-option bac...
792 2007-05-29 JPMorgan Chase has picked up its first advisory mandate from the Nasdaq Stock Market since standing down as financial adviser on the exchange's hostile bid for the London Stock Exchange to avoid a conflict of interest. Chase has emerged as sole ad...
793 2007-05-29 House price growth in England appears to be slowing - at long last. A new survey from Hometrack, a leading property Web site, shows that house prices rose by 0.6 percent in May from April, a slight dip from the previous month's growth of 0.7 perce...
794 2007-05-29 Why does aortic valve replacement increase risk for stroke? – Mark Gordetsky The natural surface lining of the blood vessels and heart is exquisitely effective in preventing blood clots from forming in the arteries that supply blood to the brain...
795 2007-05-29 “I think you can try to improve on it, but I don’t know if there’s a magic answer. I don’t know if it’s that simple.”

Roddick and the seven other American men who completed matches today, in the first full day of tennis here after back-to-back days of rain, all lost. Eighth-seeded James Blake was beaten by Ivo Karlovic, 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 7-5, meaning both seeded Americans disappeared in the same day.

Blake, with his Yankees cap pulled down low, said the American men struggled because they all drew tough opponents.

“I promise we won’t have all eight guys losing the first round at Wimbledon,” he said.

Though the American men were sulking, most of the seeded players made it through unscathed. The fifth-seeded Fernando González, an Australian Open finalist, lost to Radek Stepanek, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4, but Jelena Jankovic, Nicole Vaidisova, Ivan Ljubic and Tommy Robredo all won.

The top two men also won easily. Roger Federer, looking for his first French Open victory, defeated Michael Russell, 6-4, 6-2, 6-4. Rafael Nadal, the two-time defending champion here, beat Juan Martín del Potro, 7-5, 6-3, 6-2.

“The first rounds are really tough,” Nadal said. “But it’s a surprise for Roddick. I believe Andreev is a very good player on clay court. Maybe Roddick was not prepared to face that.”

If, or when, Federer and Nadal meet in the final, Roddick will be watching from the sideline, wondering what went wrong. He had hoped to win at least two matches in a row here, especially with his coach, Jimmy Connors, leading the way.

After Roddick’s loss, Connors said that he had one or two pointers for him, but that he would not have suggested much more.

“The good thing is that I can understand because I’ve had some tough times here myself,” said Connors, an eight-time Grand Slam event winner who never reached the final at the French Open.

“His time’s coming,” Connors added. When asked if he meant next year at the French Open or the year after, he clarified, saying, “He’s got his grasses coming up,” meaning Wimbledon and other grass-court matches.

Roddick, whose big serve makes him more of a threat on hardcourts and grass, has not won consecutive matches at Roland Garros since 2001. But at the other majors, he often shines. He is a two-time Wimbledon finalist and the winner of the 2003 United States Open.

None of that intimidated Andreev. He said he knew he would beat Roddick, even though Roddick is ranked 122 places higher than him.

“Roddick, he is a great player, but still maybe not on the clay court,” Andreev said, still enjoying his coup.

Russell, the American who lost to Federer, had been hoping to be in Andreev’s place in his own David versus Goliath match. He knew his chances were slim.

Several days before the tournament, he was eating lunch in the cafeteria at Roland Garros when a fellow player gave him bad news about his first-round opponent. It happened to be one of the best players in history.

“He said, ‘Don’t look at the draw,’ ” Russell recalled that player telling him.

Russell, who has advanced past the first round of a Grand Slam event only once in 12 tries, said he did not panic. He simply thought back to the 2001 French Open.

That year, he qualified for the tournament, then upset player after player. In the fourth round, he found himself up against Gustavo Kuerten, who was No. 1 at the time. Then, in a near miracle, he came one point from winning before Kuerten took over the match.

Kuerten went on to win his third French Open, but the memories remained with Russell. That one moment gave him hope that underdogs, however tiny the chance, can surprise even the best players — like Andreev proved against Roddick.

“There’s always an awe factor playing a top player, but in the end, you always figure out they are still human beings,” Russell said, adding that he was particularly impressed Tuesday with Federer’s aggressiveness and ability to put crazy spins on the ball.

From now on, Federer’s draw is not easy. Each of the men who beat him during his recent losing streak could play him here.

In the final, he could meet Nadal, who has beaten him the past two years in Paris. He could play Filippo Volandri in the quarterfinals; Volandri beat him in Rome earlier this month.

He could also face Guillermo Cañas in the semifinals. In March, Cañas defeated Federer at consecutive tournaments.

“I can’t believe that I beat him at all because he is, I think, the best player in history,” said Cañas, who beat Victor Hanescu on Tuesday, 6-3, 6-1, 6-4. “Sometimes I think I’m just lucky.”

And sometimes players are not lucky, like Roddick or González or Blake. While their opponents on Tuesday celebrated, those men left Roland Garros deflated.

“I’ve been my own worst enemy here for a lot of times,” Roddick said. “I’ve come in here and have been pretty disappointed with myself.”
796 2007-05-29 Andreev, who is ranked 125th, turned in the first big upset of this tournament, which completed its first full day of tennis after two days of rain. Only 14 matches were completed before play resumed Tuesday.

Until Roddick’s loss, there had been no stunning results. Top seeds like Jelena Jankovic (4), Nicole Vaidisova (6), Ivan Ljubic (7) and Richard Gasquet (11) made it to the second round Tuesday without extreme effort.

The two-time defending champion, Rafael Nadal, advanced after beating Juan Martin del Potro, 7-5, 6-3, 6-2. Top-ranked Roger Federer also won, beating Michael Russell, 6-4, 6-2, 6-4, one day after the match had been halted because of pouring rain.

Russell had been hoping to be the first underdog to defeat a top player, although he knew it was a long shot. Several days before the tournament, he was eating lunch in the cafeteria at Roland Garros when a fellow player gave him the news about his first-round opponent.

“He said, ‘Don’t look at the draw,’ ” Russell recalled that player telling him. “You are playing Federer.”

The next several days were tough for Russell, an American ranked 68th who has advanced past the first round of a Grand Slam event only once in 12 tries. He grew quiet, then stopped talking altogether, slipping into a cocoon as his match against Federer approached.

It is never easy to play the top-ranked player in the world, much less one who may just be the best in history, said Russell, who is 5 feet 8 inches tall and has been been injured the last several years.

Russell lost, as expected, making him the first of potentially six players Federer will leave in his wake as the French Open unfolds.

“I didn’t give a lot of opportunities to my opponent,” Federer said of his match against Russell. “He’s not very tall. I was able to break him, and it was a solid performance.”

At some point in the next week and a half, there is likely to be another David-and-Goliath story here, like the one starring Andreev on Tuesday.

In 2001, that story nearly belonged to Russell. He was one point away from it. That year, he made it to the fourth round to play Gustavo Kuerten, who was the world’s top-ranked player.

Russell won the first two sets and was serving for the match, when his chance for a victory slipped away. Kuerten came back and won, then eventually won the entire tournament, for his third French Open title.

“There’s always an awe factor playing a top player, but in the end, you always figure out they are still human beings,” Russell said, adding that he was particularly impressed, though, with Federer’s aggressiveness and ability to put crazy spins on the ball.

Now safely in the second round, Federer is hoping to continue his strong performance from the Hamburg Masters about 10 days ago, when he finally beat Nadal on clay. Entering that tournament, Federer had not won a title in four events, his worst slump since becoming No. 1 in February 2004.

Each of the men who beat Federer during that streak could end up playing him here. In the finals, he could meet Nadal, who beat him in last year’s finals and in the 2005 semifinals.

He could, in a remote possibility, play Filippo Volandri in the quarterfinals. Earlier this month, Volandri beat him in two sets at the Masters Series event in Rome.

He could also face Guillermo Canas in the semifinals, which would pose perhaps the biggest problem for Federer. Mentally, for Federer, it would be tough to defeat the player who has defeated him twice this year.

“I can’t believe that I beat him at all because he is, I think, the best player in history,” Canas said. “Sometimes I think I’m just lucky.”

Canas, who beat Victor Hanescu on Tuesday, 6-3, 6-1, 6-4, beat Federer at Indian Wells and Miami, both held in March. At Indian Wells, Federer was on track to set the record for consecutive wins, with tournament officials preparing an on-court celebration for that feat. But Canas ruined that party.

Canas beat Federer in the second round, stopping Federer’s streak at 41.

If Federer had won at Indian Wells, he would have had 47 victories in a row, one more than the current record holder, Guillermo Vilas, who strung together 46 victories in 1977. Instead, with 41 victories, he remains tied with Bjorn Borg.

Now, Federer is looking to win the French Open for the first time. If he does, it would make him the third man and the first since Rod Laver in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam singles titles at once. His next match on the way to that achievement will be against Thierry Ascione, who defeated Marin Cilic on Tuesday, 6-2, 6-2, 6-1.

Unless they make it to the final, the players in the other half of the draw are spared from playing Federer, though Russell was not one of those lucky ones.

“I had a dream that I was going to play Nadal,” Russell said.

Later, he added: “I’m pretty sure that wouldn’t have been easy, either.”
797 2007-05-29 The voluntary recall is the latest in a series of product mishaps by the eye care industry. Bausch & Lomb found itself crippled in the wake of a recall and decision to halt the worldwide sales of its ReNu With MoistureLoc cleaner last year after tests showed misuse could leave consumers at risk for an eye infection caused not by a parasite, but rather a fungus.

In November, Advanced Medical Optics voluntary recalled 2.9 million units of the same contact solution involved in Friday’s recall that were found to have bacterial contamination caused by production-line issues at the company’s plant in China.

Most supplies of that product had been shipped to Japan and other Asian countries, the company said, although about 183,000 units were recalled in the United States.

That recall cost Advanced Medical Optics more than $30 million in lost sales and increased costs last year and it estimates that the same recall could cost another $40 million to $50 million this year in lost revenues and increased costs. Sales of multipurpose solutions made up nearly 15 percent of its net sales last year.

The company said last year that most of the contact lens solution products distributed in the United States and Europe are made at a plant in Spain.

While noting that the current voluntary recall was not due to a product contamination issue, a spokeswoman for the company said the recalled products were made at plants in China and Spain.

The crisis has cast a shadow over the ambitious plans of the chief executive, James V. Mazzo, to broaden the company’s product line, which includes laser correction tools and eye care products. Last Thursday, the Advanced Medical Optics said it was weighing a takeover bid for its significantly bigger rival Bausch & Lomb.

Mr. Mazzo spent more than two decades at Allergan, the drug company that makes Botox, before taking over Advanced Medical Optics when it was spun off in 2002. Once the cornerstone of Allergan’s eye surgery and eye care product line, the unit had taken a backseat inside the company, which was seeing huge growth in its pharmaceutical operations, home to the popular wrinkle-reducing drug Botox.

But by becoming a separate entity, Advanced Medical Optics could more clearly focus on its core surgical devices and contact lens care products and customers, Mr. Mazzo said in a statement after the company was spun off.

Smaller than many of its competitors, Advanced Medical Optics began setting its sights on growing through a number of acquisitions. In 2004, it bought Pfizer’s eye surgery unit for $450 million and acquired the laser device maker Visx in 2005 for $1.3 billion.

This year, the company bolstered its position as a leader in laser vision correction devices when it completed a deal for the eye-laser maker IntraLase valued at $808 million.

Yet, entering a bidding war for Bausch & Lomb would be a gamble for Mr. Mazzo and Advanced Medical Optics. Bausch & Lomb announced a deal two weeks ago to be acquired by the private equity firm Warburg Pincus for about $3.67 billion.

Saying that the transaction undervalues Bausch & Lomb, Advanced Medical Optics said on Thursday that it planned to explore plans to make a superior offer. “We believe it is only logical to explore this opportunity given the highly complementary nature of our two businesses,” Advanced Medical Optics said.
798 2007-05-29 Metal and mining shares rallied worldwide yesterday on speculation that global demand for commodities and higher raw-material prices may fuel more takeovers.

Shares of Alcan, the aluminum producer, climbed on a report that a rival, the Norwegian company Norsk Hydro, was preparing a bid of more than $30 billion for the company, trumping an offer from Alcoa. Shares of BHP Billiton, the largest mining company, and Arcelor Mittal, the biggest steel maker, also advanced.

Asian and European stock markets rose yesterday. Markets in the United States were closed for the Memorial Day holiday and will reopen today.

The Globe and Mail in Toronto reported yesterday that Norsk Hydro, which produces about 4 percent of the world’s aluminum, was considering making an offer for Alcan that would exceed the one made by Alcoa. Alcoa’s offer of $58.60 in cash and 0.4108 of an Alcoa share for Alcan is valued at $27.7 billion based on Alcoa’s closing price on May 25.

“Alcan is driving the materials sector higher. It’s a jewel, and there aren’t too many companies like it beyond Alcoa,” said Andrew Pyle, head of capital markets research for Scotia Capital in Toronto. “Despite talk about a slowdown in North America, global economic growth is solid, and that is driving up demand for metals.”

Alcan, which rallied 2.8 percent to 94.25 Canadian dollars ($87.28) in Toronto.

In South America, markets in Brazil and Chile advanced on speculation that metal prices would remain high on global economic growth.

Nine of the 18 western European markets, including Britain and Germany, were closed. France’s exchange rose 0.2 percent, paced by Arcelor Mittal. Shares of Arcelor, the world’s largest steel maker, increased 0.8 percent to 43.65 euros ($58.69). Norsk Hydro, an energy and metals producer, gained 0.4 percent to 26.10 euros ($35.09) in trading in France.
799 2007-05-29 At play, energy analysts say, is a Russian strategy to gain a monopoly in natural gas exports to Asia through Gazprom, similar to its position in Europe, with the scope and range to dictate prices and thwart competition.

President Vladimir V. Putin has discussed playing the two markets off against each other, a strategy that is based on government control of the export routes.

This would not bode well for private companies like TNK-BP operating in the Russian Far East. Shell’s ill-fated development was also aimed at the Asian market. If TNK-BP’s field is taken away, a consortium on Sakhalin Island led by Exxon Mobil, also under pressure by Russian environmental regulators, would be the only private energy development in the wider region.

In the latest setback for TNK-BP, the Irkutsk Region Arbitration Court rejected a lawsuit by the company contesting its license terms. The ministry has threatened to strip TNK-BP of its license, saying the company has not developed the field quickly enough.

More broadly, TNK-BP is seen as being compelled to sell a controlling stake to Gazprom or accept Gazprom as a partner.

“They will reach an agreement with Gazprom, or the license violations will get the better of them,” Caius Rapanu, oil and gas analyst at the brokerage firm UralSib, said.

Last fall, the campaign against Shell was built as well around a seemingly capricious enforcement of Russian law. Then, the natural resources ministry accused Shell of spoiling salmon-spawning streams on Sakhalin and dumping dredge waste into a bay. Shell disputed those accusations. The pressure on Shell ended when the company sold a controlling stake to Gazprom.

The ministry now accuses TNK-BP, which owns 63 percent of the Kovykta field, of having failed to meet a license requirement to begin supplying natural gas to the region in which the field is situated by the end of 2006.

“There are a lot of parallels with what is going on now and the later stages of Sakhalin II,” Chris Weafer, chief analyst at Alfa Bank, said of the Kremlin’s tactics. “It is a carrot-and-stick approach to pressing its position.”

This has left TNK-BP sitting on vast wealth with no market. To hold onto the field, it shifted focus to unprofitable domestic sales and partially built a pipeline connecting the huge field to the nearest settlement, a logging town with 5,000 inhabitants.

That fulfilled the license requirement in part. But the license also specified that the company must supply 9 billion cubic meters of gas to the region, based on dated estimates of Siberian demand. Government and industry experts now estimate demand in the area — which borders Mongolia and where the population is declining — at no more than 2.5 billion cubic meters a year; the terms of the license, issued in the early 1990s, had overestimated growth.

“Formally, the Russian government is right,” Pavel Kushnir, an oil and gas analyst at Deutsche Bank in Moscow, said. “They say that since TNK-BP is not able to meet license obligations, the license should be revoked.”

In court filings, TNK-BP argued that the license requirements contradicted other Russian government documents estimating demand in the Irkutsk region. The judges declined to hear the case.

A spokesman for TNK-BP, Ale- ksandr Shadrin, said, “We regret the decision of the court.” He added that the company would appeal.

TNK-BP, though, has seemed to emphasize negotiations over pressing its case in the Russian courts.

Alex Turkeltaub, a managing director and political risk adviser with the Frontier Strategy Group, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said BP would probably “focus on the broad strokes” of a settlement with the Kremlin while using the court case to delay a license revocation. “If they don’t violate one agreement, it will be another,” he said, recalling Shell’s problems with the salmon streams. “Worrying about little details won’t help them.”
800 2007-05-29 MOSCOW, May 28 — The authorities in Kazakhstan announced Monday that they had issued an international arrest warrant for Rakhat Aliyev, the son-in-law of President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev and one of the Central Asian oil state’s most powerful and loathed men.

Mr. Aliyev, long trailed by reports that he was involved in criminal activity, was accused early this year by the victims’ families of kidnapping two senior officials of a Kazakh bank. One of the officials remains missing and is feared dead.

The warrant, on charges of running an organized crime network, was announced by the Interior Ministry in Astana, the Kazakh capital. The charges issued from the latest scandal involving violence, corruption and intrigue to captivate political life in Kazakhstan, a former Soviet republic with deep reserves of oil and natural gas.

Mr. Aliyev, who is believed to be in Austria, has denied a role in the kidnappings. In a statement released before the warrant was announced, he said he was being punished by his father-in-law for privately expressing ambitions to become president. He made no public comment on Monday, as the scandal left Kazakhs guessing about his fate.

President Nazarbayev often insists that the country, situated on the steppe south of central Russia, is evolving toward democracy. But since Soviet days it has been a centralized nation controlled by the president, his family and their entourages, and dogged by accusations of election rigging, corruption, censorship and the suppression of perceived political threats.

Throughout out it all Mr. Nazarbayev has appeared to remain durably popular and is often credited, with the help with oil and gas revenues, of steering Kazakhstan wide of the personality cults, civil strife and economic stagnation that have in varying degrees afflicted other Central Asian countries.
801 2007-05-29 The lone operating enrichment plant in this country, built by the old Atomic Energy Commission, is in Paducah, Ky. It is run by a subsidiary of USEC, a company formed in the 1990s to privatize the enrichment monopoly that the government had run since the days of the Manhattan Project.

The technology at the plant is outdated, and USEC is struggling to commercialize a more efficient system, using centrifuges, at another plant, in southern Ohio. USEC will not say what it thinks that project will cost, but it has said it does not know how it will raise the money.

USEC is arguing that the government should give it the remaining uranium as a way to ensure that any new enrichment technology that is developed is American owned.

“Essentially, it would be a win-win situation for everybody,” said Elizabeth Stuckle, a spokeswoman for the company, which runs the Paducah plant through a subsidiary, the United States Enrichment Corporation.

That solution would add uranium to the market to tamp down high prices, Ms. Stuckle said, and prolong the life of the Paducah plant and help pay for the centrifuges, whose technology the government owns and licenses to USEC. The government would collect royalties.

USEC officials say the Energy Department could transfer much of the uranium to it with the stroke of a pen. Department officials have signaled that they would appreciate guidance from Congress.

Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill say giving the uranium to USEC would reward a company that has not demonstrated fiscal responsibility.

On Thursday, several senior members of Congress asked the Government Accountability Office to evaluate the options.

“There needs to be vigorous oversight of USEC’s request for a bailout, to ensure the taxpayer’s interests are protected,” Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce committee, said in a statement.

Mr. Dingell said Congress should consider “whether we should be allocating this $2 billion or $3 billion to children’s health insurance instead of subsidizing executives who have mismanaged their companies.”

USEC, he said, had “squandered resources on multimillion-dollar golden parachutes, stock buybacks and dividend payments that frequently exceeded their earnings.”

If the uranium is sold, it would be up to Congress to decide what to do with the income. One possibility would be to use the money to offset cleanup costs in the Energy Department’s nuclear complex.

The company denies that it has improperly handled its financial dealings and says its problems stem from the challenge of operating World War II technology that is a heavy user of electricity at a time electric bills have soared.

A Senate aide who has been briefed on the discussions said that the company’s future was uncertain and that if it were sold and broken up, the government would effectively be subsidizing some other entity.

In addition to USEC, a consortium of British, Dutch and German companies has expressed interest in the partly processed uranium for a centrifuge plant that it is building in New Mexico, using the same type of machines that have operated for years in Europe.

Congressional aides say one possibility is that the government would lend the uranium to the consortium, to be “repaid” later, when prices will presumably be lower.

Utilities that are contemplating building nuclear plants would also like some of the uranium, which would please companies that mine uranium. Assured of an adequate uranium supply, energy companies would be more likely to go ahead with constructing reactors, ensuring a long-range market for the mining companies.

There is some sympathy for that view on Capitol Hill, where some lawmakers are wary of disposing of the uranium in a way that would push down market prices and discourage investments in new mines.

The spot price is more than $120 for a pound of yellowcake, the ore form, up from less than $10 earlier in this decade. The spot market is fairly small, with more trading under long-term contracts at lower prices.

“Before the government does anything, it needs to have a serious open debate about the future of USEC, with the specific end goal of criteria for deciding when enough is enough,” said Andrea Jennetta, publisher of Fuel Cycle Week, a newsletter.
802 2007-05-29 The new findings have been made possible by new instruments, known as chips, which enable up to 500,000 points of variation on the human genome to be tested simultaneously for possible association with disease. But to attain statistical strength, large numbers of patients must be recruited, which has prompted otherwise competitive research groups to work together.

Using the new chips, scientists can compare breast cancer patients with healthy individuals, looking for variant sites on the DNA of the human genome that seem associated with the disease. Because the chips sample each patient’s entire genome, the new approach is known as a whole genome association study.

With this approach, a large consortium of breast cancer scientists, led by Douglas F. Easton of the Cancer Research UK Genetic Epidemiology Unit in Cambridge, England, says it has found five new sites on the genome where a common variation confers a risk of breast cancer. The findings were reported Sunday in the journal Nature.

One of the same sites of variation has been found by a second team, led by David Hunter of the Harvard School of Public Health. DeCode Genetics, a gene-finding company based in Iceland, has also identified two new sites of variation, one of which is the same as one found in Dr. Easton’s study. The reports from Dr. Hunter and DeCode Genetics were published online in the journal Nature Genetics.

Scientists involved in the three studies expressed confidence that most of the genetic risk of breast cancer would be detected through the whole genome association approach.

“Once the dust has settled, yes, it’s possible we may have captured most of the genetic variation,” Dr. Easton said.

Genes already known to be associated with breast cancer, like BRCA1 and BRCA2, carry a high risk but are rare in the general population. The new DNA variations are common but confer a lesser risk.

A team lead by Simon N. Stacey of DeCode Genetics reports that 25 percent of women of European descent carry one copy of a DNA variant on the second of the 23 human chromosomes, conferring a 44 percent greater risk of breast cancer than for women without it, and that 7 percent of women have inherited two copies, with a 64 percent greater risk.

The sites of variation discovered by DeCode and the two other groups do not lie in genes and for the most part have no known biological function, though some are conjectured to control the activity of nearby genes. It is purely on the basis of statistics that the sites of variation on the DNA are believed to be associated with disease.

Their discoverers say that the sites will, when understood, reveal new biology that underlies the progression toward breast cancer. But not everyone is convinced.

Mary-Claire King, a biologist at the University of Washington in Seattle who pioneered the search for the BRCA1 cancer gene, criticized the statistical basis of the studies and suggested they should not have been published until the biological significance of the suspect sites had been established.

“I believe the motivation to publish based on so little biological or genetic evidence,” Dr. King said, “is that an enormous amount of money has been put into these efforts and hence the need to see positive results is huge.”

Dr. King’s principal criticism of the statistics of the three studies is that when 500,000 sites of variation are tested all at once for association with disease, many may come out positive just by chance, not because of any real link.

Dr. Easton, Dr. Hunter and Dr. Kari Stefansson, DeCode’s chief executive, all said the criticism was correct in principle but could be accounted for, as they had each done, by taking the few most promising sites in one whole genome association scan and testing them in a second population.

Dr. Stefansson rejected the suggestion that the three groups should not have published their statistical findings until the biology of the sites was worked out, saying that science proceeds in small steps and that “we never have the entire story on Day 1.” With publication, the sites are available for other scientists to investigate.

All three scientists expressed confidence that their whole genome association studies had avoided the pitfalls of the past and were pointing to sites of variation that either cause disease or lie close to those that do so.
803 2007-05-29 In the European Union, as in most copyright protection in the United States, inherited “moral rights” last for 70 years after the death of the artist, so the greats of the more distant past are open to all sorts of license. A Shakespeare play can be updated to the American South, a Mozart opera can be set in Trump Tower, Marcel Duchamp can add a mustache to the image of Mona Lisa — and no one can object.

But when it comes to writers and artists who have died since 1937, legal heirs, not always direct descendants, have the last word.

In the visual arts disputes often arise when an image is used commercially without permission. Thus the Picasso estate spends a lot of time trying to chase down the illegal use of Picasso drawings or paintings on everything from coffee mugs and T-shirts to posters and prints, while simultaneously selling his name for use on the Citroën Xsara Picasso car. René Magritte poses a different problem. Although his Surrealist images are also reproduced without authorization, more often they inspire advertising images, like figures floating in the sky borrowed from the bowler-hatted men in “Golconda.” But when an idea, not an image, is lifted, it is not protected by copyright.

Salvador Dalí’s extraordinary imagination is no less plagiarized, but he got ahead of the game by commercializing his own images to the point that André Breton turned Dalí’s name into an anagram, Avida Dollars. And if fake Dalís abound, it is also because he is said to have signed hundreds of blank sheets of paper before he died in 1989.

More recently the question of ownership of an image has been taken up by some architects, who have claimed copyright over published photographs of buildings they have designed. If recognized, this right will also benefit their heirs.

On the other hand, in the performing arts, the creator’s intention is more relevant. In dance, choreographers or their trusted assistants usually oversee interpretation of their work. Yet, after their deaths, even when some estates, like the George Balanchine Foundation, insist on approving new productions, original visions are inevitably blurred by individual dancers.

But it is in the literary world where some of the most serious rights battles have erupted. Stephen James Joyce, who controls the moral rights to the works of James Joyce, his grandfather, has become famous for blocking the use of Joyce’s words in publications and even at public readings. (That power will end in 2011, 70 years after Joyce’s death.)

Similarly, in theater, the Koltès case is not unique. With Bertolt Brecht and Samuel Beckett, who both wrote stage directions for their plays, new productions must be approved by their estates. And not infrequently, when the interpretation or casting is considered inappropriate, changes are demanded or permission is refused.

But is it proper for the creative freedom of stage directors to be restricted by heirs or estates?

Ms. Mayette, the director of “Le Retour au Désert,” who is also the general administrator of the Comédie-Française, has argued that “it should be forbidden to forbid.” And she had good reason to feel vindicated last week when two actresses in her production won Molières, the French equivalent of Tony Awards.

Ms. Mayette’s casting “sin” was of course minor compared with what happens today to centuries-old operas, which may be variously set in modern times, infused with post-Freudian angst or turned into erotic romps. Long-dead composers can count only on vociferous audiences to guard their legacies.

But great stage works survive anyway. Shakespeare’s plays were ripped off during his lifetime, many were radically rewritten in the 17th and 18th centuries, and today they remain vulnerable to the whims of theater fashion. Yet, thanks to their poetry, psychology, humor and drama, ol’ Bill is doing just fine.

True, Bernard-Marie Koltès is no Shakespeare. But since many critics regard him as France’s most original playwright in decades, his brother does him no service by depriving theatergoers of the chance to discover him. After all, audiences and directors — not heirs or copyright laws — will eventually decide if his oeuvre is to live on.
804 2007-05-29 Men who drink a lot of coffee may lower their risk of developing the painful inflammatory disease gout, researchers say.

Although few would suggest that men live awash in coffee, which could have its own health consequences, the researchers found that the more their study subjects drank, the less likely they were to develop the disease.

The study, led by Dr. Hyon K. Choi of the University of British Columbia and Brigham and Women’s Hospital, appears in the June issue of Arthritis & Rheumatism.

People who have gout experience attacks of arthritis that come on suddenly and are caused by excessive levels of uric acid. The uric acid causes an accumulation of crystals in the joints.

The findings were based on a study of more than 45,000 men over 12 years.

Men who drank four to five cups of coffee a day, the study found, had a 40 percent lower risk of gout than those who drank none. The risk was 59 percent lower in men who drank six or more cups a day.

The researchers said there might be a number of reasons that coffee lowered the risk, among them its tendency to lower uric acid levels in the blood. Caffeine does not appear to play a big role, but other components in coffee may be affecting insulin levels, they said.
805 2007-05-29 Now that smokers have been pushed out of many bars and restaurants to mill about the door, is it time to send them packing altogether?

A new study suggests that the haze produced by the crowds of outcasts puffing away may also affect the health of nonsmokers.

The findings, presented at a recent conference of the American Thoracic Society, are preliminary. The research, led by Luke Naeher of the University of Georgia, was intended mainly to help design more extensive study into whether the outdoor secondhand smoke poses a real risk.

But the early findings suggested that it could be a problem.

The researchers slogged into the heat of battle to conduct the study: summer weekends in Athens, Ga., a bustling college town with more than 100 pubs and restaurants.

Athens put a full ban on smoking in bars into effect in 2005, sending smokers into the warm air. On a busy night, the researchers said, there may be 40 to 50 smokers crammed together at any given time.

The researchers measured two components of secondhand smoke, carbon monoxide and particulate matter.

They tested the air in front of five locations, with and without smokers, on four days. The study found that the level of pollutants outside the bars and restaurants was elevated, even after controlling for carbon monoxide and particulates in the exhaust from passing motor vehicles.
806 2007-05-29 But the real test of whether a drug is any good is, How are the patients? Not their blood tests or X-rays or EKGs, but the people themselves, and not after just six months, but after years, especially if they have a chronic disease and will be taking medicine for the rest of their lives. Are those taking the drug more or less likely than people not taking it to have heart attacks, die or develop heart disease or other illnesses?

The problem is, it can take a long time and a lot of patients — and, therefore, a lot of money — to get a real picture of health and survival. That is especially true for something like heart disease, which develops slowly and is so common that it may be hard to detect a small increase in risk. Studies might have to go on for years instead of months, and include far more than the few thousand patients in whom drugs are typically tested before they get approved.

So instead of waiting to see if people die or have heart attacks, drug companies have looked for other traits that seem to correlate with health and survival and that could stand in as a yardstick — objective measures like blood pressure, cholesterol levels, blood sugar or tests of heart function. Researchers call these measurements “surrogate endpoints,” and the F.D.A. has encouraged companies to find surrogates that could reliably predict how patients would fare. These kinds of tests are seen as a way to streamline the drug approval process.

But reliable surrogates are hard to find. There are plenty of endpoints that in theory should do the job, but do not. Tumor size, for instance: there are drugs that can shrink tumors without prolonging a patient’s life. Bone density is another example. Fluoride can increase it in people whose skeletons have thinned from osteoporosis, so fluoride should prevent fractures. But it doesn’t. In fact, it makes fractures more likely, because it turns bones brittle.

Heart rhythm can also be deceptive. Certain medicines can stabilize dangerous, abnormal heartbeats in people who have had heart attacks — and yet have been found to increase their odds of dying. Cholesterol levels do not always tell the whole story, either. Hormone treatment in women after menopause can raise HDL, the so-called good cholesterol, and so was expected to prevent heart disease — but does not. Similarly, researchers had high hopes for an experimental drug that raises HDL, but instead of preventing heart attacks the drug wound up increasing the risk.

Part of the problem is that surrogate endpoints do not always reflect what’s happening to the whole patient. The disease being treated may be too complicated to gauge with just one tool, and the drug in question may have many more effects than the one being measured.

Avandia, for instance, does a good job of lowering blood sugar. But it also activates a whole array of genes, and can cause weight gain, fluid retention, heart failure, anemia and unfavorable changes in lipid levels in the blood, according to an editorial last week in The New England Journal of Medicine. It’s not clear whether the drug’s benefits will trump its risks in the long run.

Is there any way to protect the public from unsafe or ineffective drugs without creating an approval process that drags on forever?

For years, researchers and government officials have been saying that the solution lies at least in part in continuing to study drugs after they are marketed — a process called postmarketing surveillance, or Phase 4 studies. But as the editorial writers pointed out, only a small proportion of the promised studies ever seem to get done.

As long as that remains the case, the consequences will be drugs like Avandia — on the market for eight years to treat one of the leading causes of death in this country, with patients now left wondering whether it will make their health better or worse.
807 2007-05-29 People with diabetes have too much sugar in their blood, so a drug that lowers blood sugar ought to be a good treatment, right?     Maybe not. Consider the diabetes drug Avandia, or rosiglitazone, which was approved in 1999. It lowers blood sugar,...
808 2007-05-30 Donald Trump, Miss USA and the immigration debate....
809 2007-05-30 In the former Soviet Union, dogfighting competitions have surged in popularity since the collapse of Communism.
810 2007-05-30 Students at a suburban school in Beirut, Lebanon, say their textbooks don't give them the full story about the country's recent history.
811 2007-05-30 Ad agency will revamp "I Love New York"...
812 2007-05-30 Hassan M. Fattah reports from Quzai, a fishing village south of Beirut, where rockets fell on Friday, Aug. 4, and destroyed much of the fleet. (Produced by: Archie Tse)
813 2007-05-30 All 15 members of the United Nations Security Council agree to condemn North Korea for firing test missiles into the Sea of Japan. (Producer: Emily B. Hager)
814 2007-05-30 In their tortured quest to take Clear Channel Communications private, the radio giant's two bidders have locked up a key constituent. One of the company's largest shareholders disclosed Wednesday that it would approve the latest version of the dea...
815 2007-05-30 It often seems as if Goldman Sachs, the highly profitable securities firm, knows how to pluck money from thin air. But the firm is losing its touch with Global Alpha, its flagship hedge fund, which manages money for some of Goldman's wealthiest cl...
816 2007-05-30 The British want more hedge fund access, and that might suit the Financial Services Authority just fine. Just 10 percent of the public in Britain think the asset class should be the sole domain of the professional investor, with the majority favor...
817 2007-05-30 The debate continues: Are the recent deals involving online-advertising firms - Google-Doubleclick, Microsoft-aQuantive, WPP-24/7 Real Media - signs of a bubble, or wise, strategic, long-term plays? Why not both? Last week, Daniel Gross argued in ...
818 2007-05-30 I.B.M. disclosed Tuesday that it was taking on $11.5 billion in debt to finance an acceleration of its stock repurchase plan, which the company believes is one of the largest such steps ever. I.B.M. had already announced that it would ramp up its ...
819 2007-05-30 HONG KONG, May 30 — Chinese stocks plunged today after China’s finance ministry announced early this morning that it would triple the tax on stock trades, a move aimed at braking what many business executives and economists inside and outside China now see as a stock market bubble.

Just seven days ago, the finance ministry and the State Administration of Taxation took the unusual step of publicly denying that they had any plans to change the tax on stock trading. The finance ministry reversed itself with a statement on its Web site early this morning noting that increase had been ordered by the State Council, the cabinet of the Chinese government.

By raising the tax, the government now runs the risk of being blamed by the Chinese public if it sets off a stock market rout. A composite index of yuan-denominated A shares traded in Shanghai and Shenzhen plunged 6.3 percent at the opening today, partly recovered by midmorning for a loss of 2.7 percent, then slumped to post a loss of 6.3 percent again by midafternoon.

Millions of citizens have invested their savings in a market that has nearly quadrupled since the start of last year. New investors, many of them with no experience in trading stocks, have been opening brokerage accounts at a pace of roughly 300,000 a day for the last two weeks, with a record 455,111 accounts opened on Monday.

The Chinese government has long used changes in the stock trading tax to influence share prices, raising or lowering the tax at least six times in recent years. Investors have watched the level of the tax carefully as an indication of the government’s position.

The market had rallied sharply for the past week as investors interpreted last week’s decision to leave the tax unchanged as a sign that the government would let the market set its own course.

The finance ministry is tripling the stamp tax on stock trading to 0.3 percent, from 0.1 percent, effective today. An early report of the finance ministry’s decision by Xinhua, the official news agency, which came late in the American trading day on Tuesday, tempered trading that was initially buoyed by takeover deals and signs of consumer confidence in the economy.
820 2007-05-30 Almaz Atambayev, left, a moderate opposition politician appointed prime minister in March by President Kurmanbek Bakiyev to defuse a gathering political crisis, was poisoned this month with “a toxin of unknown origin,” government doctors said in a report. They said he was undergoing therapy to rid his body of the toxins, and the security service said it had opened a criminal case. Mr. Atambayev said last week that his enemies had tried to kill him on May 11 by putting poison in his water. He said he was unconscious for two days after drinking the water. “I have many enemies,” Mr. Atambayev said. “I will not resign. I do not like being intimidated.”
821 2007-05-30 Russia resumed accepting visa applications from Georgian citizens, a step toward easing tensions that have strained relations between the countries after Georgia chose to align closely with the West. Russia also suggested the possibility of a meeting between President Vladimir V. Putin and his Georgian counterpart, Mikheil Saakashvili. Disputes remain. Russia has not lifted its import ban of Georgian wine and mineral water, or its block against direct postal service and air traffic with Georgia.
822 2007-05-30 MOSCOW, May 29 — Russia held a test launching of a new intercontinental ballistic missile on Tuesday and said it had successfully fired the weapon almost entirely across its northern airspace to the Russian Far East.

The launching of the missile, which traveled more than 5,000 miles and was covered extensively on state television, occurred as President Vladimir V. Putin again chided the West for American-led plans to install an antimissile shield in Europe.

“We think it would be harmful and dangerous to turn Europe into a tinderbox and fill it with new types of armaments,” Mr. Putin said, according to the official Itar-Tass news agency.

Russian officials also pointedly said that the new missile, known as the RS-24, had been fired from a mobile launcher and that it could carry as many as six warheads that could not be defeated by current or future missile-defense systems.

All of the RS-24’s warheads were recorded as striking their targets at a test range in Kamchatka, near the Pacific Ocean, officials said.
823 2007-05-30 Federal prosecutors charged a high-level investment banker in Pakistan yesterday with earning more than $7.5 million in illegal profit from an insider-trading scheme that they say was run by a former Credit Suisse banker.

In a 26-count complaint filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the United States attorney’s office accused Ajaz Rahim, 44, the country head of investment banking at Faysal Bank Limited, of conspiracy and securities fraud. Mr. Rahim is accused of profiting from confidential information about nine deals, including the $45 billion buyout of TXU, the Texas energy giant. Credit Suisse was an adviser on all nine deals.

A lawyer for Mr. Rahim, Spencer C. Barasch, said that his client looked forward to defending himself in court.

A warrant has been issued for Mr. Rahim’s arrest, prosecutors said in a statement. Two weeks ago, the Securities and Exchange Commission amended its complaint to accuse Mr. Rahim of securities fraud.

Citing telephone and e-mail records, prosecutors said that from April 2006 until this February, Mr. Rahim received confidential information from Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, 37, at the time a junior associate in Credit Suisse’s global energy group. The S.E.C. said in its amended complaint that both men once worked together at American Express in Lahore, Pakistan.
824 2007-05-30 A short, thin man with a big presence, Mr. Mitchell consistently took liberal positions and was among the first congressmen to condemn the Vietnam War and call for Nixon’s resignation. In a speech dripping with sarcasm on the House floor in 1983, Mr. Mitchell thanked President Ronald Reagan for appointing a single black judge and for his “generosity” in giving the nation a 20.4 percent unemployment rate among blacks.

Mr. Mitchell’s most visible success was in leading a fight to enact bills to give special aid to black business owners on the ground that blacks had been subjected to discrimination for generations.

In 1976, he attached an amendment to a public works bill stipulating that cities and states receiving federal grants had to award 10 percent of the money to minority-owned businesses. That year, he sponsored a bill requiring contractors to document their goals in contracting with minority-owned companies. Both measures became law.

In 1980, his amendment to the Surface Transportation Assistance Act required 10 percent of the money to be set aside for minority businesses.

The successes seemed to be reversed in 1995, when the Supreme Court limited the scope of government programs granting preferences based on race or sex.

Three years later, the Clinton administration gave new life to the laws when, to meet the court’s new interpretation, it rewrote the enforcement policies.

Mr. Mitchell’s family had been deeply involved in the civil rights movement and Maryland politics since the 1930s. His older brother, Clarence M. Mitchell Jr., was a lobbyist for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the civil rights debates of the 1960s and ’70s.

A sister-in-law, Juanita Jackson Mitchell, was the first black woman to practice law in Maryland and was considered the matriarch of the civil rights movement in Baltimore.

Parren James Mitchell was born on April 29, 1922 in Maryland. He was the ninth of 10 children, three of whom died in childhood. His father was a waiter at the Rennert Hotel in downtown Baltimore. He was 11 years old when his brother Clarence returned from seeing a black person lynched, and Parren immediately promised to devote his life to fighting for the rights of African-Americans, The Baltimore Sun reported.

He attended Baltimore public schools and enlisted in the Army in World War II, winning a Purple Heart for wounds suffered in Italy. He graduated from what is now Morgan State University and applied to enter the graduate program of the University of Maryland at College Park.

After the college president advised him to pursue the degree “off campus,” he sued and won admission as the first black graduate student there.

After completing a master’s in sociology in 1952, he taught sociology at Morgan State, worked for the Baltimore probation department and was director, successively, of two state human relations committees.

In President Lyndon B. Johnson’s war on poverty, he headed the antipoverty program in Baltimore.

In 1968, Mr. Mitchell lost a race for Congress to the incumbent but won the seat two years later. Over his eight terms, in addition to heading the Small Business Committee, he was also Democratic whip at large, the senior member of the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee, and chairman of its Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy.

Mr. Mitchell was once described as “one of God’s angry men.” Thomas L. Ashley, a Democratic representative from Ohio, said in an interview with The National Journal in 1978: “Mitchell sees both sides of an issue. But he just sees one side better than the other.”
825 2007-05-30 HONG KONG, Wednesday, May 30 — In an abrupt reversal, China’s finance ministry announced early Wednesday morning that it would triple the tax on stock trades, a move aimed at braking what many business executives and economists inside and outside China now see as a stock market bubble.

Just seven days ago, the finance ministry and the State Administration of Taxation took the unusual step of publicly denying that they had any plans to change the tax on stock trading.

But the finance ministry reversed itself with a statement on its Web site early Wednesday morning noting that increased had been ordered by the State Council, the cabinet of the Chinese government.

By raising the tax, the government now runs the risk of being blamed by the Chinese public if it sets off a stock market rout. A composite index of yuan-denominated A shares traded in Shanghai and Shenzhen plunged 6.3 percent at the opening on Wednesday, but quickly rebounded to a loss of 2.7 percent by mid-morning.

Millions of citizens have invested their savings in a stock market that has nearly quadrupled since the start of last year.
826 2007-05-30 MOSCOW, May 29 — The Boeing Company sold 15 of its next-generation 787 jets to a private Russian airline on Tuesday in a deal valued at about $2.4 billion, Boeing’s largest sale in the former Soviet Union.

The buyer, S7 Airlines, said that banks were eager to finance the deal, offering a boost to Boeing in its rivalry with the European airplane manufacturer Airbus in Russia.

Boeing has pulled ahead of Airbus elsewhere, but the Europeans are seen as having an edge in Russia because a Russian government bank is a part owner of Airbus’s parent company, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company.

“We’re happy,” Olga Y. Kostrubina, a spokeswoman for Boeing in Russia, said in a telephone interview. “It will benefit our customer. They say they chose the airplane because it is the best-fitting aircraft for their airline.”

A majority of Western passenger jets operating in former Soviet countries are Boeings, both new and used, about 100 in all. Airbus, however, leads in sales of new planes.
827 2007-05-30 According to municipal officials and others familiar with the debate over the issue in the state, there is general agreement on the need to make the process more equitable and to provide more compensation. But there is less agreement on the need to sharpen the legal definition of blight, and hardly any agreement on shifting the burden of proof in such court cases to the municipality.

Changes in the state’s redevelopment law governing the use of eminent domain have been an issue in the last two legislative sessions after a United States Supreme Court ruling in 2005 that cleared the way for New London, Conn., to replace a rundown residential neighborhood with office space, a hotel, new residences and a riverwalk. Since then nearly 36 states have passed laws intended to curb or limit the use of eminent domain.

In New Jersey, the efforts have pitted homeowner groups in several towns against municipal officials, developers and a host of planners and lawyers who insist that eminent domain is crucial to redeveloping some urban areas and attracting private investment.

A measure that includes many of the changes advocated by Mr. Chen passed the Assembly last year but failed in the Senate. Gov. Jon S. Corzine has generally supported revising the eminent domain process, but in the absence of specific proposals from the governor, Mr. Chen has been seen as the administration’s voice on the issue.

Anne Babineau, a lawyer who is an expert on municipal land use, said that there was some indication in Mr. Chen’s report and in her discussions with municipal officials that there was a willingness to compromise on a scaled-back measure.

Ms. Babineau noted the significance of Mr. Chen’s acknowledgment that municipal use of redevelopment law and eminent domain had been fair in some cases.

“It is showing that he has come to appreciate the need to preserve eminent domain as a tool,” she said.

Of the four elements cited by Mr. Chen as necessary for any reform, Ms. Babineau said she thought that mayors and their supporters in the Senate could agree on a scaled-back bill that dealt specifically with increasing compensation and making the condemnation process more transparent.

In addition, she said it was her belief that mayors and others who saw redevelopment as an essential tool would be willing to compromise on what constituted blight.

Mr. Chen has said that current definitions of blight are vague and so expansive as to eliminate any barrier to condemnation. He cited examples in which municipal officials found that properties were “not fully productive” or that there was “a lack of proper utilization.”
828 2007-05-30 I.B.M. disclosed yesterday that it was taking on $11.5 billion in debt to finance an acceleration of its stock repurchase plan, which the company believes is one of the largest such steps ever.

I.B.M. had already announced that it would ramp up its already substantial stock buyback, and the company had said it expected to borrow money to get it done. But a filing yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission revealed the scope of the project.

Like many other large companies, I.B.M., which is based in Armonk, N.Y., is on a buyback binge. It has spent $80 billion on its stock since 1995. By taking shares out of circulation, the move increases the company’s share earnings and gives the company more shares to distribute in stock options.

In April, largely to please investors, the board authorized $15 billion in new repurchases — two and a half times what I.B.M. spends annually on research and development. Recently, I.B.M. has been spending about $100 million a day buying its own shares on the open market.

Now, I.B.M. has contracted with three banks to buy $12.5 billion worth of its stock — 8 percent of all outstanding shares.

Of the $12.5 billion, I.B.M. paid $1 billion in cash and borrowed the rest through an international subsidiary. Using the international subsidiary permits I.B.M. to use cash generated overseas on buyback efforts without paying the taxes that would be incurred if the company first “repatriated” the money to its coffers.
829 2007-05-30 Drivers would still face toll increases, never a favorite with voters. (The Parkway fee at each tollbooth last went up in 1989, to 35 cents from 25 cents; in 2003, the Turnpike tolls went up as much as 17 percent.) But since the public corporation may be able to issue bonds tax-free, Mr. Corzine theoretically could raise about 50 percent more than private investors. The governor could then use the money to retire some of the approximately $30 billion in state debt, bolster the depleted Transportation Trust Fund or finance other projects.

“There’s no running away from it; the state has a serious debt burden,” said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Democrat from Union County, who supports the governor’s efforts. “It’s hoped that riders will understand that small toll increases will pay off with fiscal stability.”

Mr. Lesniak said that over time a public benefit corporation could raise as much as $15 billion; he said that was about what the state would receive if private investors leased the toll roads. He added that tolls could rise with the cost of living, making them predictable and incremental.

For now, the recommendation is still being adjusted by a working group appointed by the governor. And such a change would require legislative approval, and that is not likely until after November, when the entire Legislature is up for re-election.

"Even though we’ve spent a lot of time on it, we’re not naïve to think the public, the Legislature, the Turnpike Authority, the truckers are going to leap up and say, ‘Aha, this is what we’ve been waiting for,’ ” said one administration official who insisted on anonymity because the discussions were continuing. “We’re trying to optimize around a certain number of objectives, and it will touch off a debate."

Tom Vincz, a spokesman for the state treasurer’s office, said, “We’re coming close to the finish line.”

That has not stopped people from choosing sides. Some in the investment community applaud the governor for being honest enough to ask the public to contribute by paying higher tolls. They also appreciate that he has listened to the public — which in several polls has rejected the idea of leasing the toll roads — and has found a way to keep them under state control.

They added that by considering a public benefit corporation, Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, and Mr. Abelow, who was a colleague at the investment house, might have dealt a blow to those advocating the leasing of toll roads to private investors, as Indiana and Chicago have done in recent years and Pennsylvania is considering.

“This will cool enthusiasm for private lease deals,” said one financial industry adviser who instead on anonymity because he has to maintain neutrality. “The fact that Corzine and Abelow came around to this will carry a lot of weight in the industry.”

Still, there are plenty of skeptics who are concerned that the toll increases will not be dedicated to improving the state’s roads and rails.

“People will vote for self-taxation when they know it will go for light rail or bridges,” said Jon Orcutt, executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a commuter advocacy group. “But they are wary of it going out into the ozone.”

As the Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon County, put it: “This is a proposal that has to be explained in great detail to the Legislature. Other than paying down state debt, I believe we need voter approval for projects associated with the money raised.”

There are others who say that little would change because the new corporation would do what the Turnpike Authority is already able to do: issue bonds backed by revenue from tolls.

“Unless I’m missing anything, the only thing that is different here is optics,” said John Foote, a senior fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, who focuses on transportation policies.
830 2007-05-30 The agenda for their discussions, which includes acknowledging a deepening anti-Semitism on campuses, seems intended to support their argument that criticism of Israel does not imply criticism of Jews in general.

The first item of business for the first congress of the University and College Union addresses matters under the heading “Equality,” noting that the number of anti-Semitic incidents in Britain rose 31 percent from 2005 to 2006. A resolution stating, “Anti-Semitism is becoming acceptable in the U.K., including on university campuses” is to be voted on.

But that debate, said Dan Ashley, a spokesman for the University and College Union, is separate from another resolution, which “condemns the complicity of Israeli academia in the occupation” of Palestinian lands, “which has provoked a call from Palestinian trade unions for a comprehensive and consistent international boycott of all Israeli academic institutions.”

The resolution says that “in these circumstances passivity or neutrality is unacceptable and criticism cannot be construed as anti-Semitic.”

Defenders of Israeli academia have long denied that Israeli universities merit such opprobrium and call boycotts of this kind a form of McCarthyism. In support of the resolutions to be debated Wednesday, though, a group called the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel called Israeli universities “an integral and complicit part of the structures of oppression in Israel.”

The conference resolution to be voted on does not call directly for a boycott, but seeks to “encourage members to consider the moral implications of existing and proposed links with Israeli academic institutions.”

The resolution on Israel is one of a handful relating to overseas issues in Iraq, Afghanistan, Zimbabwe and Colombia, but the prominence of the Israel debate in recent years has provoked concern among Jewish figures here. “It’s the singling out of Israel” that is troubling, said Jeremy Newmark, a spokesman for a coalition of Jewish groups opposing the proposed boycott. “The motivation may not be anti-Semitic, but the effect could certainly discriminate against Jews.”

To press their case, supporters of a boycott frequently liken Israel to South Africa in the apartheid era, a comparison rejected by most Israelis but made vocally by the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel. The organization recently urged the Rolling Stones not to play in Israel.

Those sentiments found an echo in April when the National Union of Journalists, with 40,000 members, voted to boycott Israeli goods to protest what it called Israel’s military adventures. It called the action “similar to those boycotts in the struggle against apartheid in South Africa.”

Some, of course, find such talk contemptible. Prof. Steven Weinberg, an American Nobel laureate in physics from the University of Texas at Austin, canceled a visit to Imperial College, London, after the National Union of Journalists’ action.

“I know that some will say that these boycotts are directed only against Israel, rather than generally against Jews,” he said in a letter to the British college setting out his reasons for canceling the trip, which had been planned for July. “But given the history of the attacks on Israel and the oppressiveness and aggressiveness of other countries in the Middle East and elsewhere, boycotting Israel indicated a moral blindness for which it is hard to find any explanation other than anti-Semitism.”

Professor Weinberg’s letter was published in The Guardian.

Some delegates have suggested in the conference agenda that the rise in anti-Semitism here is “part of a more general rise in racism associated with the Islamophobic and racist scapegoating engendered by the supporters of the war in Iraq.”

For its part, the leadership of the University and College Union seems to want to persuade its members not to dwell on the issue.

“I simply do not believe that the majority of U.C.U. members support an academic boycott of Israel or that they believe it should be a major priority for the union,” Sally Hunt, the group’s general secretary, plans to say, according to an advance text of her remarks.

“Most want us to retain dialogue with trade unionists on all sides — not just those we agree with,” her text says. “It’s the approach we have in Zimbabwe and Colombia, and it’s the approach I think we should have here.”
831 2007-05-30 KATONAH, N.Y., May 29 (AP) — Martha Stewart’s attempt to trademark “Katonah” for a line of home furnishings, paints and other products — which has already riled some of her neighbors — has now upset members of the Ramapough Lenape Indian Nation because the name is that of a 17th-century chief.

Leaders of other Indian tribes have also expressed opposition. Clint Halftown, the federally recognized representative for the Cayuga Nation, said: “If it’s being done for profit, then of course it’s offensive. Of all the names in the world and all the words, why can’t she pick something out that’s not offensive?”

Ms. Stewart bought a 153-acre estate here, 40 miles north of New York City, for $16 million in 2000. Her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, wants to trademark the hamlet’s name for products.

A spokeswoman for Ms. Stewart, Diana Pearson, has said she “seeks to honor the town and the hamlet by using the word Katonah.”

On Tuesday, Ms. Pearson declined to comment on the Indian opposition.

The Katonah Village Improvement Society says that Chief Katonah led the Ramapough Indians in the New York-New Jersey area and in 1680 sold land to white settlers.

The society has established a campaign called “Nobody Owns Katonah” to fight trademarking of the name. Last week it announced the support of Autumn Scott and Steven Burton of the Ramapough Lenape group, based in Mahwah, N.J..
832 2007-05-30 Gretchen Wyler, an actress in Broadway musicals in the 1950s and ’60s who became known in later years as an animal-rights advocate, died on Sunday at her home in Camarillo, Calif. She was 75.

The cause was complications of breast cancer, according to the Humane Society of the United States, which announced her death. Ms. Wyler was vice president of the society’s Hollywood office from 2002 until her retirement last year.

On Broadway, Ms. Wyler was best known for the role of Janice Dayton in the original cast of “Silk Stockings,” which played at the Imperial Theater from 1955 to 1956. The show, which starred Don Ameche and Hildegarde Neff, with music and lyrics by Cole Porter, was a loose, comedic reworking of the film “Ninotchka.”

Reviewing the musical in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson called Ms. Wyler “hilarious” and “bursting with vitality” in her role as “the Hollywood trollop, brimming over with ignorance and self-confidence.”

Ms. Wyler also danced in the original production of “Guys and Dolls.” She replaced Gwen Verdon as the sultry Lola in “Damn Yankees” and Chita Rivera as Rose the secretary in “Bye Bye Birdie.” Her other Broadway credits include the comedy “Sly Fox” in the mid-1970s, starring George C. Scott.

Gretchen Patricia Wienecke was born on Feb. 16, 1932, in Oklahoma City and reared in Bartlesville, Okla. Trained as a ballet dancer, she began her career in 1950 in the corps de ballet of the St. Louis Municipal Opera.
833 2007-05-30 He is oblivious in one instant, but repulsed by public dissection in another.

Bonds once told his children, “You know what, just don’t be famous,” and then opened his home to a camera crew last year to film a reality show.

He wears an antihero’s defiance and yet cried uncontrollably as he clung to a lectern in a postgame ceremony after he broke Mark McGwire’s single-season home run record in 2001.

If his reality seems phony, if his authenticity is artificial, if his act is a contradiction, what’s the truth about Barry? To glimpse into the heart and soul of Bonds, maybe it’s best to peek into his wallet.

His finances may be the best indicator of how insecure he is about his legacy, how fragile his confidence is against legal scrutiny or how fearful he might be at being irrefutably uncovered as a slugging scam.

Bonds has become a hoarder. He is protecting every asset, from money to lucrative memorabilia.

True, in the past, he has ignored the struggling circumstances of friends like Greg Anderson, who is still in prison to protect Bonds. However, Bonds has taken care of strangers for years. According to tax documents from The Barry Bonds Family Foundation, Bonds is listed as the charity’s core contributor. He wrote checks for $200,000 in 2004 and $300,000 in 2003. But in the most recent filings from his foundation in 2005, he is not listed as contributing any money.

Why the belt-tightening? His legal bills are growing heftier by the day as it is and the price tag will only escalate if: a) he is indicted by federal prosecutors on perjury charges, or b) he is fined a stiff tax penalty by the government.

“I have found him to be very cautious financially,” Michael Rains, one of Bonds’s lawyers, said in a recent telephone interview. “He looks at his legal bills and asks questions. He is prudent.”

Bonds is also increasingly stingy with the Hall of Fame. He has so far refused to donate any valuable artifacts from his chase of Aaron this season. Not a spike, helmet or bat so far.

“I take care of me,” Bonds told reporters. Bonds is his own museum curator, meticulously authenticating his memorabilia and stashing all of his goodies in a warehouse, as The Associated Press reported.

His legacy may have to be liquid one day. Money — at least as it relates to maintaining a certain lifestyle — has a way of vanishing amid legal bills. Who knows? Anderson may talk after Bonds passes Aaron. Bonds may need every dime for a legal defense fund.

Bonds shields any concerns publicly, but he is surely worried about the cost of self-preservation. This is the only consistent part of his character. Everything else with Bonds is merely a mood swing.

Is he aloof in the clubhouse or a go-to prank artist?

“He has been great,” Manager Bruce Bochy said. “He has been one of the guys. He has a great sense of humor. I’ve enjoyed being around him. He wants to win. That gets left out sometimes.”

He wasn’t a team superstar last night. He didn’t stick around to console teammates after closer Armando Benítez — remember him? — blew the Giants’ lead with two balks in the 12th inning. Bonds was dressed and headed for the stadium exit before his team hit the showers.

Bochy only served to perpetuate the paradox of the carefree Bonds versus the detached Bonds.

“Obviously, he has to have great mental toughness with everything he has to deal with,” Bochy said. “Going on the road, in opposing parks and how they get on him and throw things. Plus, all the things he had to deal with and hear. He has the ability to have that maniacal focus as an athlete more than anyone else because of all the distractions around him.”

How does he internalize the scrutiny? His wallet may reveal the secret.
834 2007-05-30 Fees for a visa for a child adopted from a foreign country will increase to $700 from $545. But for parents facing long waits for children, the agency said, it will extend the adoption visa petitions once at no cost.

The agency said it would use the additional revenue to improve efficiency and upgrade its buildings and computer systems, and officials promised to reduce the average time for processing visa applications by 20 percent by the fall of 2009.

As a matter of policy, the agency pays its annual operating costs, which vary by year, from its fees. Its officials rejected calls from some immigrant groups that Congress be asked to provide money to offset some fee increases, said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the agency.

Leaders of immigration advocacy groups said the higher fees would discourage legal immigrants from becoming American citizens. One such critic was William Ramos, director of the Washington office of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, a group that has been leading a naturalization drive for legal immigrants in Los Angeles.

“This is a fundamentally flawed system of financing our immigration services,” Mr. Ramos said. “It places an unfair burden on folks who want to become citizens and participate in all the nation has to offer.”

Immigration lawyers predicted that the increases would in effect disenfranchise many legal immigrants who might otherwise vote in 2008.

“A large proportion of people eligible for citizenship are low-wage workers, and they will have to save their pennies to pay these fees,” said Crystal Williams, deputy director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “The practical effect will be that they are going to miss the 2008 election.”

The director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Emilio T. Gonzalez, was ready to announce the increases last month, but held off until Senate and White House negotiators could reach agreement on a bipartisan bill to overhaul the immigration system, administration officials said.

If the Senate bill becomes law, the agency will face an immense new workload. Among other measures, the bill includes provisions to eliminate the current backlog of four million visa applications within eight years.

Mr. Gonzalez said yesterday that the fee increases were “both fair to our customers and vital to our nation as we continue to build a secure and efficient national immigration service.”
835 2007-05-30 The professor used an example, naturally, from ancient Greece to explain why politics should be about revolution rather than equilibrium: “What did Achilles do when his ruler Agamemnon stole his slave girl? He raised the stakes. He asserted that the trouble was not in this loss alone but in the fact that the wrong sort of man was ruling the Greeks. Heroes, or at least he-men like Achilles, should be in charge rather than lesser beings like Agamemnon who have mainly their lineage to recommend them and who therefore do not give he-men the honors they deserve. Achilles elevated a civil complaint concerning a private wrong to a demand for a change of regime, a revolution in politics.” Mr. Mansfield concluded: “To complain of an injustice is an implicit claim to rule.”

The most recent example of the Hellenization of the Bush administration is the president’s choice for war czar, Army Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute, who says he loves the Greek military historian Thucydides.

Other Thucydides aficionados include Victor Davis Hanson, who was a war-guru to Dick Cheney when the vice president went into the bunker after 9/11 and got into his gloomy Hobbesian phase. (Hobbes’s biggest influence was also Thucydides.)

Donald Kagan, a respected Yale historian who has written authoritatively on the Peloponnesian War, is the father of Robert Kagan, a neocon who pushed for the Iraq invasion, and Frederick Kagan, a military historian who urged the surge.

I called Professor Kagan to ask him if Thucydides, the master at chronicling hubris and imperial overreaching, might provide the new war czar with any wisdom that can help America sort through the morass of Iraq.

Very much his sons’ father, the classicist said he was disgusted that the White House, after a fiasco of an occupation designed by Rummy, “is still doing one dumb thing after another” by appointing General Lute, a chief skeptic of the surge.

Professor Kagan said that one reason the Athenians ended up losing the war was because in the Battle of Mantinea in 418 B.C. against the Spartans, they sent “a very inferior force” and had a general in command who was associated with the faction that was against the aggressive policy against the Spartans.

“Kind of like President Bush appointing this guy to run the war whose strategy is opposed to the surge,” he said dryly.

With cold realism, Thucydides captured the Athenian philosophy in the 27-year war that led to its downfall as a golden democracy: “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.”

What message can we take away from Thucydides for modern times?

“To me,” Professor Kagan said, “the deepest message, the most tragic, is his picture of civilization as a very thin veneer. When you punch a hole in it, what you find underneath is hollow, the precivilized characteristics of the human race — animalistic in the worst possible way.”

Compared to Iraq, the Peloponnesian War was a cakewalk.
836 2007-05-30 Russia resumed accepting visa applications from Georgian citizens, a step toward easing tensions that have strained relations between the countries after Georgia chose to align closely with the West. Russia also suggested the possibility of a meet...
837 2007-05-30 DESSISSO--Albert. On May 27th. Beloved father of the late Robert. Reposing Wednesday, 7-9pm, and Thursday 2-5, 7-9pm, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Mass Friday, 10:15am, at Holy Trinity Church, 213 W. 82nd Street, NY, NY....
838 2007-05-30 An appeals court upheld the conviction of two senior executives at the Samsung Group on charges that they helped the only son of its reclusive chairman, Lee Kun Hee, inherit control of Samsung, the country's largest conglomerate.   CHOE SANG-HUN...
839 2007-05-30 On a Memorial Day evening of low-rated television all around, NBC's broadcast of the 56th annual ''Miss Universe'' pageant, won by Riyo Mori, below, of Japan, delivered the event's lowest ratings in 12 years in the sought-after demographic of adul...
840 2007-05-30 GALAMBOS--Peter. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Peter Galambos. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Irene and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas and Lawrence Glass, Pres....
841 2007-05-30 BUMPED FLIERS TO WAIT DAYS -- So many airplanes are expected to be full during the summer travel season that passengers bumped from flights could end up waiting days for a seat on another flight to the same destination. [Page A1.]    TOO CHEAP FOR...
842 2007-05-31 It was just about the strangest call I'd ever received from Microsoft. "We have a new product we want to show you," said the PR woman (I'm paraphrasing). "But we can't tell you what it is, or even what category. But it's truly revolutionary. It's ...
843 2007-05-31 Microsoft's press materials and Web site coyly ignore the existence of these earlier pioneers; when pressed, it insists that its surface computer was developed well before Jeff Han *or* Apple came along. Microsoft says that 120 people have been secretly working on its version, tucked away in an off-campus building, for five years.

The Microsoft surface computer makes an absolutely spectacular demo movie. Here's a good one put together by Popular Mechanics.

Microsoft's version of the multi-touch computer adds one very cool, though impractical, twist: interaction with other electronics.

For example, in Microsoft's demonstration, you can take some pictures. When you set the camera down on the table top, the fresh photos come pouring out of it into a virtual puddle on the screen -- a slick, visual way to indicate that you've just downloaded them.

Next, you can set a cellphone down on the table -- and copy photos into it just by dragging them into the cellphone's zone.

Then you can buy songs from a virtual music store and drag them directly into a Zune music player that you've placed on the glass.

How cool is all of this? Very. Unfortunately, at this point, it's the Microsoft version of a concept car; you can ogle it, but you can't have it. These stunts require concept cameras, concept cellphones and concept music players that have been rigged to interact with the surface computer.

Behind the scenes, the surface computer is a pretty elaborate setup. Under the hood is Windows Vista, although you don't see any trace of it. A projector sits underneath the tabletop, projecting images onto it. Five video cameras observe your hand movements and relay information to the computer.

You won't see surface computers for sale at Wal-Mart any time soon. This fall, Microsoft will begin by installing these machines in 1,200 T-mobile cellphone stores; Starwood Hotels; Harrah's casino; and IGT video-game stores. For the moment, in other words, Microsoft is selling surface computers only to other companies (for $5,000 to $10,000 per unit, depending on the size of the order).

Even without the involvement of other gadgets, though, Microsoft offers some tasty demo modules to show the possibilities.

Restaurant. You pull up on-screen, virtual menus on all four edges of the table at once -- because four of you are eating out together -- and order your meal by tapping what you want. While you wait for the food, you can each play your own video game, or open up four different Web browsers. And then, after dinner, you can call up your bill, split it four ways, and pay, all electronically.

Virtual Concierge. You walk into a hotel. You see a virtual model of, say, New York City; look up a restaurant; see what it looks like; and drag the restaurant's address and phone number into your phone, where it shows up as a text message.

Paint Canvas. Finger-painting for the new millennium. That's gotta be worth $10,000 right there.

Video Puzzle. In this game demo, clear glass tiles (real ones) are placed onto a video that's playing on the surface. Now you can scatter and scramble them on the glass, even turning them upside-down; the challenge is to reassemble the video by moving and flipping the tiles, as though it's a new-age jigsaw puzzle.

T-Mobile Stores. In this phone-store demonstration, you can take a phone model off the shelf -- or several -- and put them onto the tabletop to get the details, like features, calling plans, and so on. You can build a side-by-side comparison, sample some ringtones, or assign a ringtone to someone in your contacts list just by sliding it onto the appropriate name. (Again, this demo doesn't work with any current phones.)

There's a lot of imagination going on here, for sure, but even more hype. I'm especially discouraged by the Web headlines that breathlessly gush about a revolution in computing -- including, alas, Popular Mechanics.com. "Forget the keyboard and mouse," says the headline. "The next generation of computer interfaces will be hands-on."

Let's make one thing clear: multi-touch computing does not mean the end of the keyboard and mouse.

As the new world of multi-touch-screen computing dawns, you'll see a lot of demos involving photo stretching and Web surfing demos. But you will *never* see word processors, e-mail programs, spreadsheets, databases or accounting programs.

That's because touch-screen computers are terrible for these mainstream computing tasks. Typing of any kind, in fact, is a nightmare when you can't feel the keys. It's inaccurate, slow and unsatisfying.

Microsoft says that it has big plans for its surface-computing initiative: more sizes and shapes are on the way, and someday, lower prices and maybe home editions. And that's awesome. It's about time we, the people, get real-world access to the kinds of juicy demos we see in Jeff Han's videos.

But if this is truly the future of computing, Microsoft will first have to overcome the mother of all chicken-and-egg conundrums. Surface computers won't go mainstream until we all have phones, cameras and music players that work with them -- and nobody will manufacture those gadgets until there's a critical mass of surface computers.

In the meantime, a word of advice: don't throw away your keyboard.
844 2007-05-31 Northwest Airlines emerged from bankruptcy protection Thursday, and its new shares were set to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Speaking with the Star Tribune, Doug Steenland, the company's chief executive, acknowledged that the airli...
845 2007-05-31 The Spanish government filed a lawsuit in a United States federal court on Wednesday seeking to block claims to any Spanish property recovered from shipwrecks by Odyssey Marine Exploration, whose biggest investors include several hedge funds. The ...
846 2007-05-31 California's First District Court of Appeal brushed aside claims Wednesday that Overstock.com, the online retailer, tried to gag a financial analysis company when it sued for libel two years ago. In doing so, the court allowed Overstock.com to con...
847 2007-05-31 Post-nuptial agreements, once a novelty, are becoming increasingly more popular - and in some cases mandatory - in the world of hedge funds. The Financial Times reports that the post-nuptial agreement, where the married parties sign on the dotted ...
848 2007-05-31 Is a pharmaceutical company whose biggest-selling drug is considered as dangerous as heroin or LSD a good investment? Jazz Pharmaceuticals – along with the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and some of Wall Street's most prestigious in...
849 2007-05-31 Barclays Bank, which is competing to buy ABN Amro in the world's largest banking takeover, has agreed to pay about $10.9 million to settle charges of illegal insider trading in bond securities, the Securities and Exchange Commission said on Wednes...
850 2007-05-31 Over the last five decades, the Small Business Administration has propelled the likes of Federal Express, Intel, Staples and thousands of lesser-known small businesses. But advocates say recent policy changes and severe budget and staffing cuts in...
851 2007-05-31 Chinese stock markets plummeted Wednesday and continued their decline in early trading Thursday after the authorities in Beijing moved to impose higher taxes on trading activity. The tax increase, which was announced early Wednesday, was the gover...
852 2007-05-31 “In recent years, science has deepened our understanding of climate change and opened new possibilities for confronting it,” Mr. Bush said in his speech, previewing the climate change package he will present when he meets the leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations in Germany next week. “The United States takes this issue seriously.”

Some critics accused Mr. Bush of trying to hijack ongoing environmental talks like those under the Kyoto treaty by substituting his own program, which even if successful would not bear fruit until he is about to leave office. And, they said, the president delivered no clear statement on what steps the United States will take to limit emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while he is working on long-term goals for the next 50 years and beyond.

Even those goals, said James L. Connaughton, the president’s top environmental adviser, are “aspirational.” They would not be binding unless individual nations choose to bind themselves.

“There is no more time for longwinded talks about unenforceable long-term goals,” said David Doniger, climate policy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group in Washington. “We need to get a serious commitment to cut emissions now and in the G-8.”

The speech today was Mr. Bush’s biggest shift yet on climate change. In July 2005, the president offered his first explicit acknowledgment that humans might be contributing to the problem of global warming. This year, for the first time, he mentioned climate change in his State of the Union Address.

In one sense, the change in tack has been forced on Mr. Bush by scientific advances in the understanding of how greenhouse gas emissions contribute to global warming. But it is also an example of the kind of policy adjustment that is becoming increasingly common in the second half of his second term; another example is this week’s announcement of economic sanctions to prod Sudan to end the violence in Darfur.

The White House seems determined to change the president’s image on climate change before he leaves office on Jan. 20, 2009. The issue is a high priority for two of Mr. Bush’s closest European allies — Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany —and with Democrats now controlling Congress, the president is also facing domestic pressure to act.

Mr. Bush pledged to convene a series of meetings, beginning in the fall, with 10 to 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions, including China and India. Each country would establish midterm national targets for reducing emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while working together to set a longer-term goal.

The talks also would bring together industry leaders, Mr. Bush said, so that the countries could work together to pool their knowledge and promote investment in energy-efficient technologies, including solar and wind energy, clean-coal technologies and nuclear power. But each country would be free to set its own national goals, and there would be no binding international framework for enforcement.

“The United States is taking the lead, and that’s the message I’m going to take to the G-8,” Mr. Bush said.

But how well that message will be received remains to be seen. Germany, backed by Britain and now Japan, has already proposed cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2050. Chancellor Merkel, who holds the presidency of the European Union and will be hosting the Group of 8 meeting in the Baltic Sea resort of Heiligendamm, has been pressing the Group of 8 to adopt the plan, but United States has rejected it.

Speaking to reporters in Berlin, Ms. Merkel called the president’s speech “common ground on which to act,” echoing a recent comment she made while visiting Mr. Bush in Washington. “What is positive,” she said, “is that we can see from the speech that the president made earlier today that nobody can ignore the question of climate change.”

But beneath the faint praise there was caution. The second phase of the Kyoto Protocol negotiations are set to take place in Bali at the end of this year, and Mr. Bush’s alternative forum risks being seen as an attempt to circumvent those talks or even derail them.

Involving all the parties to the existing Kyoto Protocol, the Bali negotiations are aimed at deciding what to do next about a problem that international scientific advisers acknowledge will take decades to bring under control and will require intensive policy responses running far beyond Kyoto’s near-term timetables.

“The holistic global approach to climate change is very important to us,” a German official said.

Mr. Connaughton said the White House envisioned its negotiations taking place in parallel with those talks.

Environmental advocates have been pressing for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for well over a decade. In 1992, when Mr. Bush’s father was president, the United States signed the first climate change treaty, the Framework Convention on Climate Change, which committed the world to avoiding dangerous human interference with the climate system but did not mandate any specific steps. The Kyoto Protocol was drafted five years later.

Two independent experts — William K. Reilly, who represented the first President Bush in the 1992 negotiations, and David Victor, a Stanford University law professor whose writings helped provide the underpinnings for Thursday’s speech — said that Mr. Bush’s plan had merit. But they said it would not gain much ground unless the United States adopts limits on domestic emissions, something the president has been loath to do.

“If you take all of this at face value, and you imagine that they go off and actually do it, then it could be a radically different way of organizing the global effort to control these emissions,” Professor Victor said. But he said it would be “very difficult for this to be taken as seriously as it should be taken in the rest of the world without some kind of a clear game plan domestically in the U.S.”
853 2007-05-31 Mr. Gates and Mr. Jobs largely pioneered the personal computer industry beginning in 1975 and 1976 and they spent part of the evening sharing memories of those days.

Today "we ship these computers with one or two gigabytes and nobody remembers 128 kilobytes," Mr. Jobs said.

Apple and Microsoft were business partners at the start of the computer era beginning in 1977 when Mr. Gates supplied a copy of the BASIC programming language for the Apple II computer. Later, Mr. Gates made an early bet on writing software for the Macintosh, two years before the computer was introduced in 1984.

Neither was willing to acknowledge the possibility that the personal computer era they helped create would end any time soon.

"The PC has proven to be very resilient," Mr. Jobs said.

At the same time they called themselves believers in the explosion of hand-held communications devices, also known as "Post PC devices."

Mr. Gates said he was sometimes frustrated by the fact that the players in the industry changed so quickly. "I miss it when people come and go. It's nice when people stick around and it gives us some context," he said. During a question and answer period at the end of the session both men were asked to comment on the other's strengths. Mr. Gates singled out Mr. Jobs intuitive aesthetic sense.

"I'd give a lot to have Steve's taste," Mr. Gates said, drawing laughter from the audience. "The way he does things, it's just different."

Mr. Jobs returned the compliment, noting that Mr. Gates skills at building business partnerships were something that eluded him in his first decade at Apple.

Asked to comment on today's computer industry and the youth culture that it markets to, both men pointed to examples of applications of computer technology that had been readily adopted by seniors.

Mr. Gates said that when he showed the Microsoft Surface, the touch computing system introduced on Wednesday to a group of chief executives at his home several weeks ago, he was surprised they were more enthusiastic about the product than he was. The executives, he noted came from a generation that was not comfortable with keyboards. They were particularly interested in a technology that allowed them to control things on a display screen by pointing and moving them directly with their fingers.

Neither man was willing to say harsh things about the other and Mr. Jobs summed up his feelings by quoting from a Beatles song: "'You and I have memories longer than the road that stretches out ahead,' that's clearly true here," he said.
854 2007-05-31 Sex offenders who lived within 1,000 feet of a school or day care center before lawmakers made it illegal cannot be evicted, a county court judge ruled. The judge, Patricia Joyce of Cole County Circuit Court, overturned a 2006 change to a state law that forced sex offenders to move if they lived near a school, even if they had moved in before the change took effect. The judge ruled the change unconstitutional because it retroactively punished sex offenders.
855 2007-05-31 The city will open a center in East Harlem to improve the treatment of asthma, officials said yesterday. Observing that East Harlem had the highest asthma rate in the city, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the East Harlem Asthma Center of Excellence would train health care workers in the most effective treatments, provide walk-in screening and help reduce exposure to environmental factors that worsen the condition. “With the resources of this great city, no child’s place of birth should determine whether they suffer from asthma,” Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, said in a statement.
856 2007-05-31 Among the problems the agency identified were dealing with time zone differences; a lack of coordination between American and international authorities concerning how to medically isolate the man while he was abroad; and how to speed the retrieval of passenger manifests from airlines.

The episode also raised questions about how rapidly health officials could respond to a similar emergency with other deadly infectious diseases.

Even after the news conference, many other questions remained unanswered, including why it took health officials in Georgia so long to try to deliver a letter that explicitly told the man, whose identity was not disclosed, not to fly abroad for his honeymoon.

In an interview published yesterday in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the man disputed statements from disease agency officials about warnings it said Fulton County officials gave him about flying abroad. The agency said he was told not to fly. The man told the paper that Fulton County health officials said they “preferred” that he not go abroad for his honeymoon and did not advise him to take any precautions.

“There are different perspectives on who said what to whom when,” said Dr. Martin S. Cetron, who directs agency’s division of global migration and quarantine.

“It is very unfortunate that this whole situation wasn’t prevented” before the man flew with 432 other passengers and 18 crew members to Paris from Atlanta on Air France 385 on May 12, Dr. Cetron said.

He took at least five flights within Europe and then flew with 190 other passengers and nine crew members from Prague to Montreal on Czech Air 104 on May 25.

The Fulton County health department in Atlanta met with the man and his family on May 10, two days before he flew to Paris, and told them that he should not travel because he had multi-resistant tuberculosis, the disease agency said. No legal order was issued at the time, Dr. Cetron said in referring further questions to the Fulton County health department.

Calls to the Fulton County health department yesterday were not returned.

The extraordinary dangerous form of the tuberculosis was not detected until May 22, while he was in Europe.

Dr. Cetron said that an agency officer telephoned the man in Rome and explicitly told him not to fly on a commercial plane — doctors believe prolonged exposure is needed to spread tuberculosis — while the agency worked out options to bring him back to the United States. They included an air ambulance.

By the time a former disease agency doctor, who is working in Rome, arrived at the man’s hotel, the couple had left, Dr. Cetron said. The agency was in the process of putting the man’s name on a no-fly list. But by this time he had cut short his honeymoon that was supposed to last into June and was landing in Montreal.

The efforts “weren’t fast enough,” Dr. Cetron said, adding that “we certainly will be learning lessons and looking to improve” current systems.

The man drove to the United States and somewhere between Albany and New York spoke with Dr. Cetron, who instructed him on how to continue to Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. There, he was isolated for 72 hours until the disease agency flew him in its plane to Atlanta on Monday.

The man told the Atlanta paper that tuberculosis was detected by accident when he had a chest X-ray in January for another undisclosed problem.

Dr. Cetron said that lesions showed up in the upper lobe of the man’s right lung, making doctors suspicious for tuberculosis because the infection often affects that area. Because the man had no symptoms and little cough, his doctors performed a procedure to obtain the secretions from which the tuberculosis bacteria were detected.

That process and additional testing to determine to which antibiotics might be effective can take weeks, even months. But some doctors not connected with the case questioned why four months passed between the X-rays and the letter from the health department.

A standard initial test for tuberculosis is to smear a sample of a patient’s sputum on a glass slide, stain it with a chemical and look for the microbes under a microscope. Doctors also try to grow the organism in a laboratory. It was from this test that doctors initially detected the man’s tuberculosis.

At some point he began taking standard medication for the treatment of tuberculosis, but it was stopped because it was not effective, Dr. Cetron said.

Repeated subsequent smear tests of the man’s sputum performed at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan and at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta were negative. Those findings suggest a low chance that the man transmitted the infection to others. But in 17 percent of tuberculosis cases the source is a patient whose smear is negative, according to studies from Vancouver, British Columbia, and from San Francisco.

The man’s bride is not infected.

Initial plans to drive the patient for treatment at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver were aborted at least temporarily, a health official said, because of concerns of news media attention while he travels. But officials said they were trying to work out the logistics.

While most patients voluntarily agree to isolation for medical problems, government officials, doctors and ethicists interviewed said that issuing federal orders for isolation or quarantine must be done with care to balance an individual’s liberties and the public’s health.

Dr. Robert Klitzman, a co-founder of the Columbia University Center for Bioethics, said that there are legitimate concerns about abuses in isolating patients to avoid infecting others.

Dr. Philip Alcabes, an epidemiologist and professor at Hunter College School of Health Sciences in Manhattan, was adamant in arguing that the disease agency had overreacted. The act of isolating the patient, Dr. Alcabes said, was “a maximum penalty for a minor medical problem,” since the patient was not likely to be infectious.

But another expert, Dr. Richard P. Wenzel, president of the international society for infectious diseases, called the patient “grossly irresponsible.”

“It’s irresponsible in active tuberculosis for anyone to be on an airplane — whether it’s multi-resistant or not,” said Dr. Wenzel, an infectious disease expert at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond.

At a time when airline passengers have to discard shampoo bottles in the airport security line, Dr. Wenzel said, “We don’t have a simple sort of wand at the airport to wave to say, ‘You have tuberculosis.’ It really counts on the responsibility of the individual.”
857 2007-05-31 Another punch line of the story, though, is that Mr. Ferrell and Mr. McKay started the site with the financial backing of Sequoia Capital, the Silicon Valley venture capital firm that made a name for itself, not to mention billions of dollars, by investing early in YouTube and Google.

The Internet, of course, is already filled with cheap laughs — YouTube alone offers a lifetime’s supply of home videos (some funny, most not). But now many experienced comedians, talent agents and financiers are seeing the Web as a way to showcase talent while trying to turn a profit. In January, for example, Turner Broadcasting began SuperDeluxe.com, which features videos created by comedy pros and amateurs. And last year, IAC/InterActiveCorp, controlled by Barry Diller, bought a 51 percent stake in the parent company of CollegeHumor.com for an estimated $20 million.

Already, the seven-week-old FunnyOrDie.com, which highlights short videos by veteran comics like Mr. Ferrell as well as videos submitted by amateurs, is in discussions with potential advertisers.

The actor and his colleagues have enlisted some famous friends to volunteer their services. Brooke Shields, who is married to Chris Henchy, a writer and partner in FunnyOrDie.com, is a playground mom in one short video. And Bill Murray is planning to make a video, too, Mr. McKay said.

Clients of Creative Artists Agency, which helped broker the deal with Sequoia, have also made short videos for the site — including the actor and comedian Ed Helms, who created a series of clips called “Zombie American,” and the boxer Oscar De La Hoya.

In an interview last week at his second-floor office on a side street along Hollywood Boulevard, Mr. Ferrell acknowledged that he had been ambivalent about the site at first. “But then we thought, ‘Maybe this could work,’ ” he said. “We are not putting so much pressure on every piece that it be perfect. Everything isn’t, ‘Oh my God! This has to be so funny.’ It’s amusing, observational. We’re trying not to make it so slick.”

The pairing of Hollywood talent and Silicon Valley financiers has all the familiarity of a movie sequel. When the first Internet boom reached its peak in the late 1990s, many actors, writers and directors made the pilgrimage to the headquarters of the venture capital firms along Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, Calif., to seek financing to create entertainment for the Internet.

Many of those ventures failed, largely because traditional Web shows were expensive to create and the technology at the time made it cumbersome to watch videos online. Among those that faltered were Pop.com, Digital Entertainment Network and Icebox.

Another cruel reality is that it is hard to be consistently funny, even with the help of deep pockets. Last summer, for example, Time Inc. closed its OfficePirates.com Web site, a satirical look at workplace issues, because it did not have a big enough audience.

A big change from the late 1990s, though, is that there is now better technology to stream videos, and audiences seem more willing to watch them, leading many investors and Hollywood talent to see a new opportunity.

“Our responsibility is to continue to make it better,” said a Sequoia partner, Mark D. Kvamme, referring to FunnyOrDie.com. “If it doesn’t succeed, it is our fault.”

The idea for the site started with Mr. Kvamme, who approached Creative Artists in 2006 with his pitch to finance a site for experienced comics.

“If you look at all the sites out there, a large portion of them have comedy,” he said, “but it is a mish-mash. There was no place that had a good smattering of professional videos and user-generated content.”

Agents at Creative Artists introduced Mr. Kvamme to Mr. Ferrell and Mr. McKay last year. Then Mr. Kvamme visited the two men on the set of “Blades of Glory” to persuade them to join the new venture.

Mr. Ferrell and Mr. McKay, who had worked together on “Saturday Night Live,” were reluctant at first. “I don’t really know much about the Internet,” Mr. Ferrell said.

The reality of having to sit through three weekly meetings and spend hours reviewing videos and writing comments for the site also seemed daunting to them, not to mention a distraction from their more lucrative movie and television careers (the time they are devoting to FunnyOrDie.com is all sweat equity at this point, since they are not being paid).

Even so, they came around to seeing the venture as an opportunity to experiment with their own material and to be exposed to ideas from other comics that they could later develop into television shows and movies.

Once Mr. Ferrell started making short videos, he enjoyed it. “You get to exercise that same muscle you did at the show,” he said, referring to his days on “Saturday Night Live.”

Mr. McKay also came up with the categories that voters use to rate their favorite videos — “immortal” if a video was great, “the crypt” if it was not.

And while Mr. McKay and Mr. Ferrell review the 20 most popular videos posted, they also have been careful not to censor the site.

When a user posted a video poking fun at Alec Baldwin, whom they know from “Saturday Night Live,” they briefly took it down, but posted it again because they did not want to set a precedent for banning videos that made fun of their friends.

“Unless it’s a hate crime or porn, it goes up,” Mr. McKay said. The actor Nick Thune posted a video based on his stand-up routine about masturbation, which became the third most popular video on the site, viewed more than a million times.

Mr. Thune said that Mr. Ferrell’s involvement in the site lent credibility to sketches like his. “The thing about YouTube is that it is so broad,” Mr. Thune said. “If Will Ferrell is there, it must be good.”

Sequoia and Gary Sanchez Productions — Mr. Ferrell’s company, where Mr. McKay is a partner — declined to disclose specifics about their initial investments, though Mr. McKay said that he and Mr. Ferrell had been given a budget of $5,000 to create their first videos. (The rest of the money — which Mr. Kvamme estimated to be in the “hundreds of thousands of dollars” — was spent building the site.)

But because of the heavy traffic on FunnyOrDie.com, Sequoia has increased its investment to several million dollars and hired 10 full-time employees, with plans to expand the staff to 25.

Mr. McKay says they hope to share revenue with other video makers once the site starts to make money. For now, though, the site gives comics and actors a way to attract potentially huge audiences without the help of a Hollywood studio.

Creative Artists, which Mr. Kvamme said also owned a stake in the venture, is already using the site to promote its clients. Michael Yanover, the head of business development for Creative Artists, said that he had approached Mr. Ferrell and his colleagues about creating a video featuring Oscar De La Hoya ahead of his May 5 fight against Floyd Mayweather.

They agreed and, in 30 minutes, shot a video, “The Fight After the Fight,” which has been viewed more than 185,000 times as of yesterday.

“Basically he got a commercial that someone else financed and shot,” Mr. Yanover said.

But Mr. McKay warns that any videos that smack of Hollywood manipulation are going to be a turnoff to visitors. “That’s when a site starts smelling bogus,” he said.
858 2007-05-31 The justice’s acquaintances have watched with great interest what some depict as a late-career transformation. “Her style has always been very ameliorative, very conscious of etiquette,” said Cynthia Fuchs Epstein, the sociologist and a longtime friend. “She has always been regarded as sort of a white-glove person, and she’s achieved a lot that way. Now she is seeing that basic issues she’s fought so hard for are in jeopardy, and she is less bound by what have been the conventions of the court.”

Some might say her dissents are an expression of sour grapes over being in the minority more often than not. But there may be strategic judgment, as well as frustration, behind Justice Ginsburg’s new style. She may have concluded that quiet collegiality has proved futile and that her new colleagues, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., are not open to persuasion on the issues that matter most to her.

Justice Alito, of course, took the place of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, with whom Justice Ginsburg formed a deep emotional bond, although they differed on a variety of issues. And Chief Justice Roberts succeeded Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, with whom Justice Ginsburg often disagreed but maintained a relationship that was at times surprisingly productive.

For example, in 1996, over Justice Scalia’s vigorous dissent, the chief justice gave Justice Ginsburg his vote in a decision holding that the Virginia Military Institute’s men-only admissions policy was unconstitutional. In 2003, they made common cause in a case that strengthened the Family and Medical Leave Act. When Justice Ginsburg criticized a Rehnquist opinion, she did so gently; today’s adversary could be tomorrow’s ally.

If there has been any such meeting of the minds between Justice Ginsburg and her new colleagues, it has not been evident. She may have concluded that her side’s interests are better served by appealing not to the court’s majority but to the public. “She’s sounding an alarm and wants people to take notice,” said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, an advocacy group that focuses on the workplace.

Goodwin Liu, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, was one of Justice Ginsburg’s law clerks when the court decided the 2000 election case, the bitterly divided Bush v. Gore decision, from which she dissented. Even during that freighted period, Professor Liu said, “I was struck by how much of an institutional citizen she was, how attuned to the wishes of her colleagues and to not giving offense.”

Professor Liu said that when he read the dissent on Tuesday, it occurred to him that in recounting the workplace travails of the plaintiff, Lilly M. Ledbetter, Justice Ginsburg was also telling a version of her own story. “Here she is, the one woman of a nine-member body, describing the get-along imperative and the desire not to make waves felt by the one woman among 16 men,” Professor Liu said. “It’s as if after 15 years on the court, she’s finally voicing some complaints of her own.”

Another of the justice’s friends, Prof. Judith Resnik of Yale Law School, noted that throughout her legal career, Justice Ginsburg has been deeply concerned about questions of access to the courts and the remedial powers of federal judges, themes she has explored in both majority and dissenting opinions. “Those of us reading not just the grand-slam cases but the quieter ones have heard her voice,” Professor Resnik said. She added, “Now that the stakes are going up, more people will be listening.”
859 2007-05-31 McDonald’s won dismissal yesterday of three out of five claims in a lawsuit over allergens said to be in French fries and hash browns.

Judge Elaine E. Bucklo of Federal District Court in Chicago said the plaintiffs’ complaint did not give enough detail about a supposed scheme by the company to conceal the existence of gluten and dairy in its food products.

Judge Bucklo allowed two claims on breach of warranty and unjust enrichment to proceed. The suit had sought to force the company to change food product information in its advertising.

Lawyers for McDonald’s, which is based in Oak Brook, Ill., asked the court to throw out the lawsuit in November, referring to the plaintiffs as a few “hypersensitive consumers with allergies.”

The complaint was filed by 11 people who accused McDonald’s of concealing allergens until it was forced to disclose them by a change in food-labeling laws.
860 2007-05-31 The bank’s 24-member board has welcomed Mr. Zoellick’s nomination but said it would accept other nominations until June 15.

But bank officials dismissed the statement as a formality and predicted that the board would move smoothly toward making Mr. Zoellick president, despite reservations by some about the United States’ continuing to exercise its 60-year-old prerogative of filling the job.

European officials said they would not disturb the arrangement of having the American president picking the head of the bank, in part to leave intact the tradition of having Europeans pick the head of the International Monetary Fund.

Mr. Zoellick has been told by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and others that the bank must do more to provide concrete measures of the effects of its $23 billion in lending to poor countries, in part to assure Congress about how the money is being spent.

In his remarks to reporters, Mr. Zoellick also suggested that the international community must rethink having the bank provide loans to countries like China that have access to global capital markets and possess huge foreign exchange reserves. The bank, he said, could move more into providing technical assistance to these countries.

“It would have been easy to get a figurehead,” an administration official involved in the selection process said of Mr. Zoellick. “Bob’s first posture at the bank will be to listen and to travel. But he definitely brings some ideas on development. He has thought about it a lot.”

Others who know Mr. Zoellick say that despite having a reputation for being a brusque and demanding executive, he is also good at setting long-term objectives and building consensus.

“The World Bank, like other international organizations, needs substantial reform,” said former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who helped bring Mr. Zoellick into government in the 1980s. “I think Bob will be a very good agent of change. It’s a huge, humongous bureaucracy. But he’s a very resourceful person.”

Colleagues noted that Mr. Zoellick brought “tough love” to some of his previous jobs, most notably as United States trade representative during Mr. Bush’s first term.

As trade envoy, Mr. Zoellick worked with Europeans in 2001, shortly after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, to make the next round of global trade talks focus on helping poor countries by letting them export more farm products and industrial goods to rich countries.

But he also demanded that poor countries that gained from being able to export more also commit themselves to economic reforms.

“He believes in rewarding opportunity, encouraging small business and frankly reducing the power of entrenched oligarchies that thrive on closed markets and corrupt environments,” said Christopher A. Padilla, Mr. Zoellick’s chief of staff at the trade office and when he was deputy secretary of state.

“That agenda was a very important component of what we were trying to achieve,” said Mr. Padilla, now an assistant secretary of commerce for export administration. “I’m confident he will bring the same agenda to the World Bank.”

There are some at the World Bank, many bank officials say, who may resist a bias toward encouraging free-market economies, especially at a time when faith in that philosophy has faded in Latin America and elsewhere. But bank officials said they would welcome a new president with knowledge in this area.

“A lot of people used to think that if the Democrats win the White House in 2008, we might get a new president who won’t be pursing free markets and corruption,” said one bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “But most people at the bank also realize that reform is necessary.”

The official added: “Sure, Zoellick is coming with an agenda. People at the bank will be focusing on whether he is going to be fixated on trade. But he’s a basic policy wonk. He’s actually a lot closer in personality to the typical bank staffer than Wolfowitz was.”
861 2007-05-31 Since the 2005 fiscal year, the agency has cut funding to the program and restored an earlier, more costly fee structure for borrowers. Now a borrower pays a minimum of $2,000 in upfront fees for the smaller loans up to $150,000, a rise from $1,000 before. For larger loans up to $700,000, the fee now is 3 percent, up from 2.5 percent before. For loans above $700,000, the fee remains unchanged at 3.5 percent.

Even with the higher fees, the agency says, the loans have easier credit terms and longer repayment periods than those typically available at commercial banks. But many small-business advocates say that is a moot point as many small businesses cannot even pull together the amounts to cover the fees.

The S.B.A. has also proposed raising the fees in its microloan program, which can be used for construction and expansion of facilities. Together these loans totaled $20 billion in 2006, according to the S.B.A.

While fees for the loans have increased, the average size of the loans under the 7(a) and microloan programs has decreased 25 percent, to $188,878 in fiscal year 2006, from $252,314 in fiscal year 2001, according to data from the S.B.A. The total number of loans has more than doubled, however.

The S.B.A. said that part of the reason that the average amount of the loans has dropped is because a number of banks use a process called S.B.A. Express. For it, banks use their own documents and need less interaction with the agency. The S.B.A guarantees only 50 percent of these loans instead of the 75 percent to 85 percent on larger loans.

The increased fees for the loans may have had another effect. The number of banks participating has dropped by nearly half, to 2,751 in fiscal 2006, from 5,228 in fiscal 2001, according to the National Small Business Association in Washington. The association said some of the drop may reflect bank consolidation, but fees and other changes in the 7(a) program had the biggest impact.

Because of the higher fees, many entrepreneurs have turned to a growing credit card market aimed at small-business owners. A survey by the association found that the overwhelming majority of small businesses use credit cards for their financing instead of S.B.A or other bank loans — meaning that the interest rate paid can be as much as 10 percentage points more than a conventional loan.

“The S.B.A. in many ways is hurting small business by increasing these fees,” said Marilyn Landis, owner of Basic Business Concepts, a small company in Pittsburgh, who relies on credit cards for most of her financing. “The decrease in the size of the loans is certainly a detriment to small companies — it’s barely enough to get a company started and certainly not enough to grow one.” Ms. Landis is vice chairwoman of the National Small Business Association.

Even more than the higher fees, reduced staffing levels at the agency have had a profound effect on small business, advocates say.

Smaller staffs have contributed to a loss of institutional knowledge at the S.B.A. and many people are in jobs in which they lack the necessary training, said Morris A. Little, president of B&W Solutions, a human resource management firm in Oxon Hill, Md. Mr. Little is chairman of the board of the National Black Chamber of Commerce.

“You have people that can’t even explain S.B.A. programs to you,” Mr. Little said. “It’s frustrating, and after a while you don’t even bother asking.”

The biggest area where the staff cutbacks are hurting small business is in helping gain access to $400 billion in federal contracting, Mr. Little and others said.

According to a study by Congressional Democrats last year, small businesses lost more than $12 billion in contracts because of miscoding: the contracts went instead to giant corporations like Wal-Mart and Google, among others.

Staffing was cited as a main factor because the agency does not have enough people to ensure that federal agencies meet their legally mandated goal of providing 23 percent of their contracts to small businesses.

Over all, the number of full-time S.B.A. employees has dropped 29 percent since 2001, to 2,047 from 2,863, according to the agency. The agency has 54 people who oversee federal contracting, fewer than it had in 1993 when federal contracting was half its current size. A result is that small businesses got just 19 percent of federal contracts in 2006, according to Eagle Eye, a research firm in Fairfax, Va. And that 19 percent includes large corporations coded as small businesses, the firm said, so the actual number could be smaller.

Steven C. Preston, who became the S.B.A. administrator last June, acknowledges that budget and staffing cuts have hurt, but he still sees the agency’s loan programs and services as vital to small business.

To address budget shortfalls and staffing cuts, Mr. Preston asked Congress for $464 million for the 2008 fiscal year. The budget request is 5 percent higher than the approved budget for fiscal 2006. For the 2007 fiscal year, the agency operated without an approved budget, under a continuing resolution that provided the same funding as the year before.

Mr. Preston said the agency was committed to hiring more employees, including procurement-contracting representatives who would work with other government agencies to make sure that small businesses get their share of federal contracts.

To reach this goal , the agency recently promulgated regulations requiring small businesses to recertify their size status on long-term contracts when a contract option is exercised, when a small business is purchased by or merged with another business or at the end of the first five years of a contract.

While applauding Mr. Preston’s efforts, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle say they do not feel the moves are nearly enough.

“The S.B.A. simply cannot do its job on this starvation diet the current administration has it on,” said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and chairman of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee.

Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, has also voiced her concerns about cuts to the S.B.A., saying the budget is still 31 percent less than it was in 2001. Mr. Kerry and Ms. Snowe have proposed a $97 million increase in the S.B.A.’s budget and hiring 100 more people to oversee small-business contracting.

The legislation has been approved in the Senate, and Representative Nydia M. Velásquez, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, is pushing similar legislation in the House.

The House recently passed legislation that would increase the share of federal contracts for small business from 23 percent to 25 percent.

Even with the legislation, though, lawmakers say that the agency will still not be on solid footing.

“We are talking about six straight years of cuts to the agency’s budget and programs,” Ms. Velásquez said. “This is not something you can correct overnight.”

The Bush administration opposes several of the Congressional efforts, despite bipartisan support.

Even with the proposed changes, some aren’t so sure that the S.B.A, can be turned around.

Noting that the S.B.A. backs less than 10 percent of the more than $600 billion in financing of small-business loans under $1 million, they question what help small businesses actually get from the agency.

“From a broader public policy perspective I think it is harder to justify something like the S.B.A. today,” said Mark Zandi, an economist with Moody’s Economy.com. “A quarter- century ago it made sense, but today it’s much easier for small businesses to get credit.”

Veronique de Rugy, a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, calls the S.B.A. “irrelevant,” adding: “There seems to be no failure of the private sector to allocate loans efficiently.”

Andrew Langer, manager of regulatory affairs at the National Federation of Independent Business, said that although few of his members use S.B.A. loans, the agency, if adequately financed, could serve as an important voice for small business.

“If you shut down the S.B.A., you lose an organization that is the strongest advocate for small business,” Mr. Langer said.
862 2007-05-31 “All they’re saying is, ‘Don’t worry, it’s not aimed at you,’ ” Mr. Lavrov said at a news conference after the meeting. “It’s such answers that are ludicrous.”

“We quite agree,” Ms. Rice said with a sly smile, countering that Russian officials themselves have bragged that their strategic defense systems can easily overwhelm any missile defense system that the United States puts up in Europe. Mr. Lavrov was having none of it. “I hope that no one has to prove that Condi is right about that,” he interjected.

Their clashes are indicative of a chill in their countries’ relations. In February, Mr. Putin delivered a blistering speech accusing the United States of undermining international institutions and making the Middle East more unstable through its clumsy handling of the Iraq war.

Russia is also deeply unhappy about the expansion of NATO into the former Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and about the perception in Russia that the West has supported groups that have toppled other governments in Moscow’s former sphere of influence.

Mr. Bush, Ms. Rice and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates have tried, without success, to reassure the Russians that the missile system is aimed at preventing attack by the likes of Iran or North Korea.

The tensions have heightened to the point that the two countries have decided to hold a one-on-one session between Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush on July 1 in Kennebunkport, Me. But it is hard to see how that will tone down the sparring, given how far apart the two behemoths are on Kosovo.

The United States and its Western European allies favor a draft United Nations resolution endorsing supervised independence for Kosovo, where a NATO bombing campaign in 1999 helped defeat Serbian forces. Russia is adamantly opposed.

At the meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Lavrov repeatedly questioned why the United States was so intent on resolving Kosovo’s status when other areas of the world were in dispute.

“Lavrov said, ‘Why don’t we solve the case of Western Sahara first?’ ” said a European official who was at the session, speaking on condition of anonymity under customary diplomatic rules. “He even brought up Abkhazia,” the obscure Black Sea region that has been trying to secede from Georgia.

“And every time Lavrov said something, Condi would jump in,” the official said. “It was like tennis.”

Mr. Lavrov did not tone down his ire over the Kosovo plan after the meeting, when the foreign ministers held their news conference and most tried to act cordial. He hinted, as Russian officials have before, that Russia would veto any Security Council resolution seeking to recognize Kosovo as an independent country, unless Serbia agreed first, which diplomats said was very unlikely.

“I can’t imagine a situation where the Security Council will approve such a resolution,” Mr. Lavrov said. “Such a situation will not happen.”

A senior Bush administration official acknowledged that the administration, in more than six years, had not figured out how to manage its relationship with Russia. “There are a lot of things we have that are of common interest, and at the same time, we need to push where necessary,” said the official, speaking anonymously under diplomatic rules. “And to be able to do both things at the same time is hard, particularly for American administrations. We either tend to do one or the other, and for this to work we have to do both.”
863 2007-05-31 NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y., May 30 — A homeless panhandler arrested for loitering after asking a police officer for a dollar won a legal battle on Wednesday when a City Court judge dismissed the charge, finding the arrest unconstitutional.

In doing so, the judge also threw out a misdemeanor drug possession charge against the man, Eric Hoffstead, since it resulted from a search after the unlawful loitering arrest.

With his hands cuffed behind his back, Mr. Hoffstead turned his head upward and smiled as the decision was announced by Judge Preston S. Scher, who presided at the hearing. The decision was signed by Judge Gail B. Rice.

The four-paragraph decree echoed a 1992 ruling by a federal District Court that the state loitering law violated the First Amendment protection of free speech.

Mr. Hoffstead, 36, had urged his court-appointed lawyer, Carl D. Birman, to challenge his arrest after reading a newspaper article about the law. “This is a great victory for freedom of speech,” Mr. Birman said after the hearing.
864 2007-05-31 ATLANTA, May 30 — Under pressure from animal rights advocates, two soft drink giants, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, have agreed to stop directly financing research that uses animals to test or develop their products, except where such testing is required by law.

Researchers at People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals sought the assurances after discovering studies financed by the companies that used animals like rats and chimpanzees to test taste perception and, in some cases, to bolster support for promotional health claims.

PepsiCo said that it would stop directly financing animal experiments, including some it had financed through grants given to graduate students through its Gatorade Sports Science Institute.

Elaine Palmer, a spokeswoman for PepsiCo, said that while the company had never supported the idea of animal testing, “We had not been policing it, so that part is new.”

Coca-Cola and PepsiCo are the largest largest manufacturers to agree to the ban.

Coca-Cola also said that it would discontinue a grant given to a researcher at Virginia Commonwealth University who has been studying taste perception in rats, which share certain taste pathways with humans.
865 2007-05-31 Under union procedures, the resolution approved Wednesday will be circulated among ordinary members. The rules also lay down a series of criteria to be met before any action is taken to enforce a boycott. Delegates at the gathering in Bournemouth, a southern seaside town, seemed to have ignored an appeal by union leaders to take a softer line.

Sally Hunt, the union’s general secretary, said in a statement after the vote: “As I have made clear in the past, and as I reiterated on the floor of congress this morning, I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of U.C.U. members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union.”

“Today’s motion on boycott means all branches now have a responsibility to consult all of their members on the issue, and I believe that every member should have the opportunity to have their say. The earlier motion means that any future calls for a boycott must pass key tests before a boycott can be implemented.”

The ballot nonetheless drew sharp protests from an assembly of British Jewish groups and Israeli groups that had banded together to oppose a boycott.

The coalition said in a statement that the vote represented “an attack on academic exchange which undermines the values of equality and freedom which ought to be fundamental to all British academic institutions.”

Jeremy Newmark, chief executive of the Jewish Leadership Council, said the decision “damages the credibility of British academia as a whole.”

Ofir Frankel, from Israel’s Bar-Ilan University, who had managed a booth at the conference called “Meet Israeli Academia,” said it was “very disturbing to behold this form of singling out and discrimination happening in the U.K., which upholds itself as the cradle of fairness, freedom of speech and academic debate.”

The resolution condemned what it called “the complicity of Israeli academia” in the occupation of Palestinian lands and said “passivity or neutrality is unacceptable, and criticism of Israel cannot be construed as anti-Semitic.”

On the same day the resolution was approved, however, the presidents of four Israeli universities — Ben-Gurion University, Hebrew University, Haifa University and the Technion — joined with authors including Amos Oz and David Grossman in urging the Israeli defense establishment to end a ban that prevents Palestinian students from traveling from Gaza to the West Bank to study. Their announcement made reference to the consideration of a boycott by the British union.
866 2007-05-31 If you carry an iPod around, common sense suggests doing what you can to protect it from accidental meetings with hard surfaces or sharp objects. A new protective case from Digital Lifestyle Outfitters does that and adds a twist: cord management.

The Jam Jacket is a textured black silicone sleeve that fits snugly around a 30-gigabyte video iPod (or a Nano, for which it comes in clear or black; other versions are in the works). The case’s designers opted against shielding the screen, leaving it vulnerable to scratches. But there is no feeling, as with some other iPod cases, of something between your finger and the click wheel — the thin layer of silicone presents virtually no impediment to scrolling and clicking.

The main attraction of the Jam Jacket, which is available for $20 at www.dlo.com and from retailers, is a spool on the back that takes up slack in the cord when headphones are worn and provides tidy storage when the player is put away. There are openings to stow the earbuds and the headphone jack.

A protective case can make the difference between life and death for an iPod. The spool helps set the Jam Jacket apart from the pack.
867 2007-05-31 Evidence of the value of routine H.I.V. testing in nations swept by AIDS has been mounting for at least three years. In January 2004, Botswana’s government ordered its health care workers to recommend an H.I.V. test to every patient who showed up at a clinic or hospital, regardless of why he or she sought treatment. Testing rates skyrocketed. Zambia, Malawi, Kenya and Uganda now have similar policies.

“The Botswana experience taught us that people want to be cared for, that they would like medical intervention” said Dr. Ernest Darkoh, who ran Botswana’s AIDS treatment program in 2004. Many patients were actually relieved when a health care worker urged them to take an H.I.V. test, he said, because it lifted some of the burden of a scary decision.

Still, some human rights advocates have argued that because of the stigma of AIDS, no one should be pushed to take a test that could lead to the loss of their employment or abandonment by their families.

Wednesday’s announcement, some AIDS experts said, strikes a balance between individual rights and the demands of a public health emergency. While tests must continue to be voluntary and confidential, they said, health care workers must advocate them as a standard part of medical care in countries with pervasive epidemics.

“I believe these guidelines are long, long overdue and require rapid implementation,” said Zachie Achmat, a leading AIDS activist in South Africa. “It would be entirely substandard medical practice not to recommend that any person in a high-burden country be tested for H.I.V.”

While health organizations and United Nations AIDS program have been stressing the importance of widespread H.I.V. testing for years, Dr. De Cock said earlier guidelines were too ambiguous.

“You could legitimately ask, ‘Have we used H.I.V. testing in the most imaginative and beneficial way?’ ” he said. “I think we feel that, somehow, let’s get serious and do this right.”

The new guidelines state that unless the patient specifically refuses one, an H.I.V. test should be performed if the patient’s symptoms or medical histories suggest infection. That would include the children of infected mothers and anyone with tuberculosis. More broadly, the guidelines state that in any nation where more than one percent of pregnant women have H.I.V., every patient who shows up at a clinic or hospital should be tested, regardless of symptoms. That would cover a swath of sub-Saharan African countries.

Dr. De Cock said that the cost of expanding testing is minor compared with the overall cost of AIDS prevention and treatment. But he said that the new policy would likely depend on hiring and training more low-level health care workers because there are far too few doctors or nurses in low-income countries to handle the task.
868 2007-05-31 A research associate at PETA, Shalin G. Gala, said, “We see these statements from Coke and Pepsi, massive global conglomerates, as the beginning of the end of all animal tests on food.”

Scientists conducting basic research in animal models have cautioned against PETA’s hard line, saying their work, which may ultimately have medical benefits, would not be possible in many cases without thehelp from corporate sponsors.

“It’s very easy to characterize scientific research like this in a bad light,” said Dr. John A. DeSimone, a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University who had been working under the Coca-Cola grant. “To do medical research, you sometimes need an animal model.”

Not everyone agrees with Dr. DeSimone’s thinking, particularly when it involves tests on highly intelligent animals, as did a study involving a Coca-Cola scientist, financed by Nutrasweet, that cut open the faces of chimpanzees to study nerve impulses used in the perception of sweet tastes.

“I have never found Chimpanzee work justifiable,” said Dr. Alan Goldberg, director of the Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing at Johns Hopkins University. “They are a species that’s incredibly close to human capacity, and we just have to recognize that. If it shouldn’t be done in humans it shouldn’t be done in chimps.”

Dr. Goldberg said that over the last 30 years, advances in alternatives to animal models, many of which are usually more scientifically precise, have already cut the number of lab animals in use by 50 percent.

“The bottom line for me is that I’d love to see animal studies disappear entirely,” Dr. Goldberg said. “In vitro models are cleaner.”

The two soft-drink giants are the latest companies to respond to scrutiny by PETA, which has mounted a campaign to expose animal testing practices in the beverage industry, an industry which unlike cosmetics or pharmaceuticals, had largely been a stealth operator in the animal testing arena.

In January, Roll International, the company that makes Pom Wonderful pomegranate juice, agreed to cease tests on animals after PETA publicized a 2005 study financed by the company that tested the juice to see if it might relieve artificially induced erectile dysfunction in rabbits. Whole Foods grocery stores also threatened to stop carrying Pom Wonderful if the company didn’t stop its animal testing.

The company, which says it has spent $20 million dollars to fund studies exploring the health benefits of its juice, uses such studies as promotional material on a portion of it’s web site geared toward convincing medical professionals, which it calls "POMbassadors", to recommend the product to their patients.

In recent months, Welch’s and Ocean Spray have both issued similar promises not to test their products on animals after their own histories of animal testing were brought to light.

But Coca-Cola and Pepsico have been the largest manufacturers to capitulate.

In a letter to PETA dated May 22, Danny Strickland, Coke’s chief innovation and technology offer, promised to pull a corporate grant to Virginia Commonwealth University that has been used to fund studies on how rats, which share similar biology with humans, perceive sour tastes.

Mr. Strickland said senior management had not previously been aware of the study.

Representatives of Coca-Cola and VCU declined to say how much funding the company was providing or to elaborate on what the ultimate application of the research might be.

“Certainly we’re disappointed,” said Dr. John DeSimone, who said he has been studying how nerves conduct taste sensations for 25 years.

“I think it’s unfortunate that they would essentially interfere with a relationship which is essentially one which is devoted to advancing scientific knowledge,” Dr. DeSimone said. ”I don’t think that’s progressive by any means.”
869 2007-05-31 In its move Wednesday, the Chinese finance ministry tripled the tax on stock transactions to 0.3 percent, which analysts said was probably not enough to destroy the bull market, though it could dampen the mood of speculators.

“The psychological impact on investors could be larger than the actual effect of the duty adjustment,” Shen Minggao, an economist at Citigroup, wrote in a research note.

Most analysts said they did not think that a sharp drop in stock prices would harm the Chinese economy, which continues to grow robustly. Some said they expected the markets to resume their climb quickly unless the government announced further measures.

“If the market expectation is that share prices are going to rise 50 percent in the next six months, then the transaction tax is affordable,” said Dong Tao, chief Asia economist at Credit Suisse.

The tax was increased at a time many Chinese seem to have gone mad for stocks. Professionals, retirees, shop owners, students — even watermelon hawkers — are said to be lining up to buy stocks in hopes of getting in on the rally. More than 300,000 accounts are being opened every day, regulators say. Brokerage houses are overrun with day traders and people who pack lunches to spend the day staring at stock price monitors.

One indication of the mood is a popular cellphone greeting that is being sent around Shanghai. The greeting replaces the national anthem with a call for all investors to rise up and buy, buy, buy stocks.

“Arise, ye who refuse to be slaves” from the national anthem has been replaced by: “Arise, ye who haven’t opened an account! Pour your gold and silver into the hot market.”

Chinese seem eager to buy stocks not only because they have watched prices soar in the last two years, but also because there are few other opportunities to get a good return on investments.

Until the past year, much of the speculative money in China was going into real estate, particularly in Shanghai and Beijing. Policy makers chilled real estate speculation with a series of tax and administrative measures, only to see the speculation move into stocks.

Many investors are betting almost everything on stocks. Some said that even the sell-off on Wednesday was unlikely to restrain optimism. “There are too many small investors in the market,” said Fan Ligen, a retired Shanghai clerk who has been investing in stocks since 1992. “They are like hundreds of ants swarming on pieces of meat on the ground.”

In the February sell-off, prices plummeted 8.8 percent after the Shanghai composite index surpassed the 3,000-point level for the first time. It was the biggest one-day drop in a decade. But with prices down, new investors rushed in, sensing an opportunity to buy on the cheap.

They were right. In mid-March, the Shanghai index retraced its losses, again exceeding 3,000. Early this month, it passed 4,000. This week, it was pushing toward 4,400 on record volume.

“Our market is different from the ones in the U.S. or Japan,” said Li Wenwei, a banker who was at a brokerage house in Shanghai. “Those markets obey the rules of the market, while ours doesn’t. There are bubbles in the market. The index is already too high, and there is a lot of risk in the market.”

In many ways, the stock market has come into line with China’s phenomenal economic growth, a bullish market to match a bullish economy that is growing close to 11 percent a year, creating worries about the possibility of hypergrowth and inflation, a stock market crash and, potentially, civil unrest.

The rise is extraordinary. Since July 2005, when a bearish market turned bullish, share prices have soared in Shanghai by more than 300 percent and 400 percent in Shenzhen, even with Wednesday’s drop.

That decline, though, was especially sharp — given regulations that no single stock rise or fall more than 10 percent in a trading day. Some stocks fell the limit Wednesday, and questions arose whether they might continue dropping Thursday.

“I think the market will still go down a bit tomorrow,” Mr. Li, the banker in Shanghai, said. “My two stocks fell today. But I won’t sell them yet. I’m not nervous about the fall since my investment is from my savings.”
870 2007-05-31 As for Jazz, it lost $82 million last year and has lost almost $200 million since it was founded in 2003. Auditors have warned that the losses raise “substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern,” according to the offering prospectus Jazz filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In plain English, Jazz — which had $67 million in cash as of March 31 — is running out of money. And if it does not get more, it could go broke as early as the end of this year.

Jazz is hoping to solve that problem, at least temporarily, by selling as much as 6.9 million shares to the public at $24 to $26 a share. The offering, which values Jazz at about $600 million, could be completed as early as this morning, with shares sold to institutional or individual buyers who can resell them when Jazz begins trading later in the day. Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers (which is also an investor in Jazz) and Credit Suisse are leading the deal.

Aside from Jazz itself, the biggest winner in the public offering would be Kohlberg Kravis and other private equity firms. Since 2003, they have sunk $265 million into Jazz. If the company cannot go public, they will have to choose between putting more money up or potentially losing their entire investments.

Matthew K. Fust, Jazz’s chief financial officer, declined to comment about the offering or Jazz. A spokeswoman for Kohlberg said the firm could not comment because the offering is imminent. Securities and Exchange Commission rules discourage companies from discussing their prospects in advance of a public offering.

Jazz hopes to expand Xyrem’s potential market vastly by winning approval from the F.D.A. to promote it for fibromyalgia, a vague and poorly understood pain disorder with symptoms that are often treated with antidepressants. Jazz is conducting two late-stage clinical trials to prove that Xyrem reduces the pain of fibromyalgia, with results expected in the one trial in the second half of 2008.

In an earlier trial, about 30 percent of the people who took Xyrem reported improvement in their fibromyalgia symptoms, compared with 13 percent on a placebo. Whether that figure will be enough to persuade the F.D.A. to approve Xyrem — whose label warns that abuse of GHB can cause “seizure, respiratory depression and profound decreases in level of consciousness” — is not clear.

Much bigger drug companies, including Pfizer and Forest Laboratories, are also researching fibromyalgia treatments and have medicines further along in development.

Jazz, meanwhile, is still under a cloud in a criminal case in Brooklyn involving the way it promoted Xyrem to doctors. Last year, federal prosecutors charged Dr. Peter Gleason, a psychiatrist, with working illegally with Jazz to encourage doctors to use Xyrem to treat fibromyalgia and other diseases for which Xyrem has not been approved, so-called off-label uses.

The case has raised debate about free speech and how tightly the government may regulate discussions by doctors with one another. Under F.D.A. rules, doctors may prescribe drugs for any condition they see fit, but pharmaceutical companies are not allowed to promote drugs for off-label uses.

Dr. Gleason is fighting the charges. But in March, David Tucker, a former sales manager for Jazz who worked with Dr. Gleason, pleaded guilty to a single felony count of introducing a misbranded drug into interstate commerce. Mr. Tucker has not been sentenced, but the charge carries a maximum sentence of up to three years in prison, according to Bruce Maloy, Mr. Tucker’s lawyer.

Geoffrey Kaiser, the prosecutor handling the case, said he could not comment.

In its prospectus, Jazz says it is close to settling the case by pleading guilty to the same felony charge as Mr. Tucker and paying $20.5 million in civil and criminal fines and restitution.

With all the clouds over Xyrem, potential investors in Jazz may be pleased to know that it does sell another drug, Antizol, used to treat people who have been poisoned by antifreeze. Unfortunately — or fortunately, perhaps — Antizol’s market is even smaller than Xyrem’s. Antizol had sales of $2.6 million in the first three months of 2007.
871 2007-05-31 The costs of locating rights holders are an example of what economists call transactions costs. Not surprisingly, high transactions costs tend to discourage transactions from occurring.

The so-called orphan works problem was examined by the Copyright Office in a 2006 report in which it proposed legislation to address the transactions costs issues.

Under its proposal, if you conducted a “diligent search” to locate a rights holder and still failed to find the owner, you would be off the hook. You could then incorporate the work in question into your own work, as long as you provided proper attribution. If the legitimate rights holder was subsequently found, he or she could not require that your work be withdrawn from circulation, but could collect “reasonable compensation” for use.

But what is a “diligent search?” The report leaves the interpretation of this phrase up to the courts but suggests some relevant considerations: whether the work includes identification, the age of the work, whether the work can be found in public databases like Copyright Office records, and so on.

The Copyright Office’s proposal is certainly a step in the right direction. Clarifying the rights and obligations of the buyers and sellers of copyrighted material would reduce transactions costs, and that should lead to a more efficient market for intellectual property.

But does the proposed legislation go far enough? According to Lawrence Lessig, a Stanford University Law professor who is an expert in copyright law, it does not. He favors a system where authors receive an automatic copyright when they create new works, but they must register their copyright within 14 years to retain it past the initial period. (Unfortunately, such a registration requirement cannot apply to foreign creators because of international copyright treaties.)

This is in the same spirit as the copyright law that went into effect in 1978 requiring that copyrights be renewed at the Copyright Office in their 28th year. Materials that weren’t renewed fell into the public domain.

Mr. Lessig envisions the Copyright Office as specifying the standards for registries but not necessarily operating them, since the private sector may be better positioned to build and maintain such systems. His inspiration is the domain name system used to register Internet sites. In that system, a standards body specifies the design, but it is up to individual organizations to carry out the necessary registries.

The proposals by the Copyright Office and Mr. Lessig are not necessarily exclusive. If easily accessible copyright registries existed, the courts would probably find that simply searching the registries would satisfy the diligent search requirement. Creators of works with commercial potential would then have strong incentives to register their works.

In such a world, a legal requirement to register works could be redundant, since the commercial incentives to register would be strong. Still, why take a chance? Establishing the expectations that works should be registered to receive the full protection of copyright law makes a lot of sense.

Creating a registry is not that difficult from either a technological or a business perspective. The Copyright Clearance Center (www.copyright.com) was established by a group of publishers in 1978 to provide rights clearance for printed works. The Harry Fox Agency (www.harryfox.com) serves as a clearinghouse for those who want to make recordings of songs, and there are plenty of Web sites devoted to image search to ease the sharing of photographs.

But would the creators charge excessive fees if rights clearinghouses became widespread? I would argue that just the opposite would occur. An easy-to-use, efficient and competitive marketplace tends to push prices down. Reducing the transactions costs of acquiring reproduction rights potentially makes both creators and users of information better off.

The orphan works legislation from the Copyright Office is still on the back burner in Congress. Let us hope that it soon gets the attention it deserves. Information plays a crucial role in today’s economy. Making it easy for creators and users of information to find each other should be a high priority for policy makers.
872 2007-05-31 THE prevailing mentality among sneaker enthusiasts, which doesn’t seem like a lot of fun, is never to wear the most coveted shoes for fear of a smudge. So a new collection of Nikes that look intentionally distressed could be seen as a reaction against the cult of the pristine.

Last year, for Junya Watanabe’s Spring 2007 show in Paris, Nike recreated its classic running shoes from the 1970s to look as if they actually had been made in the 1970s — with yellowed mid-soles and washed-out suede patches.

Now the box-fresh, predistressed shoes are going on sale for $220 at Comme des Garçons stores next week. A broader release of $120 styles will reach Barneys New York, Urban Outfitters and Scoop stores in July.

“A lot of the shoes are inconsistent, so no two pairs are identical,” said Jesse Leyva, a product director for Nike.

A self-respecting sneakerhead would have to buy them all.

GOODBYE TO BLASS You have to admire a designer like Michael Vollbracht. No matter how little the critics cared for his backward-looking Bill Blass collections, he stuck to his nostalgic vision, even bringing back to the runway 1970s models like Pat Cleveland and Karen Bjornson. But on Friday, after four years of pushing gray flannel pantsuits and gardenia-print chiffon dresses, Mr. Vollbracht folded.
873 2007-05-31 Steven C. Preston, 46, a former executive vice president at ServiceMaster, became administrator of the Small Business Administration in July 2006. He sat down recently in his Washington office to discuss his efforts and those of Congress to reform the agency, which has been hit with budget and staffing cuts. Following are excerpts:

Q. There have been some proposals in the Senate and House for reforming various programs at the agency. Do you think those are necessary?

A. I think it’s important to acknowledge that in the absence of progress Congress is going to feel the need to take action. So I respect the fact that many people on the Hill are working hard to think about how to improve the performance of the S.B.A. On the other side, there are policies that we’re not a fan of. I am not in favor of subsidizing our loan programs. I think we should be focusing on expanding those programs by making them more effective in reaching small business. But, frankly, for the amount of fee that they pay, I don’t think that that’s an inhibitor to our getting capital in their hands.

Q. You’ve said that you felt that the agency had the budget to actually fulfill its statutory requirements. And you stand by that?

A. The budget we have allows us to fulfill our mission, and within that budget we are going to be a much more effective and much more efficient agency at performing what we do. So I think we’re going to build capacity to perform our mission that exceeds our growth in the budget. So I think there’s a great opportunity for us to be a lot better at what we do, be much more responsive to customers, improve our turnaround times, improve the quality of what we do.

Q. What are your staffing levels at this point?

A. With the passage of the ’07 budget we have now begun to hire a number of critical positions. We were sort of in a five-month period where we were in this containing resolution, which means you really don’t know how much money you’re going to have, and so we were hesitant to begin hiring some of those jobs. But we have hired a number — either hired or begun to post — mission critical jobs in the guaranteed lending operations, much of which is in the processing center, where we need some people.
874 2007-05-31 While consistently defending its teams’ treatment of concussions and denying any relationship between players’ brain trauma and later neurocognitive decline, the N.F.L. has subsequently announced several related initiatives. The league and its players union recently created a fund to help pay the medical expenses of players suffering from Alzheimer’s disease or similar dementia. Last week, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell announced wide-ranging league guidelines regarding concussions, from obligatory neuropsychological testing for all players to what he called a “whistle-blower system” where players and doctors can anonymously report any coach’s attempt to override the wishes of concussed players or medical personnel.

The N.F.L. has criticized previous papers published by the Center for the Study of Retired Athletes — which identified similar links between on-field concussions and both later mild cognitive impairment and early-onset Alzheimer’s disease — and reasserted those concerns this week with regard to the paper on depression.

Several members of the league’s mild traumatic brain injury committee cited two main issues in telephone interviews this week: that the survey was returned by 69 percent of the retired players to whom it was mailed, and that those who did respond were relying solely on their memories of on-field concussions. One committee member, Dr. Henry Feuer of the Indiana University Medical Center and a medical consultant for the Indianapolis Colts, went so far as to call the center’s findings “virtually worthless.”

Dr. Ira Casson, the co-chairman of the committee, said, “Survey studies are the weakest type of research study — they’re subject to all kinds of error and misinterpretation and miscalculation.”

Regarding the issue of players’ recollection of brain trauma, Dr. Casson said: “They had no objective evaluations to determine whether or not what the people told them in the surveys was correct or not. They didn’t have information from doctors confirming it, they didn’t have tests, they didn’t have examinations. They didn’t have anything. They just kind of took people’s words for it.”

According to other experts, the 69 percent return rate was quite high for such survey research, which has been widely used to establish preliminary links between smoking and lung cancer, explore the relationship between diet and health, and track trends in obesity and drug use.

After reading the depression study and considering the league’s issues with recollective survey research, Dr. John Whyte, the director of the Moss Rehabilitation Research Institute in Philadelphia and an expert in neurological research methodology, said he did not share the league’s criticisms.

“To the person who says this is worthless, let’s just discard a third of the medical literature that we trust and go by today,” said Dr. Whyte, who has no connection with either the N.F.L. or the Center for the Study of Retired Athletes, which is partly funded by the N.F.L. players union. “Here, the response rate was good and not a relevant issue to the findings. We have some pretty solid data that multiple concussions caused cumulative brain damage and increased risk of depression, and that is not in conflict with the growing literature.

“Do I think this one study proves the point beyond doubt? No. Does it contribute in a meaningful way? You bet.”

The study, which underwent formal, anonymous peer review before publication, reported that of the 595 players who recalled sustaining three or more concussions on the football field, 20.2 percent said a physician found they had depression. Players with one or two concussions were found to have depression 9.7 percent of the time, and those with none, 6.6. (Respondents were on average 54 years old and had played almost seven seasons in the N.F.L. A minimum of two seasons was required for inclusion in the study.)

The study considered concussions sustained in high school and college as well, not just in the N.F.L. Because the diagnosis of concussions has undergone substantial refinement since the 1960s and 1970s, when many of the survey respondents had played, a modern description of symptoms — such as nausea or seeing stars following a strong blow to the head, not simply being knocked unconscious — was provided.

Members of the N.F.L. concussion committee criticized the use of such a retrospective definition. They also cited a mail survey by doctors at the University of Michigan, results of which were published two months ago in the same American College of Sports Medicine journal, that found the self-reported incidence of depression among retired N.F.L. players to be 15 percent — similar to that of the general population — and that such depression was strongly correlated with the chronic pain many N.F.L. retirees experience.

The associate editor-in-chief of the journal who handled the review of both papers, Dr. Thomas Best, said in a telephone interview yesterday that the studies did not conflict. Dr. Best explained that the Michigan study did not consider concussions specifically, and that the North Carolina study in fact used statistical tests to account for players’ chronic pain and found that the strong correlation between number of concussions and depression remained virtually unchanged.

“The North Carolina paper is not saying that N.F.L. players are or are not at risk for depression,” said Dr. Best, the medical director of the Ohio State University’s Sportsmedicine Center. “What we learned from the paper is that there’s a correlation between the number of concussions sustained and depression they experience later in life.”

Mr. Goodell said last week that the league’s concussion committee had just begun its own study “to determine if there are any long-term effects of concussions on retired N.F.L. players.”

Dr. Casson, the committee’s co-chair, said that players who retired from 1986 through 1996 would be randomly approached to undergo “a comprehensive neurological examination, and a comprehensive neurologic history, including a detailed concussion history,” using player recollection cross-referenced with old team injury reports. He said that the study would take two to three years to be completed and another year to be published.

Given that the average N.F.L. retirement age from 1986 to 1996 was approximately 27, a random player from that period would be approximately 46 at the N.F.L. study’s completion, eight years younger than those considered by the paper being released today.

Dr. Kevin Guskiewicz, the center’s research director and the principal author of the study, said that even with those differences he was confident the N.F.L. study would corroborate his group’s conclusions.

“It sounds as if they need to study the question themselves to believe the findings,” Dr. Guskiewicz said. “I think they’re going to be very surprised at what they find, compared with what they’ve been led to believe by members of their own committee.”
875 2007-05-31 The city will open a center in East Harlem to improve the treatment of asthma, officials said yesterday. Observing that East Harlem had the highest asthma rate in the city, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the East Harlem Asthma Center of Excellenc...
876 2007-05-31 CUTLER--Evelyn, (nee Gurlitz), loving wife of the late Philip, adored mother of Barbara, Ezrol, and Ronald Cutler, cherished grandmother of Lisa, Curran, and Paula Gladstone, great-grandmother of Jordan, Spencer, and Sydney. Services Today 10:30 a...
877 2007-05-31 A RECORD CLOSE FOR THE S.& P. -- The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the most widely followed benchmark of American stocks, gained 12.12 points to close at 1,530.23, breaking a seven-year-old record as the market clawed its way back to where it...
878 2007-05-31 The rate of diagnosed clinical depression among retired National Football League players is strongly correlated with the number of concussions they sustained, according to a study to be published today.     The study was conducted by the Universit...
879 2007-05-31 ANIMAL themes in home decorating have moved beyond taxidermy. This season whimsical creatures are appearing in various materials, crawling on everything from walls to beds, generally improving the environment.    1. A white papier-mâché bird, ha...
880 2007-05-31 Whatever else may be said about the Supreme Court's current term, which ends in about a month, it will be remembered as the time when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg found her voice, and used it.     Both in the abortion case the court decided last mo...
881 2007-05-31 In honor of its 25th anniversary tomorrow, the Joyce Theater has awarded $25,000 commissions to 25 dance companies, covering a wide spectrum of the field and reaching out to some troupes not normally associated with its stage. Among the recipients...