1 2013-03-01 The scene in Red Hook as a neighborhood anchor welcomed customers for the first time since Hurricane Sandy.
2 2013-03-01 A federal judge softened the blow from Apple’s legal victory in a patent case over Samsung, lopping more than 40 percent off the damages....
3 2013-03-01 John Hollinger, the creator of the Player Efficiency Rating metric, is only a few months into his role as Memphis’s vice president of player personnel....
4 2013-03-01 After Li Junyun, a Korean citizen, disappeared in Queens last week, her friends tried several times to report her missing. Ms. Li’s death is now being investigated....
5 2013-03-01 The documentary “A Place at the Table,” featuring Jeff Bridges, opens on Friday....
6 2013-03-01 Students summarize information about a Twitter scandal by boiling down the main points into 140-character messages; argue for or against the idea of working from home; and write a narrative about pitching a viral video....
7 2013-03-01 Andrew Mason, the irreverent programmer and musician who turned a failed social-action site into the daily deals phenomenon Groupon, was dismissed late Thursday as chief executive, David Streitfeld reports on Friday in The New York Times. The oust...
8 2013-03-01 How did Donnie Collins’s fraternity brothers raise money to cover the cost of his top surgery, a procedure that is part of a female-to-male transgender transition?...
9 2013-03-01 It will cost about $56 million to buy new textbooks and other materials to help New York City public school students meet rigorous academic standards adopted by most states, city officials announced at a news conference on Thursday.

The costs are not unexpected, because the state signed on for the so-called Common Core standards in 2010. But they drew a round of scrutiny at a time of austere budgeting, particularly as the city is facing a possible decline in state and federal aid.

Even before the formal announcement, Merryl H. Tisch, the chancellor of the state’s Board of Regents, said that though city school officials “can spend their money as they choose fit,” the state was providing “free curriculum” online, at engageny.org, for interested educators and others.

Of the city’s plan, she added, “I’m sure it’s not inexpensive.”

Michael Mulgrew, the president of the city teachers’ union, issued a statement saying the costs of the new materials concerned him, and he questioned “how well they will actually match the Common Core standards, and whether the new curricula and their accompanying materials will be ready for the start of the new school year.”

Adopted by 45 states, the Common Core sets a national benchmark for what students should learn in English and math. It does not detail all of the curriculums students should learn, but is intended to help them build skills for success.
10 2013-03-01 A Swiss researcher kidnapped almost a year ago in Yemen was released in good health and flown to Qatar, whose government helped negotiate her release, the authorities said Thursday. The woman, identified by Swiss authorities in Qatar as Sylvia Abrahat, 35, made no comment to reporters as she arrived late Wednesday at Doha International Airport. She was seized March 13, 2012, in the port city of Hodeida where she worked as a researcher at an institute. The Swiss Foreign Ministry said in a written statement that she had been freed Wednesday. Ali bin Fahd al-Hajri, Qatar’s assistant foreign minister for foreign affairs, said his country’s negotiating team had been “working during the past few months silently, and with wisdom and patience” to secure Ms. Abrahat’s release, the official Qatari News Agency reported.
11 2013-03-01 Mr. Mason, who dodged a potential dismissal in November, will be temporarily replaced by Eric Lefkofsky, Groupon’s executive chairman, and Theodore J. Leonsis, its vice chairman, while they search for a replacement.

Now 32, Mr. Mason had a wild ride. Unlike many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, he never seemed to dream about building a huge company or even becoming fantastically wealthy. Groupon was an outgrowth of a start-up, the Point, which was aimed at encouraging charitable actions by groups. In late 2008, Mr. Mason and a few colleagues reformulated it as a deals shop.

Over the years, Silicon Valley start-ups had tried many forms of deal sites, but Groupon was the first to really make it work, and did so instantly. The formula was simple and compelling. People were sent e-mails of offers for, say, a local restaurant. If they bought it, they got a bargain, Groupon got a commission and the restaurant won new patrons.

In two years, Mr. Mason was turning down a reported $6 billion offer from Google. As a reminder that fate is fickle, he put in the reception area of Groupon’s offices a gallery of framed magazine covers featuring Napster, Myspace and other tech wunderkinds that ultimately faded. To these losers, he then added a cover that featured Groupon.

“Our marketing guy thought we should put some press on the wall, but I didn’t want an atmosphere of popping the Champagne,” Mr. Mason told Chicago Time Out in 2010. “We still have a mountain to climb, and other iconic companies will be a footnote in history.”

On the first day of trading after Groupon’s public offering, in late 2011, the company was valued at $16.5 billion. It was the most talked-about tech debut between Google and Facebook. The actors, stand-up comics and other creative types who made up much of Groupon’s early team watched in wonder. The company had a loose, informal style, with an editorial team as large as a midsize newspaper. Writers labored over the gags that introduced the deals. The one for a dentist started like this: “The Tooth Fairy is a burglarizing fetishist specializing in black-market ivory trade, and she must be stopped.”

But then the competition intensified, the criticism began and the stock struggled. Groupon’s market value is now $2.97 billion.

Groupon has 10,000 employees in 48 countries. Mr. Rohan, the analyst, said the new chief executive “will have to refocus the company on the most productive markets with the most productive sales people.” He added, “Groupon needs to give up on the grand vision of becoming an operating system for local commerce and instead be the best daily deals provider it can be.”

Even as the daily deals sites struggle financially — the No. 2 company, Amazon-backed LivingSocial, is in worse shape than Groupon — the number of digital coupon users in the United States continues to rise, according to eMarketer. An estimated 92.5 million Americans redeemed a digital coupon in 2012, up 4.9 percent from 88.2 million in 2011.

No surprise there, said Sucharita Mulpuru, an e-commerce analyst with Forrester Research. “Who doesn’t like 50 percent off something? The question was always how you create good consistent deal flow from merchants.”

She noted that in his letter, Mr. Mason talked about what was best for the customer. “They think their customer is Joe Smith who buys the Groupon,” Ms. Mulpuru said. “But the customer is the merchant. They have been focusing on the wrong person.”

Indeed, merchants got a lot of attention for complaining how successful deals came close to ruining them.

Mr. Mason’s letter was in the blunt tech tradition of a former Yahoo chief executive, Carol Bartz, who sent an e-mail to the search engine’s employees in September 2011 saying, “I’ve just been fired.”

In his letter, Mr. Mason wrote: “I’m o.k. with having failed at this part of the journey. If Groupon was Battletoads, it would be like I made it all the way to the Terra Tubes without dying on my first-ever play-through.” He added that he was looking for a good fat camp to lose the 40 pounds he had gained at Groupon.

Mr. Mason’s letter was very well received on Twitter, with people applauding his honesty as much as his sense of humor.

Mr. Mason himself retweeted a comment that said: “First the pope and now Andrew Mason!?! Our esteemed leaders are falling like flies.”
12 2013-03-01 Conservative justices and challengers from Alabama, supported by other opponents of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, suggest that 47 years of federal supervision of certain states’ voting practices is long enough, that such oversight deprives the monitored state of its right to freely conduct its own elections.

Putting aside that Congressional hearings as recently as 2006 have found a continuing need for the supervision and for prior approval of changes required by Section 5 of the act, we should not forget that most of the states affected by the act spent nearly 100 years ignoring or subverting the clear meaning of the 14th and 15th Amendments, thereby depriving millions of African-Americans of their voting rights.

Statements from two Supreme Court justices during the oral argument regarding Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act demonstrate why we still need this law.

First, Justice Antonin Scalia said the statute amounted to a “perpetuation of racial entitlement.” Ending racial discrimination was not and still is not the same as an entitlement.

Justice Scalia also should not belittle our democratically elected officials, who only seven years ago held hearings, took testimony and then decided nearly unanimously that racial discrimination in voting still existed in specific parts of the country where Section 5 applies. We elected them, not the court, to make such findings.

Similarly, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. takes the court far beyond its legitimate bounds when he asked if “the citizens in the South are more racist than citizens in the North.” Section 5 does not identify states and counties and label them “racist,” a term as charged and misused as “entitlement.” Rather, the act asks if the vestiges of racial discrimination in voting have ended. Where Congress determined it has not, it extended Section 5.

The writer is a civil rights and public interest lawyer.

What began in 1965 with Lyndon B. Johnson’s famous words “I speak tonight for the dignity of man and the destiny of democracy” would appear to be on the verge of ending with Justice Antonin Scalia’s soon to be infamous words calling the same Voting Rights Act a “perpetuation of racial entitlement.” Never before has our country so glaringly appeared on a backward track.
13 2013-03-01 The victim’s family was left to reach their own conclusions.

“I believe it was political,” said one family member, who requested that his name not be used because he was asked by the police not to speak to the news media. “Maybe some people didn’t want him to run. Maybe he was a threat. They wanted Clarksdale to stay the same.” The relative declined to elaborate.

Officials said that Mr. Reed was in Mr. McMillian’s car at the time of the accident, near the Tallahatchie County line, but that they did not know if he was driving. Mr. Reed was airlifted to a hospital after the crash, and the driver of the other car was treated and released, the authorities said.

The family member said that Mr. McMillan had always been politically conscious. “He was a smart, intelligent young man,” the relative said. “He was running for mayor because he wanted to move Clarksdale forward.”

Clarksdale, the Delta town of 18,000 where legend has it that the bluesman Robert Johnson made a deal with the devil at the crossroads of Highway 49 and Highway 61, has rates of violent crime and poverty far higher than the rest of the nation.

With the exception of a four-year period during the 1990s, the town has been led since 1989 by Mayor Henry Espy, who has announced that he would not seek another term. Those vying to succeed Mr. Espy include his son, Chuck Espy, a member of the Mississippi House of Representatives.

Mr. McMillian, a 1997 graduate of Clarksdale High School, had returned to Clarksdale within the past several months after working in Memphis, Washington and elsewhere. He decided to run for mayor despite never having held elected office, said Jarod Keith, the campaign’s spokesman.

“He really felt a call to come back to Clarksdale,” Mr. Keith said. “He was looking to be the leader who could effect some change. The campaign was gaining momentum.”

Thursday, Mr. Keith said, had been the scheduled date of the campaign’s first major fund-raiser. The final conversation the two men had, on Monday, had been about organizing a direct-mail effort, Mr. Keith said. “The ball was definitely rolling, and now is suddenly interrupted,” he said.
14 2013-03-01 The San Diego County Water Authority has agreed to buy at least 48,000 acre-feet of water from the plant each year for about $2,000 an acre-foot. An acre-foot equals about 326,000 gallons, roughly enough for two families of four for a year. The authority has made a long-term bet that those costs — now double those of the most readily available alternative — will eventually be competitive. But it still means the authority will pay more than $3 billion over 30 years for only about 7 percent of the county’s water needs.

As Sandra Kerl, the deputy general manager of the authority, said in a recent interview, “There’s a lot of eyes on this.”

The technology used in the Carlsbad plant, known as reverse osmosis, was developed decades ago. It involves pushing the water through a series of microscopic sieves rolled up into larger cylindrical filters. The energy-intensive process separates pure water from both salt molecules and impurities. The filters, some of which are made locally, are cheaper and more durable than they were a decade ago, industry accounts say, bringing down the overall price of the plant and its operations.

In the Western United States, where the complexities of water law and heavily subsidized federal and state water projects have complicated the economics of water delivery and hamstrung any widespread development of water markets, the Carlsbad plant offers a peek into a future when water prices reflect the actual cost of procurement and delivery. David Moore, a managing director of Clean Energy Capital, financial advisers to the San Diego County authority, said the water authority had “made the call that over time this water is going to be more affordable than other sources. That was the fundamental risk of the transaction.” The price of water the authority now gets from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California is about $1,000 an acre-foot.

The bet on this technology was not an obvious one; the recent history of desalination in the United States and Australia has been mixed, at best. Some recently constructed Australian plants are flourishing while others stand idle some of the time. In this country, technological missteps, delays and bankruptcies dogged the first big plant, which finally opened in Tampa in 2007.

“Tampa was a buzz kill for the sector,” Mr. Moore said.

So the Carlsbad plant is being watched not just for its performance or its effect on the local marine environment, but for its financial architecture.

Mr. Moore and other financial advisers are trying to make investors and bondholders comfortable with the technology by mimicking the financial approach of a merchant power plant — for instance, substituting a “water purchase agreement” for a “power purchase agreement,” to show that Carlsbad’s water has a guaranteed market.

The water purchase agreement was signed by the San Diego authority and the plant’s developer, Poseidon Resources, of Stamford, Conn., in late November. Poseidon bears the responsibility for completing the plant and operating it; the authority does not pay for any water that is not delivered.

The project’s costs are financed by two bond offerings totaling $734 million and a $189 million equity investment. In addition, the water authority is committing about $80 million to other capital needs. All of these arrangements have interlocking guarantees and risks, with the costs of constructing the plant borne by the project developers and the water authority responsible for constructing a 10-mile pipeline to send the water on its way to San Diego’s taps.

The public water authority did not want its ratepayers to be responsible for paying for water that was never delivered; it will pay only for water that meets its standards and goes into its reservoirs. That said, when the water is flowing in 2016 the county must pay as much as $113 million annually, which could rise over time.

Late last year, this financial picture prompted Fitch Ratings to give the project’s bond issue a BBB- rating, the lowest for investment grade debt. For Fitch executives, familiar with the unexpected obstacles in deployment of desalination technology, the water purchase agreement was a critical factor leading to a rating above junk level.

The cost comparison remains ugly for desalination right now, but the water agency has calculated that, given the history of annual rate increases from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the desalinated water could be cheaper than the current supply by 2024.

Then there is the question of reliability. Water supplied by the Southern California water district comes from Northern California transfers and Colorado River diversions. Climate change is likely to cut into both sources over time. And San Diego and the Southern California district have a history of antagonism; the Carlsbad plant, which would supply as much as 7 percent of the region’s needs, is the most recent of several San Diego efforts at diversification.

But water policy experts and local environmental activists are skeptical about the value of desalination compared with conservation and reuse. They will be watching the plant from a very different perspective.

Heather Cooley, a senior research associate with the Pacific Research Institute, an Oakland-based nonprofit group specializing in water supply questions, said that even if the Carlsbad plant worked well, a new rush to desalination was hardly certain.

It depended, she said, on whether “water demand continues to grow, as was likely in the past, or whether, as we’ve seen in the past 15 years, it stays the same or even declines, based on efficiencies and conservation and the structure of the economy.”

She added that by promising to buy at least 48 million gallons a day from the plant, the county water authority has less incentive to step up its push for water conservation, or to invest further in water reuse.

The environmental group the Surfrider Foundation, which has fought the Carlsbad plant at every turn, expects the plant to be an object lesson in how not to guard against water shortages. Among other things, the foundation emphasizes the energy needs of the plant, which will consume 5,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity to produce an acre-foot of water.

As electricity costs go up over time, the county’s water bill — already estimated to be $5 to $7 a month higher for each customer by 2016, thanks to Carlsbad — will rise in tandem.

But authority officials noted that water delivered from the Southern California district also required energy, and its cost, too, would go up in such circumstances.

The costs have been one focus of opponents.

“If the county had taken a holistic, practical approach to water management and water supply needs, it would never have done something so costly,” said Belinda Smith, a member of Surfrider.

She and her colleagues see the surface water intake valve as the plant’s Achilles’ heel. The current state permit covering the intake’s operations expires when the Encina natural gas power plant is no longer using cooling water. If the new permit required expensive changes — if, for instance, the entire intake had to be moved below the surface — the cost to ratepayers, and particularly to Poseidon, could increase significantly.

The county and the developers said this eventuality was covered in the financial planning.

But for the moment, Poseidon officials are energized by the prospect of beginning construction, after a decade of delays. Peter M. MacLaggan, a senior vice president at Poseidon, referred to the experience of the company’s desalination technology partners when he said, “We’re at desal 3.0 or 4.0 here at Carlsbad.”

He added that the need for new water supplies could provide a ready market for the technology, if it is effective. “Water in California has been cheap and plentiful. And that’s no longer the case,” he said. In San Diego, he said, “We’re facing it. The rest of California is facing it to different degrees. We’re all challenged in finding new water supplies.”
15 2013-03-01 According to the W.H.O. study, girls exposed as infants to radioactivity in the most contaminated regions of Fukushima Prefecture, where estimated doses ranged from 12 to 25 millisieverts for the first year, faced a 70 percent higher risk of developing thyroid cancer than what would normally be expected. The report pointed out, however, that the normal expected risk of thyroid cancer was just 0.75 percent, and that the additional lifetime risk would raise that to 1.25 percent.

Girls exposed to radioactivity as infants in the most heavily contaminated areas also had a 6 percent higher risk of developing breast cancer, and a 4 percent higher risk of developing cancers that cause tumors. Meanwhile, boys exposed as infants had a 7 percent higher chance of developing leukemia.

The study also said that about a third of the emergency workers who remained to try to stabilize the Fukushima Daiichi plant were estimated to have a slightly increased risk of developing leukemia, thyroid cancer and other types of cancer.

There would most likely be no observable increase in cancer rates for the general population in Fukushima Prefecture outside the most contaminated zones, in the rest of Japan and the world, the report said. It also said that the radiological fallout from the disaster was not expected to cause increases in miscarriages, stillbirths and other physical or mental disabilities.

Still, the study said that the psychological toll of the disaster, including the stresses of evacuation, were harmful to health and should color the Japanese government’s response.

The W.H.O. report “underlines the need for long-term health monitoring of those who are at high risk, along with the provision of necessary medical follow-up and support services,” Dr. Maria P. Neira, the Geneva-based organization’s director for public health and environment, said in a news release. “This will remain an important element in the public health response to the disaster for decades,” she said.

Dr. Angelika Tritscher, acting director for the food safety and zoonoses department at the health agency, said, “In addition to strengthening medical support and services, continued environmental monitoring, in particular of food and water supplies, backed by the enforcement of existing regulations, is required to reduce potential radiation exposure in the future.” .

The study, which drew on independent experts in radiation risk modeling, epidemiology, dosimetry, radiation effects and public health, first assessed specific radiation sources, including different types of radionuclides and the many ways in which people could come into contact with radiation. Its analysis was based on data available as of September 2011, and takes into account airborne contamination as well as contaminated food, water and other sources of contamination, the W.H.O. said.

The study then assessed the health risks that could result, based on existing scientific knowledge about the relationship between radiation doses and its health effect.

Researchers also assessed lifetime doses for different geographical locations both in Japan and overseas. Finally, they estimated lifetime risks of cancer for both sexes and at three ages at exposure: 1 year old, 10 years old, and 20 years old. For nuclear workers at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, the study estimated health risks associated with exposure at older ages.

Some local government officials in Fukushima criticized the W.H.O. report for identifying specific areas and their associated exposure estimates. Radiation exposure is a sensitive topic in Japan, where victims of the United States bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki often experienced discrimination in marriage, for example, because of feared health effects.

“I have to question the need to identify specific regions by name in such a hypothetical study,” Mayor Norio Kanno of Iitate Village, which remains evacuated, told N.H.K. Iitate was one of the areas identified in the W.H.O. report as the most heavily contaminated.

“I feel extreme anger over this excessive analysis, which will plunge more residents into fear,” Mr. Kanno said.

Iitate is one of the towns that remain off limits to residents, though it is beyond the 12-mile evacuation zone around the plant; most of the tens of thousands of evacuees were from within that zone.

Outside that area, people have started to return to their homes, including in places that were originally designated for voluntary evacuations. Cleanups and towns and cities in the region continue, but much of the remediation work is happening while people live in the communities.

Fukushima Prefecture has pledged to conduct long-term health screenings for possible effects of radiation. According to the prefecture, three local children have been found to have thyroid cancer since the health checks started in May 2011, but experts have said it is difficult to determine whether those cases are related to the Fukushima disaster.
16 2013-03-01 The choice of Ms. Ramirez has been widely praised by consumer groups, Democratic members of Congress and former colleagues. But it is also significant because it addresses concerns about a lack of diversity among Mr. Obama’s senior advisers and appointees.

Roughly 43 percent of Mr. Obama’s appointments have been women, according to an analysis by The New York Times, about the same as during the Clinton administration and up from about one-third under George W. Bush. Mr. Obama’s male appointees outnumbered females in 11 of 15 cabinet agencies. At four agencies, male appointees outnumbered female appointees by a two-to-one ratio.

People who know Ms. Ramirez say she will offer a different national perspective from the previous chairman, Jon Leibowitz, who announced his resignation in January and who has spent nearly all his career in Washington.

“Coming from the West Coast, with a background in representing individuals and municipal utilities as well as businesses, gives her a balanced vantage point from beyond the Beltway that will serve her well,” said Allan Van Fleet, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery who frequently encountered Ms. Ramirez when he was chairman of the American Bar Association’s antitrust section.

Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat who is chairwoman of the antitrust subcommittee, called Ms. Ramirez “a highly respected F.T.C. commissioner who will bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to her new position.”

Before joining the commission, Ms. Ramirez was a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan in Los Angeles, where she represented clients on matters of antitrust, intellectual property and unfair competition. She also served as vice president on the board of commissioners of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the nation’s largest municipal utility.

She graduated from Harvard in 1989 and from Harvard Law School in 1992. There, she was an editor of the law review when Mr. Obama was its president.

Ms. Ramirez also has been a director of Volunteers of America. While at the F.T.C., she has talked about the direct relationship between preserving competition in the marketplace and the reduction of poverty, particularly in the health care industry.

“Greater competition leads to lower prices overall, higher output, better quality, and more innovation,” Ms. Ramirez said last year in a speech, delivered in Spanish, at a competition forum in the Dominican Republic.

“The poor, like everyone else, benefit from these outcomes,” she said. “Indeed, the underprivileged may benefit even more because they spend a greater proportion of their income on basic goods and services, and, as a result, price increases affect them more than others.”

Ms. Ramirez has spoken strongly in favor of self-regulation and voluntary codes of conduct among companies involved in international trade.

At an F.T.C. workshop on cross-border consumer protection in November, she said that self-regulation was “an important tool for consumer protection that potentially can respond more quickly and efficiently than government regulation.”

To be effective, however, self-regulatory bodies must “impose meaningful standards subject to strict enforcement,” she said. “Our support for self-regulation is not at any price.”

Ms. Ramirez thanked Mr. Leibowitz for his leadership, but she did not always agree with him. In the F.T.C.’s recent case involving whether Google’s search practices were unfair, she objected to the commission’s decision to let Google promise to change its behavior without signing a legal commitment to do so.

The decision not to charge Google with violations of anticompetition or antitrust laws was unanimous by the five-member commission. But a footnote to the F.T.C.’s statement added: “While Commissioner Ramirez is pleased that Google has decided to change certain of its practices, she objects to the form of the commitments made by Google.”
17 2013-03-01 They would like their art back, please.

“When it arrived, it was brilliant,” said Tim West, co-owner of the Big Green Bookshop. “It had a ‘really’ factor — as in, ‘Wood Green? Really?’ ”

Wood Green would indeed seem an unlikely spot for a mural valued at $500,000 to $700,000, the figure the auction house, Fine Art Auctions Miami, had set for the sale. Poundland, an unlovely, unloved store that has its own “really” factor (as in: this huge package of batteries costs a pound? Really?) sits on a bustling corner amid a hodgepodge of charity shops, fast-food shacks and discount clothing emporia.

The notion that the elusive Banksy had singled out their community, of all the places in London, for one of his renowned guerrilla art projects was particularly appealing to residents. The artist works anonymously, at night, wherever he feels like working. He never signs his pieces; the only way to tell if they are authentic, dealers say, is to check his official Web site and see if they appear there. “Slave Labour” did.

But like many works by Banksy, an expert in attracting publicity while seeming not to court it, the work provided a commentary on its location, making a sharp point about sweatshop labor, the Queen’s diamond jubilee and possibly the outburst of patriotism surrounding the London Olympics. In any case, it seemed to fit right in.

Part of the residents’ problem now is that they do not know who possesses the work, so they do not know whom to yell at to get it back. Legal opinion generally holds that Banksy’s street art belongs not to him, but to whoever owns the walls he uses as canvases. That adds a further complication, because the wall in question is not owned by Poundland, but by the company it leases the space from, Wood Green Investments, and the company is not talking.

“If it wasn’t them, then somebody else did it, but my clients have not reported any theft to the police,” said Matthew Dillon, a lawyer for the company.

He acknowledged in an earlier interview that those clients are now in a fix. “If they deny removing the mural they will become embroiled in an international criminal investigation,” he told The Financial Times, “and if they admit to consenting to it, then they will become the target of abuse.” He added, “The advice to my client has been to say nothing.”

Startled by the outpouring of vitriol directed against it, the auction house in Miami is not talking, either, except to note that the work “is now back with the consignor,” whoever that is.

“I don’t have any comment,” Cornelia van der Geest, the business manager of Fine Art Auctions Miami, said in an interview. She said the firm had received hundreds of complaints about the auction, some of them not very nice.

“As an auction house, we want to be as uninvolved in this controversy as possible,” she said.

Efforts by Mr. Strickland of the Haringey council to determine who possesses the work right now have been fruitless.

“My private conversation with the owners” — that is, Wood Green Investments — “has not brought clarity in terms of what their involvement has been,” he said. “They accept that it was their wall and their property, and as soon as you ask them, ‘Do you know what happened? Was it stolen; did you sell it?’ they won’t provide answers.”

Mr. Strickland said Fine Art Auctions Miami had indicated that Wood Green Investments had sold “Slave Labour” on to a private collector, and that it was the private collector who had placed it in the auction.

“When we said, ‘Owner? Do you mean the property company?’ ” Mr. Strickland explained, “they said, ‘We can’t confirm that.’ If there is some way of getting a message to whoever owns the piece, we would like to open a dialogue.”

Inside Poundland, the manager said employees were not authorized to say anything. But a sales clerk looked wistful when the subject of “Slave Labour” came up.

“It was really nice to have so many people here taking photos,” she said, at a moment when the manager was not looking. “People on holiday, people passing through. It was a really nice painting, I mean work of art.”

She added: “I was shocked to believe that someone could just come and take art from the walls, and the wall. Is nothing safe?”
18 2013-03-01 In the interview, held in a conference room at the McCormick Place convention center in Chicago, the first lady also hinted at a more international second-term agenda.

But she said that whatever work she would do in the second term would probably build on her efforts to help children. “I am powerfully moved by children,” she said. “I need to have them in my life. They keep me focused; they keep me directed.” She added that “if I do anything internationally I want it to dovetail with the work I do domestically,” making certain that it “is linking back and being real to people here.”

Mrs. Obama has largely tried to stay out of hot-button issues like gun safety. “The question becomes who defines what’s contentious and controversial,” she said. “I can’t think along those notions because everyone’s definition of what’s controversial is different.” She added, “What I don’t want is just to do something to satisfy someone’s idea of what’s controversial.”

Mrs. Obama spoke to reporters shortly before she announced an ambitious plan in front of 6,000 Chicago-area children to increase physical education in the country’s public schools with the help of private companies.

Under the $70 million program, the first public-private partnership of its kind, schools will be able to apply for grants to assess and improve their health and physical education programs, with the goal of getting children to exercise an hour a day.

“This is an earth-shattering, awesomely inspiring day,” Mrs. Obama said in an emotional speech announcing the program in her hometown. “I grew up just a few miles from where we are today, over on the South Side.” She said that “being active was a way of life” back then, even though “my family certainly wasn’t rich, our neighborhood was barely middle class.” She recalled jumping rope and going to a summer camp for low-income children.

“Where would I have been without those activities that kept me busy and safe and off the streets?” she said.

The program is supported by Nike, which will provide $50 million over five years to help set up programs and spaces to get children to exercise. Other groups will give a combined $20 million for grants, training and other resources to help develop exercise programs and other health programs in schools.

A random note on Mrs. Obama’s years going to camp: One year she was not named best camper because she cursed too much. “I was, like, ‘Man, I am really getting out of hand,’ ” she said. “That left an impact in my mind.”
19 2013-03-01 Steven McCarroll, director of genetics for the Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research at the Broad Institute of Harvard and M.I.T., said it was significant that the researchers had found common genetic factors that pointed to a specific signaling system.

“It is very important that these were not just random hits on the dartboard of the genome,” said Dr. McCarroll, who was not involved in the new study.

The work began in 2007 when a large group of researchers began investigating genetic data generated by studies in 19 countries and including 33,332 people with psychiatric illnesses and 27,888 people free of the illnesses for comparison. The researchers studied scans of people’s DNA, looking for variations in any of several million places along the long stretch of genetic material containing three billion DNA letters. The question: Did people with psychiatric illnesses tend to have a distinctive DNA pattern in any of those locations?

Researchers had already seen some clues of overlapping genetic effects in identical twins. One twin might have schizophrenia while the other had bipolar disorder. About six years ago, around the time the new study began, researchers had examined the genes of a few rare families in which psychiatric disorders seemed especially prevalent. They found a few unusual disruptions of chromosomes that were linked to psychiatric illnesses. But what surprised them was that while one person with the aberration might get one disorder, a relative with the same mutation got a different one.

Jonathan Sebat, chief of the Beyster Center for Molecular Genomics of Neuropsychiatric Diseases at the University of California, San Diego, and one of the discoverers of this effect, said that work on these rare genetic aberrations had opened his eyes. “Two different diagnoses can have the same genetic risk factor,” he said.

In fact, the new paper reports, distinguishing psychiatric diseases by their symptoms has long been difficult. Autism, for example, was once called childhood schizophrenia. It was not until the 1970s that autism was distinguished as a separate disorder.

But Dr. Sebat, who did not work on the new study, said that until now it was not clear whether the rare families he and others had studied were an exception or whether they were pointing to a rule about multiple disorders arising from a single genetic glitch.

“No one had systematically looked at the common variations,” in DNA, he said. “We didn’t know if this was particularly true for rare mutations or if it would be true for all genetic risk.” The new study, he said, “shows all genetic risk is of this nature.”

The new study found four DNA regions that conferred a small risk of psychiatric disorders. For two of them, it is not clear what genes are involved or what they do, Dr. Smoller said. The other two, though, involve genes that are part of calcium channels, which are used when neurons send signals in the brain.

“The calcium channel findings suggest that perhaps — and this is a big if — treatments to affect calcium channel functioning might have effects across a range of disorders,” Dr. Smoller said.

There are drugs on the market that block calcium channels — they are used to treat high blood pressure — and researchers had already postulated that they might be useful for bipolar disorder even before the current findings.

One investigator, Dr. Roy Perlis of Massachusetts General Hospital, just completed a small study of a calcium channel blocker in 10 people with bipolar disorder and is about to expand it to a large randomized clinical trial. He also wants to study the drug in people with schizophrenia, in light of the new findings. He cautions, though, that people should not rush out to take a calcium channel blocker on their own.

“We need to be sure it is safe and we need to be sure it works,” Dr. Perlis said.
20 2013-03-01 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down after flirting with a record high for much of the afternoon....
21 2013-03-01 BEIJING — Security officials in the northwestern Chinese province of Gansu have arrested five Tibetans and accused them of inciting a series of self-immolations late last year by convincing participants that they would become heroes in death, state news media reported. Four of those detained were Buddhist monks, who the police said were guided by a Tibetan exile organization.

The arrests, announced Wednesday by Xinhua, the state news agency, are part of an increasingly desperate government campaign to stop the suicidal protests through intimidation, jail time and rewards for those who cooperate with the police.

Human rights groups have criticized the crackdown as counterproductive, saying it will only fuel the desperation that has convinced at least 107 people to set themselves on fire since 2009. In February alone there have been seven self-immolations in Tibetan regions of China, including an episode in which two teenagers killed themselves together last week in Sichuan Province.

Recently the authorities have detained 70 people accused of helping organize, encourage or publicize self-immolations. Chinese courts have so far shown little leniency toward the accused, sentencing more than a dozen ethnic Tibetans to long prison terms, and in one case in January, a suspended death sentence.

Those jailed include a 20-year-old artist who received two years in a labor camp after the police found images of self-immolators on his cellphone during a routine check, Radio Free Asia reported last week.
22 2013-03-01 Less than two weeks after  Christie&#x2019;s announced that it was increasing the fees  it charges buyers, Sotheby&#x2019;s followed suit. On Thursday afternoon, when the auction house reported its 2012 financial results, it announced that it woul...
23 2013-03-01 Goaltender Rick DiPietro,  waived last week by the Islanders  and sent to the American Hockey League, said in a television interview Thursday that he had battled depression and even had suicidal thoughts over his inability to live up to the 15-yea...
24 2013-03-01 Andrew Mason, the irreverent programmer and musician who turned a failed social action site into the daily deals phenomenon  Groupon , was dismissed Thursday as chief executive.&#xa;   &#xa;A day earlier, Groupon reported weak fourth- quarter earn...
25 2013-03-01 The  Tribeca Film Festival  will begin with a taste of Brooklyn and a nonfiction film on the Brooklyn (by way of Cincinnati) rock band  the National , organizers for the festival said&#xA0;Thursday.&#xa;   &#xa;&#x201C;Mistaken for Strangers,&#x20...
26 2013-03-02 The model transforms with makeup by Pat McGrath and hair by Luigi Murenu....
27 2013-03-02 Talks between the N.H.L. and the International Olympic Committee over whether the league will send its players next year to Sochi, Russia, hinge on one overarching issue: if the I.O.C. grants the N.H.L. concessions for shutting down its business at midseason, other leagues that send players to the Olympics may ask for the same.

The N.H.L.’s main request is the right to use Olympic video on the NHL Network and NHL.com.

The N.H.L., like the N.B.A., the W.N.B.A., FIFA and other sports leagues, is currently not allowed to use such video. That means the clip of Sidney Crosby scoring Canada’s gold-medal-winning goal against the United States at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics has never been shown on an N.H.L. video player of any kind.

But if the I.O.C. grants an exception to the N.H.L., it may have to grant similar exceptions to other bodies. That is the sticking point.

“I would think other leagues would ask for the same thing,” said Ed Desser, president of the consulting firm Desser Sports Media and a former president of NBA Television and New Media Ventures. “It’s a very interesting conundrum.”

Desser added: “On the one hand, you have leagues that spend a huge amount of time and resources in creating the interest in the athletes and the sport, and the I.O.C., in essence, gets a free ride on that. It’s hardly surprising to me that the N.H.L. would seek to obtain some benefits.”
28 2013-03-02 The pilot of a helicopter that crashed into the East River in 2011 failed to properly account for the weight of his passengers, three of whom died after being trapped underwater, federal safety officials concluded in a report released on Friday.

The Bell 206B helicopter was carrying at least 28 pounds more than it could safely handle when it lifted off from the heliport at the east end of 34th Street in Manhattan, according to the report by the National Transportation Safety Board. The excessive weight contributed to the pilot’s inability to stop his helicopter from spinning out of control, it said.

In an interview, the pilot, Paul Dudley, strenuously disputed the findings, saying that the investigators did not have all their facts right. He said the crash was an accident like many others that involved the same model of aircraft.

Mr. Dudley, an experienced pilot who runs an airport in New Jersey, had planned to take visitors from overseas for a ride when, just seconds after takeoff, the helicopter started spinning and an alarm sounded. He could not stop the spin as the helicopter fell toward the water, rolled over and sank upside down.

Mr. Dudley and the front-seat passenger, Paul Nicholson, escaped quickly, but the three women who were in the rear seats did not survive. Mr. Nicholson’s wife, Harriet, died a month after the crash from complications of nearly drowning. Her daughter, Sonia Marra, drowned in the river and Ms. Marra’s partner, Helen Tamaki, died about a week after the crash.
29 2013-03-02 “I have to agree that it was very bad,” said Hollis Watkins, 72, a leader of the McComb project who sang spirituals to his fellow civil rights workers as they languished in jail in 1961.

“But based on where we are now, and understanding their way of camouflaging things, instead of it being very bad, it’s bad,” added Mr. Watkins, who is still active in civil rights work in Mississippi.

The voting battles in Mississippi did not end in 1965. The state dragged its feet for four years before the first Justice Department review, and since then the federal government has objected to voting changes in Mississippi 173 times, 116 of them coming since the act was renewed in 1982.

With a black population of 37 percent, by far the largest in the country, Mississippi did not have a black representative in Congress from Reconstruction until 1986. As recently as 1990, only 22 out of the 204 members of the Mississippi State Legislature were black. While no black statewide official has been elected, there are now a black congressman and 49 black state lawmakers.

Many of these changes came about through application of Section 5; the Mississippi attorney general, Jim Hood, filed a friend of the court brief in the case now before the Supreme Court, arguing that the section continues to play a “vital role” in the state’s progress.

Mr. Hood’s filing did not go over well with everyone here. A column in The Enterprise-Journal, the daily newspaper here, was titled “Jim Hood doesn’t trust us.”

Wayne Dowdy, who as a Democratic congressman in 1982 voted to extend Section 5 for 25 years and has no doubt that it was necessary then, is also skeptical. “I have mixed feelings about the Voting Rights Act,” he said.

Mr. Dowdy is now the lawyer for Pike County, where McComb sits. When the 2010 census numbers were released, it was revealed that for the first time, the county had a black majority. Some black residents were outraged when the county’s new redistricting map, just as before 2010, left three of the five county supervisor districts as majority white. The map was submitted to the Justice Department as required, and was approved.

Mr. Dowdy has his concerns about suppression of minority votes, but thinks the nature of the suppression has changed from the time of Section 5.

“Rather than the literary tests and poll taxes, the problems we have now are different,” Mr. Dowdy said. “There are long lines in certain neighborhoods, there are voter ID requirements. And those kinds of problems are not restricted to the Southern states.”

Sitting in the combination beauty salon and laundromat he owns in the historically black Summit Street District, Tazwell Bowsky, one of Pike County’s two black supervisors, agrees that times have changed. But better, he insists, is not perfect.

“I’m going to go out on a limb here, but I think McComb would be all right,” he said, contemplating the prospect of Section 5’s demise. But the law is still essential, he said, saying, “There are other places around here,” before deciding to remain discreet about where those places may be.

“I’ll tell you if he won’t,” said Johnny McCray, 37, overhearing the conversation from his haircutting station. “Amite County and Tylertown.”

Amite County, which is spoken of in similar chilled tones by black residents in McComb, sits next door.

Redistricting and poll watchers have such a history in Amite County that the older white men sitting around at the drugstore in the county seat, Liberty, can swap their favorite election stories, many of which tend to have punch lines showing federal involvement as misguided and ineffectual.

The Justice Department is not amused. As recently as 2011, it struck down the county’s redistricting map, charging that county leaders had decreased the number of black voters in one district in favor of another, while fully knowing that black turnout in the latter district had historically been very low.

The district belongs to Max Lawson, a 60-year-old rancher. Sitting in his sun-filled kitchen, Mr. Lawson, who voted against the proposed map along with the one black county supervisor, began to detail his objections to federal intervention, which mostly involved the fact that roads he arranged to have paved were now in another district. On the question of race and the need for voting controls, he seemed puzzled.

“That was generations ago,” said Mr. Lawson, adding that many of his supporters are black. “It wasn’t us.”

Percy Pittman, who as a teenager spent nights keeping an armed vigil at his church to guard against firebombers, differed in his recollection of just how far away the bad times were. But he expressed similar sentiments.

“I don’t want stay angry because of something that happened a long time ago,” said Mr. Pittman, for nearly two decades the Pike County coroner and for now one of two black countywide elected officials. “I don’t even allow my children to watch ‘Roots.’ ”

Now 65, Mr. Pittman, believes that people in McComb, the largest city in Pike County, think in terms of personality rather than skin color.  That is, he clarified, most of them do.

Asked what he thought about people’s claims that racially motivated politics were completely a thing of the past in the South, Mr. Pittman hesitated for a moment.

“I think they’re full of it,” he said.
30 2013-03-02 Beyond the drama, which is expected to continue with Ms. Stewart’s testimony next week, the trial underscores how competitive the middle-market home goods category is and how much one brand like Martha Stewart can matter.

Home is not the sexiest of categories. It is things like sheets, towels, pots and toasters that are broadly available, low-margin and slow selling. Both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Lundgren said home goods rang up remarkably few sales per square foot. Mr. Johnson said that the category made $185 per square foot in 2007, but now made less than $80. And Mr. Lundgren said that at Macy’s, home was “generally the least profitable part of the store.”

Macy’s, which has been selling Ms. Stewart’s housewares for six years, filed suits last year against both Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia and Penney’s to stop the deal to bring her housewares into that retailer.

The fight over the dud home category might seem counterintuitive. But analysts say it is crucial to a department store’s offerings, and is particularly important now.

“The housing market is rebounding,” said Michael Brown, a partner in the consumer and retail practice at A. T. Kearney, “therefore the home products category is going to be in demand over the next 18- to 24-month period.”

Home departments bring in traffic, particularly from consumers who don’t want to make a separate trip to big-box competitors that are dedicated to home products only, Debra Mednick, home industry analyst for the NPD Group, said in an e-mail. Plus, she said, it brings in a wide range of demographics and ages. Most people need a pan at some point in their lives. Because high-end stores like Saks and Neiman Marcus sell few housewares, it is also a chance for the midrange stores to snag wealthier shoppers, Mr. Lundgren testified Monday.

Home-goods sales have been struggling as they tend to rise or fall in concert with the housing market, and new competition has been introduced from online-only vendors like One Kings Lane.

Exclusive products, like the Martha Stewart lines that Macy’s and Penney’s are fighting over, are particularly important in the home category. “The competitive advantage really lies with private label brands,” Mr. Brown said. “What drives consumers to a physical store is, is there something different?”

Ms. Stewart is the biggest vendor to Macy’s home department, and Mr. Lundgren said that Macy’s had nothing lined up to replace her line.

In a deposition, Mr. Johnson said that there was no other supplier to Penney’s that he expected to have the sales that Ms. Stewart would.

Sales are desperately needed at J. C. Penney, which has been in business for 111 years. Penney’s this week announced a $552 million loss and steep sales declines in the fourth quarter, as well for the year.

And Mr. Johnson, the former retail chief at Apple who took over the chain in 2011, is under increasing pressure to turn the retailer around. Ms. Stewart’s brand is a centerpiece of that strategy.

Penney is renovating an average of 19,000 square feet in each store to feature its new store-within-a-store home emporiums. It has signed up housewares designers like Michael Graves and Jonathan Adler. And Mr. Johnson told investors that when the home departments are unveiled in May, the company should see improved customer traffic.

On the stand on Friday, he said that Ms. Stewart was popular with middle-class shoppers, which fit Penney’s demographic, and that the Martha Stewart stores-within-a-store would serve as a showpiece for other vendors. “What a perfect example to show other vendors what these shops could be,” he said.

Before Mr. Johnson can pursue his full Martha strategy, though, Judge Jeffrey K. Oing will rule on the two lawsuits, which he consolidated into a single bench trial in New York State Supreme Court.

Macy’s has sold Martha Stewart-branded products like bedding, bath and cookware since 2007, and has been the only retailer to sell such branded products since the end of 2009, when Ms. Stewart’s deal with Kmart expired. Macy’s contends that Ms. Stewart’s products in these categories cannot be sold by competitors under the contract.

The legal case against Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia centers on a few questions. One has to do with the stores-within-a-store, where the Penney stores are divided into small boutiques. Fixtures and signs are designed by the brands, like Levi’s, though Penney employees staff the stores, and Penney owns the merchandise and gets credit for the sales.

There is an exclusion in the Martha-Macy’s contract for Martha Stewart’s own stores, letting her make products even in Macy’s exclusive categories for, as Macy’s saw it, a stand-alone store in Times Square or something similar. Martha Stewart argues that the Penney stores-within-a-store count as a distinct Martha store.

Therefore, Martha Stewart argues, the company is allowed to make products for Penney’s with her brand on them even in the Macy’s exclusive categories if they are sold in these stores-within-stores.

Aside from that dispute, Macy’s argues that Martha Stewart cannot, under its contract, design any products for Penney — even products that do not carry Ms. Stewart’s name — in the categories that Macy’s has exclusive agreements in. (Those are, broadly, kitchen, bedding and bath — things like candles and décor, cookware, towels and sheets and kitchen linens.)

Macy’s also contends that Martha breached the confidentiality clause in the contract by sharing elements of the contract with Penney’s and that Penney engaged in unfair competition by violating the contract.

As much as he was eager to have Ms. Stewart’s products, Mr. Johnson testified, it was Martha Stewart’s company and not Penney’s that came up with the idea that the store-within-a-store setup would let Penney’s carry products in the categories exclusive to Macy’s.

“A big breakthrough,” he e-mailed Penney’s executives in September 2011. “Martha’s lawyers have determined that they can do Martha Stewart Stores which include ‘Stores within a Store.’ ”

“We have a path should Terry not be amenable” to letting Martha produce for Penney’s, he wrote.
31 2013-03-02 Tiger Woods, the world No. 2, who won the Farmers Insurance Open in his last stroke-play start, nearly missed the weekend as well. After making a double-bogey 6 on No. 13, Woods sat outside the projected cut line of even par. He rebounded with a birdie on the par-4 14th to get back to even par and parred in for his second consecutive 70.

The 36-hole leader was Luke Guthrie, who followed his opening 68 with a 63 for a nine-under total of 131. He was one stroke ahead of Michael Thompson, who posted a 65, and was two shots in front of Boo Weekley (67) and Graham DeLaet (68). Lee Westwood (68), Geoff Ogilvy (66) and Charles Howell III (67) were among those tied for fifth.

Els, who was one under, spoke for a few players when he said he was unhappy that PGA Tour officials decided not to use the lift-clean-and-place rule that was in effect for the first round. The course was still wet enough to warrant it, and that was the gist of what Els said he told the tour rules official Slugger White after hitting his second shot, from the fairway, into the water at No. 18.

“Yeah, I fought on that,” Els said, adding with a laugh, “They just don’t want to listen to me.”

The back nine was the wetter side. Keegan Bradley, who was in the threesome after the Els-McIlroy-Mark Wilson group, split the fairway with his drive at No. 10 and had a mud ball. His next shot flew into the right rough, 35 yards from the pin. He ended up with a bogey, one of three he carded in his round of 68.

“Some holes it might have been better to hit it in the rough,” said Bradley, who was four under for the tournament. “It was pretty bad.”

White said the lift-clean-and-place rule was not in effect because, with the wet conditions, the fairways were not cut after Thursday’s round. There was no rain Thursday night, he said, which allowed the course to dry out sufficiently.

“The only rule we use is adverse conditions,” he said, “and I don’t think it was really adverse out there today.”

It was adverse out there for McIlroy, who can expect to field more criticism about his equipment change: he failed to advance to the weekend in either of his stroke-play events this year.

“I thought he played quite well yesterday,” Els said. “I thought he was pretty close to playing good golf. Hopefully he gets it together.”

He added, “You know, such a talented player, he’ll get it figured out.”
32 2013-03-02 She declined to specify what aspect of the federal case drew the lawyers to Cambodia.

Cambodian and United Nations officials said the lawyers were there to collect evidence to bolster arguments that the statue was stolen in the early 1970s from a ransacked temple site in a complex known as Koh Ker.

A Cambodian government spokesman, Ek Tha, said the delegation that visited the temple included Cambodian and foreign archaeologists.

A federal judge is scheduled to rule in weeks on whether the government’s case to seize the statue can proceed to trial. In earlier arguments District Judge George B. Daniels has pressed prosecutors on what proof they had that the statue, called the Duryodhana, was taken in the 1970s.

Sotheby’s has been trying to sell the statue, valued at as much as $3 million, on behalf of its Belgian owner since 2011. The United States government says the auction house had reason to suspect that the statue had been stolen, and that it is the rightful property of Cambodia, citing laws governing antiquities adopted when the country was a colony of France.

Sotheby’s has said the statue was legally purchased in good faith from a reputable London auction house in 1975 by the owner’s husband, now deceased, who had no reason to suspect that such a sale could be bound by laws set by a government that had long passed from power.

In a statement the auction house said the trip by the lawyers “will not change critical weaknesses in the government’s case — most importantly, its reliance on hopelessly ambiguous French colonial decrees.”

Some experts saw the move as a sign that the United States government is worried about its ability to prove how and when the statue was taken.

“They are very invested in this case, and it would be humiliating to lose,” said William G. Pearlstein, an arts lawyer in New York and a former member of the American Bar Association’s International Cultural Property Committee. “I think they underestimated the requirements of the judge in proving actual theft and Cambodian ownership.”

Others said the trip had a diplomatic component and showed the United States’ commitment to an important matter for the Cambodian government.

Evan T. Barr, a former federal prosecutor and now a partner with the New York law firm Steptoe & Johnson, said Ms. Levin’s trip, while not routine, made sense. “She is literally eyeballing the scene of the crime, so when she presents the case in court, she can speak from firsthand knowledge,” he said.

Experts said federal lawyers in such cases typically rely on material gathered by a sovereign government, as well as on research by its officials stationed abroad, like members of the Homeland Security Department’s Office of International Affairs, which has attachés in 47 countries.

David L. Hall, an assistant United States attorney in Delaware who has handled many cultural heritage claims, said going abroad to looted sites had helped him win tough cases.

In one continuing case, in which federal lawyers in Missouri are trying to seize an ancient Egyptian mask known as the Ka-Nefer-Nefer from the St. Louis Art Museum, the lawyers did not travel overseas, according to Jan Diltz, a spokeswoman for the United States Attorney’s Office in St. Louis.

Experienced cultural property lawyers, many of whom disagree over the merits of the Sotheby’s case, agreed that the trip’s high profile underscores the State Department’s view that cultural heritage issues are a major part of public diplomacy.

State Department officials had no comment on the visit.

Peter R. Stern of McLaughlin & Stern, a veteran arts lawyer and onetime outside counsel for Sotheby’s, said that “given the stretched resources” of the government, “it seems hard to justify this trip in terms of time or cost.”

“I find it hard to believe this would come without a directive from above, and I think it is more foreign policy than law enforcement,” he said.

Rick St. Hilaire, a lawyer and expert in cultural heritage law, said the trip was a positive development for those wanting the Justice Department to take an aggressive stance in seizing disputed antiquities. Ms. Levin is considered the premier assets-forfeiture prosecutor in the country, he said, and her supervisor, United States Attorney Preet Bharara, is signaling an unflinching commitment to the case.

“It is a serious show of force,” Mr. St. Hilaire said. “They are willing to do what it takes to trace the statue back to its origins.”

In its statement Sotheby’s said, “There is no clear and unambiguous law that would give purchasers fair notice that the modern state of Cambodia claims ownership of everything a long-defunct regime made and then abandoned 50 generations ago.”
33 2013-03-02 American’s merger with US Airways indeed gives it dominance at certain hub airports and on several key routes. Unfortunately, the airline industry faces a fundamental conundrum: it doesn’t do well under traditional competition (so many major carriers have been through bankruptcy, several twice) but even reduced to a “big three” it has the same business risks.

Outside the United States, it faces competition from more than 100 carriers across the globe. Back home, there is still a sizable presence of discount carriers. Many leisure travelers can drive, and some premium fliers can choose private jet services.

Antitrust aside, government (and the industry itself) may finally realize that network airlines have become a commodity service that probably works best as a regulated monopoly with very standardized service and pricing, like commuter rail. Otherwise, from the passenger’s perspective especially, airline mergers aren’t really much more than new paint.

The writer is president of Indigo Aerospace, an aviation advisory company.
34 2013-03-02 A 30-year-old cook, Kingsley Saviouru, said: “They demolished everything. They didn’t give us anything. We are here, suffering.”

Under Lagos’s energetic governor, much lauded in the international financial media, this crowded megalopolis of high rises, filthy lagoons, fierce traffic jams and sprawling slums, home to perhaps 21 million people, has proclaimed its ambition to become the region’s, if not Africa’s, premier business center.

Infrastructure and housing projects abound, including a light-rail network whose trestles already vault crowded neighborhoods, and a vast upmarket Dubai-style shopping and housing development built out into the Atlantic Ocean, inaugurated last week by former President Bill Clinton. A new Porsche dealership has opened in the financial district.

In this gleaming vision, the old Lagos of slums has an uncertain future. Two-thirds of the city’s residents live in “informal” neighborhoods, as activists call them, while more than one million of the city’s poor have been forcibly ejected from their homes in largely unannounced, government slum clearances over the last 15 years, a leading activist group says.

Last summer, there was a brief outcry when government speedboats bearing machete-carrying men cleared out the floating neighborhood of Makoko, making some 30,000 people homeless. At the vast city dump at Ojota, where thousands eke out a living, shacks are cleared out frequently, residents complained.

The Nigerian government’s untender approach to its poor, who account for at least 70 percent of the population, was again on full display last Saturday at Badia East, where even more demolition — another 40,000 live there — is now threatened. The scene Saturday was classic: a black police vehicle pulled up early, armed, uniformed policemen sprang out to quell any restiveness, and the backhoes went to work under the eyes of dismayed residents, slashing through thin wood and concrete block.

Street toughs — called “Area Boys” in Lagos, and often employed by the state government’s demolition squad for around $10, activists said — got busy where the backhoes could not penetrate, smashing flimsy structures with sledgehammers and, Mr. Momoh and others said, stealing residents’ possessions.

Many said they were given 20 minutes, at most, to pack up their belongings.

“Everybody was running helter-skelter,” said a resident, Femi Aiyenuro, adding that those who went back in to retrieve possessions risked being beaten with rifle butts and batons. “They started beating people.”

What little that could be salvaged was piled along a railway line running along Badia’s edge.

“They were flogging me,” said Charity Julius, 27 and pregnant. She said she ran into her dwelling to fetch her baby boy, and once he was safely out, she ran back to gather as many possessions as she could. The police did not like that and beat her, she said, showing a bruise on her right arm as evidence.

The Lagos state commissioner for housing, Adedeji Olatubosun Jeje, provided a different version of events.

“It’s a regeneration of a slum,” he said. “We gave enough notification. The government intends to develop 1,008 housing units. What we removed was just shanties. Nobody was even living in those shanties. Maybe we had a couple of squatters living there.”

As for the new housing, “there’s not a chance they can afford it,” said Felix Morka, executive director of the Social and Economic Rights Action Center, a local economic rights group, adding that Badia residents earn under $100 a month on average. The World Bank had previously included Badia on a list of slum communities for upgrade, Mr. Morka noted.

That list is now moot. Within six hours, Badia East was gone.

“We don’t have anywhere to stay,” said Joy Austin, a mother of three. “Everybody is outside now. We don’t have anywhere to go.”

Her sleeping accommodation is now a filthy foam mattress placed on cardboard, in the mud; her children sleep under low torn mosquito nets.

A wig pokes out of the rubble; nearby are a few bras, a child’s toy gun, some CDs, a torn shirt, a crushed shampoo bottle, and some flip-flops. At the edge of the rubble-field, small boys played makeshift table tennis on two boards placed atop jerrycans while a young man pushed a wheelbarrow of salvaged wood with a small Nigerian flag tied to it. In the evening, boys who clambered barefoot over the upturned, nail-studded boards received painful wounds.

Mr. Morka, a Harvard-trained lawyer who is challenging the state government in court over the demolitions, said: “They want a Lagos that looks good, that feels good, that glitters. But they are well aware that Lagos is Lagos because of the people that live here. They are doing this without regard for the people who live here.”

That sentiment — that the government had, bewilderingly, declared open season on its own people — permeated the Badia residents.

“I don’t know the reason why they do all this,” said Ms. Austin, as other residents crowded around. “I don’t know why they break everything. We don’t expect it, now. People were still sleeping. We didn’t pack up anything.”

Mr. Aiyenuro, a security guard who said he had built his house himself, said: “We had thousands of people living here. Now, everything is destroyed.”

Nobody said they were leaving the area. “There’s a misguided belief that if you demolish the slum, they will just go back to the village,” said Megan Chapman, an American lawyer who works with Mr. Morka. “It’s completely untrue. They don’t just disappear.”

Here and there, hot anger at the governor, Mr. Fashola, flashed out of the crowd.

“We’re not criminals!” shouted Peter Patersoa, a 39-year-old bricklayer and father of a one-month-old. “Fashola is doing wrong work! He’s not doing good in Lagos State.”

Another crowd gathered. “We are hoping in God to favor us,” Mr. Aiyenuro said. “Please, we are suffering.”
35 2013-03-02 In the saxophonist Ravi Coltrane’s new album, “Spirit Fiction” (Blue Note), he works with two different groups, destabilizing the idea that he has a current group sound, or maybe enlarging it. In his Jazz Standard run he’s pushing the idea further, playing with three different bands over the course of a six-day week. The third one, playing this weekend, is as close as it gets to his latest going concern.

But Thursday was the first night of the second band, a pianoless quartet playing hard, articulate and open-ended music; it included the trumpeter Tim Hagans, the bassist Christian McBride and the drummer Bill Stewart. This isn’t a working band, and maybe it never should be. It’s too good as it is, without an agenda or a pattern.

Rather than protecting and refining anything particular, the four musicians — who took the stage on Thursday without having rehearsed or sound-checked — were exploring their possibilities without set arrangements or a fixed outcome. The music grew out of very little, pushing forward almost entirely through playing rather than through material, the two horns riding over an extraordinary rhythm section; it quickly became exciting and didn’t flag.

The set started on a version of the serious-minded ballad “Wise One,” by Mr. Coltrane’s father, John Coltrane, and built up from a tentative start. The performance may have alluded in passing to John Coltrane’s strong tone and headlong momentum, but not to any of his pet phrases or rhythmic feel; Ravi’s long solo ranged around the beat in precise chunks of phrasing.

Heard in the widest context, never mind as a homage and never mind the family implications — the younger Coltrane didn’t play much of the elder’s music until recent years — the performance avoided a lot of possible problems: it was full of forceful but not grandiose playing; it had modernity, humility and patience; it thought through a stately song without getting trapped by its mood.

As the piece started loosely, as a theme unmoored by a steady rhythm, it ended like that too, the whole group simmering down until there was nothing left to say. The audience paused for a while at the end, maybe five seconds or more, processing what it had just heard before starting its applause. You don’t experience that often in a jazz club.
36 2013-03-02 The 2nd Copenhagen Bridge Invitational took place last weekend. Twenty pairs played a round robin of eight-board matches. The scoring method was Butler. Each pair’s results were scored by international match points against the average on a board, with the extreme results being eliminated from the calculation of the average.

The winners were Michael Barel and Yaniv Zack from Israel. They finished 15 imps ahead of Michel and Thomas Bessis (father and son) from France, with Gregers Bjarnarson and Michael Askgaard from Denmark third.

The top two pairs met in the penultimate round, and the result was a tie. The Israelis judged well in the diagramed deal.

After Thomas Bessis (East) opened one heart, and Barel (South) overcalled two diamonds, Michel Bessis (West) made a four-diamond splinter bid, guaranteeing four or more hearts, at least game values, and a singleton or void in diamonds. Now Zack (North) advanced with five clubs, primarily to suggest a lead, should the Frenchmen bid to five hearts. When West doubled, North ran to five diamonds, which West also doubled.

After West led the heart ace, South handled the play with care. Knowing that trumps were 3-1 or 4-0, declarer saw that he could not immediately draw trumps, because he would then have three heart losers. He had to get dummy’s club suit established first.

After ruffing the lead in the dummy, South immediately played a club.

If East had ducked, declarer would have led another club, giving the same result. But, understandably, East took his ace and shifted to the spade deuce. South ruffed the third round of spades with his diamond ace, ruffed another heart in the dummy, drew trumps and conceded down one.
37 2013-03-02 The Week in Pictures for March 1 from Business
38 2013-03-02 News organizations, too, have long brought this trope to life through imagery of visitors being turned away from the monument because its staff could not be paid.

A front-page article in the July 31, 1892, issue of The New York Times warned that “the Washington Monument will be closed on Monday” if a spending bill was held up because of objections by two congressmen to an appropriation for the Chicago World’s Fair.

“The beauty of the Washington Monument was that it looked symbolic,” said Stephen H. Hess, who studies the press and political culture at the Brookings Institution. “You know why they were using it — they weren’t using it to scare people as such, they were using it to illustrate something.”

As the White House and Congress failed to find a way out of the widespread spending cuts that were to begin taking effect on Friday, the monument, though, was being eclipsed by new symbols.

The Obama administration appeared particularly determined to replace the specter of disappointed tourists in the nation’s capital with the idea that they would have a tough time getting here.

Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has been sounding the alarm that the $600 million in cuts to the Federal Aviation Administration could result in 90-minute delays at some airports because of reductions in flight controllers.

“It’s going to be very painful for the flying public,” Mr. LaHood said at the White House on Feb. 22.

This week, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar — who as the overseer of the National Park Service would normally have the Washington Monument to fall back on — announced that if the budget cuts happened, a suspension of contracts and a freeze on hiring seasonal workers would force some parks to start their seasons later than usual. Parks could also be subject to shorter hours and closings if furloughs cause inadequate staffing.

On Tuesday, when Mr. Obama spoke to workers who build aircraft carriers in Newport News, Va., the visit also served as a reminder that a carrier battle group, whose deployment to the Persian Gulf was delayed in anticipation of the budget cuts, was still docked in nearby Norfolk.

“The trouble with that is, nobody knew it was there in the first place, and couldn’t care less where it is,” Mr. Hess said.

Whether or not the appearance was effective, Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, accused the president of using the military as a “prop.”

The administration was also essentially accused on Tuesday of using the monument strategy on immigrant detention centers. After Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced that it had released hundreds of immigrants in an effort to save money in anticipation of the budget cuts, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, a Republican, accused Mr. Obama of doing it to “promote his political agenda on sequestration.”

The Washington Monument’s fade from prominence in the political lexicon might have been foreshadowed.

From 1979 to 1997, the golden age of its place at the center of budget fights, there were more than 1.1 million visitors to the monument on average each year, according to the Park Service. Changes made to its security after Sept. 11, 2001, reduced the average number of visitors to around 600,000 in recent years. So even if the monument were still open, would closing it really be that painful?

“Given the variety of other monuments and other tourism experiences that are available in the city itself, I’m not sure it really matters,” said Michael Altman, an adjunct instructor of tourism studies at George Washington University and a consultant to the local tourism board.

“I would be extremely surprised if there were a lot of people arriving who didn’t know it was closed,” he added. “I’m not sure if it bothers people patriotically.”
39 2013-03-02 Grinnell is among a select group of colleges to be both need-blind in admissions and able to meet 100 percent of that need for admitted students. But it is typical of most colleges that reported a drop in their endowments in 2008. Grinnell’s endowment is now $1.5 billion, down from $1.7 billion in 2008, and, the college has pointed out, it relies on the endowment for 50 percent of its operating budget.

“Grinnell is pretty unusual to be need-blind and to meet 100 percent of the need,” said Jon W. Tarrant, a certified educational planner in Carlisle, Pa. “Most colleges can’t afford to be need-blind.”

There is an argument, too, that need-blind admissions policies have not created greater socioeconomic diversity on campuses. “One of the ways colleges are need-blind is they are quite literally blind to the neediest students and the conditions they’re coming from,” said Shamus Khan, an associate professor of sociology at Columbia University and the author of “Privilege: The Making of an Adolescent Elite at St. Paul’s School.”

“Think about parents who invest $50,000 a year or more in their kids,” Mr. Khan said. “You could be looking at $1 million in investments in a kid over 18 years. What need-blind does is compare those students to every other kid who didn’t get that.”

Still, any talk about changing the way parents’ financial situations are factored into their children’s admissions prospects plays into worries about ever-increasing college tuition bills. A study last year by The Princeton Review found that most students and their parents said financial aid was either extremely or very necessary for them to go to college.

So how much does your financial situation matter in getting children into college? Both more and less than you think. Admissions officials can usually figure out fairly quickly who needs aid and who doesn’t.

“It will be obvious because they didn’t file a financial aid form,” Belinda Stern, an education consultant on Mercer Island, Wash., said. “Some people are a little more brazen and want to make it clear to the college that they are willing to pay the full ride and come right out and say it.”

A student she counseled was admitted to a prestigious college and its business program because his father owned a sports team. But Mr. Chany, the financial aid consultant in New York, said he knew of families who had donated seven figures and their child still did not get in.

“At some schools, there are development cases,” he said, using the industry term for likely donor. “But they compete against their own subcategory of students the way athletes compete against athletes.”

That is not to say the ability to pay does not work to students’ advantage. Mr. Tarrant said many colleges were trying to attract international students for budgetary reasons. “They get both international diversity and full pay,” he said.

Out-of-state students applying to state universities are in a similar situation because their tuition will be much higher than that of residents, Ms. Stern said. And the universities may use merit aid to attract them, knowing that even if these students get aid of $5,000 or more, they will still be paying more than their in-state counterparts.

Where the advantage of wealth may seem unfair is for students who are marginal for a particular college and need a lot of financial aid. They might not be admitted over a similarly marginal student whose parents can pay.

This feeds into why some parents who could qualify for some aid think they will give their children a leg up by not ticking the box that says they want to be considered for it. One counselor who asked not to be named said she sometimes asked parents if they could afford to pay for the first year and apply for aid after that.

But this kind of strategy ultimately creates an untenable situation. What if they don’t get aid the next year? Do they take on huge amounts of debt? Does the student transfer?

“You have to think long and hard about how long you can pay full freight,” said Susan Beacham, chief executive of Money Savvy Generation, a consultant, who lives in Illinois.

Ms. Beacham said she and her husband told their two daughters that they would not pay more than $40,000 a year for college for them. One is at Miami University of Ohio, which costs just under $40,000 for out-of-state students. The other had wanted to go to New York University — at nearly $60,000 — but went to the University of South Carolina instead, where the price tag is also about $40,000. Next year, she is transferring to the University of Illinois, where she will get in-state tuition.

“It is such an emotional issue,” Ms. Beacham said. “It’s your child’s happiness. But your child’s happiness cannot be bought.”

But many parents still want to be able to send their children to the best college they get into. The financial reality, made starker by the 2008 financial crisis that reduced savings and cost many people their jobs, makes this harder.

Joan Rynearson, an educational consultant on Bainbridge Island, Wash., said there were plenty of affluent parents receiving financial aid. Pitzer College in California said the families of 14 of its 198 students receiving financial aid last year had incomes above $200,000, and at least one student received slightly more than the $56,988 the college costs per year.

Ms. Rynearson is working now with a doctor who has one daughter in college and twins who are juniors in high school. “He will get financial aid even though he’s a well-paid doctor,” she said. “There is an advantage to having twins because your expected family contribution remains the same.”

She is more concerned with what she calls the “disadvantaged middle class”: families that make too much to qualify for financial aid but not enough to pay full tuition.

One of the things colleges do to this group is what consultants call “gapping.” The college may determine that a family needs $20,000 a year in aid but will offer only $10,000 and leave it up to the family to pay more — or go somewhere else. Or the college seems to meet the need but does so with a large portion of loans and campus jobs.

The main advice for parents caught in this trap is to aim their sights lower. Many second- and third-tier colleges will offer merit scholarships to attract smart students whose grades and test scores will increase their academic profile — and whose parents can pay some of the tuition.

“It’s a tough conversation to have with the students and their parents,” Ms. Stern said. “It’s still status to have your kid go to the big-name school.”

The other advice is to think now about your career ambitions and whether you can afford to pay off the loans later. Social workers, for example, may do a lot of good in the world but they do not earn enough money to pay off large loans.

“It’s almost a luxury of the past to be able to go off and enjoy this rich liberal arts experience with no regard to what it costs and what you’ll be doing,” Ms. Rynearson said. “My practice has changed in that I feel more responsibility as a consultant to assess student interest and attitudes toward a career.”
40 2013-03-02 8:45 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;A federal judge on Friday weakened the blow from Apple&#x2019;s legal victory in a patent case against Samsung, lopping more than 40 percent off the damages a jury awarded Apple last year....
41 2013-03-03 Shots and Goals from the Premier League’s Top Scorers This Season
42 2013-03-03 On opening day in M.L.S., Dallas took advantage of a goalkeeping miscue by Steward Ceus of Dallas in a 1-0 victory....
43 2013-03-03 A research paper presented at the M.I.T. Sloan and Sports Analytics Conference showcases a method for assessing basket protection....
44 2013-03-03 Mushers and their dogs took a jaunt through Anchorage in the ceremonial start of Alaska’s Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. The 1,000-mile race kicked off in a festive manner as 66 teams posed with fans and sailed their sleds 11 miles on streets covered with trucked-in snow. Each sled carried an Iditarider, a fan who won the short ride at auction. The event comes ahead of the competitive start of the race Sunday in Willow, 50 miles to the north.
45 2013-03-03 That belief holds even now, nearly three months later, as the Knicks and the Heat prepare for a rematch Sunday afternoon at Madison Square Garden. The Knicks view themselves as the Heat’s equal, which may be admirable and foolish, given the paths traveled by these rivals since they last met.

The Knicks, who were 18-5 on Dec. 15, have gone 17-15 since then. The Heat — who wobbled through the opening weeks of the season while tinkering with their offense and rotation — are 27-8 in the same period, the best mark in the league. LeBron James is torching the record books, and the Heat (42-14) are tearing through the league, winning their last 13 games. Miami is again lording over the Eastern Conference, with a six-and-a-half-game lead on the Knicks (35-20).

Yet the Knicks’ self-image seems trapped in mid-December.

“We know we can compete with them for that first spot,” Raymond Felton said Friday night.

That seems unlikely, given the Knicks’ current state and the grueling schedule that lies ahead. Of greater concern are whether the Knicks are sturdy enough to make a deep playoff run and whether they can possibly contend with the Heat when they inevitably meet again. A blowout victory in mid-December means nothing in May.

Three months later, those early victories over Miami look more and more like an aberration.

The Knicks who started 18-5 had a healthy Rasheed Wallace, a vibrant Jason Kidd and a hot-shooting Felton. Their offense was blistering, and their 3-point shooting was devastating. Their defense wavered but was solid at the right times.

That team no longer exists, at least not in that form.

Wallace is gone, lost to a foot injury that will almost certainly end his season, robbing the Knicks of a key defender and an on-court leader. Kidd has been yanked from the starting lineup, having lost his shooting touch, and any ability to stay in front of his man.

Ronnie Brewer, who started the first 27 games, was dumped at the trading deadline. Amar’e Stoudemire, who missed the entire 18-5 run, is still reacclimating, with alternating doses of promising offense and horrific defense.

And just about everyone has regressed to the mean.

The Knicks shot a scorching 41 percent from 3-point range over the first 23 games, the second-best mark in the league. They have converted at only 34.3 percent since then (ranking 22nd), and yet they are still attempting almost as many 3-pointers as they were when times were good.

Felton is shooting .264 from behind the arc over the last 32 games, after shooting .406 over the first 23. Anthony’s 3-point accuracy has dropped to .347, from .455. Kidd, who shot a mind-boggling .483 from the arc during the hot streak, has converted .275 since.

In their victory over Miami on Dec. 6, the Knicks made 18 3-pointers. They have hit that mark just once in the 35 games since.

Skeptics who viewed the 3-point assault as unsustainable have been proved correct. Too many key players were shooting above their career averages. Yet the Knicks stubbornly contend that the November formula can be replicated.

“It’s just early on this season, we were making those shots that we’re not making right now,” Anthony said. “Once we get back to making those shots, it makes the game that much easier.”

Given their individual histories, there is no reason to believe the Knicks can make good on Anthony’s promise. They could overcome the 3-point decline with supreme defense, except the Knicks have yet to show that ability.

The Knicks rank 15th in defensive efficiency, allowing 103.3 points per 100 possessions, and they were only slightly better (102.1) during their 18-5 start. They are nowhere close to defending the way they did last season, when they posted a 98.4 rating, the fifth-best mark in the league.

The hope is that Iman Shumpert’s gradual return to form after off-season knee surgery will bolster the Knicks’ poor perimeter defense. That Marcus Camby, nearly recovered from a foot injury, will help protect the lane. That the shooting will improve. That Stoudemire will play defense. That Kenyon Martin can still play. That Kidd, who turns 40 this month, will not look 40.

Since their last victory over Miami, the Knicks have gone 0-3 against Chicago, 0-2 against Indiana, 1-1 against Boston and 2-1 against the Nets. They have lost to Sacramento, Portland and Washington, coasting at all the wrong times.

It is possible that the Knicks are resting on the cushion they built in November, preserving themselves for the postseason grind.

Veterans call this “flipping the switch,” and it is a dangerous game, particularly for a team that has yet to prove anything.

Looking back, it seems clear that the Heat were not really the Heat — at least as we know them — when these teams last met. We still don’t know who these Knicks really are.
46 2013-03-03 That was legal when he did it in 1989, but not anymore.

The campaign laws include an intentional loophole for lawmakers like Representative Carol Alvarado, Democrat of Houston, who is in a special election for an open Senate seat. Like the other candidates in that race, she was allowed to raise money for the campaign in spite of the Legislature’s calendar.

The candidates in the District 6 Senate race are not the only people dialing for dollars while lawmakers are in town. Monday is Gov. Rick Perry’s birthday, which will be celebrated with a dinner at the Governor’s Mansion benefiting Carry the Load, a group formed to honor military veterans. Suggested donations go as high as $100,000, which buy the donor V.I.P. seating for eight and “priority seating” for another eight guests at the governor’s birthday dinner, along with a private tour of the restored mansion. Last month, the Texas Senate Hispanic Research Council held a gala for the Luna scholars program, which gives students civic experience by allowing them to work as legislative staff members during the session. Diamond sponsorships for the gala at the downtown Austin Hilton went for $20,000, and individual tickets were $1,000; Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst gave the keynote address.

A similar group, the Texas Legislative Internship Program, has a fund-raising gala in April at Austin’s Four Seasons Hotel, with the top sponsors donating $25,000. That one is affiliated with Texas Southern University, and the attraction is a roast of Representative Sylvester Turner, Democrat of Houston.

The legislative luncheon for the Governor’s Commission for Women — the first lady of Texas, Anita Perry, is the headline speaker — is on the March calendar. The top-level sponsorship for that one is $10,000, with the money going to the commission’s work.

Worthy causes, across the board. It is hard to fault the officeholders for using their prominence to raise money for such programs, the donors for contributing or the charities for accepting the money.

But the timing of the events is wince-inducing.

Ethics laws and practices have a lot to do with intent and with appearances. Leave intent to the lawyers, but appearances belong to politics.

The political fund-raising prohibition is aimed at the appearance that lawmakers are taking money from donors while casting votes that benefit those donors.

So if donors cannot show their love for officeholders by giving money directly, indirect giving becomes the next best thing. A donor at a charity event sponsored by a politician for purely charitable purposes appears to be doing the same thing as a donor who is there purely to curry favor with the politician at the head table.

An officeholder raising money for a good cause looks the same as a lawmaker using a powerful position to make donors do something they might not otherwise do. If voters are willing to believe in the pure motives of everyone involved, they needn’t worry about influence peddling.

But it is awkward. As Joe Straus, the House speaker, said last week at a dinner honoring him and benefiting the Annette Strauss Institute, “People say the nicest things about you when the budget’s being written.”
47 2013-03-03 Though India’s economy has cooled, the demand for property in elite areas remains so strong that even finding a house for sale is tricky: formal listings do not exist; prices usually circulate by word of mouth. Transactions often require some “black” money, or stacks of cash paid under the table to avoid taxes.

The buyers are often Indian industrialists looking for a trophy property, a real estate Rolex. Or, real estate agents and sellers say, they can be politicians or their proxies, who often pay with trunks of cash.

For their money, buyers get a lovely piece of land and a piece of history, if not much in the way of amenities. Many houses require a major overhaul. Services, if far better in these elite areas, are still inadequate: drinking the tap water is not advised, and power failures remain an irritant.

The obvious question about the prices, in a country where hundreds of millions of people still live on less than $2 a day, is: Why?

To a large degree, India is experiencing the sort of real estate boom common to big, emerging economies. When Japan’s economy was soaring in the 1980s, prices in Tokyo were so frothy that the 845-acre compound of the Imperial Palace was valued at more than all the real estate in California. More recently, China has seen a boom, with real estate values rising in some cities by 500 percent.

But the spike in New Delhi is also being fueled by ego, status and some unique distortions in India’s economy. Few properties come available in the leafiest, most prestigious section of the capital, known as Lutyens’ Delhi, because the area is mostly dedicated to government housing. Powerful government ministers live in British-era bungalows with stately lawns of several acres, while lesser officials are eligible for different categories of government housing in an oasis largely separated from the rest of the chaotic capital, where many people live crowded into slums or shanties.

“This is the best part of Delhi, the core of Delhi,” said Munish Kumar Garg, who oversees the allocation of government housing. “If these properties in Lutyens’ Delhi were put on sale, there would be a queue two kilometers long.”

Mr. Garg, the director of the government’s Directorate of Estates, controls one of the more valuable residential real estate portfolios in the world. Asked how many New Delhi properties fell under his agency, he shrugged. “It would be difficult to know,” he said. “Maybe 10,000.”

It was a British architect, Edwin Lutyens, who in the early 1900s designed what is now the governmental heart of the capital. Beyond the grand buildings erected as the seat of British imperial power, Mr. Lutyens and other architects also built a residential bungalow zone of whitewashed single-story homes surrounded by verdant gardens. When India won its independence in 1947, the British moved out of many of the houses and the Indians moved in.

Today, power in Delhi can be measured by where a politician lives. The Directorate of Estates divides properties into eight categories, with Category 8 bungalows, the most exclusive, reserved for ministers and other top leaders. Former prime ministers and presidents, and their spouses, are allowed to remain in Category 8 housing until death.

Given the shortage of such housing, the recent death of former Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral has spurred jockeying over who will get the bungalow.

Navin Chawla, who was India’s chief election commissioner from 2005 to 2010, lived with his wife in a Category 8 bungalow on six acres, with accommodation for 17 servants, including a separate house most likely worth many millions of dollars. When his term ended, so did his tenancy.

“I have to tell you, these homes are very timeless,” he said, sounding wistful. “It’s a bonus of the job to get a six-acre property for five years, one of the few bonuses of being election commissioner, I can tell you.”

Not surprisingly, as Indian industrialists have amassed great fortunes in recent years, the temptation to buy into a zone where status is so nakedly demarcated and only a few hundred private properties exist has proved irresistible. Property values in the Lutyens’ bungalow zone, as well as in nearby neighborhoods, have appreciated steadily for many years but skyrocketed in the past decade.

In some cases, families have held these private houses for generations. Many were refugees from Pakistan after partition in 1947, when streets like Amrita Shergil Marg were hardly exclusive. Veena Kumar’s parents arrived almost penniless in 1947 and rented a bungalow on the street for about $5.50 a month, before buying it eight years later. In those days, the house was at the southern rim of the city, beside what is now Lodi Garden, which is known as the city’s most beautiful park but seemed like jungle back then. Longtime neighbors recall hearing the cry of hyenas at night.

Now the house lies in the heart of the city and Ms. Kumar and her sister are looking to sell. Ms. Kumar declined to discuss her asking price, but local media reported it as about $55 million.

“One cannot afford these taxes,” she said, explaining that the upkeep and property taxes had pushed her to sell. “It is very expensive.”

The wild prices have also affected the rental market. For decades, owners happily rented to ambassadors or diplomatic missions. Now, rents have jumped so sharply that some ambassadors are moving. Mr. Oliveira, the Portuguese ambassador, recently relocated after his rent soared. Mexican ambassadors had lived at 13 Prithviraj Road — the house priced at $110 million — for a half-century, with the original lease signed by Octavio Paz, the Nobel Prize-winning writer and poet who was Mexico’s ambassador in the 1960s.

Rahul Rewal, a local real estate agent, said that demand was pushing up prices all over the capital region and that the Lutyens’ zone actually was a safe investment, since values keep going up, partly because so few places come onto the market. Fifteen years ago, the telecommunications magnate Sunil Mittal paid about $6.6 million for a property on Amrita Shergil Marg that he razed and rebuilt. At the time, the price was astonishing; today, it would be a bargain.

Mr. Mittal’s brother, Rajan, was the winner of the auction for 38 Amrita Shergil Marg. The property had been entangled in a family legal feud for three decades until a judge ordered that the property be sold at auction, with the proceeds divided among family members. Had it been sold privately, many neighbors and brokers say, the final price would have been higher. To avoid taxes, many sellers demand huge, secret cash payments to supplement the publicly recorded selling price.

Even now, the owners are still bickering. G. K. Gupta lives in the front half of the house, while his nephew Shivraj Gupta lives with his family in the back half. The uncle is in favor of the sale, but the nephew says he is still challenging it in court. And though both would be wildly rich when the sale is completed, the elder Mr. Gupta said that kind of money only goes so far in New Delhi.

“I’ll have to invest it in property,” he said. “And property is very expensive in New Delhi.”
48 2013-03-03 “The Vet Debt Trap” (Feb. 24), about the veterinary student debt crisis, hit the nail on the head. It should be required reading for all prospective veterinary students, regardless of age, to temper their passionate pursuit of the profession with a sobering dose of financial realism before they commit.

I am a 28-year veteran of the profession. My demographic of private-practice owners will also suffer the consequences of this vicious debt cycle, since the eventual sale proceeds of our practices represent a significant portion of our potential retirement nest egg. Good luck finding a qualified buyer among our debt-ridden younger colleagues in the next 5 to 10 years and beyond, especially in the face of falling practice revenue. Some newly minted veterinarians won’t be able to qualify for a home mortgage, let alone the financing to buy a practice.

The article shed light on a subject that is hugely overlooked and underreported.  Before I applied to veterinary school, it was my understanding that there was a lack of veterinarians, especially in large-animal practice. Now I face the challenge of paying off student debt when jobs are few and far between.

I will most likely have to take an internship that may pay about $26,000 a year — $13 an hour for a 40-hour week, working 50 weeks a year. Considering that an intern may work 60 to 70 hours a week, that’s about $8 an hour. I made more money when I worked shoveling horse manure.

I entered veterinary school with the best intentions — I love animals and can’t imagine a career that would make me happier. We are all young, starry-eyed animal lovers with dreams of saving lives; we are not accountants or business people. I hope that veterinary schools, the government and, most important, our future clients will take into account the sacrifices we make to live our dreams.
49 2013-03-03 Instead, most arguments for instituting or raising a minimum wage are based on fairness and redistribution. Even if workers are getting a competitive wage, many of us are deeply disturbed that some hard-working families still have very little. Though a desire to help the poor is largely a moral issue, economics can help us think about how successful a higher minimum wage would be at reducing poverty.

An important issue is who benefits. When the minimum wage rises, is income redistributed primarily to poor families, or do many families higher up the income ladder benefit as well?

It is true, as conservative commentators often point out, that some minimum-wage workers are middle-class teenagers or secondary earners in fairly well-off households. But the available data suggest that roughly half the workers likely to be affected by the $9-an-hour level proposed by the president are in families earning less than $40,000 a year. So while raising the minimum wage from the current $7.25 an hour may not be particularly well targeted as an anti-poverty proposal, it’s not badly targeted, either.

A related issue is whether some low-income workers will lose their jobs when businesses have to pay a higher minimum wage. There’s been a tremendous amount of research on this topic, and the bulk of the empirical analysis finds that the overall adverse employment effects are small.

Some evidence suggests that employment doesn’t fall much because the higher minimum wage lowers labor turnover, which raises productivity and labor demand. But it’s possible that productivity also rises because the higher minimum attracts more efficient workers to the labor pool. If these new workers are typically more affluent — perhaps middle-income spouses or retirees — and end up taking some jobs held by poorer workers, a higher minimum could harm the truly disadvantaged.

Another reason that employment may not fall is that businesses pass along some of the cost of a higher minimum wage to consumers through higher prices. Often, the customers paying those prices — including some of the diners at McDonald’s and the shoppers at Walmart — have very low family incomes. Thus this price effect may harm the very people whom a minimum wage is supposed to help.

It’s precisely because the redistributive effects of a minimum wage are complicated that most economists prefer other ways to help low-income families. For example, the current tax system already subsidizes work by the poor via an earned-income tax credit. A low-income family with earned income gets a payment from the government that supplements its wages. This approach is very well targeted — the subsidy goes only to poor families — and could easily be made more generous.

By raising the reward for working, this tax credit also tends to increase the supply of labor. And that puts downward pressure on wages. As a result, some of the benefits go to businesses, as would be the case with any wage subsidy. Though this mutes some of the direct redistributive value of the program — particularly if there’s no constraining minimum wage — it also tends to increase employment. And a job may ultimately be the most valuable thing for a family struggling to escape poverty.

What about the macroeconomic argument that is sometimes made for raising the minimum wage? Poorer people typically spend a larger fraction of their income than more affluent people. So if an increase in the minimum wage successfully redistributed some income to the poor, it could increase overall consumer spending — which could stimulate employment and output growth.

All of this is true, but the effects would probably be small. The president’s proposal would raise annual income by $3,500 for a full-time minimum-wage worker. A recent analysis found that 13 million workers earn less than $9 an hour. If they were all working full time at the current minimum — and a majority are not — the income increase from the higher minimum wage would be only about $50 billion. Even assuming that all of that higher income was redistributed from the wealthiest families, the difference in spending behavior between low-income and high-income consumers is likely to translate into only about an additional $10 billion to $20 billion in consumer purchases. That’s not much in a $15 trillion economy.

SO where does all of this leave us? The economics of the minimum wage are complicated, and it’s far from obvious what an increase would accomplish. If a higher minimum wage were the only anti-poverty initiative available, I would support it. It helps some low-income workers, and the costs in terms of employment and inefficiency are likely small.

But we could do so much better if we were willing to spend some money. A more generous earned-income tax credit would provide more support for the working poor and would be pro-business at the same time. And pre-kindergarten education, which the president proposes to make universal, has been shown in rigorous studies to strengthen families and reduce poverty and crime. Why settle for half-measures when such truly first-rate policies are well understood and ready to go?
50 2013-03-03 GONZAGA 81, PORTLAND 52 Elias Harris had 20 points and 9 rebounds as No. 2 Gonzaga beat visiting Portland (11-20, 4-12 West Coast Conference) to stake a claim to its first No. 1 ranking in the Associated Press poll. Gonzaga (29-2, 16-0), which had already clinched the conference’s regular-season title, has won 12 straight games.

KANSAS 91, WEST VIRGINIA 65 By scoring 36 points, breaking Danny Manning’s record for a Kansas freshman, Ben McLemore did more than propel the sixth-ranked Jayhawks to a home romp over West Virginia (13-16, 6-10 Big 12). He also took Coach Bill Self back to his own college days.

Self was a senior guard at Oklahoma State when Manning had 35 points in an 88-79 Jayhawks victory. That team record stood for exactly 28 years.

“I was in that game,” Self said with a grin. “I played the back line of a 2-3 zone. I think he got like 20 on me. But not all 35.”

Jeff Withey complemented McLemore with 14 points, 10 rebounds and 9 blocks for Kansas (25-4, 13-3).

FLORIDA 64, ALABAMA 52 Casey Prather had 10 points and 9 rebounds, most of them in the second half, and No. 8 Florida rallied from an 8-point deficit to beat Alabama (19-10, 11-5 Southeastern Conference) and remain unbeaten at home. The Gators (23-5, 13-3) secured at least a share of the SEC regular-season title.

U.C.L.A. 74, ARIZONA 69 Shabazz Muhammad grabbed a defensive rebound, was fouled and made both free throws with nine seconds left, helping U.C.L.A. hang on at home against 

No. 11 Arizona (23-6, 11-6 Pacific-12). The Bruins (22-7, 12-4) moved into a tie with idle Oregon atop the conference.

MEMPHIS 76, CENTRAL FLORIDA 67 Joe Jackson and Chris Crawford each had 19 points as No. 19 Memphis won at Central Florida (19-10, 8-6 Conference USA). Memphis (25-4, 14-0) claimed the conference championship outright, its eighth title, and gave Coach Josh Pastner his 100th career win.

V.C.U. 84, BUTLER 52 Troy Daniels scored 14 of his 20 points in the first half, and host Virginia Commonwealth’s full-court pressure overwhelmed No. 20 Butler (22-7, 9-5 Atlantic 10). In a rematch of their unlikely meeting in the national semifinals in 2011, the Rams (23-6, 11-3) dealt the Bulldogs their worst loss in Brad Stevens’s six seasons as the coach.

MARQUETTE 72, NOTRE DAME 64 Jamil Wilson tied his career high with 19 points, and No. 22 Marquette (21-7, 12-4 Big East) beat No. 21 Notre Dame (22-7, 10-6). The Golden Eagles won their 25th straight at home.

Notre Dame’s Jack Cooley had his minutes limited because of an illness.

LA. TECH 88, SAN JOSE ST. 61 Raheem Appleby had 16 points, and No. 25 Louisiana Tech extended its winning streak to 18 games, the nation’s longest, at home against San Jose State (9-18, 3-13). The Bulldogs (26-3, 16-0) clinched at least a share of their first Western Athletic Conference title.

IN OTHER GAMES Alex Kirk had 15 points and 9 rebounds, and No. 14 New Mexico (25-4, 12-2) clinched the Mountain West Conference regular-season title with a 53-42 home victory over Wyoming (18-11, 4-11). ... Markel Brown had 18 points, and No. 15 Oklahoma State (22-6, 12-4 Big 12) corralled Myck Kabongo in a 78-65 home win over Texas (13-16, 5-11). ... Dwayne Evans scored 22 points, and No. 18 St. Louis (23-5, 12-2 Atlantic 10) won its 11th straight game, holding off host George Washington (12-15, 6-8), 66-58.
51 2013-03-03 “The cultures here are much more used to their national teams than we are in the United States,” Small said Friday after arriving in Taipei. “A great example is here in Taiwan. The national team is by far the most important baseball team in Taiwan, not the professional leagues.”

Joe Torre, the United States manager, has expressed concerns about motivating his squad of major league talent at this stage of spring training to play against teams, like Japan, that take the event more seriously.

Japan’s manager, Koji Yamamoto, offered no hint of such a problem when his 28-man roster was announced in February.

“I told them to get themselves into the best physical and mental condition as possible for the first game,” Yamamoto said, “and then fight with real spirit.”

Notable stars like Suzuki, beginning his first full season with the Yankees, and Yu Darvish of the Texas Rangers are absent from Japan’s roster. Both players made large contributions to the 2009 title. Also missing is Daisuke Matsuzaka, the most valuable player of the two previous Classics. Japan topped Cuba in the 2006 final.

As usual, Japan is not focusing on individuals, relying instead on a team approach that emphasizes strong pitching, solid defense and timely hitting. But the injured right knee of the team captain, catcher Shinnosuke Abe, has been a concern. Abe, the Central League’s most valuable player for the Yomiuri Giants in 2012, when his batting average was .340 and his on-base percentage was .429, compared himself to a “defeated soldier fleeing the enemy” if he could not perform like a samurai. It was a tongue-in-cheek acknowledgment that the fans were counting on him. He did not start on Saturday, but he pinch-hit and drove in the go-ahead run on a fielder’s choice in a three-run eighth inning.

A dozen or so Brazil fans shook their country’s green, yellow and blue flag above their heads from seats near third base. For them and several others around the stadium, Brazil’s arrival in Fukuoka was monumental, earned with an upset over Panama in a qualifying game in November.

“Just to get here was a miracle for us,” said Felipe Ferrari, 26, a Brazilian student at Nagoya University in Japan. “The dream has already come true. To open a magazine and see the faces of the players — that was once a big wish.”

Two teams from each of Asia’s two pools will advance to the second round next weekend at Tokyo Dome. The championship round will be March 17 to 19 in San Francisco.

A schedule that overlaps with major league camps will probably prevent the Classic from being embraced more broadly. Masayuki Tamaki, a Japanese sports commentator and author of books on baseball, described the tournament as merely an extended tryout for the majors.

“The lack of big names is probably good for them,” Tamaki said, referring to major league teams. “In this way, they will be very happy to discover new star players.”

But Japanese fans were looking forward to Sunday, when Japan faces China, the next step, they hoped, toward seeing a countryman raise the trophy as Suzuki did four years ago.

“Our pitching was not the best tonight,” Oku Yoshioka, a 40-year-old sales engineer, said of Japan’s starter, Masahiro Tanaka, who lasted only two innings. “But our staff is strong enough to get us back to the finals again.”
52 2013-03-03 Representing America at Bretton Woods was Harry Dexter White, an economics professor who had joined the Treasury as an adviser in 1934. By dint of intellect and hard work, he became grudgingly accepted as its ranking expert on international finance. He labored as the brains buttressing the Treasury Secretary, Henry Morgenthau, who described himself as “just a farmer,” albeit a close gentleman-farmer friend of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Morgenthau presided at Bretton Woods but White ran the show.

Dr. Steil presents evidence that White was also an informant for the Soviet Union, a starry-eyed admirer of what he saw as its remarkable economic success. For years, Dr. Steil says, White provided documents to the Soviets and favored their side in policy debates. In 1948, White fended off the House Un-American Activities Committee, denying that he was a Communist. A more adverse light was shed on his activities when wartime codes were broken years after his death. Dr. Steil is more convinced of the espionage claims surrounding White than some historians who see his actions as more innocent. There is no sign that his interest in the Soviets affected his work at Bretton Woods.

Taking Britain’s part at the 1944 conference was the celebrated John Maynard Keynes, who knew full well that war had reduced Britain to a hapless debtor, obliged to accept whatever the United States offered. The book confirms that Keynes was an intellectual giant with flawless intuition for finance, but it also exposes his caustic criticisms of lesser men and his tin ear for workaday diplomacy. The Americans considered him too bright for his britches and bottled him up at every opportunity.

White had prepared so well that the actual conference was well-orchestrated, everything the Americans wanted. “Now the advantage is ours here, and I personally think we should take it,” Morgenthau said to White, who fully agreed. As White said, “If the advantage was theirs, they would take it.”

The Americans wanted free trade and open markets; they feared postwar inflation. Bretton Woods helped by providing for stable but convertible currencies, tied within limits to the dollar and ultimately to gold. It also created the International Monetary Fund, a money pool from which nations with trade deficits could borrow to satisfy international accounts. And it set up what became the World Bank, initially focused on rebuilding Europe, and later on the developing world. Britain lost out on looser exchange rates, and its imperial trade preferences were doomed.

On item after item, Keynes found a stone wall. What Dr. Steil calls his “most tangible legacy” from Bretton Woods was pathetic. Norway moved to abolish the Bank for International Settlements for cooperating with the Nazis, a motion that Keynes vehemently opposed. The delegates eventually agreed that the bank would be “liquidated at the earliest possible moment.” The bank is still in business today.

Keynes ended up having to play an impossible hand. In 1945, he was left to sell Parliament on accepting arrangements that he had exhausted himself resisting. Four months later, he was dead. History later vindicated his advocacy of flexible exchange rates. The Bretton Woods system, not fully in effect till 1961, died only a decade later when President Richard M. Nixon ended the gold standard. The United States was running such large international deficits, paying out so many dollars, that not even Fort Knox had enough gold.

“The Battle of Bretton Woods” should become the gold standard on its topic. The details are addictive. But be warned: the book is dense. Every skirmish, every exchange — and the book gets into hundreds of thems — was presumably meaningful to the participants. But while some episodes mattered much, many did not. The author is no Robert Caro, who in his multivolume biography of Lyndon B. Johnson delves into minute details but also explains their larger significance.

Perhaps that is what is missing here — an unmistakable voice, a sense that this rich history is told by one mind. Mr. Caro is known for working on his own, with the assistance of his wife. In his acknowledgments, Dr. Steil thanks 10 research assistants and an advisory panel of 18 luminaries. The book sometimes reads like a succession of brilliant but loosely connected graduate seminar papers — an assemblage, a very fine one, but an assemblage nevertheless.
53 2013-03-03 John Higgins, who works mostly in the Big 12 and Missouri Valley Conferences and is among the national leaders in games called this season, said the majority of referees were like people in other occupations, working four or five days out of seven.

“The only thing is, ours is a two-hour day, and everybody else’s is eight,” he said.

While declining to comment further, Higgins acknowledged that travel could take a physical and mental toll.

Hess and Roger Ayers — who work mostly in the Atlantic Coast and Big East Conferences — started last week as the co-leaders in games worked this season, 79, or an average of 5.1 a week.

Tim Higgins (no relation to John), who retired from officiating after last season after more than 30 years in the Big East, the Big Ten and the A.C.C., said the news media and athletic administrators seemed more concerned about fatigue than the officials.

“Even if a guy is tired, he probably still is better than anyone else you get,” Tim Higgins said.

The best referees can overcome the energy-sapping stress caused by travel, sleeping in a different bed four or five times a week and the night-in, night-out pressure cooker of officiating Division I games. They are able to keep up with the pace of play, get into the right position to make calls and maintain clear judgment and even temperament.

“If you can’t get up for two hours to get the job done, you’re not going to be around long,” Tim Higgins said.

The N.C.A.A. coordinator of officials, John Adams, said the N.C.A.A. had no position on how many games a season or how many consecutive nights an official should work. Adams said an official must work at least 25 regular-season games to be eligible to be among the 100 selected for the N.C.A.A. tournament.

It is up to the conference’s officiating coordinators, who handle assignments through the league tournaments, to decide how much work is too much.

Adams, Hyland and the Southeastern Conference officiating coordinator, Gerald Boudreaux, agreed that four was the optimum number of games a week for the top referees. Only 27 have averaged that many games a week this season, according to Statsheet.com.

Adams said an official who could drive an hour from home for his games probably would have no problem working as many as 13 or 14 nights in a row. But then there are the referees who might work in Miami one night and in Syracuse the next.

Officials are independent contractors who earn about $2,500 a game in the power conferences. The pay typically covers travel, and room and board. Adams said for most of the officials who call 60 or more games a year, this is their main source of income.

Like good plumbers and mechanics, the best referees are in high demand.

An official will declare his primary conference, and that conference is free to schedule him for as many games as it needs. Once his assignments are determined, typically by mid-September, he is free to make himself available to other conferences to fill in dates.

“There is no limit to the number of conferences they can work in,” Boudreaux said. “The coaches want the best guys on their games.”

Eades, Gaffney and Hess are three of those sought-after officials. Eades worked Michigan-Indiana, a No. 1-versus-No. 3 game on Feb. 2. It tipped off at 9:05 p.m. Eastern in Bloomington, Ind. At 2 p.m. the next afternoon, he was in Storrs, Conn., for South Florida-Connecticut.

Gaffney called the DePaul-Marquette game on Feb. 9, which started at 1 p.m. Central in Milwaukee and made it to South Bend, Ind., with 90 minutes to spare for the 9 p.m. Eastern game between Louisville and Notre Dame that went to five overtimes.

Another referee had been scheduled to work the game in South Bend, but he could not get there because of a snowstorm. Hyland had notified Gaffney at 8 a.m. that he would have to pull double duty.

While working 22 of 23 days early in the season, Hess called games in 12 Eastern states and the District of Columbia. The past couple of months, he has worked mostly three or four days in a row.

Ayers’s longest stretch of consecutive days worked is 10, in six states and Washington. Otherwise, he has not officiated more than six consecutive days.

Tim Higgins, the retired referee, described an official’s routine: Arrive in the city of the game he will work by midmorning, work out at the hotel gym, take a nap, call the game, get up the next morning and repeat.

“It’s the travel that’s tough,” he said.
54 2013-03-03 The pair’s argument for not including the ultra-Orthodox parties hinges on their promises to end exemptions from compulsory military or civilian national service for ultra-Orthodox young men engaged in Torah studies. The demand for a more equal sharing of the burden was popular among the middle-class voters championed by Mr. Lapid and in Mr. Bennett’s camp. But Likud members say that Mr. Lapid’s opposition to including the ultra-Orthodox goes beyond that.

After talks with Yesh Atid and Jewish Home on Thursday and Friday, David Shimron, a lawyer representing Likud-Beiteinu, told reporters that Mr. Netanyahu wanted to form as broad a coalition as possible but that Mr. Lapid would rule out the ultra-Orthodox as coalition partners even if the ultra-Orthodox “were drafted at the age of 14.”

“A whole public is being boycotted,” Mr. Shimron added. “We don’t accept boycotts, and we’ll have to see how we move forward to form the government under these circumstances.”

Shas, the largest ultra-Orthodox party, representing Sephardic Jews, has been a mainstay of many governments led by the right and the left since it was founded in 1984. It was last excluded, from Ariel Sharon’s government in 2003, on the insistence of the staunchly antireligious Shinui Party, which was led by Mr. Lapid’s father, Yosef.

A brief honeymoon period between Mr. Netanyahu and Yair Lapid after the elections quickly soured after Mr. Lapid spoke about his intention to replace Mr. Netanyahu as prime minister, possibly within 18 months.

So far, Mr. Netanyahu has found only one new coalition partner: the small Hatnua Party, led by Tzipi Livni, a former foreign minister and a longtime critic of Mr. Netanyahu’s handling of the Palestinian conflict. She has been promised the post of justice minister and a leading role in any talks with the Palestinians.

But a government without Shas will leave Mr. Netanyahu more vulnerable; his conservative Likud Party emerged weakened from the elections, with Yesh Atid and Jewish Home each holding the power to make or break any potential coalition.

Mr. Netanyahu’s decision to run on a joint ticket with the ultranationalist Yisrael Beiteinu Party of his former foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, “deterred voters on all fronts — centrists, Sephardim, national religious,” said Abraham Diskin, a political scientist at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the Interdisciplinary Center. “These are the results. Mr. Netanyahu would be much stronger with Shas in the coalition. His maneuvering capability has definitely been limited.”

But political experts also note that coalition deals in Israel are rarely written in stone. Shas, despite its objections, could join Mr. Netanyahu’s next coalition later, after new legislation on the military obligations of the ultra-Orthodox has been resolved.

Most Shas voters already serve in the army, said Asher Cohen of Bar Ilan University, adding: “Shas will always want to be in the coalition. There is no historical basis to believe that it won’t.”

With an extension, Mr. Netanyahu will have until mid-March to forge a new government. If he fails, President Shimon Peres could ask another party leader to take on the task.

“Netanyahu needs to form a coalition and get through the vote of confidence in Parliament,” said Gideon Rahat of Hebrew University. “After that, he can always change the makeup of the coalition. The day after the vote of confidence, Lapid could leave and Shas could join. I’m not getting excited.”

As a politician, Mr. Rahat said, Mr. Netanyahu “is no magician.”

“But the state of politics in Israel is so bad,” he added, “that even someone who is not especially successful can succeed.”
55 2013-03-03 One of the nicest features of the Broadway revival of Ken Ludwig’s “Lend Me a Tenor” back in 2010 was John Lee Beatty’s creamy rococo hotel suite where the operatic characters dashed about.

The Paper Mill Playhouse’s exuberant staging of “Lend Me a Tenor” in Millburn utilizes Mr. Beatty’s set, which provides five doors that always slam with a satisfying wham. Within those deluxe surroundings, the theater presents a fresh, expertly performed rendition of Mr. Ludwig’s well-known farce.

This 1986 play has long been a perennial among regional and community theaters, and with good reason. Employing some of the traditional elements from hotel-room farces of past centuries — mistaken identities, sexy ladies, naughty banter, looming scandal — the playwright crafted a frisky 1930s-style comedy that demands only stylish performances to be considerable fun.

The director, Don Stephenson, has assembled a smart cast to do exactly that at Paper Mill. Theatergoers who already know the show may even enjoy it more than the newcomers, since they can anticipate some of its antics.

Occupying that hotel suite one night in 1934 is Tito Merelli (John Treacy Egan), a celebrated Italian tenor who is making his long-awaited American debut in “Otello” with the Cleveland Grand Opera Company. Saunders (Michael Kostroff), the company’s pompous general manager, and Max (David Josefsberg), his milquetoast assistant and a would-be singer, quickly have their hands full with Tito, a lover of wine, women and song whose florid charms have the local ladies in a flutter.

A jealous blowup between Tito and Maria (Judy Blazer), his spitfire wife, combined with an unwise excess of Chianti and sedatives, plunges the overly emotional tenor into a coma that Saunders and Max believe is fatal. Soon Max is disguised in Tito’s brocade doublet and swarthy makeup as Otello and rushes off to perform the opera, at which point Tito wakes up. Matters turn increasingly frantic and funny later as look-alikes Tito and Max cope with several smitten females and other confusions.
56 2013-03-03 “His love of movies and desire to collaborate extends far beyond those projects that he is required to work on,” said Mr. Abrams, who has been hailed as a Spielberg protégé. “But he is so frequently cornered by people and asked to give notes. I feel guilty about being one of them.”

Mr. Abrams, 46, asked Mr. Spielberg to read the scripts for 2006’s “Mission: Impossible III” and 2009’s “Star Trek.” For “Trek,” which he saw in an early cut, Mr. Spielberg suggested lengthening several scenes and advised that the female communications officer, Uhura, be developed further.

“I think, for Steven, sometimes it’s the most fun to weigh in on someone else’s work when there are no consequences,” said David Koepp, who has worked as a writer and director on several Spielberg productions. “He is free to just talk about the creative part.”

Mr. Koepp asked Mr. Spielberg to read an early draft of the script for 2012’s “Premium Rush,” which Mr. Koepp directed but to which Mr. Spielberg had no affiliation. The film features a bike messenger engaged in several chase sequences from one tip of Manhattan to another and back again.

Mr. Spielberg’s advice to Mr. Koepp was to show the main character entering the screen consistently from one side when he was going downtown, and to enter the other side when he was going uptown, to help orient the audience.

“He is exceedingly practical and grounded in the storytelling,” Mr. Koepp said. In giving his notes Mr. Spielberg referred to how Peter O’Toole’s character, in “Lawrence of Arabia,” does the same thing when his character crosses the desert.

“Premium Rush” benefited from that “simple geographical clue,” said Mr. Koepp, who added that while it was not uncommon for well-acquainted filmmakers to ask one another to give notes, Mr. Spielberg’s come with a signature “undercurrent of kindness.” “The times when I have seen him the most happy are when he has been in the process of making stuff up,” he said. “There is so much that can slow you down when you are making a movie.”

Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Spielberg’s enthusiastic note giving does not infringe on the autonomy of directors who work under him. “He doesn’t mandate,” said Mr. Abrams, who directed 2011’s “Super 8,” which Mr. Spielberg produced.

When Chris Columbus wrote 1984’s “Gremlins,” which was directed by Joe Dante, it was originally a horror film with a “hard R” rating, he said, about critters that tear up a town. But Mr. Spielberg, his executive producer, suggested not letting all of the gremlins turn malicious, and keeping one of them, Gizmo, good. It was a change that “taught me how the audience could become emotionally attached to the film,” Mr. Columbus said.

Mr. Spielberg’s advice ranges from what sounds apocryphal (telling Sam Mendes, the first-time director of 1999’s “American Beauty” to wear comfortable shoes on the set) to the technical (advising Robert Zemeckis to use wide camera lenses on his 1978 directorial debut, “I Wanna Hold Your Hand.”)

“He is so aware of the geography of storytelling,” said Mr. Abrams, who said he plans to show Mr. Spielberg a cut of “Star Trek Into Darkness,” due this May, within the next few weeks.

After “Cloverfield” Mr. Reeves asked for Mr. Spielberg’s advice on how to work with children for his independently produced 2010 film, “Let Me In,” about a young vampire. “He reminded me that I was trying to remember what it was like to be 11, but he said: ‘Your actors are actually 11. You should ask them what they would do.’ ”

Mr. Reeves followed through, and he credits a moment in the film, when a police officer is hunting a child in his room and mistakenly steps on a toy, as coming from one of his young actors. “It was true,” he said. “I got gold from them.”

A spokesman for Mr. Spielberg said that he “considers his conversations with other filmmakers to be private,” so he did not comment for this article. But his longtime producing partner, Kathleen Kennedy, president of Lucasfilm, might provide a clue to what it feels like to be the ultimate sounding board.

“I once overheard Steven say to another director, ‘Never tell anyone what you’re doing,’ ” she recalled. “I realized that it is a way to protect creative vision, and at the same time give yourself the room and flexibility to change an idea.”
57 2013-03-03 CAN THE G.O.P. BE SAVED FROM OBSOLESCENCE?

Interesting how every Republican under 35 in your article thinks the only thing standing between them and gaining a majority of voters are some social-media improvements and giving up on fighting gay marriage. No one ever seems to contemplate that their core governing philosophy — that all government intervention is bad intervention — might be at odds with a growing majority of voters. Until they come to grips with that, it’s not going to matter how many tweets their campaign managers send out. DAVID MEEKINGS, Scotch Plains, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

We as social conservatives have to figure out how to advocate for our concerns in the political culture that exists, not the political culture we imagine. We are going to have same-sex marriage sooner or later. Is there a way to push politically for the creation and support of a middle ground in which institutions of civil society that support socially conservative values can operate free from as much government interference as possible? My gut tells me that’s the best way to go. . . . The best we can hope for from politics is that we can use it to defend ourselves, not to “convert” the culture. ROD DREHER, on theamericanconservative.com

I am a retired, old white guy. Fifty-seven years ago I was mesmerized by the glib and erudite lectures of William F. Buckley Jr. and Barry Goldwater. Fortunately that phase of my political awareness passed when I was 28. Now Robert Draper writes that S. E. Cupp, a young, conservative pundit, has the same heroes that I and the majority of Americans rejected long ago as out of touch. Perhaps Cupp would be better served by following one of the original Republicans — Abraham Lincoln — who wrote, in his second inaugural address, “with malice toward none and charity for all let us . . . strive to bind up the nation’s wounds.” MICHAEL ANDREWS, Park City, Utah

HOW NAPOLEON CHAGNON BECAME OUR MOST CONTROVERSIAL ANTHROPOLOGIST

Emily Eakin’s article on my work was well researched. But I object to the notion that whether the tribe I studied is called “Yanomamö” or “Yanomami” is merely a matter of preference. It is a matter of linguistics. The final vowel /ö/ in Yanomamö is important; some people don’t hear it and therefore cannot pronounce the name that the Yanomamö use for themselves. If the name is rendered “Yanomami,” people pronounce it “Yanoma-meee.” This mispronunciation can be traced to members of the Catholic missions in Venezuela and Brazil who came from countries where Romance languages are spoken and had trouble hearing the final vowel /ö/. The rendition of the tribal name as “Yanomami” gives me an uncomfortable feeling that I am subscribing to and endorsing a 500-year legacy of Spanish, Portuguese and French colonialism among Native Americans in the New World. I hope outsiders will take this into consideration when they adopt a spelling for the tribal name. NAPOLEON A. CHAGNON, PH.D. Professor of Anthropology, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.

In 1970-71, I transported vials of Yanomami blood to the genetics lab of Dr. James Neel. I used to muse on how the blood had flowed a day earlier in the veins of fierce Yanomami warriors in the Amazon rain forest. Little did I know of the fierce academics whose sublimated conflicts flowed in the corridors of the Anthropology Department. STEVEN C. GOLD, Director of Health and Community Services, Macomb County, Mich.

It is worth noting how insane the entertainment industry is when compared to many other professions. In academia, according to the National Science Foundation, the median age at which Ph.D. candidates get their doctorates, and the point at which they can really begin their careers, is 33.3 years old. The average age at which lawyers tend to make partner is also the mid-30s. The average age at which Fortune 500 C.E.O.’s become C.E.O.’s is 50. . . . In other words, Connie Britton found career success around the same time she would have if she had gone into almost any other field. Britton’s 40s, rather than ushering in a terrifying era of terminal decline, turned out to be a time when the jobs available to her became more interesting. That she’s the exception rather than the rule is a reminder of how skewed Hollywood is — and how much potential it is leaving on the table. ALYSSA ROSENBERG, on the XX Factor blog on slate.com
58 2013-03-03 Doubles start at 1,125 Danish kroner, or $208 at 5.42 kroner to the dollar, a night (breakfast included).

This 73-room boutique hotel, which opened in April 2012, features modern design elements, including textiles from the British Designers Guild, specialty light fixtures from the Danish firm Frandsen Lighting and employee uniforms from the Icelandic designer Birna. The independently owned property has also introduced the long-overdue idea of the 24-hour hotel room, called “Concept24,” in which guests have a room for 24 hours from the time of arrival, even if that is, say, 6 p.m. (Advance notice is required to take advantage of this perk.)

Two blocks west of Copenhagen’s central train station in Vesterbro, an increasingly hip but still slightly seedy neighborhood. There are cool boutiques and craft beer pubs nearby, but among the hotel’s closest neighbors are a string of budget hotels and strip clubs.

My stay last summer coincided with the city’s fashion week, and when I arrived in the hotel’s fuchsia-hued lobby, a related event was under way — thumping music courtesy of a D.J., and a crowd milling about, sipping Icelandic beers from Champagne flutes. The party made check-in slightly disorienting, but the friendly staff seemed unperturbed.

My second-floor, streetside Superior room was compact, and felt more so because of an excess of furniture: two chairs, a small desk and a glass-topped side table that were all crammed at the base of the bed. There were magenta and navy curtains, three sinuous black pendant lamps, a large flat-screen TV, and one wall stenciled from floor to ceiling with a list of international cities. On the comfortable double bed there were four large decorative throw pillows but only two small ones for sleeping. Upon request, two more pillows were quickly delivered — one of them with a not insignificant stain (which housekeeping failed to replace when making up the room the following day).

Instead of air-conditioning, there were two fans, but their hum did not drown out late-night street noise from patrons of the convenience store across the street and the unsavory characters loitering on the corner below.
59 2013-03-03 Representatives from AB InBev, however, have stated that the potential Corona acquisition is less about dominating the dwindling (albeit still $90 billion per year) U.S. beer market and more about a larger, global strategy. In that regard, AB InBev has been on quite a roll. The Brazilian firm Companhia de Bebidas das Américas, or AmBev, was born in 1999 around the concept of using innovative technology and managerial efficiency to disrupt the competition and channel the profits into buying them out. The company swallowed up several Latin American firms; in 2004, it merged with the Belgian giant Interbrew; in 2008, the new conglomerate, InBev, took over Anheuser-Busch. Along the way, it also picked up ’s third-largest brewer and the Canadian beer company Labatt.

We are still in the very early stages of what appears to be a global version of the scale-based consolidation we’ve seen in the United States over the past century. Before Prohibition, beer was largely a regional business, with thousands of small breweries serving markets often defined by city blocks. Until fairly recently, retail, food manufacturing, banking and countless other industries were also largely the domain of local or regional firms. And while in recent decades companies have scrambled to command international markets, the global fights have largely been over dominance of the United States, Western Europe and .

But the goal of the Grupo Modelo merger, the company has stated, is to gear up for the big beer fight of the 21st century. As the traditional beer markets of the United States, and Japan age, the most lucrative markets will be in China, , Latin America, Eastern Europe, the wealthier countries of and other places where, every single day, millions of young consumers will buy their first legal beer. On this front, AB InBev is already facing staunch competition from ’s Carlsberg, ’s SABMiller and Japan’s Asahi. It’s not exactly worried about Sam Adams and Sierra Nevada.

These firms are among the many preparing for a global market several times larger than any that has ever existed. This helps explain why we have seen so many mergers in the past few months. The Justice Department recently approved the marriage of Penguin and , and is expected to do the same with and . and are planning a merger of their own. These megamergers, however, do not inevitably create destructive monopolies. Carl Shapiro, former chief economist at the Justice Department, told me that many mergers, including some large ones, improve competition. Together, Penguin and Random House may be able to better stave off Amazon; American Airlines and US Airways can contend with Delta. Similarly, Office Depot and OfficeMax, once merged, may finally be large enough to really scare . Fear, Shapiro says, is the key. Markets work best, he says, when “everyone has to watch their back.”

Shapiro admits that the Justice Department has lagged behind the work of many economists, and has been complicit in our fear of large mergers.(In some key decisions, like the 1962 ruling to block the merger of Brown Shoe and the Kinney Company, courts hurt consumers by preventing corporate efficiency.) But economic forecasting has improved since then, Shapiro says, and become more flexible. After AB InBev executives tweaked their Grupo Modelo acquisition plans, so not to affect their domestic interests, the Justice Department started to rerun the numbers. They’ll issue an opinion soon.

Over the coming decades, though, the opinion of American government officials might not matter quite so much. China’s National People’s Congress approved its first antimonopoly law in 2008, which, many economists fear, could be used to block foreign competitors and to promote local giants. India’s version, which went into effect in 2009, is even less clear. It’s quite possible that the true monopolistic battles of the 21st century will not be among massive corporations but among the self-interested governments. We can only hope that they don’t engage in a trigger strategy of their own.
60 2013-03-03 PHOTO: THREE WEEKS IN BRAZIL, 47 HOURS ON A TRAIN AND AN ENDLESS NIGHT IN NORWAY (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASSIMO VITALI)
61 2013-03-04 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include selling software to companies by persuading its employees to use it, a look at the man who invented emoji, an...
62 2013-03-04 Just for the record....
63 2013-03-04 The Stella McCartney woman is unleashing her inner tomboy for fall....
64 2013-03-04 The newest Porsche 911, the über GT3 variation that has its premiere this week at the Geneva motor show, produces 475 horsepower....
65 2013-03-04 Scenes from the Paris Fashion Week photo diary of Kasia Bobula....
66 2013-03-04 A recent survey of elite economists found significant disagreement over the effects of raising the minimum wage on low-skilled job seekers....
67 2013-03-04 President Obama’s cabinet choices on environment and energy reflect his middle-path approach to governing....
68 2013-03-04 Keynes and debt, again....
69 2013-03-04 Kate Herbert joined the New York office of MoPub in a new post, director for client services. She had been senior manager for publisher solutions at DoubleClick, New York, part of Google.

Mike Kaufman joined the Brand Activation Association, New York, formerly the Promotion Marketing Association, as vice president for marketing, filling a vacant post. He had been a senior vice president at GW Hoffman, Darien, Conn.

Randy Kilgore, chief revenue officer at Tremor Video, was elected chairman of the board of the Interactive Advertising Bureau. He succeeds Peter Naylor, executive vice president for ad sales at the NBC News Digital unit of NBCUniversal, part of Comcast. Also, Vivek Shah, chief executive at Ziff Davis, was elected vice chairman.

Kathryn Kranhold joined the Los Angeles office of Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., as executive vice president. She had most recently been a consultant with the Brunswick Group, where she was a director; her other posts include senior vice president at the Walt Disney Company and the advertising reporter for The Wall Street Journal.

Wally Krantz, executive creative director at Brand Union, New York, part of WPP, was promoted to a new post, worldwide creative director for corporate branding.

Rodney Mason joined Parago, Lewisville, Tex., in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had been chief marketing officer at Moosylvania.

Mass Save, Boston, a consortium of gas and electric utilities and energy efficiency service providers based in Massachusetts, named Kelliher Samets Volk, Burlington, Vt., as lead agency. Billings for the assignment, which had previously been handled by the Cadmus Group, Waltham, Mass., were not disclosed.

Jennifer Meyers joined Sullivan, New York, in a new post, principal and executive director for strategy. She had been a group director for brand development at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Mistress, Los Angeles, hired three employees. They are Maggie O’Brien, who joins as senior interactive producer, and a creative team, Rory Forrest and Ben Beale, from Grey London, part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP.

Theresa Nasi joined Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP, in a new post, managing director for worldwide corporate communications. She had most recently been senior vice president at DiGennaro Communications, New York.

Park Dental, Minneapolis, a group dental practice with 25 locations, chose Gabriel deGrood Bendt, Minneapolis, as its first agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. A campaign will carry the theme “Smile, you’ve got Park Dental,” with the word “Smile” suggested by grinning faces.

Stan Pavlovsky joined the Meredith Corporation as senior vice president at the Meredith National Media Group and president of Allrecipes.com, based in the Seattle office. He succeeds Lisa Sharples, who is leaving, the company said, to pursue personal interests. Mr. Pavlovsky had been vice president for e-commerce at the Drugstore.com division of the Walgreen Company.

Jeffrey Porzio joined Forge Worldwide, Boston, in a new post, executive director for digital. He had been director for digital services at Toth & Company, Cambridge, Mass.

RadioFace, New York, was renamed Mister Face to reflect its expansion beyond radio advertising work.

Marcelo Sant’lago joined SapientNitro, part of Sapient, in a post, vice president of business development for Latin America, that is being created after SapientNitro expanded into the region with the acquisition of a Brazilian digital agency, iThink. Mr. Sant’lago had been managing partner at MBreak Comunicação, São Paulo, Brazil.

Hilary Smith, senior vice president for communications at the entertainment and digital networks and integrated media group at NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, was named senior vice president for communications at a sibling, the USA Network cable channel. She succeeds Jean Guerin, who become senior vice president for corporate communications at the new cable entertainment group at NBCUniversal.

Sony Computer Entertainment America, Foster City, Calif., part of the Sony Corporation of America division of Sony, selected Carat, part of the Aegis Media division of the Aegis Group, to handle the media planning and buying account for brands like Sony PlayStation. Spending was estimated at $50 million. The assignment had previously been handled by Deutsch L.A., which was also recently replaced as the creative agency for Sony Computer Entertainment America; the creative account was shifted to the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe. Deutsch L.A. is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of the Deutsch division of Lowe & Partners, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. The Aegis Group is in the process of being acquired by Dentsu.

Justin Williams, senior director and general manager of Nascar.com for the Turner Sports division of Turner Broadcasting System, was named to a new post, vice president for digital at the TBS and TNT cable channels that are part of Turner Broadcasting, a division of Time Warner. The new post for Mr. Williams, who is based in Atlanta, comes after Turner Sports turned back to Nascar the rights to manage Nascar.com.

Y&R California named new leadership to oversee its offices in Irvine, Calif., and San Francisco. Mike Reese, managing partner at Y&R New York, was promoted to president at Y&R California. He succeeds Doug Sweeny, who left for a new opportunity, the agency said. And Mimi Cook joined as chief creative officer, succeeding Joe Kayser, who also left for a new opportunity, according to the agency. Ms. Cook had been a brand strategy director at Mekanism. Y&R California and Y&R New York are part of the Y&R North American division of Y&R, a unit of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP.

Yummico, New York, a company specializing in interactive children’s media, was opened by Caroline Baron and Traci Paige Johnson. Yummico is starting with “Yummiloo,” a musical series about food for preschoolers, that is to be available as an app and a television series.
70 2013-03-04 The N.C.A.A. released an 82-page guide Monday intended to help its constituents — administrators, coaches and students — navigate the broadening world of gay, lesbian and transgender athletes amid its myriad sports....
71 2013-03-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
72 2013-03-04 Adapted from the novel by Jonathan Lethem, the show will play at the Dallas Theater Center before coming to the Public Theater in New York....
73 2013-03-04 Ana Sortun, a Cambridge-based chef who loves the cuisines of the Eastern Mediterranean and Turkey in particular, was doing a cooking demonstration recently at the Worlds of Healthy Flavors retreat at the Culinary Institute of America in Napa, Calif., a collaborative effort between the institute, the Harvard School of Public Health and the foodservice industry. As she filled chard leaves with a mix of bulgur, sautéed onions, hazelnuts, red pepper paste and dried mint she said: “I think bulgur should be the next quinoa.”

It was an offhand comment but it got me thinking about how much I love bulgur and how versatile this nutty-tasting cracked wheat product is. It comes in four different grades – fine (#1), medium (#2), coarse (#3), and very coarse (#4)– and each type lends itself to a particular kind of dish. In the Middle East pilafs are made with medium, coarse, and very coarse bulgur. Tabbouleh and kibbe are made with fine bulgur. In my kitchen I use the medium grind for a delicious breakfast porridge that has the flavor of a hearty cream of wheat, and I add it to breads and other baked goods. Coarse bulgur goes into pilafs and soups, casseroles and stuffed vegetables.

I don’t know if bulgur is going to be the next quinoa – probably not, as these days so many people shun wheat. But if I had to choose one over the other for flavor and versatility, I’d go with bulgur. One thing it has going for it is that it can be reconstituted without cooking, though you can also cook it in boiling water (the grains will be a little fluffier if you do). As for the nutritional profile, whereas quinoa has a little more protein (4 grams per 100 grams of grain compared with bulgur’s 3), bulgur is less caloric (83 calories per 100 grams compared with quinoa’s 120), higher in fiber (4 grams versus 3), slightly lower in carbohydrates (19 grams compared with 21) and sodium (5 mg compared with 7).

I sometimes combine chickpeas with the bulgur in this simple, satisfying casserole to bulk up the protein, but just as often I enjoy the bulgur on its own with the spinach and Middle Eastern-inflected tomato sauce.
74 2013-03-04 The best of readers’ photos from the week of Feb. 25....
75 2013-03-04 Companies are increasingly responding to privacy concerns, not just because of regulatory requirements but because of customers’ desires....
76 2013-03-04 According to the bookmakers’ odds, four of the top six contenders are Italian, and the average age of the top 10 is 68....
77 2013-03-04 Go to next slide
78 2013-03-04 The budget cutting begins. New home sales are up, manufacturing is up, even music sales are growing. How to get the most from YouTube. And do you let employees work from home?...
79 2013-03-04 The author of one of the magazine’s features this week talks about his voyages on Amtrak....
80 2013-03-04 The proposed increase in the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour will raise incomes for families with children and help young adults start families of their own, even though it won’t lift them all out of poverty....
81 2013-03-04 Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic fought back from a poor first set to beat Bethanie Mattek-Sands of the United States, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3, in the Malaysian Open final. Each was looking for her first WTA singles title.

¶ The qualifier Ernests Gulbis beat Edouard Roger-Vasselin, 7-6 (3), 6-3, for his second title, at the ATP World Tour’s Delray Beach International Championships.
82 2013-03-04 The Portland Timbers overcame two early goals by Fabian Espindola to forge a 3-3 tie with the visiting Red Bulls in both teams’ Major League Soccer season opener. Jamison Olave, who was acquired by the Red Bulls in the off-season trade that also brought in Espindola, had a goal in the 28th minute.
83 2013-03-04 Dogs bolted out of the chute in Willow, Alaska, to start the 41st running of the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. The Iditarod kicked off Saturday with an 11-mile jaunt through Anchorage. Sunday was the start of the competitive portion of the race. Now 65 teams will make their way toward the finish line in Nome.
84 2013-03-04 Smith, who twice turned over the ball in the fourth quarter on bad passes, swished a 3-pointer in transition midway through the quarter to give the Knicks an 87-85 lead. That was the last time the Knicks led, and Smith missed his last three shots, all 3-point attempts, including the Knicks’ final shot.

“I had about four wide-open shots and I just missed them,” said Smith, who led the Knicks with 12 rebounds. “I took three bad pull-ups from 3. My shot wasn’t falling, and I didn’t get into a good rhythm.”

With 1 minute 45 seconds to go and the Knicks trailing by 2, Smith missed from long range. James grabbed the rebound. Smith was the only obstacle in his way and proved little challenge as James powered past Smith for a layup and a 95-91 Heat lead. Smith fell on his back, extended his arms and stared upward in frustration after the play.

Raymond Felton said it was unfair for Smith to take all of the blame for the Knicks’ breakdown. Felton was right. He had more turnovers (four) than he had baskets (three). Iman Shumpert finished with 3 points. Steve Novak was scoreless on three shots in 12 minutes, his play resembling his struggles against the Heat in the first round of the playoffs last season.

“I have to hit shots, J-Kidd has to hit shots, Novak has to hit shots,” Felton said. “When teams start double teaming Melo, we all have to collectively hit shots together.”

Carmelo Anthony led the Knicks with 32 points, but they could not find another scoring option in the second half.

Coach Mike Woodson elected to keep Amar’e Stoudemire (12 points) on the bench in the last eight minutes of the game, reasoning that Tyson Chandler was a better matchup against the Heat’s smaller lineup.

With the Heat cutting off Felton and Chandler on pick-and-rolls, Smith was left open from the perimeter. Woodson said he was upset that Smith kept putting up 3s even though his shots continued to bounce off the rim. Woodson said poor shot selection was the reason the Knicks were held to 16 points in the fourth quarter.

“He’s got to mix it up,” Woodson said of Smith. “That’s something he and I are going to talk about. When you’re not making your shots from the 3, you have to get a little bit close or try to get to the free-throw line. That’s what good scorers do.”

He continued: “You can’t take 18 shots and 14 shots be 3s. That’s a bit much. A lot of times, those shots look appetizing — and he makes a lot of them — but tonight, he didn’t make them.”

Smith’s shooting may have been erratic, but Jason Kidd credited him for trying to make the correct play when he sent a pass crosscourt to Anthony with the Knicks trailing, 97-93.

“Unfortunately,” Kidd said, “the best basketball player on this planet came up with the steal.”
85 2013-03-04 Once the data leaves the corporate network, protecting it becomes much harder. Searching for the name of almost any large company, plus the word “confidential,” yields supposedly secret documents that someone has taken from the company network and published.

, the streaming video service, recently found employees using 496 smartphone apps, primarily for data storage, communications and collaboration. , which powers much of the Internet with computer networking gear, found several hundred apps, as well as services for shopping and personal scheduling, touching its own network via employees.

“People are going to bring their own devices, their own data, their own software applications, even their own work groups,” drawing off friends and contractors at other companies, said Bill Burns, the director of information technology infrastructure at Netflix. “If you try and implant software that limits an employee’s capabilities, you’re adding a layer of complexity.”

Almost no service is invulnerable. In 2011, Chinese hackers obtained access to hundreds of government accounts on Google’s Gmail. Last July, Dropbox, one of the most widely used storage services, reported a loss of data from a large number of customers. Without special instructions, customer sales information in the online service of can be moved to private accounts at Box. On Saturday, Evernote said user names, e-mail address and encrypted passwords had been stolen in an attack, requiring the passwords of more than 50 million accounts to be reset.

In 2011, found more than 28,000 samples of mobile malware, mostly for capturing and transferring information like passwords. In January this year, ’s Juvenile Justice Department reported that 114,538 youth and employee records had disappeared when a mobile storage device with no password was stolen. The state will pay for a year of monitoring for everyone whose data was lost.

Last September, a customer notified that he could obtain other customers’ names, addresses and prescription records from the company’s mobile app. (Rite Aid says the problem has been fixed and that it is not aware of any data loss.)

Even without proof of compromised accounts, such losses can cost a company both money and reputation. According to the , unauthorized disclosures of confidential information, whether from unsecured devices, leaky apps or poor cloud security, must be announced publicly if the information could affect a company’s stock price.

Some apps onto which employees may move company information, like and , are well known. Others, like Remember the Milk, used for completing tasks, or CloudElephant, a data backup service, are news even to some of the experts in I.T. Skyhigh Networks, which recently started monitoring personal use of apps, has counted more than 1,200 services used in corporate networks from personal devices.

Skyhigh signs up for each service, along with 1,000 others that have not yet touched a corporate network, and researches them for security issues, like whether people can share data anonymously, or how easy it is to get inside the system and obtain another customer’s data. The company then tunes a customer’s corporate network to allow services to have different degrees of access to information.

“We have to be careful how we inspect for security vulnerabilities, since we don’t want to get arrested ourselves,” says Rajiv Gupta, the chief executive at Skyhigh. “What makes an iPhone interesting and scary is what happens in the cloud, and how I can upload things with one device and then download them to another from someplace else.”

The problem of data leakage is as old as someone taking a carbon copy home on the weekend.

What is different today is how people can take data with a finger swipe, and how little they know about whether a service has malware or how much it can see of what is going on elsewhere in a phone. Companies do not want to stand in the way of “life splicing,” as the intermingling of home and work tasks is known, because it mostly plays in a company’s favor. They just want more security.

Besides Skyhigh’s catalogs and controls over different apps, a system called allows companies to ensure that office access to is only for research on people and companies, not for job applications.

Companies also know little about what ad hoc corporate computing really costs, as groups buy their own mobile work productivity apps or rent cloud computing and data storage from the likes of Amazon Web Services.

“The popular term now when people bypass the in-house organization is ‘shadow I.T.,’ ” says Sunny Gupta, chief executive of Apptio, which helps companies calculate their total corporate I.T. spending. If the spending is high enough, companies look for volume discounts on their unofficial computing.

In a 2012 survey of information technology managers by , 47 percent of respondents said that at least half of corporate I.T. spending was now shadow I.T.
86 2013-03-04 At a moment when corporate America is caught between what it sees as two different — preventing a crippling attack that brings down America’s most critical systems, and preventing Congress from mandating that the private sector spend billions of dollars protecting against that risk — the Telvent experience resonates as a study in ambiguity.

To some it is prime evidence of the threat that highlighted in his , when he warned that “our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air traffic control systems,” perhaps causing mass casualties. Mr. Obama called anew for legislation to protect critical infrastructure, which was killed last year by a Republican after intensive lobbying by the Chamber of Commerce and other business groups.

But the security breach of Telvent, which the Chinese government has denied, also raises questions of whether those fears — the subject of weekly research group reports, testimony and Congressional studies — may be somewhat overblown, or whether the precise nature of the threat has been misunderstood.

American intelligence officials believe that the greater danger to the nation’s infrastructure may not even be China, but , because of its avowal to retaliate for the virus created by the United States and and unleashed on one of its nuclear sites. But for now, these officials say, that threat is limited by gaps in Iranian technical skills.

There is no doubt that attacks of all kinds are on the rise. The has been responding to intrusions on oil pipelines and electric power organizations at “an alarming rate,” according to an agency report last December. Some 198 attacks on the nation’s critical infrastructure systems were reported to the agency last year, a 52 percent increase from the number of attacks in 2011.

Researchers at , a security firm, discovered in 2011 that five multinational oil and gas companies had been attacked by Chinese hackers. The researchers suspected that the Chinese hacking campaign, which they called Night Dragon, had affected more than a dozen companies in the energy industry. More recently, the Department of Energy confirmed in January that its network had been infiltrated, though it has said little about what damage, if any, was done.

But security researchers say that the majority of those attacks were as ambiguous as the Telvent case. They appeared to be more about cyberespionage, intended to bolster the Chinese economy. If the goal was to blow up a pipeline or take down the United States power grid, the attacks would likely have been of a different nature.

In a recent report, Critical Intelligence, an Idaho Falls security company, said that several cyberattacks by “Chinese adversaries” against North American energy firms seemed intended to steal fracking technologies, reflecting fears by the Chinese government that the shale energy revolution will tip the global energy balance back in America’s favor. “These facts are likely a significant motivation behind the wave of sophisticated attacks affecting firms that operate in , as well as industries that rely on natural gas as an input, including petrochemicals and steelmaking,” the Critical Intelligence report said, adding that the attack on Telvent, and “numerous” North American pipeline operators may be related.

American intelligence experts believe that the primary reason China is deterred from conducting an attack on infrastructure in the United States is the simple economic fact that anything that hurts America’s financial markets or transportation systems would also have consequences for its own economy. It could interrupt exports to and threaten the value of China’s investments in the United States — which now include a new, big investment in oil and gas.

Iran, however, may be a different threat. While acknowledging that “China is stealing our intellectual property at a rate that qualifies as an epidemic,” Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican who chairs the House Intelligence Committee, added a caveat in an interview on Friday. “China is a rational actor,” he said. “Iran is not a rational actor.”

A new — a classified document that has not yet been published within the government, but copies of which are circulating for final comments — identifies Iran as one of the other actors besides China who would benefit from the ability to shut down parts of the American economy. Unlike the Chinese, the Iranians have no investments in the United States. As a senior American military official put it, “There’s nothing but upside for them to go after American infrastructure.”

While the skills of Iran’s newly created “cybercorps” are in doubt, Iranian hackers gained some respect in the technology community when they brought down 30,000 computers belonging to Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil producer, last August, replacing their contents with an image of a burning American flag.

The attack did not affect production facilities or refineries, but it made its point.

“The main target in this attack was to stop the flow of oil and gas to local and international markets and thank God they were not able to achieve their goals,” Abdullah al-Saadan, Aramco’s vice president for corporate planning, told Al Ekhbariya television.

President Obama has been vague about how the United States would respond to such an attack. No one in the administration argues that the United States should respond with cyber- or physical retaliation for the theft of secrets. Attorney General has made clear that would be dealt with in criminal courts, though the prosecutions of cybertheft by foreign sources have been few.

But the question of whether the president could, or should, order military retaliation for major attacks that threaten the American public is a roiling debate.

“Some have called for authorizing the military to defend private corporate networks and critical infrastructure sectors, like gas pipelines and water systems,” Candace Yu, who studies the issue for the Truman National Security Project, wrote recently. “This is unrealistic. The military has neither the specialized expertise nor the capacity to do this; it needs to address only the most urgent threats.”

But the administration has failed to convince Congress that the first line of defense to avert catastrophic cyberattack is to require private industry — which controls the cellphone networks and financial and power systems that are the primary target of infrastructure attacks — that it must build robust defenses.

A bill containing such requirements was defeated last year amid intense lobbying from the United States Chamber of Commerce and others, which argued that the costs would be prohibitive. Leading members of Congress say they expect the issue will come up again in the next few months.

“We are in a race against time,” , the former secretary of homeland security, said last week. “Most of the infrastructure is in private hands. The government is not going to be able to manage this like the air traffic control system. We’re going to have to enlist a large number of independent actors.”

The administration’s cybersecurity legislation last year failed despite closed-door simulations for lawmakers about what a catastrophic attack would look like.

During one such simulation that the Department of Homeland Security allowed a reporter to view at a department facility in , a woman played the role of an “evil hacker” who successfully broke into a power plant’s network. To get in, the hacker used a method called “spearphishing,” in which she sent a message to a power plant employee that induced the employee to click on a link to see pictures of “cute puppies.”

When the employee clicked on the link, it surreptitiously allowed the hacker to gain access to the employee’s computer, enabling her to easily turn the switches to the plant’s breakers on and off.

Although the officials providing the briefing acknowledged that the simulation was a bit simplistic, their message was clear: with so many vulnerable critical infrastructure systems across the country, such an attack could easily occur, with huge consequences. No one rules out that scenario — whatever the current motivations and abilities of countries like China and Iran.

“There are 12 countries developing offensive cyberweapons; Iran is one of them,” James Lewis, a former government official and cybersecurity expert at the in Washington, said at a security conference in San Francisco. Those countries have a long way to go, he said, but added: “Like nuclear weapons, eventually they’ll get there.”
87 2013-03-04 ACROSS the developing world, millions of people are migrating from farms to cities in search of work. The migrants are mostly men. As a result, women are increasingly on the front lines of the fight to sustain family farms. But pervasive discrimination, gender stereotypes and women’s low social standing have frustrated these women’s rise out of poverty and hunger.

Discrimination denies small-scale female farmers the same access men have to fertilizer, seeds, credit, membership in cooperatives and unions, and technical assistance. That deters potential productivity gains. But the biggest barriers don’t even have to do with farming — and yet they have a huge impact on food security.

As sole or principal caregivers, women and girls often face a heavy burden of unremunerated household chores like cooking, cleaning, fetching water, collecting firewood and caring for the very young and the elderly. These uncompensated activities are equivalent to as much as 63 percent of gross domestic product in India and Tanzania. But they result in lost opportunities for women, who don’t have the time to attend classes, travel to markets to sell produce or do other activities to improve their economic prospects.

To be sure, some female-headed farm households get remittances from absent men, but that is often not enough to compensate for the economic pressures they face. And we know that when women get more education and improve their social and economic standing, household spending on nutrition increases, child health outcomes improve and small farms become more productive.

A 2000 study of developing countries by the International Food Policy Research Institute found that as much as 55 percent of the reduction in hunger from 1970 to 1995 could be attributed to improvements in women’s status in society. Progress in women’s education alone (which explained 43 percent of gains in food security) was nearly as significant as increased food availability (26 percent) and health advances (19 percent) put together.
88 2013-03-04 Bill Daly, the N.H.L. deputy commissioner, said via e-mail that talks were “ongoing.” Mark Adams, the I.O.C. director of communications, said, “We would very much like to see N.H.L. players in Sochi and know the players are very eager to compete there.”

The talks hinge on one overarching issue: whether the N.H.L. can extract extra rights and considerations from the I.O.C. and the I.I.H.F. in exchange for suspending business for two weeks at midseason and risking injury to its players.

But the I.O.C. and the I.I.H.F. are believed to be reluctant to grant such concessions. It could set a precedent for other professional leagues that send players to the Olympics to ask for similar deals.

Officials have not disclosed the full list of what the N.H.L. is seeking, but the league is known to want the right to use Olympic video on the NHL Network, NHL.com and other league platforms. The N.H.L. is currently not allowed to use such videos. That means the clip of Sidney Crosby’s gold-medal-winning goal for Canada against the United States at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics has never been shown on an N.H.L. Web site, television show or arena scoreboard.

“I would think other leagues would ask for the same thing,” said Ed Desser, the president of the consulting firm Desser Sports Media and a former president of NBA Television and New Media Ventures. “It’s a very interesting conundrum.”

The N.H.L. may also be seeking some form of financial compensation or increased perquisites for participating in the Olympics. René Fasel, the president of the I.I.H.F., said in 2011 that such an arrangement was out of the question.

“The money should not be an issue because the issue is solved,” Fasel said then. “We do not have any money, and it is very easy.”

Fasel is a member of the I.O.C. executive board and president of the group of seven Olympic winter sports federations that receives a large share of revenues from the Winter Olympics. Last month, he and Bettman met in New York for two days with Richard Carrión, the chairman of the I.O.C. finance commission and a member of the I.O.C. marketing and television rights and new media commissions.

Officials from the N.B.A. and the W.N.B.A. declined to comment on what they would do if the N.H.L. won extra video rights from the I.O.C.

Ilya Kochevrin, a spokesman for the Kontinental Hockey League, which is centered in Russia, said the league was already committed to sending its players to Sochi even if the I.O.C. were to grant the N.H.L. concessions. Asked about the K.H.L.’s participation in future Olympics should the N.H.L. win extra rights, compensation or perquisites, he said it was “too early to discuss this issue.”

The N.H.L.’s participation at Nagano in 1998, Salt Lake City in 2002, Turin in 2006 and especially Vancouver in 2010 seemed to work well for the league, increasing its international visibility. In the United States, an average of 27.6 million viewers saw the 2010 men’s final between the United States and Canada, more than three times the viewership for that year’s deciding game of the Stanley Cup finals between Chicago and Philadelphia.

“The N.H.L. pretends there’s no value to having their players being seen by a billion people around the planet rather than the few in North America,” Pound said. “But when the Stanley Cup final is getting a 6 rating and the Olympic final is getting a 25, that’s good for your league.”

Such visibility is a spur for the N.H.L. to go to Sochi despite any hardships. So is the importance to NBC, which paid $4.38 billion in 2011 to carry the Olympics and is also the N.H.L.’s television partner, of having Crosby and the rest of the world’s best hockey players at the Winter Games.

But the N.H.L. believes the Winter Olympics need the N.H.L. as much as it needs the Winter Olympics. If so, Bettman may hold out for as much as he can before deciding to send players to Sochi.
89 2013-03-04 ¶LPL Financial, a brokerage firm that is part of LPL Financial Holdings, Boston, chose Bernstein-Rein, Kansas City, Mo., as agency of record. The account had been handled by the Richards Group, Dallas. Billings were not disclosed.

¶Mobli, New York, which offers a mobile photo- and video-sharing app, named Duval Guillaume Modem, Antwerp, Belgium, as its agency, creating campaigns aimed at increasing awareness and downloads of the app. Spending has not been determined. Duval Guillaume Modem has become known internationally for offbeat campaigns to introduce the TNT channel — part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner — in Belgium and the Netherlands.

¶Smokey Bones Bar and Fire Grill, Orlando, Fla., part of Sun Capital Partners, selected Brokaw, Cleveland, as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Pyro, part of the Richards Group, Dallas.

¶Chill Foundation, Burlington, Vt., which was started by the Burton Corporation, hired TDA_Boulder, Boulder, Colo., as its first agency of record. Spending was not disclosed.

¶Peter Gardiner, partner and chief media officer at Deutsch New York, is leaving, he and the agency said, to pursue entrepreneurial interests and investments in the media and technology fields. Mr. Gardiner joined Deutsch New York in 2000. The agency said it would announce this week its plans for his post. Deutsch New York is part of the Deutsch division of Lowe & Partners, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
90 2013-03-04 Before the main event at the 2nd Copenhagen Bridge Invitational over the weekend, there was a pro-am event for 52 pairs. The winners could not really be termed pro-am, because the “am” was Helle Rasmussen, who has played four times on the Danish women’s team. Her partner was Michael Barel from Israel, who also won the invitational pair event with Yaniv Zack from Israel.

The defending champions from the first pro-am, held in 2010, were Tom Hanlon from Ireland and Gus Hansen, a three-time world poker champion from Denmark. Two weeks before the event Hansen, the amateur, e-mailed Hanlon, the pro, the bidding system he wished to use. These were the main points: a one-club opening bid was any hand with 9 to 13 high-card points or natural with at least 14 points; a one-diamond, one-heart or one-spade opening promised at least a four-card suit and 14-plus points; and a one-no-trump opening denoted a balanced hand with at least 18 points; and all doubles above one no-trump were for penalty.

The pair’s best result occurred in the diagramed deal.

When Hansen (East) advanced with one heart, it was artificial, showing 0 to 5 points.

South’s one-no-trump rebid promised 18 or 19 points; he should have passed. Then Hanlon (West) doubled to indicate extra values. After that, two more penalty doubles resulted in a final contract of two diamonds doubled. West took the first three tricks in spades. Then it was best to shift to diamonds. He actually cashed the club ace and led another club. Now declarer could have escaped for down three, but unable to see through the backs of cards, eventually went down four.

Plus 1,100 gave Hanlon and Hansen a second top (as plus 800 would have done). They were behind the 1,400 paid by one North (!) in four (!) diamonds doubled.
91 2013-03-04 That statement might sound somewhat odd to those who recall Microsoft’s troubles 10 years ago with European regulators. At that time, it was compelled to make substantial changes to how its online login system, .Net Passport, stored addresses, ages and other personal details.

Nonetheless, earlier this year, Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., signaled its sensitivity to user privacy by turning on, by default, an antitracking signal in its latest Internet Explorer browser. Microsoft also took aim at its rival Google with a marketing campaign declaring that consumers were being “scroogled” with targeted advertisements based on their e-mails and search histories.

Mr. Lynch’s counterpart at Google, Keith Enright, called that marketing campaign “intellectually dishonest.” At the RSA Conference, Mr. Enright said Google took pains to secure consumer information and simplify privacy settings.

Joel R. Reidenberg, a professor at Fordham Law School, said Microsoft had made a 180-degree turn in emphasizing consumer data protection. “You’re seeing more companies trying to do that — develop privacy protecting services,” said Professor Reidenberg, whose Center on Law and Information Policy at Fordham has received donations from both Microsoft and Google. “Platforms recognize they have to deal with privacy. They’re looking at how they can be competitive.”

To some degree, these developments signal that the industry is working hard to stave off government regulation, which is moving at a glacial pace anyway. There seems to be no movement on broad privacy legislation on Capitol Hill, and no consensus has been reached on standards for “Do Not Track,” a browser setting that would let Internet users indicate that they did not want their activity tracked by marketers.

Advertisers have said openly that they will not stop tracking just because a consumer sends a Do Not Track signal through his or her browser. Facebook has said it needs more clarity on whether a Do Not Track signal applies, for instance, to social plug-ins like the Facebook “like” button, which is integrated into millions of Web sites.

Still, companies are refining the controls users have over their data, on mobile devices as well as on desktop computers.

In addition to requiring applications to seek user permission before tracking location, Apple has included in its latest mobile operating system a way for users to disable or reset a series of digits that identify a particular device for tracking purposes. The Advertising Identifier, as it is called, replaces what was an immutable unique device identifier. It allows app developers to monitor user behavior, but it also gives consumers the option of turning it off.

Facebook requires applications in its App Center to offer customers a privacy policy, and last year it introduced privacy controls that let users fine-tune who sees which posts and pictures.

In 2011, Google sought to distinguish its social networking tool, Google Plus, as privacy-sensitive. It introduced the idea of “circles” as a way to limit sharing certain things with certain people.

Market rivalry does not mean that companies are not worried about regulatory scrutiny of their use of personal data. Facebook agreed to 20 years of audits by the Federal Trade Commission after the agency found that the company had deceived consumers by making data public that they had intended to be private. In a measure of change, Facebook began nudging its users to review their privacy settings before they could start using the new search tool the company introduced this year.

“What does privacy mean?” Facebook’s chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, asked at the RSA Conference. “It’s understanding what happens to your data and having the ability to control it.”

That very imperative seems to be buoying a cottage industry of privacy start-ups. A Boston-based company, Abine, is testing what is effectively the opposite of a Facebook single sign-in for the Web. Instead of exposing your Facebook login credentials to dozens of Web sites, the company offers a proxy e-mail address or phone number for every transaction. You sign in with the e-mail address and a password you remember; Abine creates one address for an e-commerce site you visit, another for a news site, another for a dating site.

Abine offers the basic service for free and plans to charge a monthly fee for more advanced features.

Another company, Wave Systems, showed off its new consumer privacy tool on the RSA exhibition floor last week. Named Scrambls, it encrypts a social network post or e-mail, effectively locking it, and lets the author choose who should have a key to read it. The company plans to market Scrambls to parents, among others, as “a seat belt” to protect their children on social media. For now, it is free.

Whether Internet users are ready to pay to protect their personal data is unclear, though surveys have repeatedly pointed to consumer anxiety.

In a national survey last year, Forrester Research found that one in three consumers were concerned about companies having access to their behavioral data. More than 40 percent said they had stopped short of completing a transaction on a Web site because of something they read in a privacy policy.

Consumer trust is an increasingly vital commodity for Web companies, said Fatemeh Khatibloo, a Forrester analyst. “There’s enough market traction and momentum from the consumer side and the business side to drive this forward,” Ms. Khatibloo said.

Mozilla, which makes the Firefox browser, ruffled the feathers of the online advertising industry when it announced that it was testing a new tool that blocked third-party tracking software, known as cookies. The company said it had not made a final decision on whether to incorporate the tool into its browser, though some version of it was likely to be included.

Already, said Alex Fowler, Mozilla’s chief privacy officer, nearly 12 percent of desktop users of Firefox and 14 percent of Firefox users on Google’s Android mobile operating system have turned on the Do Not Track signal. “They’re asking for a different level of privacy on your service,” he said. “You have to listen to that. It’s critical to your business.”
92 2013-03-04 Nonbinding shareholder votes on executive pay have also been introduced in countries like the United States and Germany in response to Occupy Wall Street and other movements that have attacked the corporate excesses and abuses that fueled the world financial crisis. On Thursday, the European Parliament agreed to limit bonuses of bankers to two times their salaries.

In the case of Switzerland, however, Mr. Minder called for a much broader and tougher clampdown, striking a chord among citizens after the world financial crisis exposed major management failures at the financial giant UBS and other Swiss institutions.

Mr. Minder’s case was unexpectedly bolstered last month when Novartis, the pharmaceutical company, agreed to a $78 million severance payout for its departing chairman, Daniel Vasella. That set off a political storm and intense criticism from some investors, forcing Novartis to scrap the payout and prompting Mr. Vasella to tell shareholders that it had been a mistake.

Cristina Gaggini, an official from EconomieSuisse, the Swiss business federation, said Sunday that the business lobby had made some “major errors” in its efforts to stop Mr. Minder’s decade-long crusade, adding that the Novartis payout plan had amounted to a turning point in the referendum campaign.

After that, Ms. Gaggini said on Swiss national television, “It became impossible to return to a reasonable debate.”

Ahead of the vote, EconomieSuisse and Mr. Minder’s other opponents warned of dire consequences if the referendum passed, notably in terms of keeping Switzerland attractive to foreign companies and investors.

But Mr. Minder argued that Switzerland would benefit if it gave shareholders control over the companies in which they invested. Well over half the shares in many of the country’s largest companies are already held outside the country. “Investors put their money where they have the most to say, and that will clearly then be Switzerland,” Mr. Minder said ahead of the referendum.

Robin Ferracone, chief executive of Farient Advisors, an American advisory firm that specializes in executive compensation issues, said that even though the referendum would add “more burden to corporate processes, I do not predict an exodus from Switzerland,” because the tax and other benefits of being based in the country would still outweigh “the inconvenience” of having to adjust to stricter executive compensation rules.

Mr. Minder started his campaign after his family-owned business came close to bankruptcy because it had been a supplier of toothpaste and other body care products to Swissair, the airline that was grounded in October 2001.

While Swissair had run out of money, it still managed to pay an advance earlier that year of 12 million Swiss francs (about $9.6 million at the time) to a chief executive, Mario Corti, who then left shortly after the airline’s collapse.

Mr. Minder then broadened his campaign, accusing several bankers and other prominent executives of receiving “rip-off” pay packages. His campaign gained such momentum in recent months that relatively few such executives confronted him publicly, in this neutral and compromise-seeking country.
93 2013-03-05 Each week, Val Haller, a music-obsessed baby boomer and the founder of the Web site Valslist.com, matches tracks from her generation to that of her 20-something sons’ generation.

Music fests are more than just a playground for music fans. One of the main purposes is to introduce emerging artists to a large audience of music lovers who are drawn in by big headlining acts. Bands like Radiohead, Coldplay, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Black Sabbath are the draw. But "baby bands," as they're sometimes called — vetted to ensure their music is the real thing — play the “side stages” earlier in the day. An example of this is a new Australian band called The Rubens, set to play at the SXSW (South by Southwest) music fest in Austin, Tex., next week. They are one of my bands to watch. Their music is reminiscent of The Animals, one of the most popular groups of the ‘60s “British Invasion,” known for their gritty blues-rock sound and their intense, deep-voiced frontman Eric Burdon.

Whether you’re at the front or tail end of the boomer grid, you probably know the songs “House of the Rising Sun,” “Don’t Let Me Be Misunderstood” and “We’ve Gotta Get Out of this Place.” The Animals, a British rock band formed in Newcastle Upon Tyne in 1963, released a four track EP and shortly thereafter a hit single “House of the Rising Sun,” which launched them into orbit.

In case you don’t remember, (and if you don’t, raises the question whether you were there for the ‘60s) here’s “House of the Rising Sun.”

I have a new friend in Australia named Ann Holt. She wrote to me last summer after reading the article about my music Web site, Valslist.com, in O magazine. “I am you but I live in Australia,” she began. “I’m a boomer mom, have four kids, big music lover. We have such similar taste in music, it’s scary ... May I send you some Aussie bands?” I couldn’t say yes fast enough. I’m always searching the world for great music. Ann and I now e-mail each other like childhood pen pals.

Usually she sends band names and song titles that I can find online. But last month she sent a CD by The Rubens in the mail.. I listened to all 11 tracks, loved what I heard and looked them up on (United States) iTunes. The only thing I could find was a four-track EP. Turns out they are brothers Sam, Elliott and Zaac Margin and a good friend Scott Baldwin. They've only been together since 2011, but their take on soulful blues-rock is getting major attention over there. The debut single “Lay It Down” earned them a No. 57 spot on Australia’s Triple J’s 2011 Hottest 100 poll. Their demo, “My Gun,” caught the attention of the Grammy-award-winning producer David Kahne (who has worked with Regina Spektor, Paul McCartney and The Strokes) and without a record label or much money the young men came to New York to record their self-titled debut album under his direction. Its American release date is this summer. On March 11, New Yorkers can catch them at the Mercury Lounge.
94 2013-03-05 As Yoani Sanchez started her worldwide book tour, questions swirled — about both her future and her country’s....
95 2013-03-05 The debate over Herbalife has been reduced to the level of a junior high school feud as it becomes about hedge fund billionaires trash-talking each other, with no actual investigation....
96 2013-03-05 Syria released a German journalist who went missing more then two months ago, saying he had entered the country illegally but would be turned over to the Russian ambassador and sent home....
97 2013-03-05 Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, was admitted to NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital on Tuesday and released later in the day....
98 2013-03-05 A Federal District Court judge in Dallas denied a request by Mark Cuban to dismiss a nearly five-year-old insider-trading lawsuit brought against him by federal securities regulators. A June trial is scheduled....
99 2013-03-05 Jazz at Lincoln Center is asking fans to vote for their favorite artists from a list of 10 nominees chosen by a panel of experts....
100 2013-03-05 British officials were too focused on containing the financial crisis to analyze information connected to potential interest-rate manipulation, an audit by the Financial Services Authority said on Tuesday....
101 2013-03-05 Sticky question, sticky answer....
102 2013-03-05 The Apple TV set-top box can now work with wireless Bluetooth keyboards, but you do not have to use an Apple-branded model....
103 2013-03-05 Stoudemire stepped into the void left by Anthony, scoring 22 points in 32 minutes off the bench. He was joined by three other Knicks in double figures, all off the bench: J. R. Smith (18 points), Steve Novak (15 points) and Jason Kidd (12 points), who continued his resurgence.

Now the concern turns to Anthony’s knee. The team offered no specifics about the injury, and no tests were planned as of Monday night. Anthony is scheduled to be re-evaluated on Tuesday in Detroit. The Knicks (36-21) play the Pistons on Wednesday.

“We don’t think it’s too serious at all,” Anthony said as he walked, without any noticeable limp, toward the team bus.

Anthony said the knee had been sore and stiff “for a couple weeks” and disclosed that he had a magnetic resonance imaging examination on Saturday. The test showed no damage, he said, but Anthony received treatment on the knee at halftime of Sunday’s game, and it was still bothering him during pregame warm-ups on Monday.

“It still didn’t feel right,” he said. “I thought it was going to loosen up before the game.”

The discomfort was evident as Anthony missed his first four shots before finally converting a layup. The injury came early in the second quarter, as he was running near midcourt and turned to receive a long pass from Kidd. Anthony tripped over his foot and, as he put it: “My knee gave out. My leg gave out.”

Anthony finished with 6 points, a season low. Although the Knicks won without him, they can hardly afford to lose Anthony for any length of time, given the pace of their March schedule, which is packed with road games and tough opponents.

“It’s a tough journey for us, regardless,” Tyson Chandler said, “especially without Melo.”

The Knicks were trailing by 22 when Anthony tumbled to the court. They cut the deficit to 12 by halftime, with Stoudemire and Smith leading the charge. Both players started the second half, in place of Anthony and the ineffective James White, and the Knicks kept pushing through the third quarter.

The Knicks did not take the lead again until early in the fourth, when Novak hit a 3-pointer for a 79-78 edge. Novak, Felton and Kidd hit three 3-pointers in a row as the Knicks took a 90-87 lead, and they never trailed again.

The Cavaliers (20-40) cut the deficit to 99-97 on Kyrie Irving’s driving layup, and Tristan Thompson kept their hopes alive with a block of Felton’s layup attempt. Kidd hit 1 of 2 free throws with six seconds left for a 100-97 lead, leaving Cleveland an opening.

Irving dribbled to the edge of the arc and shot, but Chandler smacked the ball just as it left Irving’s fingers.

Irving finished with 22 points. Marreese Speights led the Cavaliers with 23 points.

The victory ended the Knicks’ 10-game losing streak in Cleveland. They had not won here since Nov. 29, 2006, when LeBron James was still taunting them as a Cavalier instead of as a Heat star.

The Cavaliers raced to a double-digit lead in the first quarter, made their first eight shots of the second quarter and had a 52-30 lead before the Knicks could even stop to consider what had happened.

Mind-boggling statistics filled the box score. Cleveland had converted 22 of its first 27 field goals. Speights, a bit player, had gone 7 for 7 (on the way to a 10-for-10 half). Luke Walton, the journeyman forward, had 9 assists.

“I was about ready to leave the arena,” Knicks Coach Mike Woodson said with a rueful smile. “We just couldn’t get any stops. It was awful. I thought maybe we were just tired from last night, drained. And somewhere down the road, boy, we found some energy to get it done.”

Kenyon Martin will sign a second 10-day contract on Tuesday. His first 10-day deal expired Monday. Martin has played only five minutes since joining the Knicks. He did not play against Cleveland. ... Marcus Camby played seven minutes in his first appearance since Jan. 10. He finished with no points and no rebounds.
104 2013-03-05 The president’s approach is unlikely to satisfy Mr. Obama’s most partisan backers, who view blaming Republicans for the deep spending cuts — especially in the military — as a tantalizing opportunity for political gain. And stepping back from a battle over the cuts could allow the significantly lower spending to become the “new normal” for the federal budget.

But a high-profile focus on the cuts in the months ahead is risky, too.

If severe economic pain ultimately fails to materialize, Mr. Obama could be blamed for hyping the situation, much like his cabinet secretaries were in recent weeks. (Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, for example, was criticized for declaring the nation would be “less safe” because of furloughs of border patrol agents.)

Seeking short-term political gain with the spending cuts could also make more difficult the president’s hopes for a longer-term budget deal with Republicans on taxes and entitlement spending.

Mr. Obama’s team is keenly aware that the more he focuses on the cuts, the more he threatens to divert attention from his second-term priorities on guns, immigration and preschool.

“You can’t simply put them on hold and simply deal with this,” David Axelrod, a former top adviser to Mr. Obama, said in an interview. The danger of sounding the alarm on the sequester, he said, is that “you can so magnify the impact of it so that it becomes an even bigger self-fulfilling kind of mess.”

Mr. Obama was careful during his first term to seize on any bit of good economic news so that no one could accuse him of hurting the economy by his statements. That desire to be upbeat — as in 2010, when administration officials declared a “recovery summer” just before the economy dipped again — sometimes got him into trouble.

The question now for the president is how much to keep up the drumbeat of concern about the spending cuts in the weeks ahead.

In talking points distributed by the White House to Democratic pundits on Friday, advisers suggested focusing on how Republican refusal to accept tax increases will “threaten our national security and hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs and our entire economy while too many Americans are still looking for work.”

But the document also urges them to make the point that it is time to turn to other issues. Former Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader during the Clinton years and the first term of George W. Bush, said he expects the president will not spend much time talking about the cuts.

“What he has to do is say, ‘I warned you about this, it’s going to happen, it’s gradual, but at the same time, we’ve got a country to run,’ ” Mr. Daschle said. “You’re not going to hear him with much more hyperbolic rhetoric.”

Senior White House aides said as much on Friday before Mr. Obama formally signed the order putting the cuts into effect. They told reporters that sequestration cuts would not be the only thing the president talks about — or even the majority of what he talks about — in the weeks ahead.

But they said he will try to score a political point when opportunities arise.

Aides continue to bet that they will. Even without Mr. Obama’s intervention, White House officials said they expect the effect of the cuts will slowly become more visible.

Government workers will begin forced furloughs in April, air control towers in small towns will eventually close and a lack of overtime for airport security officers will make lines longer over time.

“This is a slow-roll disaster instead of a meteor hitting,” said Matt Bennett, a Clinton-era adviser and the vice president for communications at Third Way, a liberal research group. “It’s coming on slowly. You are going to see it popping up.”

But it’s also possible that the severe angst is limited to relatively small communities of interest: federal workers, defense contractors, service providers who depend on government grants. If that happens, Mr. Obama would have little leverage to use against Republicans.

“It’s imperative not to lose sight of the rest of the agenda,” said Jim Manley, a former top aide to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. “They are smart enough to realize it’s a delicate balancing act.”
105 2013-03-05 A mayoral candidate in Clarksdale was beaten and burned before his body was found by a river levee last week, his family said Sunday. The authorities have charged Lawrence Reed, 22, with murder in the death of Marco McMillian, 34, but they have not released the cause of death pending toxicology tests. “We feel that this was not a random act of violence based on the condition of the body when it was found,” Mr. McMillian’s family said in a statement.
106 2013-03-05 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will form a new joint company for securitizing home loans as a steppingstone toward reducing government involvement in the mortgage market, the regulator of the government-controlled companies said on Monday.

“The overarching goal is to create something of value that could either be sold or used by policy makers as a foundational element of the mortgage market of the future,” the regulator, Edward DeMarco, who is the acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, said in remarks prepared for a conference.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were bailed out by the government in 2008, help finance about two-thirds of new home loans. Mr. DeMarco is seeking to shrink them and reduce risks to the taxpayers who support the mortgage giants.

Since they were seized by the government in the bailout, the companies have drawn nearly $190 billion from the Treasury to stay afloat.

By creating a new securitization company, the Federal Housing Finance Agency intends to pave the way for a single securitization platform, forcing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to abandon their current separate systems. Mr. DeMarco said the goal was to build a single infrastructure to support the mortgage credit business.

The new company would be structured as a joint venture owned by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Mr. DeMarco told reporters in a conference call to discuss his agency’s plans.

In the long term, he said, policy makers will most likely decide how the securitization platform is operated, and whether it should be privatized.
107 2013-03-05 The Times investigation documented what many Chinese business executives and party insiders have long gossiped about: that Mr. Wen’s wife, son and brother, among other close relatives, had amassed enormous assets, at one point amounting to at least $2.7 billion, mostly through interests in the and gemstone industries. The articles detailed the way Mr. Wen’s relatives had benefited from their political connections, but they found no evidence that Mr. Wen had profited personally or committed specific improprieties related to the business deals.

To his many supporters in China, the articles have reinforced portrayals of Mr. Wen as a tragic idealist who could not effectively manage his own family, let alone the country. But critics, who include dissidents and leftists, have called him a hypocrite befitting the label of China’s “best actor,” an epithet Mr. Wen acquired within the Chinese blogosphere in recent years.

“It throws into doubt his clean, upright image and adds to the impression that he’s helpless and lacks credibility,” said Liu Suli, a prominent commentator who owns a bookstore in the capital.

Mr. Wen, the son of a teacher whose family was viciously persecuted in the Cultural Revolution, trained as a geologist and rose from obscurity to lead the party Central Committee’s General Office from 1985 to 1993. Toeing the party line as political winds shifted, he survived the purge of two liberal party chiefs he served.

In his 10 years as prime minister, Mr. Wen cultivated a public persona as Grandpa Wen, an emotive guardian of the underclass and a lyrical defender of essential liberties. But he was increasingly seen as an outlier among the party leadership.

He shined as the party’s chief crisis manager, campaigning for public accountability after disasters like the SARS epidemic of 2003, the earthquake in Sichuan Province in 2008, and a deadly high-speed-train crash in 2011. He paid visits to Chinese patients and petitioners — unusual for a Chinese leader — and advanced policies aimed at curbing breakneck growth and creating a more balanced, energy-efficient economy.

Even as the party held tight to its authoritarian ways, Mr. Wen repeatedly, if vaguely, championed greater democracy, rule of law and human rights.

But his government’s record was marred by surging housing costs, the widening chasm between rich and poor, and the growing power of China’s domestic security apparatus and state-owned enterprises.

Behind the scenes, Mr. Wen made many political enemies among provincial and state industry bosses who opposed his government’s stopgap macroeconomic controls, as well as among party hard-liners who scorned his advocacy of political reform. In late 2010, after he issued a string of calls for political change, Mr. Wen faced criticism from fellow leaders in a party ritual known as a “democratic life meeting,” according to two party officials.

But during the annual legislative session last March, Mr. Wen renewed his push for change in dramatic fashion. Addressing the news media, he warned that another Cultural Revolution might occur without political reform, while reprimanding the Chongqing municipality’s government over a seismic political scandal that had begun to unfold there.

The next morning, the party announced the dismissal of Chongqing’s flashy party chief, , who had mobilized a state-centered reform drive and revolutionary-style campaigns to squash organized crime and restore Maoist values.

The neo-leftist Mr. Bo and the liberal Mr. Wen were seen as political adversaries and archetypes of clashing reform camps. Party insiders say Mr. Wen played an active role in blocking Mr. Bo’s promotion and in backing his downfall last year.

Mr. Bo, who has been incommunicado since his detention last spring, is awaiting prosecution on accusations of corruption and interfering in a murder investigation that led to the conviction of his wife in the killing of a British businessman.

Many intellectuals and party elites have come to view recent political scandals in the context of that rivalry. Spurred by Mr. Xi, the new leadership has begun a campaign against corruption and wasteful spending, shutting down New Year’s banqueting and firing dozens of officials, many exposed by online whistle-blowers. Two cabinet officials connected to Mr. Wen, including his former personal secretary, have come under investigation by party disciplinary authorities, people with knowledge of the cases said. Both men remain in their posts.

In his waning months in office, Mr. Wen has continued to battle critics over China’s economic stimulus spending and the vested interests that stand in the way of his cherished initiatives. Last month, his government unveiled a long-delayed blueprint to narrow China’s wealth gap, but the plan will require concrete steps to curtail the profit-taking of state corporations and increase workers’ wages as promised.

Legislation to reform the rural land requisition system and shield peasants from land grabs and meager compensation remains mired in contention. In January, parts of a dam project in southwest China that Mr. Wen had ordered shelved over environmental concerns were officially revived.

One Western diplomat recalled an emotional dinner meeting in September in during which Mr. Wen quoted and other European writers while addressing senior officials. “It was a very sentimental performance,” the diplomat said. “But also I think heartfelt. I think he really does regret not having achieved more.”
108 2013-03-05 MBIA, the bond insurer, on Monday won the dismissal of a lawsuit by the Bank of America Corporation and Société Générale that challenged its 2009 restructuring, and its shares climbed 24 percent.

Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of New York State Supreme Court said Eric R. Dinallo, the state insurance superintendent at the time, was not “arbitrary and capricious” in authorizing a split of MBIA’s municipal bond business from a structured finance unit that had suffered big losses from guaranteeing debt backed by risky mortgages.

Bank of America and Société Générale, the French bank, were the remaining plaintiffs among 18 financial companies that said the split of MBIA defrauded them as policyholders.

They said it left the MBIA Insurance unit undercapitalized, and siphoned $5 billion from the unit to benefit another entity, the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, at their expense.

But in her decision, Justice Kapnick said it was not her job to second-guess Mr. Dinallo’s decision, which had a rational basis. MBIA had supported the restructuring as a means to help unfreeze municipal finance markets after the 2008 financial crisis.
109 2013-03-05 What is more, the projects are often structured so companies can avoid paying state sales taxes on new equipment and, at times, avoid local property taxes. While some deals might encourage businesses to invest where they might otherwise not have invested, there are few guarantees that job creation or other economic benefits actually occur.

Budget analysts say these bonds amount to a government subsidy, in the form of forgone tax revenue. While it is difficult to calculate the precise dollar amount of the subsidy, given the number and variety of these bonds, experts say the annual cost to federal taxpayers could run into the billions.

“The federal government doesn’t cut a check for this, but it costs the government in terms of lower tax revenue,” said Lisa Washburn, a managing director at Municipal Market Advisors, an independent municipal research firm in , Mass., that assisted The Times with its analysis.

“If these companies were to issue taxable bonds instead, then the federal government would receive tax revenues on them.”

Ms. Washburn added that the gain to companies, and bond buyers, can be big and long-lasting.

Chevron used most of its federally tax-free borrowings to expand a refinery in Pascagoula, Miss. , the agribusiness giant, used about $180 million in tax-exempt bonds to improve its grain-processing facilities in and . raised $250 million to renovate an aluminum plant in Iowa.

Such financing arrangements are now worrying some state and local officials. Many are concerned that the budget battles in Washington will mean less federal money for them, and that the federal government might try to limit the scope of their own tax-free financing.

Some of the subsidized business projects are almost indistinguishable from public works. , for instance, another big user of tax-exempt bonds over the last decade, used $1.3 billion of these securities to finance a new terminal at . That terminal is owned by the City of New York; American is the builder, the borrower and a tenant.

As political controversy over the federal deficit has mounted, some fiscal experts have taken aim at this sort of tax-exempt borrowing. The team at the Bipartisan Policy Center led by , a former member of the Federal Reserve, and , the former Republican senator, has called for ending it. A spokeswoman for the center said that such a change could bring in $50 billion for the federal government over 10 years.

The Obama administration would take a different approach, capping the value of the tax break that wealthy bond buyers enjoy, whether they buy private activity bonds or conventional . Some of the bonds in The Times’s analysis are subject to the , but taxpayers who incur the A.M.T. typically do not buy those bonds. There are also tax-exempt private activity bonds that are used for hospitals and universities. The Times did not include those in the analysis, because they do not benefit profit-making companies.

It was Ms. Rivlin who, as founding director of the , issued one of the first major reports on private activity bonds, which the report said were invented by officials in eager to attract business during the Depression. In a 1981 report, Ms. Rivlin found that the bonds were in much wider use than previously understood. Companies were using the federal subsidy to build Kmarts, restaurants, private golf courses and tennis clubs — even a topless bar and an adult bookstore in .

“These trends have cast into sharp relief the questions concerning the public purpose” of the subsidy, Ms. Rivlin wrote at the time. “So far, federal legislation has left the definition of ‘public purpose’ to state and local governments.”

Finally, in 1986, in a sweeping tax reform signed by President , Congress set limits on qualified private activity bonds, giving each state a yearly allotment. Some projects, like airports and wharves, were not subject to the yearly limits. Others could not be financed with tax-exempt bonds at all, including golf courses, stadiums, hotels, massage parlors and tanning salons.

But over time, Reagan-era concerns about budget deficits faded, and so did some of the limits on tax-exempt private activity bonds. The reported in 2008 that use had risen to a record high and that once-forbidden projects like stadiums, hotels and golf courses were back.

“It is not clear whether facilities like these provide public benefits to federal taxpayers,” the G.A.O. stated in its report.

In the years since 1986, Congress has lifted the caps on some states’ or cities’ allotments, often in response to natural disasters and other emergencies.

After the terrorist attacks in 2001, for example, Congress approved $8 billion worth of tax-exempt Liberty Bonds, which were in addition to ’s normal allotment and could be used to keep companies from moving out of the neighborhood near ground zero. Goldman Sachs used around $1.6 billion of tax-exempt bonds under the program to help pay for its headquarters in Lower . In a related program, Goldman agreed to keep 8,900 jobs in the city but has not met that level for the last three years, according to public records.

A spokesman for Goldman did not dispute that its jobs levels have been below 8,900 but said the bank was meeting its obligations.

The Liberty Bond program allowed for a limited amount of tax-exempt financing for projects beyond Lower Manhattan. That’s how One Bryant Park L.L.C. was able to use $650 million of tax-exempt bonds to build the Bank of America Tower in Midtown.

In 2005, Congress created a similar program to spur rebuilding in areas of , and Mississippi that were ravaged by . The Times’s data shows that much of the bond proceeds went to the oil and gas industry, or to showcase projects like hotels or the Superdome. In 2008, Congress passed the Heartland Disaster Tax Relief Act, a bond program to help 10 Midwestern states hit by flooding and tornadoes. The goal was to help businesses rebuild their destroyed property. But by the time the program was set to expire at the end of last year, the criteria had been expanded to include new businesses.

One of those businesses was Orascom Construction Industries of , which raised $1.2 billion of tax-exempt bonds to build a plant in Iowa. Another was the Fatima Group of Pakistan. In December, a Fatima subsidiary raised $1.3 billion, tax-exempt, to build a fertilizer plant in Mount Vernon, Ind.

But weeks later, Indiana received alarming news: Pentagon officials said that fertilizer from Fatima’s operations in Pakistan had been turning up in , in homemade bombs used against American troops. Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana has delayed the project while the Defense Department investigates. The $1.3 billion is now sitting in escrow and will have to go back to the bond buyers if the project is rejected.
110 2013-03-05 A thick, satisfying winter soup....
111 2013-03-05 Mr. Musawi did not specify which armed groups he considered responsible for the attack, but it was clear that he meant Sunni militant extremists affiliated with Al Qaeda in Iraq. These groups have become increasingly emboldened by popular Sunni resentment against Mr. Maliki, a Shiite who is accused by critics of trying to marginalize Iraq’s Sunni population since the American occupation of Iraq ended in 2011.

The Al Nusra Front, a Sunni insurgent force in Syria that has become known for its audacious attacks on government targets, has links with Al Qaeda in Iraq, and American officials have blacklisted it as a terrorist organization. But many Iraqi Sunnis sympathize with the Syrian insurgents, who are overwhelmingly Sunni and whose clan relations span national boundaries.

“A number of us have been saying that Iraq is the one most affected by the meltdown in Syria,” said Joshua M. Landis, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma and curator of the Syria Comment blog, which has chronicled the Syrian conflict.

“In that region, the tribes go right across the Syrian border, and most of the people are related by blood,” he said. “They’re in one common struggle.”

Mr. Maliki has not expressed outright support for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, whose minority Alawite sect is an offshoot of Shiite Islam. Mr. Assad’s allies in the region are the government of Iran, which is majority Shiite, and Hezbollah, the Shiite militant group that is a powerful political force in Lebanon.

But last week, Mr. Maliki warned that a victory for the Syrian insurgency could create a Sunni extremist haven in Syria and incite sectarian mayhem in his own country as well as in Lebanon and Jordan. All three countries, along with Turkey, are hosts to hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees, mostly Sunnis.

According to accounts from Mr. Musawi and other Iraqi officials quoted by Western news agencies, the Syrian soldiers who were attacked originally crossed into Nineveh Province, Iraq, over the weekend to escape attacks by insurgents at the Yaarubiyeh border crossing. In returning them, Iraqi soldiers put the Syrians on a bus headed for a different border post, in Anbar Province, partly to avoid the same hostilities the Syrians had fled.

But the bus, part of an Iraqi military convoy, was attacked as it neared the Waleed crossing by gunmen armed with mortars, automatic weapons and improvised bombs, who appeared to have advance knowledge of the convoy route. Agence France-Presse quoted an Iraqi army officer, Lt. Col. Mohammed Khalaf al-Dulaimi, as saying that at least three vehicles were destroyed.

The Syrian state-run news agency SANA made no immediate mention of the ambush, but it quoted Mr. Maliki as saying he supported a peaceful solution of the Syrian conflict and that “vandalism and the use of arms will lead nowhere.”

News of the ambush came as Syrian rebel fighters claimed other gains against the government on Monday, notably the seizure of the contested north-central city of Raqqa after days of heavy clashes. Rebel videos uploaded on the Internet showed activists smashing a statue of President Assad’s father, Hafez, in the central square to punctuate their victory.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based group with a network of contacts in Syria, quoted a lawyer in Raqqa as saying that the rebels had captured the provincial governor, Hasan Jalali, and the secretary general of the Raqqa branch of Mr. Assad’s ruling Baath Party, Suleiman al-Suleiman. If confirmed, they would be among the highest-ranking officials detained by insurgents.

It was unclear late Monday whether the insurgents could retain control of Raqqa, a strategic city on the Euphrates River. But if they could, it would be the first provincial capital completely taken over by the armed resistance. For the government, the loss of Raqqa would diminish the prospects that Mr. Assad’s military, now fighting on a number of fronts, could retake large areas of northern and eastern Syria from the rebels.

An activist reached by phone in Raqqa, Abu Muhammad, said, “The only place still under control of the regime, in the entire province of Raqqa, is the military security building.”

Earlier Monday, anti-Assad activists reported heavy fighting in Homs between rebels and government forces backed by tanks and warplanes.

The clashes in Homs, a central Syrian city that had been quiet recently, seemed to shift attention from the northern city of Aleppo, where fighting had swirled for days around the Khan al-Asal police academy. Both sides in the civil war, which has claimed an estimated 70,000 lives, acknowledged relatively high death tolls there.

The pro-government Al-Watan newspaper accused opposition fighters on Monday of massacring 115 police officers and wounding 50 at Khan al-Asal. On Sunday, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 200 government soldiers and rebels had been killed.

In an interview published in The Sunday Times of London, Mr. Assad assailed Britain’s suggestion that it may provide more than just nonlethal aid to his enemies. He also restated his opposition to peace talks with armed insurgents.

“How can we ask Britain to play a role while it is determined to militarize the problem?” Mr. Assad said. “How can we expect them to make the violence less while they want to send military supplies to the terrorists?”

William Hague, Britain’s foreign secretary, said Mr. Assad’s remarks “will go down as one of the most delusional interviews that any national leader has given in modern times.”
112 2013-03-05 The slowdown alarmed China’s leaders and prompted them to unleash a flood of fresh credit last autumn and this winter from banks, semiregulated trusts and other sources.

With loans readily available again, there are signs now that rising real estate prices might be back. The National Statistics Bureau reported that prices jumped in 54 of the 70 cities tracked by the government in January. In Shanghai, for example, average property prices were up as much as 40 percent in the first two months of the year, compared to the same time last year.

“Despite the policy-induced slowdown in activity, Chinese property remains on a wildly unsustainable path,” Mark Williams, an economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note. “Developers actually completed just short of 11 million properties last year.”

In another worrying trend for the Chinese government, the flood of credit in the last few months has failed to cause a sharp uptick in sectors other than real estate; instead, the Chinese economy seems to be settling into a slower long-term growth rate even when receiving strong monetary stimulus.

The Chinese state news media said in recent days that the government was considering other measures in the hope of holding down housing prices. The announcements led to a weekend rush among those eager to buy and sell properties before the policy took effect.

With analysts predicting a sharp drop in property transactions after the policy takes effect, the Shanghai composite index fell 3.65 percent Monday to close at 2,273.40. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index dropped 1.5 percent, to 22,537.81. Property developers were hit particularly hard. Shares of Vanke, one of the biggest property developers in China, fell the daily limit of 10 percent in Shenzhen. Poly Real Estate also dropped 10 percent in Shanghai. Early Tuesday, Chinese markets showed signs of stabilizing as shares gained slightly.

As share prices fell on Monday, the government opened its annual parliamentary meeting in Beijing, a session that is expected to complete the nation’s once-a-decade leadership transition and also set the agenda for the leadership team. Among the major challenges Beijing’s new leaders face is how to cope with a widening income gap and how to address inflation and the high cost of housing for ordinary Chinese. Another social issue is a generational divide, as tens of millions of young people are finding that home prices have soared far beyond their buying capacity.

A popular comparison among recent college graduates is that their typical paycheck of $500 a month means that in an entire year, they could save only enough to buy two square meters, or 21.5 square feet, of an apartment in a large coastal city, and then only if they spent nothing on food or anything else. Buying an 800-square-foot apartment could take the paychecks of an entire career, by that calculation.

Affluent families often spend heavily to help children buy their first homes, particularly sons — a popular perception holds that young men have trouble finding spouses if they do not own a home. But buying a city apartment with family backing is seldom an option for the more than 10 million rural residents pouring into Chinese cities each year, as China maintains one of the world’s fastest paces of urbanization.

Compounding the national angst over high real estate prices this winter has been a series of cases in which low-ranking government officials and bank managers on modest salaries have mysteriously been found to own dozens of homes. Some Chinese cities have responded to the acrimony in recent weeks by severely restricting public access to real estate records. The government’s plan for a capital-gains tax on home sellers is a new suggestion that had received little public discussion. Previous tax plans to cool the sector had been focused on introducing annual taxes on the assessed value of luxury homes, which have experienced the fastest appreciation over the last decade.

The Chinese government has pushed hard for the annual tax because it would raise the carrying cost of homes and prompt more owners to rent or sell their homes, instead of leaving them vacant as speculative investments, as many do now. But local governments lack systems for assessing the value of homes. And many developers and homeowners have argued strenuously that an annual tax would be unfair because the government already owns the land in China and issues very long leases for it, requiring that a sizable fee be paid up front for each year of the lease.
113 2013-03-05 TOKYO — The nominee to become the next Bank of Japan governor said Monday that he would do “whatever is needed” to finally end deflation in the world’s third-largest economy.

Haruhiko Kuroda, the nominee, who announced last week that he would resign as president of the Asian Development Bank, also called on the government to put its finances on a sounder footing to maintain investor confidence in the country’s long-term solvency.

“If I am confirmed as governor, I will clearly communicate to markets that I am prepared to do whatever it takes to beat deflation,” Mr. Kuroda told a confirmation hearing in Parliament.

“The Japanese economy has suffered from deflation for over 10, almost 15 years, which is a global anomaly of the most extreme. As prices have fallen, corporate profits and wages have shrunk, depressing consumption and investment and triggering even lower prices in a vicious cycle,” he said.

“But to avoid a rise in interest rates and a loss of confidence in Japan’s public finances, it is also critical to restore fiscal health in the mid- to long term,” Mr. Kuroda said.

If confirmed, Mr. Kuroda is set to lead a crucial part of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s three-pronged plan to spur economic growth. Mr. Abe has pledged to push the Bank of Japan to do more to pump money into the economy, spend generously on public works to stimulate growth and draw on private sector expertise to devise a fresh economic strategy that would make that growth sustainable. The Japanese economy ranks only behind those of the United States and China in size.
114 2013-03-05 &#x201C;The Fortress of Solitude&#x201D; &#x2014; a new musical which its composer, Michael Friedman,  once described  as &#x201C;a  history of soul music on a particular block in Brooklyn&#x201D; &#x2014; will have its world premiere in Dallas be...
115 2013-03-06 Animals suffer. So what excuse is there for treating them badly? Is “culture” a reason?...
116 2013-03-06 Jim Page rounds third base....
117 2013-03-06 Microsoft held an event inside a home of the future on its campus. One technology Microsoft is betting on is jumbo-size touch-screen displays that can be used for presentations and meetings....
118 2013-03-06 Authorities are looking for the people who set fire to the bag behind a Brooklyn warehouse on Saturday. It is unclear whether the dogs were dead before the fire began....
119 2013-03-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
120 2013-03-06 After an unsustainable boom, some shrinkage in the global financial sector was inevitable, and desirable, the author writes. Besides, excluding the euro zone, cross-border capital flows are still reasonably healthy....
121 2013-03-06 The French national rail company SNCF is starting an economy high-speed rail service called Ouigo....
122 2013-03-06 The hard truth is, my indecision and sentimentality have all just been an excuse: what I really can’t reconcile is that once I pack up the baby gear, I’m packing it in. No more babies for us....
123 2013-03-06 The Dow’s nominal high prompted few cheers on Wall Street. | Will the rally lead to more deals? | As Wall Street titans battle over Herbalife, there can be a tendency to forget the fundamentals. | Gary Gensler of the Commodity Futures Trading Co...
124 2013-03-06 A new analysis from the Pew Research Center shows that what you read on Twitter may not reflect the opinion of the general public....
125 2013-03-06 After the Rangers defenseman Marc Staal was struck in the eye by a deflected puck on Tuesday night, the debate over mandatory visors was renewed yet again....
126 2013-03-06 When did the Dow Jones industrial average reach a record high?...
127 2013-03-06 Words ought to be a little wild....
128 2013-03-06 “China is still in the primary stage of socialism and will remain so for a long time,” he said.

Also absent in Mr. Wen’s sprawling 29-page report was any discussion of re-education through labor, the widely detested system of extralegal detention that allows the police to jail petty thieves, prostitutes and antigovernment bloggers without trial for up to three years.

“In a sense, his speech was quite disappointing,” said Willy Lam, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. “He spent a lot of time trying to justify his last years in office.”

An emotive populist, Mr. Wen became the party’s human face during his decade as prime minister. He was dispatched to disaster zones to comfort earthquake victims or, in 2008, to calm migrant workers stranded by a snowstorm that disrupted travel for millions during the Chinese New Year holiday. But despite his popularity among ordinary Chinese, his vocal advocacy of political reform often put him at odds with the party’s conservative leadership.

Mr. Lam, for one, said he thought the muted reaction to Mr. Wen’s speech at the Great Hall of the People on Tuesday reflected his diminished stature among party stalwarts.

“Compared to the long applause that followed the swan song of Zhu Rongji, the response was pretty weak,” Mr. Lam said, referring to Mr. Wen’s predecessor.

Although it is never easy divining the intentions of China’s cautious and cryptic leadership, the highly scripted speeches delivered during the annual legislative sessions often provide clues about the government’s priorities.

Mr. Wen’s work report pledged a continuation of policies to promote technological innovation, increased spending on rural health insurance and the creation of 6.7 million units of low-cost housing.

But Mr. Wen, and the departing president, Hu Jintao, leave behind a host of nettlesome problems, including a perilous wealth gap and an economy increasingly dominated by state-owned enterprises and a privileged elite. Increasingly urgent, too, is the pollution that has fouled the nation’s water, soil and air, a point underscored by the noxious haze that settled over the capital on Tuesday.

Broadcast live on national television, the prime minister’s work report is a highlight of tightly choreographed political theater that rarely strays from a stolid procession of speeches, news conferences and invariably pro-government votes — all of it intended to give a united and untroubled public face to a reliably secretive party leadership.

Last year, however, the script was challenged by a divisive scandal surrounding Bo Xilai, the combative party chief of Chongqing, whose fall unleashed months of revelations about murder, corruption and political infighting. Most analysts agree that the proceedings this year will ignore the plight of Mr. Bo, who is awaiting prosecution on charges of corruption, abuse of power and obstruction of justice.

The new president, Xi Jinping, and the man who will succeed Mr. Wen, Li Keqiang, have raised expectations for change by vowing to end flagrant privileges and self-enrichment by officials and their families. “Now we’re looking for signs that the hopes can be satisfied,” said Deng Yuwen, an editor for The Study Times, a newspaper published by the Central Party School in Beijing. “The congress won’t have any breakthroughs, but it can indicate where and how fast the leaders want to take things.”

The delegates at the gathering are selected through a process that rewards loyalists; about 70 percent are Communist Party members, and many are officials. Few dare defy the leadership’s will by voting against proposals or abstaining from ballots, and the congress has never voted down a proposal put before it.

The meeting is likely to approve a modest restructuring of government ministries and agencies. Over the past few months, analysts and well-connected business executives have said that Mr. Li wanted a drastic reorganization, to create enlarged ministries for financial regulation, environmental protection and other areas.

But recent Chinese news reports have described a more limited plan that is most likely to include folding the scandal-laden and deeply indebted Ministry of Railways into the Ministry of Transport, and strengthening food and drug safety regulators to bring greater oversight of industries that are frequently hit by consumer safety concerns.
129 2013-03-06 Such convenience has also raised concerns that it will facilitate marriage fraud — already a challenge for immigration authorities — as well as make it easier to ensnare vulnerable women in trafficking networks.

The practice is so new that some immigration authorities said they were unaware it was even happening and did not typically provide extra scrutiny to ensure these types of marriages were not misused to secure citizenship. But even those who conduct or arrange these ceremonies have expressed reservations as the practice has grown more widespread.

The imam Mohd A. Qayyoom, who runs the New York Qazi Office in Jackson Heights and officiated Ms. Chowdhury’s wedding in February, said he had turned away people seeking to marry cousins in Southeast Asia in order to get them to the United States. Mazeda A. Uddin, a community activist from Queens, who often plays matchmaker, said she stopped organizing proxy weddings after witnessing people being married and left brokenhearted by unscrupulous foreigners seeking a green card, not a life partner.

“Part of the reason for having the two people come and appear before a priest or a judge is to make sure it is a freely chosen thing,” said Adam Candeub, a professor at Michigan State University College of Law who has studied proxy marriage. “There are some problems with willy-nilly allowing anyone around the world to marry.”

Technically, the Chowdhury-Ahmmed marriage “took place” in Bangladesh, where it was legally registered, not New York, where the practice is not allowed. Only a few states permit proxy marriages, and most require one partner to be in the military. But the United States generally recognizes foreign marriages as long as they are legally conducted abroad and do not break any laws here.

George Andrews, the operations manager for Proxy Marriage Now, a company in Fayetteville, N.C., that facilitates such unions worldwide for a fee, said technology, like Skype, was driving the growth of proxy marriages. In the seven years the company has been in existence, business has increased by 12 percent to 15 percent annually to between 400 and 500 weddings a year. The share not involving someone in the military has grown to 40 percent.

Some of those couples are trying to circumvent restrictive local laws, like those in Israel and other countries, which recognize mixed-religion marriages but will not perform them, he said. Others who live in different countries seek marriage to pave the way to be together, a first step to attaining a visa or citizenship for a spouse, he said. Couples usually dial in to a ceremony in El Salvador, which has comparatively little red tape surrounding the process.

All people applying for American citizenship through marriage must first be interviewed by officials from the Homeland Security or State Department who are charged with rooting out fraud. Officials said that if the spouses were to explain they had been married thousands of miles apart over the Internet, it would quite likely raise a red flag.

And yet, while the agencies ask interviewees for details of their wedding during the immigration interviews, they do not specifically inquire whether it occurred by proxy.

Archi Pyati, the deputy director of the Immigration Intervention Project at the Sanctuary for Families, an organization that helps battered women, said the center frequently saw ways in which proxy marriage was abused. Some cases involve women, many from West Africa, who were married by proxy without their consent, or as children.

Other cases have involved proxy marriage used to bring women into the country who then find themselves pressed into sex work by traffickers.

The practice of proxy marriage is particularly widespread in Islamic countries where the Koran has long been interpreted to explicitly endorse it.

“After all these advancements in technology and all kinds of telecommunication tools, scholars came to the conclusion that it is acceptable,” said the imam Shamsi Ali, of the Jamaica Muslim Center in Queens.

“Skype is making it easier,” he added. “These days you have Google Hangout, too.”

There are those who oppose the practice for traditional reasons.

“It seems strange; I just feel like a wedding begins your new life together, not apart,” said Angela Troia, who owns the Wedding Company, a shop in Manhasset, N.Y., on Long Island, that sells invitations and offers planning guidance for many Queens couples. “I think it takes away from the meaning of it.”

But for Ms. Chowdhury, 21, and Mr. Ahmmed, 31, the giggling pair pretending to feed each other wedding dessert by holding forkfuls of cake to their computer screens that day, it felt full of the gravity of any other wedding. Ms. Chowdhury noted that her aunt had married similarly, long before the Internet age — by telephone.

Peering from the screen of a laptop, Mr. Ahmmed agreed. “This is my lawful wife,” he said.

At the last word, his bride squealed with joy.
130 2013-03-06 South Africa’s prosecutors have rejected his version of events, calling the explanation unrealistic and putting forth a picture of Mr. Pistorius as a hotheaded, reckless young man with a tendency toward jealous behavior.

For now, Mr. Pistorius, 26, is out on bail, living in his uncle’s house in Pretoria and awaiting his next court hearing on June 4. Family members describe him as in mourning. Last week, his public relations company announced that he was holding a private memorial for Ms. Steenkamp in his uncle’s house, a move that was met with skepticism in the South African news media.

If there was trouble in the relationship, none have yet stepped up to say they knew about it. Ms. Myers, a makeup artist who talked to Ms. Steenkamp frequently in her last weeks, said everything appeared normal between the young couple. Mr. Pistorius’s friends, in affidavits to the court, said that he was in love and not afraid to say so. He was making plans to have her travel with him to races, something he had never done before.

Still, by many accounts they were an odd match. Ms. Steenkamp, despite her embrace of the limelight, rarely went to nightclubs, didn’t like to drink and was known for her banana bread, friends and family say. One of her favorite activities was to get in bed with a cup of tea. Those who knew her well said that she was a hard worker, always with a smile, though she often worried about making enough money to help support her parents in their .

Mr. Pistorius, by contrast, liked fast cars, gun ranges and Johannesburg’s night life. In January, according to the police, he was involved in the accidental discharge of a gun at a shopping mall cafe. Before that, the police said, he had threatened to beat up a man at a racetrack and break another man’s legs. On another occasion, he was arrested on an assault charge and spent the night in jail. A spokesman for Mr. Pistorius said he would not comment on those matters or any others.

Ms. Steenkamp’s cousin, Kim Martin, who had breakfast with the couple recently, could not help thinking that Mr. Pistorius was not at all like Ms. Steenkamp’s last boyfriend. “Her old boyfriend was much more like her,” she said, “a quiet guy, family oriented.”

Whatever the result of the trial, the events have sent South Africans into a frenzy of self-examination. Some see the case as yet another reminder that South Africa remains a violent society and one in which many whites, like Mr. Pistorius, live in heavily guarded communities, but still fear attacks by the black majority and feel entitled to take matters into their own hands.

Mr. Pistorius, who was born without fibulas and had his legs amputated below the knee as an infant, seemed obsessed with his personal safety. He slept with a gun by his bed and kept a cricket bat handy. He sometimes went to a shooting range when he had trouble sleeping at night, cheerily tweeting about his shooting prowess and how he had gone into “full combat recon mode” in November when he came home and thought there was an intruder in his spacious house in the Silver Lakes Estates in Pretoria. It turned out to be nothing more than a washing machine.

In fact, the home invasion Mr. Pistorius feared represents only a tiny percentage of crimes in South Africa, and is even more rare within gated communities like his, which are often protected by brick walls, electric fences, motion sensors and video cameras. Of the 2 million serious crimes reported every year, roughly 16,000 are home invasion robberies, according to Rudolph Zinn, a criminologist at the University of South Africa. The vast majority of violent crime is committed by blacks and against blacks.

Some columnists here have criticized Mr. Pistorius for saying that he was worried for his safety when he shot into the small toilet enclosure without waiting to hear the intruder’s voice. “The man dubbed as the blade runner has articulated, to the point of triteness, the most popularly espoused white, middle-class South African paranoia,” Niren Tolsi wrote in a commentary for the weekly Mail and Guardian.

For those more inclined to believe that he shot Ms. Steenkamp in a rage, her death focused the spotlight on violence against women. And just as the shooting of young children at an elementary school in , seemed to grab America’s attention in a way that other mass murders had not, the death of Ms. Steenkamp set off an outpouring of soul searching about the macho culture of South African men.

“This is very much linked to a dominant South African masculinity in which guns are an archetypal symbol of masculine strength,” said Rachel Jewkes, director of the Gender and Health Research Unit of the South African Medical Research Council.

Others are skeptical about Mr. Pistorius’s claim that he was not wearing his prosthetics at the time of the shooting and hence felt more vulnerable. One colleague of Ms. Steenkamp asked why someone who felt scared did not simply call the police or get out of the room.

But there are also ample doubts about the police force, which is notoriously inept at investigating serious crime. Even at this early stage, the performance of the police has been far from convincing.

Their initial assertion that there had “previously been allegations of a domestic nature” involving Mr. Pistorius has not yet been supported in court. The lead officer in the case, Hilton Botha, turned out to be facing attempted murder charges of his own. And he told the court that had been found at the scene, though the substance had not been tested. It was later identified as an that Mr. Pistorius’s publicity agent said he used for “muscle recovery” but that is also injected for sexual enhancement.

Because there is only one survivor of the events that night, the case against Mr. Pistorius will inevitably rely heavily on forensic and ballistic evidence, experts say. Some worry whether the police are capable.

“I have no confidence in them whatsoever,” said David Klatzow, a leading forensic expert. “It grieves me, it embarrasses me, and it embarrasses many of the last remaining competent people who remain in the police force.”

Mr. Pistorius’s sudden fall from grace shocked many in South Africa and elsewhere, including some people who knew him. In much of the country, he was a beloved symbol of the power of will over adversity.

“He seemed really down-to-earth, extremely gracious, not arrogant, not your typical Olympic or professional athlete,” said Steven Ungerleider, an American sports psychologist who had met Mr. Pistorius on several occasions.

Still, Mr. Ungerleider said, “I have seen and interviewed people who come across as very gracious, and we find out later that they have had some anger management issues, or had issues with jealousy.”

Some South African journalists are, in fact, taking themselves to task for failing to highlight more of Mr. Pistorius’s less savory behavior.

He crashed a speedboat on the Vaal River in 2009, injuring himself badly and ending up in intensive care. No charges were ever filed, but photographs at the scene showed empty bottles of alcohol on the boat.

That year, he was arrested on an assault charge after an altercation with a female guest at a party at his home. Mr. Pistorius has said that the woman was drunk and that after he asked her to leave she returned to get her purse and tried to break down his door. But the woman, Cassidy Taylor-Memmory, who also lives at Silver Estates, tells a different story.

According to her lawyer, Ms. Taylor-Memmory was a friend of Mr. Pistorius’s girlfriend at the time. After the couple had a fight during the barbecue, she left the party with her friend but returned to get her belongings. At that point, Mr. Pistorius slammed the door so hard a piece of the doorway broke off and hit Ms. Taylor-Memmory’s leg, injuring her enough to require surgery.

The prosecutor decided there was not enough evidence to proceed with the assault charge, her lawyer said, and both sides have sued over the altercation.

“It was a bit of a mass confusion,” Mr. Pistorius said in a television interview at the time. “It ended up turning completely sour. I had to spend the night in jail, which I never thought I would have to do. It was quite hectic.”

According to the police, Mr. Pistorius was also involved in a verbal altercation at a racetrack with the boyfriend of one of his ex-girlfriends in which he threatened to beat the man. Mark Batchelor, a friend of the man, confronted Mr. Pistorius later, and the runner threatened to break his legs, Mr. Batchelor said.

During a television interview, Mr. Batchelor described Mr. Pistorius as possessive and obsessed with his own fame. “I think Oscar got into that status where every woman wanted him, every business wanted to do business with him,” Mr. Batchelor said. “He started believing that.”

Another episode that raised eyebrows took place in January, at a popular cafe in a suburban Johannesburg shopping mall. A friend passed a handgun to Mr. Pistorius under a table, and the gun went off, witnesses said.

The event was not reported to the police, and the friend took the blame for the gunshot, Kevin Lerena, a boxer and acquaintance of Mr. Pistorius who was there at the time, said in a televised interview. Mr. Lerena said the gun had gone off by mistake, missing his toe by less than an inch.

“You know, we are men, we are guys,” Mr. Lerena said. “People go out and have drinks and have fun. Whether testosterone is flying and tempers are flying, that’s normal. Never, ever did it come across that I thought he had demons or bad vibes about him.”

Ms. Steenkamp was introduced to Mr. Pistorius by a mutual friend, Justin Divaris, who owns a car dealership and had asked Mr. Pistorius to be an ambassador for his business. Mr. Divaris was sponsoring an event at the Kyalami racetrack and invited both of them to sit at his table, according to an affidavit he gave to the court.

The attraction between Mr. Pistorius and Ms. Steenkamp was apparent immediately, he said. Mr. Pistorius asked her to accompany him “as a friend” to a sporting awards dinner soon afterward. Later that night, he told Mr. Divaris that Ms. Steenkamp was terrific and that they had “really hit it off.”

When pictures from the awards dinner hit the papers, Ms. Martin couldn’t resist calling her cousin. “I said, ‘So are you dating Oscar now?’ and Reeva laughed. She said, ‘No, but I wouldn’t mind. I admire him a lot.’ ”

Before she met Mr. Pistorius, Ms. Steenkamp, who had studied law, was living a quiet life, working steadily but without any major breakthroughs. She was too short for runway work and mostly did catalogs and commercials. She wanted to act, but suffered a lot of rejection, Ms. Martin said, adding that “she was giving it until she was 30.”

When work died down for the season in Johannesburg, she would live in with Ms. Martin for several months and work there. But lately things were looking up and she could not have been more thrilled, Ms. Martin said. She had just finished a television reality show and signed with new management.

“It was infectious being around her,” Ms. Martin said. “She would take my girls into her room and they would sit on the bed and talk and talk.”

“She wanted children,” she added. “I think she would have been the most amazing mother.”
131 2013-03-06 Jungho Kang hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning to give South Korea a 3-2 victory over Taiwan in a World Baseball Classic game Tuesday, but the South Koreans missed out on a spot in the next round because they lost a tiebreaker against the Netherlands.

Earlier, Jonathan Schoop’s two-run homer helped give the Netherlands a 4-1 victory over Australia, leaving Taiwan, South Korea and the Netherlands all with 2-1 records. But Taiwan and the Netherlands advanced on a run differential tiebreaker. Australia finished at the bottom of the group with an 0-3 record.
132 2013-03-06 You report that the lawyer for Shelby County, Alabama, where I live, said at the Supreme Court on Wednesday that “the problem to which the Voting Rights Act was addressed is solved.” I was at the Supreme Court and was surprised to hear that.

Born and raised in Alabama, I can assure you that Alabama is a poster child for why voters still need the protections from Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, which Shelby County is now trying to gut for the whole nation.

There have been countless examples of politicians in Alabama trying to take away or diminish the right to vote for African-Americans.

In 2008, my city, Calera, Ala., tried to eliminate the only black councilman’s district. The lines were redrawn so that the number of African-American voters was cut by more than half. Thanks to Section 5, the discriminatory plan was tossed out.

People who say individuals should instead have to scrape together large amounts of money to finance lawsuits under Section 2 of the law would pave the path to exclusion for Alabama’s African-American voters all over again.

The writer, represented by the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, is a defendant-intervenor in Shelby v. Holder, the case before the court.
133 2013-03-06 But former and current Yahoo employees said that Ms. Mayer made the decision not as a referendum on working remotely, but to address problems particular to Yahoo. They painted a picture of a company where employees were aimless and morale was low, and a bloated bureaucracy had taken Yahoo out of competition with its more nimble rivals.

“In the tech world it was such a bummer to say you worked for Yahoo,” said a former senior employee who, like many Yahoo insiders, would speak only anonymously to preserve professional relationships. The employee added, “I’ve heard she wants to make Yahoo young and cool.”

Restoring Yahoo’s cool — from revitalizing behind-the-times products to reversing deteriorating morale and culture — is hard to do if people are not there, Ms. Mayer concluded. That view was reflected in Yahoo’s only statement on the work-at-home policy change: “This isn’t a broad industry view on working from home. This is about what is right for Yahoo, right now.”

On Monday, another ailing company, Best Buy, announced that it, too, would no longer permit employees to work remotely, reversing one of the most permissive flexible workplace policies in the business world.

Inside Yahoo, there has been mixed reaction to the policy change. Some employees said that they were able to be highly productive by working remotely, and that it helped them concentrate on work instead of the chaos inside Yahoo.

Brandon Holley, former editor of Shine, Yahoo’s women’s site, said she built the site and signed on big-name advertisers while she and most of her team worked from homes across the country.

“It grew very rapidly,” said Ms. Holley, who is now editor of Lucky, Condé Nast’s shopping magazine. “A lot of that had to do with the lack of distraction in a very distracted company.”

The change to the work-at-home policy initially angered some employees who had such arrangements, and worried others who occasionally stayed home to care for a sick child or receive a delivery. Reports that Ms. Mayer built a nursery for her young son next to her office made parents working at Yahoo even angrier.

This week, the policy continued to be the topic of much discussion at the company, as people wondered aloud whether they would lose that flexibility, said employees who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to speak to the media.

But for the most part, those employees said, those concerns have been eased by managers who assured them that the real targets of Yahoo’s memo were the approximately 200 employees who work from home full time.

One manager said he told his employees, “Be here when you can. Use your best judgment. But if you have to stay home for the cable guy or because your kid is sick, do it.”

Many of Yahoo’s problems are visible to people outside the company. It missed the two biggest trends on the Internet — social networking and mobile. Its home page and e-mail services had become relics used by people who had never bothered to change their habits. It ceded its crown as the biggest seller of display ads to Facebook and Google. Its stock price was plummeting.

Inside the company, though, there were deeper cultural issues invisible from the outside. For Ms. Mayer’s ambitious plans to turn around the company to work, employees briefed on her strategy said, she believed Yahoo needed “all hands on deck.”

Jackie Reses, Yahoo’s director of human resources and the author of the new policy, is an extreme example of this philosophy. She commutes to Yahoo’s campus in Sunnyvale, Calif., from her home in New York, where she lives with her children.

“Morale was terrible because the company was thought to be dying,” said a former manager at Yahoo, who would speak only anonymously to preserve business relationships. “When you have those root issues, an employee work force that is not terribly motivated, it built bad habits over years.”

Yahoo has withstood many changes over the years, starting with a turnover of six chief executives in five years, each with his or her own deputies and missions for the company. This led to confusion among the work force about the company’s goals and frustration that projects would be pulled midstream by a new chief executive.

The company had hired many managers to oversee new tech products, but the extra levels of management slowed product development, former employees said.

“Where Yahoo competes, with companies like Facebook churning out a new release every single day, there was a lot of bloat slowing down product decisions,” the former manager said.

The new policy is the first unpopular big move Ms. Mayer has made. Yahoo insiders said they did not expect the employee and media outcry that followed.

Employees said that unlike previous chief executives, who focused outside Yahoo, she has prioritized fixing the company internally and motivating employees.

She introduced free food in the cafeterias, swapped employees’ BlackBerrys for iPhones and Android phones and started a Friday all-employee meeting where executives take questions and speak candidly.

A recent internal employee survey found that 95 percent of employees were optimistic about the company’s future, a 32 percent bump from the previous survey, Ms. Mayer said in a call with analysts in January.

Résumés have begun arriving from employees at competitors like Facebook and Google, which rarely happened in the past, according to one person briefed on Yahoo hiring.

Since Ms. Mayer made food free, there are now crowds in the cafeterias, lingering to talk about new ideas, employees say — exactly what she wants to encourage by requiring people to work in the office.

“I understand why Marissa Mayer would want to call everybody back into work,” Ms. Holley said. “It’s kind of a necessary step.”
134 2013-03-06 A British man who spent nearly two decades hiding in the United States after driving off with an armored van with $1.5 million in England was sentenced Tuesday in London to five years in jail. Edward J. Maher was a guard for a security company in 1993 when he took off with the van as a colleague was making a delivery. He was arrested in Ozark, Mo., in 2012 on a tip from his estranged daughter-in-law. In the United States, Mr. Maher often used a brother’s name or the alias Stephen King.
135 2013-03-06 The victim’s family said Sunday in a statement that he had been beaten, dragged and “burned (set afire).” But Mr. Meredith, who inspected the body, said that description was misleading and may have given the public the wrong impression. The two burns, on Mr. McMillian’s hand and leg, were small, about the size of half-dollar coins, he said. What caused the burns is unknown. He said Mr. McMillian appeared to have been punched in the face.

Mr. Womack, however, said that the wounds described to the family by the coroner suggested an attack so vicious that it had been a hate crime. Mr. Womack said that he believed that, given the severity of the wounds described to him and Mr. McMillian’s large stature, the attack would most likely have involved multiple people or one person who was particularly brutal. “If one person did it,” he said, “it was hate.”

Mr. McMillian was black and openly gay. “We are asking that a full and thorough investigation be conducted into the tragic death of Marco,” the family’s statement said.

Before his death, the family said Mr. McMillian had told relatives and close friends that “he was very concerned for his personal safety.”

The coroner met with Mr. McMillian’s family last week to describe the injuries. He said the family had reached their own conclusions.

“For this family, this was their child, this was their baby, whether he’s 34 years old or 3,” Mr. Meredith said. “They want to believe it was a hate crime. But we don’t have a hate crime.”

The National Black Justice Coalition, a gay rights group, called on Tuesday for the Department of Justice to investigate the killing.

Mr. McMillian, a 1997 graduate of Clarksdale High School and consultant to nonprofit organizations, had recently been executive director of the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity. The fraternity said in a statement that he had secured a federal contract for the fraternity to “raise the awareness of the adverse impact of H.I.V./AIDS on communities of color.” In 2004, the fraternity said, Ebony magazine named him one of “30 up-and-coming African-American leaders” under 30.

Clarksdale, a town of 18,000, calls itself the “birthplace and world capital of blues” and is where, according to legend, the bluesman Robert Johnson made a deal with the devil.

Mr. McMillian, a Democrat, had barely begun campaigning for mayor. His rivals included Chuck Espy, the son of the current mayor and a member of the Mississippi House of Representatives, who is also a Democrat.

Mr. McMillian had a lifelong interest in politics, his family said. His campaign’s Facebook page displays photographs of Mr. McMillian with President Obama and Bill Clinton. On the site, he outlined proposals for improving Clarksdale’s economy, improving its schools and reducing crime.

On Feb. 26, Mr. McMillian disappeared. The police began looking for him after his car was involved in a head-on collision. Mr. Reed, officials allege, was driving the car, and Mr. McMillian was not present. The next day, the authorities found his body near the Mississippi River. Mr. McMillian had no stab or gunshot wounds, and the police do not believe he was the victim of a robbery.

The authorities are investigating the possibility of sexual assault, Mr. Meredith said. They believe that Mr. Reed dragged Mr. McMillian’s body about 50 feet, from the road to the woods, and then drove away in his car. They say Mr. Reed, who weighs about 160 pounds, could not lift the 200-pound Mr. McMillian and might have had to drag the body.

A funeral will be held for Mr. McMillian on Saturday in Clarksdale.
136 2013-03-06 WASHINGTON (AP) — American service companies grew in February at the fastest pace in a year, buoyed by higher sales, more new orders and solid job growth. The gain suggests higher taxes have yet to slow consumer spending on services.

The Institute for Supply Management said on Tuesday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity rose to 56 in February from 55.2 in January. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion.

The report measures growth in industries that cover 90 percent of the work force, including retail, construction, health care and financial services. A solid recovery in the housing market helped drive the index higher.

Service companies also kept adding jobs last month. A measure of service sector hiring fell only slightly after reaching a nearly seven-year high in January.

“This survey does bode well for both activity and employment in the second quarter,” Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said in a note to clients.
137 2013-03-06 Mr. Chávez led a nationalist movement that lashed out at the United States and wealthy Venezuelans, tapping into the resentments of his country’s poor....
138 2013-03-06 A spokesman for the U.S. Secret Service said that officers who would be assigned tpo the tours would be reassigned to other posts at the White House. “This staffing measure will reduce overtime costs overall and may ultimately reduce the number of potential furloughs necessary by our agency,” said Max Milien, the spokesman.

Many members of Congress took to Twitter to voice their displeasure, although some also tried to offer a positive spin, suggesting that visitors should instead visit the Capitol.

“White House cancels tours over sequestration; House admin welcomes Americans visiting D.C. to tour Capitol instead,” read a Twitter message by the House Administration Committee.

Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Republican of Washington and chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, similarly welcomed tourists to visit the Capitol, and accused President Obamaof playing politics with the budget cuts.

“It’s unfortunate the president has chosen to implement his sequester by canceling White House tours instead of urging Senate Democrats to cut wasteful spending,” she said in a statement. “We welcome the opportunity to provide a free tour of the U.S. Capitol to anyone visiting Washington who will now be unable to visit the White House because of the president’s decision. Spending is the problem. And instead of making responsible spending cuts, the president has now denied American people access to the White House.”

Representative James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said he was “a little surprised” that the White House had shut down tours, calling the decision “a dramatic overreaction.”

“The White House always tries to make things as public and harsh as they can, rather than saying they’re going to try to reduce spending and make responsible decisions,” he said. “They are trying to reduce access and trying to make it look bad.”

Many Democrats, however, said the White House was simply making tough choices to handle the budget cuts that Congress did not stop. “The White House is doing what it has to do,” said Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.

Mr. Israel said his office was drafting e-mails to constituents whose tours were canceled, as well as to those who had made requests for tours. “House Republicans are hurting everyday Americans,” he said, “including those who simply want to tour the White House.”

Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, is trying to introduce an amendment to a stopgap measure to finance the government through the rest of the fiscal year that would prevent Mr. Obama from using federal money to transport himself to and from golf outings until the White House resumed its tours.
139 2013-03-06 Credit: Brian Harkin for The New York Times
140 2013-03-06 Thirty-five years ago I was a harried pediatric intern in a New York City emergency room. One night, I paged a neurosurgeon for an urgent consultation. He swooped in with a lighted cigarette and leaned over the child to begin his exam. I politely asked him to extinguish his cigarette; he was dripping ashes on my frightened patient.

Hard to believe, by today’s standards. For almost 20 years, bans on smoking in hospitals have not only protected patients from secondhand smoke, but also inspired hospital employees to quit smoking at higher rates than in other industries. What’s behind this dramatic change?

Science. Scientific knowledge, relentlessly promulgated through public health campaigns over many decades, alters behavioral norms. In 1964 Surgeon General Luther L. Terry knocked the Marlboro man off his horse when he announced that smoking causes lung and laryngeal cancer in men. Thirty-one Surgeon General’s Reports on smoking later, cigarette smoking is far from eradicated; yet smokers, who once felt glamorous, are now forced to confront the health hazards of their habit.

Similar claims of progress can be made in other spheres of public health, where robust scientific data have led to strong public policy: highway traffic safety, immunizations, H.I.V./AIDS, sudden infant death syndrome and childhood lead poisoning, to name a few.

But a disturbing trend threatens future public health initiatives. At the heart of successful public policy lies a shared, bipartisan assumption that science is trustworthy. Lately, politicians unashamedly issue proclamations tantamount to declaring, The world is flat. Climate change is a hoax. Vaccines cause autism. Intelligent design should be taught in biology class alongside evolution. The United States has the best health outcomes in the world.
141 2013-03-06 But the administration withheld the opinions governing strikes targeting non-Americans that the committee has also sought, arguing that they are confidential legal advice to the president. As a result, the detailed legal rules for a vast majority of drone strikes, including so-called signature strikes aimed at suspected militants whose names are unknown to the people targeting them, remain secret even from the Congressional intelligence committees.

For their part, Republicans have pressed for more details on the administration’s response to the terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya, in September, which killed the American ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans. The committee has been given additional Benghazi material as well, though not enough to satisfy some Republicans.

In addition, a staff member for each senator was also permitted to see the secret Justice Department memorandums that govern the use of drones and other weapons to kill American citizens identified as dangerous terrorists overseas. Previously, only senators themselves had been allowed to read the memos, a restriction that Ms. Feinstein had strongly protested, staff members said.

But Ms. Feinstein complained after the vote that the committee still had not been allowed to retain the memos for study and reference. “They brought them for review, and they took them away,” she told reporters. “Committee staff should be able to look at them and take notes.” Without a copy to refer to, she said, “It’s easy to forget the particulars.”

Three senators who had demanded all of the memos on killing Americans — Ron Wyden of Oregon and Mark Udall of Colorado, both Democrats, and Susan Collins of Maine, a Republican — said they were pleased with the agreement and supported Mr. Brennan’s confirmation.

“We believe that this sets an important precedent for applying our American system of checks and balances to the challenges of 21st-century warfare,” the three said in a statement.

They said the next step should be “to bring the American people into this debate and for Congress to consider ways to ensure that the president’s sweeping authorities are subject to appropriate limitations, oversight and safeguards.”

In an interview, Mr. Wyden said: “I think this debate is just beginning. The nature of warfare has changed so dramatically. The rules with respect to targeted killing, I think, do need to be made public.”

Only one American, the radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who had joined the Al Qaeda affiliate in Yemen, has been deliberately killed in a drone strike, in September 2011. At least three other Americans killed in strikes in Yemen were not the intended targets, officials have said.

Christopher E. Anders, senior legislative counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union, called the latest disclosures “an important first baby step towards restoring the checks and balances between Congress and the president,” but said it was not enough.

“Amazingly, the Obama administration continues to hide at least some of its legal opinions, even from the intelligence committees,” Mr. Anders said. He said that all members of Congress should have access to the memos on targeted killings and that redacted copies should be made public.

A spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin Hayden, said the White House had not closed the door on further disclosures. “We are continuing conversations with members of Congress about their various requests,” she said. “That being said, the confirmation process should be about the nominees and their ability to do the jobs they’re nominated for.”

On Monday, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said he hoped the Senate would vote on Mr. Brennan’s nomination this week but complained that Republicans were insisting on a 60-vote majority to confirm him.

That is partly the work of Mr. Paul, who had pressed administration officials to say whether they believed lethal strikes on American soil were permissible. On Tuesday he got two replies, one from Mr. Brennan, who said that as C.I.A. director he would have no authority to carry out lethal operations inside the United States, and one from Mr. Holder.

Mr. Holder emphasized that the government “has no intention” of carrying out drone strikes in this country and has a policy of using law enforcement and not military force against terrorists within its borders. But in a Sept. 11-style “emergency,” the attorney general wrote, “I would examine the particular facts and circumstances before advising the president on the scope of his authority.”

Mr. Paul was not satisfied with that answer and said he would do his best to block the Brennan confirmation. “Say you’re an Arab-American in Dearborn, Mich., e-mailing your brother in the Mideast, and they think your brother is a terrorist,” Mr. Rand said in an interview. “Does that mean they can use a drone to kill you?”
142 2013-03-06 The amount of the fine could not be learned on Tuesday. Mr. Almunia’s office and Microsoft executives declined to comment.

The decision to fine Microsoft comes as Mr. Almunia’s office is negotiating with Google to try to resolve the commission’s concerns about that company’s dominance of the Internet search and advertising markets. Even if Google and the commission reach a settlement, a substantial fine for Microsoft would serve as a warning that a company violates such a settlement at its financial peril.

“It’s important for the commission to show it’s serious in this case because this will set a precedent, and because the commission increasingly uses settlements to help reach solutions more quickly, especially in the fast-moving technology sector,” said Nicolas Petit, a professor of competition law and economics at the University of Liège in Belgium.

“The commission also has an incentive to slap on a big fine in this case to ensure that companies, which are hard to monitor, get the message that it will be costly down the road if they get caught defying settlement orders,” Mr. Petit said.

In theory, Mr. Almunia can levy a fine totaling up to 10 percent of a company’s global annual revenue. In Microsoft’s case that could mean a penalty of $7 billion, but analysts say it is highly unlikely to reach that level.

The largest fine ever levied by the European authorities in an antitrust case was 1.1 billion euros, or $1.4 billion, in 2009 against Intel for abusing its dominance in the computer chip market. Intel is still appealing that ruling.

Microsoft has paid a long series of fines to European regulators over the past decade.

In 2008, it was fined nearly 900 million euros in so-called periodic penalties for defying a decision that regulators had imposed on the company.

The amount was subsequently reduced to 860 million euros after the company appealed to the General Court of the European Union.

Microsoft also paid fines of 497 million euros and 281 million euros for separate but related offenses, bringing the total to 1.7 billion euros during its battles so far with European regulators.

Although Microsoft has appealed past punishments, it may be reluctant to do so this time, preferring to focus on its rivalry with Google. Microsoft is among the companies that have complained about Google’s business practices to the commission.

The commission has been formally investigating Google since November 2010.

Mr. Almunia offered the company a settlement in May 2012 after finding that it might have abused its dominance in Internet search and advertising by giving its own products an advantage over those of others, even while maintaining that it offered neutral results.

Mr. Almunia and Google have been negotiating since then, and a final agreement may not come until later this year, suggesting that the strategy of seeking quick results in antitrust technology cases through settlements instead of lengthy legal battles could be coming undone.

The commission has taken a tougher line with Google than American regulators did. The Federal Trade Commission decided in January after a 19-month inquiry that Google had not broken antitrust laws. But Mr. Almunia has insisted that Google make changes to the most sensitive area of its business, online search.

The latest dispute stemmed from the settlement of a case concerning Microsoft’s dominance in Internet browsers, a dominance that the company has ceded to market forces in recent years.

In Microsoft’s settlement of 2009, the company did not pay a fine but agreed to install a system called Browser Choice Screen with Windows. It was intended to offer alternatives like Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox to counter the strength of Internet Explorer, Microsoft’s own browser.

The choice must be offered for five years, according to the agreement.

Millions of European users of the Windows 7 SP1 version of the software may not have been offered a choice of browsers from February 2011 to July 2012, Mr. Almunia said.

The company said it learned of the error when the commission sent a notification about reports it had received indicating that alternative browsers were not being offered on some personal computers.

Microsoft’s failure to comply with the European order has already resulted in financial penalties of a different sort for the company’s own executives.

In a filing with American financial regulators last October, Microsoft said that Steven A. Ballmer, the company’s chief executive, and Steven Sinofsky, then the head of its Windows division, received less than the full annual bonuses they were eligible for, in part because of the browser issue in Europe.

A month later, Mr. Sinofsky left the company in a decision that was described as “mutual” by people briefed on the matter.
143 2013-03-06 But facing almost certain defeat on the issue, Mr. Osborne struck a conciliatory tone, saying he would endorse the rules “if we make progress in the next couple of weeks.”

The rules are drafted to apply to a banker working in New York for a British bank like Barclays, and to a banker in London working for an American bank like Citigroup.

A bonus could not be higher unless the bank’s shareholders approved, and even then it could not exceed twice the salary.

British officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue publicly, said their government would seek to raise the limits on some types of bonuses given in stocks or bonds that would vest in the future. But the legislation was expected to pass in close to its current form.

“It looks like the key points will hold,” said Philip Davies, a partner in London at Eversheds, an international law firm. He predicted that the bonus caps would put London’s financial district, known as the City, at a competitive disadvantage to banking hubs like Wall Street and Hong Kong.

“The long-term effect on the City remains to be seen.” he said. “But as it now stands, alternative jurisdictions that are able to offer more favorable terms look to have a significant recruitment edge.”

Banks are concerned about how the proposed caps would affect them, said several legal specialists who are advising banks based in the City. Some are even seeking legal advice as to whether the European officials are authorized to limit bonuses.

While no bank appears to be ready to take the issue to court, specialists say that will remain a possibility as long as questions about how the bonus caps will work remain unanswered.

When Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for financial regulation, was asked whether he thought any legal challenge would succeed, he replied, “Good luck.”

Some financial institutions are looking at ways to devise compensation packages around long-term incentives that would allow bankers to receive sizable compensation despite any new controls. Yet advisers acknowledge that it would be difficult for leading banks to defend such moves, because of widespread public anger over the industry’s past excesses.

Mr. Osborne’s foes called the European Union’s rebuke a sign that the Conservative government led by Prime Minister David Cameron, which has called a referendum on Britain’s membership in the bloc, was increasingly unable to influence policy making in Europe.

“This government needs to take a crash course in finding friends and influencing E.U. partners,” said Arlene McCarthy, a member of Britain’s Labour Party in the European Parliament and a senior member of the chamber’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.

Ms. McCarthy said she supported the caps as the only way to rein in bankers. But she complained that the Cameron government had failed to win more favorable terms for the City “because of a kind of arrogance” toward its partners in the European Union.

Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the bloc, helped broker talks on the bonus caps last week with legislators of the European Parliament. On Tuesday, Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, said, “Now there is very little further we can do for” Britain. “We pushed the negotiations to quite a degree, and we got the best possible compromise,” he said.

Mr. Osborne was in a bind over how forcefully to argue for changes. He was under acute pressure from members of the Conservative Party who favor a tough line against European rules that they consider at odds with British interests.

Adding to that pressure was a growing challenge from the United Kingdom Independence Party, which wants to pull Britain out of the European Union.

But supporting high pay for bankers angers significant sections of British voters, who are struggling in a weak economy. Many of them also resent the banking industry for receiving several giant bailouts paid for by taxpayers.

Mr. Osborne also needed to temper his criticism because the caps are part of a legislative package that included something his government favors: tougher rules about how much capital European banks most hold in reserve to protect against losses.
144 2013-03-06 But there was a wrinkle.

Kenyan election law says that the winning candidate must secure more than 50 percent of “all the votes cast” and late on Tuesday night, the election commission announced that it would include more than 300,000 rejected ballots as part of the total.

With the pool of votes suddenly enlarged, several analysts said that both candidates would receive a smaller percentage of the total and that Mr. Kenyatta might not clear the 50 percent threshold, forcing a runoff.

Ahmed Hassan, the head of Kenya’s election commission, conceded that the number of ballots rejected for stray marks and other irregularities was “quite worrying,” though election observers said it was not particularly surprising given the complexity of these elections. Voters had six ballots in their hands, for national and local races.

“We feel the Constitution is very clear,” said Salim Lone, an adviser to Mr. Odinga. “The spoiled votes have to be included as part of the calculation.”

Mr. Kenyatta’s camp expressed displeasure with the decision, which may mean a protracted court battle after the preliminary results are announced, expected in the coming days. The risk, analysts said, is that Mr. Kenyatta’s supporters might feel they were unfairly denied an outright victory.

Partial results showed that once again, Kenyans voted overwhelmingly along ethnic lines. Some areas voted 95 percent for the politician from their ethnic group, while other areas, equally poor, with people in very similar circumstances, voted 95 percent in the opposite direction.

“I guess we haven’t come very far,” said Maina Kiai, a prominent Kenyan human rights advocate. “We still use identity as the only factor in voting.”

Enormous efforts were made this time around to move voters away from choices based on ethnicity and persuade them to consider other factors, like the candidate’s résumé or policy proposals. The Kenyan news media, considered among the most independent and professional in Africa, even organized televised presidential debates, a first.

But in the end, the presidential candidates who tried to gain some momentum on issues-based campaigns, like Peter Kenneth and Martha Karua, got a minuscule share of the vote. It seemed that most voters still felt that the leader from their ethnic group was the best one to protect them — especially in an edgy environment where many fear a replay of postelection violence.

“The ethnic vote is often the one based on fear,” Mr. Kiai said.

Kenya’s ethnic arithmetic favors Mr. Kenyatta. His ethnic group, the Kikuyu, is the country’s largest, and along with the Meru and Embu, which often vote with it, they represent 22 percent of the population. He then chose William Ruto, a Kalenjin, to be his running mate, and the Kalenjin are the third-largest group in the country.

Mr. Odinga, a Luo, chose a Kamba running mate, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, but their combined numbers are far below the Kikuyu-Kalenjin alliance. Mr. Ruto has also been indicted on charges of crimes against humanity in connection with the election violence in 2007 and 2008.

Kisumu, a city in western Kenya and Mr. Odinga’s ethnic stronghold, which exploded in riots in 2007 and 2008 during the last presidential election, was quiet on Tuesday.

“We’re just waiting,” said Christine Ololo Atieno, a seller of secondhand shoes and a passionate Odinga supporter. “People are still hoping that more votes will come in and things will change.”

Mr. Odinga says he was cheated out of winning the last election, and many analysts say that Kisumu could explode again if there is vote rigging and Mr. Odinga loses again.
145 2013-03-06 A delicious and healthy morning meal....
146 2013-03-06 A star-studded battle among hedge fund titans over the nutritional supplements company  Herbalife  became the talk of Wall Street when it erupted. But when the barbs eventually fall silent and the klieg lights dim, how will the Herbalife war end? ...
147 2013-03-06 BRUSSELS &#x2014; Europe&#x2019;s antitrust regulators are preparing to deliver a strong message: a deal is a deal, and if a company fails to live up to a settlement agreement, there will be consequences.&#xa;   &#xa;On Wednesday, the  European Un...
148 2013-03-06 Marie Howe, the state poet for New York and the author of such books as &#x201C;What the Living Do,&#x201D; specializes in vibrant, bracing, haunting work that stops you in your tracks. Ms. Howe, 62, lives in Manhattan; she spoke about the lyrical...
149 2013-03-07 There’s a moment in “The Monk,” an adaptation of a notorious 1796 Gothic novel, when the shadows all but swallow the actor Vincent Cassel’s face. It’s an appropriately foreboding image for a heavily plotted tale of demons and men, God and the Devil that, in his influential review of the novel, Coleridge excoriated for combining “all that is most awfully true in religion with all that is most ridiculously absurd in superstition.” He conceded that the book had “much real merit” but also “impiety,” “abominations” and “libidinous minuteness.”

“The Monk” was the first and only novel by Matthew G. Lewis (1775-1818), who wrote it when he was 19 and briefly serving as an attaché to the British Embassy at The Hague. The Marquis de Sade talked “The Monk” up, and André Breton was also an admirer — no wonder given what befalls its title character. In the movie the tale begins with a stormy once-upon-a-time flourish and a foundling left at an abbey door on a desolate dark night. The child grows up to be a sternly devout monk, Ambrosio (Mr. Cassel), whose legendary piety attracts followers, both innocent and not, and leads to a spectacular downfall that explains Coleridge’s blistering condemnation.

Time can turn black into white, and what repulsed Coleridge in the novel clearly amuses the French director Dominik Moll in his diverting if somewhat thin adaptation. Set in Spain and written by Mr. Moll with help from Anne-Louise Trividic, this French-language version starts down its increasingly twisted path when a young nun, Sister Agnès (Roxane Duran), accidentally drops a message from her lover after making her confession to Ambrosio for confession. He reports her to the mother superior (Geraldine Chaplin), who, after discovering Agnès is pregnant, throws the poor girl in the dungeon, where she understandably damns Ambrosio. While Agnès rots, Ambrosio meets his increasingly complicated, sometimes confusing fate, partly in the form of a beauty named Antonia (Joséphine Japy).

Mr. Moll, whose films include “With a Friend Like Harry...,” somewhat heroically manages to keep the story’s manifold twists from becoming knotted, but he’s less adept at setting up the characters and their relationships and especially the depth and significance of their faith. He likes to play in the dark, but while he drapes the movie in menace and shadow, little ever feels at stake, no matter how attractively Mr. Cassel’s eyes widen. That’s true even when a mysterious masked figure, Valerio (Déborah François), appears at the abbey, and the mood grows progressively more threatening, phantasmagoric and a touch kinky. There’s never any doubt that Mr. Moll believes in the Devil, if only as a narrative device, but without a commensurate sense of the holy, there’s nothing to fear.

“The Monk” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Sex and the Devil.
150 2013-03-07 Carmelo Anthony still has not played since sustaining a knee injury on Monday in a game against the Cleveland Cavaliers....
151 2013-03-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
152 2013-03-07 Columbia University says a well-repeated student’s statements about the popularity and cost of a new offering in the dining halls were not very accurate....
153 2013-03-07 Doctors found that the dogs were a pregnant mother who died of an intestinal blockage and four puppies who died inside her. Someone had cut the mother open after her death to try to deliver the puppies....
154 2013-03-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
155 2013-03-07 Rangers center Brad Richards will miss a second game after Sunday’s illegal hit by Buffalo’s Patrick Kaleta, but said it won’t be a long-term injury....
156 2013-03-07 Even if your number isn’t on the Do Not Call Registry, you can tell a telemarketer to stop calling....
157 2013-03-07 Two gallery exhibitions — one in Ohio and one in New York — showcase the photographs from Danny Lyon’s book “The Bikeriders.”...
158 2013-03-07 The company’s efforts to create an Internet radio service to compete with Pandora has been delayed by licensing negotiations with music companies, according to a number of people briefed on the talks....
159 2013-03-07 Expectations were soaring for two new pieces from the choreographers Alexei Ratmansky and Christopher Wheeldon at the Royal Ballet. But after the premiere, the reviews were, for the most part, far from sky high....
160 2013-03-07 In oral arguments before the Supreme Court last week, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. introduced a statistical claim that he took to imply that an important provision of the Voting Rights Act has become outmoded....
161 2013-03-07 Microsoft has free colorful guides to the new features in its Office 2013 suite, available to download from its site....
162 2013-03-07 MOSCOW — The lead defender of Ukraine’s jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, was stripped of his seat in the Ukrainian Parliament on Wednesday by the country’s top administrative court, despite stern warnings by Western officials who said the case was a matter of political retribution.

The lawmaker, Sergey Vlasenko, is a close associate of Ms. Tymoshenko and has played a major role in her legal defense since she was first brought up on charges by the government of her political rival, President Viktor F. Yanukovich.

Ms. Tymoshenko has been jailed since October 2011, when she was convicted of abusing her position in connection with a contract to buy natural gas from Russia. The authorities have also filed several additional cases, most recently charges of murder in connection with the 1996 assassination of a lawmaker. She has denied all of the charges and appealed to the European Court of Human Rights.

The chairman of Ukraine’s Parliament, Volodimir Rybak, who is a member of Mr. Yanukovich’s Party of Regions, had asked the court to strip Mr. Vlasenko of his seat, saying he was improperly combining work as a legislator and a lawyer.

Mr. Vlasenko has said that he represented Ms. Tymoshenko free of charge and did not have other legal clients. He has also said that his removal from Parliament, which deprives him of immunity from prosecution, was a prelude to an attempt by officials to have him jailed to prevent any further work on Ms. Tymoshenko’s behalf.

The continued jailing of Ms. Tymoshenko has strained relations between Ukraine and the West.
163 2013-03-07 If he endorses the Senate report, he will be criticizing the many C.I.A. officers who worked on the program and challenging the stance of former directors, notably George J. Tenet, who oversaw the brutal interrogations, and Michael V. Hayden, who has fervently defended them.

“The career work force will be watching,” said John A. Rizzo, a top agency lawyer for 30 years before retiring in 2009. “Hundreds who were part of the seven-year E.I.T. program — and who still believe it was the right and essential thing to do — are still there,” he added, referring to enhanced interrogation techniques.

The report, according to statements from some senators and descriptions from others who have reviewed it, documents in exhaustive detail how C.I.A. officials and consultants who ran the program gave top Bush administration officials, members of Congress, the American public and even their own colleagues — possibly including Mr. Brennan himself — a deeply distorted account of its nature and efficacy. After a bipartisan start in 2009, Republican staff members refused to participate in the writing of the report, making the four-year effort largely the work of Democratic committee staff members.

The agency missed a Feb. 15 deadline to complete a review of the report, which has 35,000 footnotes referring to 6 million documents from C.I.A. files. It now appears likely that the response, offering the committee any factual corrections or broader judgments, will be delayed until Mr. Brennan’s arrival.

Because Mr. Obama famously said he preferred to look forward, not back at his predecessor’s counterterrorism programs, the Senate report is by far the most thorough examination of how the United States came to use nudity, cold, sleep deprivation, stress positions, wall-slamming and waterboarding, methods it had long condemned as abuse or torture.

Mr. Brennan will have to decide whether to support making a redacted version of the interrogation report public, as the committee is likely to support after the C.I.A. completes its review and as a United Nations human rights adviser urged this week. Several Democratic senators and at least one Republican, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who was tortured as a prisoner in North Vietnam, have said that a declassified version must be released, and Mr. Brennan said he would give the request “serious consideration.”

He will have to decide whether to convene what the agency calls an accountability board to recommend punishment for current or former officials accused of mismanaging or misrepresenting the interrogation program. If he tries to keep the peace by dismissing the dispute as history and a distraction from the agency’s current challenges, he will face strong resistance from the Senate committee’s Democratic majority and Mr. McCain.

But Emile A. Nakhleh, a former top C.I.A. analyst on political Islam who once worked for him, said Mr. Brennan’s work as Mr. Obama’s top counterterrorism adviser, intimate knowledge of the agency and blunt style equip him well to handle the task.

“It will be challenging, but if there’s any person who can take this on, it’s Brennan,” Mr. Nakhleh said. “He may say some harsh things about the program, and some people won’t like it. But the institution will benefit.”

In the month since Mr. Brennan’s public confirmation hearing, the interrogation issue has been largely overshadowed by disputes over the targeted killings of terrorism suspects that Mr. Brennan has overseen from the White House.

On Wednesday, the day after the Senate committee approved Mr. Brennan’s nomination in a bipartisan 12-to-3 vote, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, joined by a handful of other senators, carried out a filibuster on the nomination, protesting the Obama administration’s refusal to rule out drone strikes on American soil in a national emergency. He ended the filibster Thursday morning, and approval of the nomination is expected soon.

But as the public debate over torture in the movie “Zero Dark Thirty” has shown, the interrogation issue still casts a long shadow over the Central Intelligence Agency nearly a decade after the last waterboarding.

Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, who as the Intelligence Committee’s senior Democrat battled to exercise oversight over the interrogation program in its early years, called the new report “the most in-depth and substantive oversight that the committee has undertaken in its entire history” and said it revealed “severe problems at the C.I.A.”

Mr. Rockefeller, of West Virginia, said he had spoken with Mr. Brennan at length about the report’s findings. “I know that he’s as appalled by many of the facts in the report as I am,” he said. “John has the expertise, knowledge of the workings of the C.I.A., and the will to make sure that nothing similar ever happens again.”

But Mr. Brennan has already been caught between opposing partisan currents. Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the committee’s Republican vice chairman, said at Mr. Brennan’s Feb. 7 confirmation hearing that the nominee had told him the report “was not objective” and called it “quote, ‘a prosecutor’s brief written with an eye toward finding problems.’ ”

If the C.I.A. pronounces the report “wrong,” Mr. Chambliss said, he hoped Mr. Brennan would be willing to stand up for such a conclusion.

For his part, Mr. Brennan said at his hearing that if the report’s 350-page executive summary was right, he had himself been misinformed about the program. That would be an extraordinary development, since he was deputy to the agency’s third-ranking official in 2002 and 2003, when the program was at its height. He has said that he had no role in running the program and that he expressed disapproval of the brutal methods privately to unidentified colleagues.

“I don’t know what the facts are or the truth is. So I really need to look at that carefully and see what C.I.A.'s response is,” he said.

“What I’m most interested in, is finding out what went wrong — if this report is, as stated, accurate, what went wrong in the system where there were systemic failures, where there was mismanagement or inaccurate information,” Mr. Brennan said. “I would need to get my arms around that, and that would be one of my highest priorities if I were to go to the agency.”
164 2013-03-07 When completed, the “C.S.I.” transaction will become the largest purchase for Content Partners. The company was created in 2006 by Steven H. Kram, a former William Morris Agency chief operating officer who is now the Content Partners chief executive, and Steven E. Blume, who was previously chief financial officer of the Brillstein-Grey management company. The entrepreneur Todd Wagner and the investor Paul Wachter are among its partners, and Mr. Wachter helped structure the current deal, Mr. Kram said.

“This proves the value of liquidity in an uncertain economic environment,” Mr. Kram added. He spoke recently by telephone of his company’s ability to use resources from its investors and lenders to buy an asset of the kind that is usually owned by large media companies. Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase provided financing for the purchase, he said.

Leslie Moonves, the president and chief executive of CBS, declined to comment.

For more than a decade, the “C.S.I.” franchise has been among the most profitable of television properties. According to the firm Media Metrics, the original “C.S.I.,” which is now in its 13th year on CBS, was the most-watched television show in the world last year, the fifth time in the last seven years that it has earned that ranking. And in one of those years, its spinoff, “C.S.I. Miami,” was the most-watched show. The worldwide audience for the original “C.S.I.” has frequently surpassed 70 million.

While “C.S.I. Miami” was canceled last year, the original and “C.S.I.: N.Y.” remain on the air. The latter is considered a show “on the bubble,” which means this could be its final season. But the original “C.S.I.” still generally wins its 10 p.m. Wednesday time period, and even after 13 years, averages 11.2 million viewers a week. A 14th season is all but certain.

In terms of historical value, the “C.S.I.” franchise, which includes 724 one-hour episodes, is almost surely at or near the top among television series, having generated billions in profits. That outcome makes it one of television’s cautionary tales because the show was originally the property of the Walt Disney Company, which walked away from ownership in the series when it landed at CBS. At the time, some Disney executives did not believe shows on CBS could attract the kind of young viewers needed to be successful.

CBS needed a last-minute partner to pay half the production costs before “C.S.I.” could go on the air. Alliance Atlantis became that company and gained a half share in one of the greatest gold mines in entertainment history.

By the nature of its business, Content Partners has been an unusually quiet operator in Hollywood. Mr. Kram declined to identify individuals who had sold interests to the company, or which titles were among the 119 movies and five television series to which it now holds rights.

Sellers to Content Partners, Mr. Kram said, receive cash from their work immediately, rather than waiting years for revenue to arrive from television, video and Internet sales. Mr. Kram and his partners profit when they bet correctly on the future value of entertainment.

The newly purchased stake, he said, does not include revenue participations that may be owed to the “C.S.I.” stars or creators, whose ranks include the producer Jerry Bruckheimer. Such rights are still owned by actors or others and are not part of the production companies’ share of revenue.
165 2013-03-07 Abby Wambach scored her 154th goal, leaving her four short of Mia Hamm’s international scoring record, and Rachel Buehler scored in her 100th appearance as the United States beat Iceland, 3-0, in the opener of the Algarve Cup in Faro, Portugal. The Americans will play Friday against China, which tied Sweden.

¶ Juventus beat visiting Celtic, 2-0, to seal its progression to the Champions League quarterfinals, 5-0 on aggregate.
166 2013-03-07 Donald R. Sadoway, a professor of materials chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the Japanese data suggested that temperatures might have shot much higher in that battery than in the one on the plane in Boston. If that is true, he said, Boeing and the F.A.A. might need to add more steps to the safety plan to guard against such possibilities.

“I think the F.A.A. needs to have assurance that the proposed changes address the causes of the two incidents,” Professor Sadoway said. “That means that we need to have certainty as to what caused those incidents.”

Otherwise, he said, “we can make changes that sound like good changes, but if they fall short of addressing what caused those two incidents, they would be inadequate.”

The F.A.A.’s Seattle office on Wednesday was completing its recommendation to approve Boeing’s plan for the tests, which are needed to certify that its proposed fixes would work, federal officials said. The plan is still subject to approval by Michael P. Huerta, the head of the F.A.A., and Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary, who will be briefed on it over the next several days.

Mr. LaHood said in January that the planes “won’t fly until we’re 1,000 percent sure they are safe to fly.” Department officials said Mr. LaHood and Mr. Huerta had been kept informed of the details of the proposal as it was created, and they are expected to sign off on it.

Boeing officials said they think they have identified the most likely ways in which the batteries could fail. They contend that the changes would minimize the odds of future incidents and protect the plane and its passengers if a problem does arise.

Under the plan, Boeing proposed adding insulation among the eight cells in the battery to minimize the risk of a short-circuit cascading through most or all of them. The company also proposed adding systems to monitor the temperature and activity in each cell. It would enclose the batteries in sturdier steel boxes to contain any fire, and it would create tubes to vent hazardous gases outside the plane.

Aviation analysts said the plan would probably protect against the main problem that the safety board has identified, a short-circuit in one of the cells that can trigger a chemical reaction that leads the battery to overheat.

But the approval of the changes is also a highly political process, and Mr. Huerta and Mr. LaHood are trying to balance safety concerns with the interest at Boeing and in the airline industry to get the planes flying again.

Perceptions of the traveling public also loom large as Boeing tries to restore confidence in the 787s, known as the Dreamliners for their use of new technologies that reduce fuel costs by 20 percent.

To that end, Boeing has referred to its proposal as a permanent fix for the problems. But Hans J. Weber, the president of Tecop International, an aviation consulting firm, said: “You cannot call it a permanent fix until after you really understand what happened. So I’m distressed, quite frankly, that it provides a signal that they might not be working as diligently to still find out what caused the problems.”

Marc R. Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, said it called the plan a permanent fix because it “believes it is the right one.” But, he said, “if new information arises, we won’t hesitate to improve the safety and reliability of our products.”

Boeing has delivered 50 787s to eight airlines, and officials said it could install new batteries in them quickly once a new design was approved. The company has much at stake with the plane, which is the first commercial jet to be built mostly out of lightweight composite materials. Boeing has orders for 800 more of the planes.

The proposed changes are also, in effect, an acknowledgment by Boeing that its original plan for testing the batteries in 2007 was inadequate.

Deborah A. P. Hersman, the chairwoman of the safety board, said last month that Boeing’s original tests showed no indication the batteries could erupt in flame and concluded that they were likely to emit smoke less than once in every 10 million flight hours.

Once the planes were placed in service, though, the batteries overheated and emitted smoke twice, and caused one fire, after about 50,000 hours of commercial flights.

Raymond L. Conner, the president of Boeing’s commercial airplane division, said this week that industry and academic researchers had learned much since then about the volatile batteries. Other company officials said Boeing would also incorporate what it learned from the two recent incidents into its new tests.

The laboratory work will include tests that set off fires in the batteries to see how the new containment and venting systems work, while the flight tests will check to make sure that the plane’s vibrations do not bring the cells too close together.

Professor Sadoway, of M.I.T., said the temperatures in the battery on the plane in Japan shot high enough to melt aluminum connectors and ground wires, which could support the idea that an electrical surge had come from outside the battery.

He said Boeing might need to add a circuit-breaker outside the battery to prevent such surges or take a deeper look at how the plane’s novel electrical system is working.
167 2013-03-07 At the 2nd Copenhagen Bridge Invitational, played two weeks ago, the most famous “am” in the preliminary pro-am event was the husband of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, Henrik, the prince consort.

Henrik was born in France, his name being Henri Marie Jean André de Laborde de Monpezat. When he married Princess Margrethe in 1967, his first name was given a Danish spelling. (She became queen in 1972.)

A colorful character, he partnered Thomas Bessis, a world and European champion from France.

Prince Henrik used the redouble card in his bidding box twice, the first time being when he sat West in the diagramed deal.

South could have passed out four hearts but aggressively doubled. If he had then passed out four hearts redoubled, the contract could have been made, but it would have taken excellent card reading by Prince Henrik.

Four spades doubled could have been defeated by four tricks, starting with a club lead, if the defenders could have played with the cards face up on the table. After the natural heart ace-lead, declarer ruffed and played a low club.
168 2013-03-07 WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Wednesday blocked the confirmation of Caitlin J. Halligan, a prominent New York lawyer, to become a federal appeals court judge in the District of Columbia, the second time in two years Republicans have filibustered her nomination.

The Senate, in a 51-to-41 vote, fell well short of the 60-vote threshold needed to cut off debate and bring Ms. Halligan’s nomination to a vote. The largely party-line vote, with only Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, joining with Democrats in favor of ending debate, was reminiscent of the previous filibuster of Ms. Halligan — another largely party line vote of 54 to 45.

Many Republicans said they oppose Ms. Halligan’s nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit because of what they say is her history of legal activism; most specifically, they say that as the solicitor general of New York State, she worked to advance the “dubious legal theory,” in the words of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, that gun manufacturers could be held legally responsible for criminal acts committed with their guns.

“In short, Ms. Halligan’s record of advocacy and her activist view of the judiciary lead me to conclude that she would bring that activism to the court,” Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader, said on the Senate floor. “Because of her record of activism, giving Ms. Halligan a lifetime appointment on the D.C. Circuit is a bridge too far.”

Democrats said that Republicans were interested mainly in stalling any appointments by President Obama to the influential court, which reviews many critical cases on government powers. They said that Republicans could not point to a single case of judicial activism on Ms. Halligan’s part, and that during her time as solicitor general, she was simply doing her job and acting in the interests of the State of New York.
169 2013-03-07 After the members of the Tafelmusik Baroque Orchestra strolled onstage at the American Academy of Arts and Letters on Sunday afternoon, they arranged themselves into a formation that mirrored the image projected overhead — an early-18th-century painting by Marco Ricci called “Rehearsal of an Opera.”

That picture was part of Handel’s private collection, which included important works like a painting by Canaletto of the ducal palace in Venice. Many of these were hung in the composer’s London home.

Tafelmusik, from Toronto, presented here by the Miller Theater, offered a whimsical and beautifully structured program called “House of Dreams,” which linked digital images of Baroque masterpieces to the music that was performed in the 18th-century salons where these paintings decorated the walls.

The actor Blair Williams narrated the proceedings like a futuristic visitor wandering through tableaus frozen in time, connecting the music and art with readings and fascinating historical tidbits. The ensemble opened the program with selections from some of Handel’s Concerti Grossi and “Entrance of the Agreeable Dreams” from his “Alcina,” an opera that he rehearsed at home.

The audience also glimpsed a salon in Venice, where Joseph Smith, a wealthy British trader and patron of Canaletto, displayed that painter’s vast scenes of Venice. Music by Vivaldi was naturally the aural counterpart to the images; the performances included particularly distinguished playing by John Abberger and Marco Cera in the Concerto in D minor for Two Oboes (RV 535).

The ensemble members moved freely around the stage and performed the entire concert from memory, their spirited, polished interpretations imbued with spontaneity and imaginative flair.
170 2013-03-07 Microsoft told the commission at the end of 2011 that it had been abiding by the deal. “We trusted the reports about the compliance,” Mr. Almunia said Wednesday.

In fact, the company failed to include the ballot system in certain products starting in May 2011, affecting more than 15 million European users. The lapse came to light last July, after rival companies reported its absence.

“We take full responsibility for the technical error that caused this problem and have apologized,” Microsoft said Wednesday. “We have taken steps to strengthen our software development and other processes to help avoid this mistake — or anything similar — in the future.”

A Microsoft spokesman declined to comment on whether the company would appeal, but it seemed unlikely, as the company prefers to focus on its rivalry with Google. Microsoft is among the companies that have complained about Google’s business practices to Mr. Almunia.

The fine comes as Mr. Almunia’s office is negotiating with Google to try to resolve the commission’s concerns about the way it runs its Internet search service and its advertising business.

Mr. Almunia said Wednesday that attempts to reach a deal with Google were continuing and were unrelated to the decision taken against Microsoft. But he made it clear that the substantial fine was meant to serve as a warning to others.

If Google eventually settles, it “will have to exert extra care to not give the impression that it is deviating from the commitments that such a settlement will entail” to avoid a similarly high fine, Mario Mariniello, a research fellow at Bruegel in Brussels and a former antitrust official, wrote in a blog post.

In the Microsoft case, Mr. Almunia said some of the blame rested with regulators and indicated that the commission might never again, in effect, put the fox in charge of the henhouse.

“Maybe we should have tried to complement the responsibilities of the reports about the implementation, but we only reacted when we received the first complaint,” Mr. Almunia said. “Maybe in 2009 we were even more naïve than today.”

He said the commission would be more inclined to use trustees to police future settlements, would be more precise in defining their responsibilities and would “pay even more attention to the reports that the monitoring trustees will send to us.”

Companies that agree to settlements usually pay for trustees, but the choices are vetted for conflicts of interest, according to European Union officials.

Since 2003, when the current settlement rule was introduced, the commission has taken 29 such decisions. But there were no appointments of independent monitoring trustees in the majority of those cases, including in a settlement with I.B.M. in late 2011.

Mr. Almunia said he had not yet decided whether to appoint a trustee to oversee whether Microsoft was adhering to the rest of its compliance period in the browser case, which runs to 2014.

Microsoft has been a special case in the history of European Union antitrust enforcement, racking up a total of $3.4 billion in fines over about a decade.

Microsoft was the first company to pay so-called periodic penalties for failing to follow an order to make it easier for rival products to communicate with powerful server computers running Windows. That amount, nearly 900 million euros, was subsequently reduced to 860 million euros after the company appealed to the General Court of the European Union.

The decision against Microsoft was another milestone for European Union antitrust law, and for Microsoft, which became the first company to be punished for failing to adhere to a settlement.

Although the commission can levy fines of up 10 percent of a company’s most recent global annual sales, the penalty on Wednesday represented 1 percent of Microsoft’s annual sales, partly because the company cooperated with the commission after the issue came to light.

Mr. Almunia said there had been no indication that Microsoft intentionally broke the settlement agreement.

The fact that nobody — apart, apparently, from rival companies — noticed the absence of the browser choice screen for more than a year has prompted critics of the European antitrust enforcement to question the effectiveness of the measure.

But Mr. Almunia insisted Wednesday that the remedy had been effective, saying that, “our decision was very relevant in opening the market and broadening the choice for users, for what kind of browsers they want to use.”

Microsoft, which currently offers a browser choice in its latest Windows 8 operating systems in Europe, said last year that it was prepared to extend the system beyond 2014 by an additional 15 months, partly to atone for its error. But it remained unclear on Wednesday whether that plan would go forward.
171 2013-03-07 2. Meanwhile preheat the oven to 450 degrees and line a baking sheet with parchment.

3. Place the flour in a large, wide bowl and sift in the baking soda and salt. Mix in with your hands or with a wide spatula. Make a well in the middle of the flour and pour in the buttermilk. Add the bulgur to the well, then mix in the flour from the sides of the bowl to the center using a wide rubber spatula, a wide wooden spoon or your hands, turning the bowl and sweeping the flour from the sides into the buttermilk. Mix until the bulgur and buttermilk have been incorporated into the flour, then scrape out onto a lightly floured work surface. The dough should be soft and a bit sticky. Flour your hands so it won’t stick to them.

4. Gently knead the dough, only enough to shape it into a ball, then with floured hands gently pat it down to a 2-inch high round, about 9 inches in diameter. Place it on the parchment-lined baking sheet and cut a 1/2-inch deep cross across the top.

5. Place in the oven and bake 20 minutes at 450 degrees. Turn down the heat to 375 degrees and bake for another 15 to 20 minutes, until the loaf responds with a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom. Remove from the oven, wrap loosely in a cloth or kitchen towel, and cool on a rack.

Advance preparation: Soda bread is best eaten within 2 days of baking. It does not freeze well.

Nutritional information per serving: 136 calories; 1 gram fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 1 milligram cholesterol; 28 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 413 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 6 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
172 2013-03-07 Q.&#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;Do I have to use the Apple Bluetooth keyboard with an Apple TV, or can I get a cheaper one instead?...
173 2013-03-08 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he was “cautiously optimistic” of winning an overhaul, but he sounded uncertain about legislative support for establishing a financing system for state candidates....
174 2013-03-08 Chobani, the Greek yogurt brand, is expanding a marketing campaign called “Go real” into realms that include print and digital advertisements; the brand’s Web site, chobani.com; and social media like Facebook and Twitter....
175 2013-03-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
176 2013-03-08 Jon Caramanica and Ben Ratliff discuss “Harlem Shake” what its chart success means for popular music....
177 2013-03-08 This is the third outlet the popular Los Angeles chain plans for New York City....
178 2013-03-08 In bowls or bread, bulgur is a versatile and flavorful grain that should become a staple in your pantry....
179 2013-03-08 This week: wildlife smuggling, the North Korean crab business, and the fossilized remains of a giant camel — along with an invitation to find environmental stories that compel you....
180 2013-03-08 Alice Waters, founder and owner of the famed restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., says no one was injured and the cause is unknown....
181 2013-03-08 Opening in a new country presents an opportunity for growth and revenue, but it is also an opportunity to lose ours shirts....
182 2013-03-08 Apple and Amazon are trying to make it possible for Web consumers to swap content on a grand scale, Time Warner’s spinoff of Time Inc. is the latest evidence of a strategy of divestment, and Facebook’s redesign strategy is already popular with...
183 2013-03-08 Feminism in India is grappling with new problems as vast economic and social changes sweep the country, while old mindsets steeped in patriarchy still prevail...
184 2013-03-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
185 2013-03-08 In many cases the buildings have not only been community hubs, but also remain among the most architecturally distinguished buildings in their towns, legacies of New Deal efforts to put America back to work.

So as the Postal Service tries to shrink, it is often finding itself in battle with groups trying to prevent what the last year labeled one of the most significant threats to the country’s architectural heritage.

“Unless the U.S. Postal Service establishes a clear, consistent process that follows federal preservation law when considering disposal of these buildings, a significant part of the nation’s architectural heritage will be at risk,” the trust said in a citation that placed historic post offices on its most endangered list.

When these post offices close, preservationists say, important public buildings become private preserves as they are refurbished into commercial spaces like high-end retail stores. Though many of the buildings’ exteriors are protected by local landmark laws, many of the interiors are not and developers tend to make changes like renovating lobbies.

In one case, a post office built in 1937 without protected status was demolished. That building, in , was knocked down in 2009 to make room for a , despite attempts to save it.

“There are lots of quite significant post office buildings that are threatened because the Postal Service itself is threatened,” said G. Martin Moeller Jr., a senior curator at the National Building Museum in Washington.

The Postal Service lost $15.9 billion last year, and last month announced it was considering eliminating Saturday letter service. It says that the real estate sales raise revenue and save on operating costs, and that the shuttered post offices are those where the number of customers had declined, or where it found a less-expensive alternate site.

“The trend has been to maintain the post offices that are operational while saving money at the same time,” said Sue Brennan, a spokeswoman for the service. “The Postal Service follows all applicable laws regarding the disposal of historic buildings.”

There are some 31,000 retail postal offices in the country, most of them leased. But roughly a quarter are government-owned and as many as 1,100 were built in the 1930s, when the government hired architects to design civic buildings.

In 2011, the Postal Service identified about 3,700 post offices — some leased, some owned, some historic and some not — that it said may have to close in coming years to save money. When that plan met with opposition, the service announced it would instead try to lower expenses by reducing operating hours.

But even as postal officials agreed not to eliminate outlets in some towns and cities, they did leave open the option to sell valuable properties and relocate services. “Periodic sales of post offices will be ongoing,” Ms. Brennan said.

The agency acknowledges that in recent years the sale of post office buildings has accelerated, and in 2011 it hired , a commercial real estate services firm, to handle the transactions.

“Our biggest concern is the way they’re going about it isn’t transparent,” said Chris Morris, a senior field officer for the National Trust and project manager for post office buildings. “A lot of us are very confused about the process.”

Advocates say there have been too few public discussions or assurances that prized buildings will be protected.

Another person who is tracking the issue is Steve Hutkins, a professor whose Web site, Save the Post Office, attempts, among other things, to map the sale and possible sale of the buildings. “They are losing iconic buildings,” said Mr. Hutkins, who questioned whether the Postal Service is “artificially inflating the seriousness of the deficit problem to justify downsizing.”

While the hundreds of post offices on the National Register of Historic Places are not at risk of being demolished without government review, some of their interiors are subject to alteration. Other post offices have been sold with so-called covenants: legal stipulations that require subsequent owners to maintain certain architectural features in perpetuity, even if a property is transferred. And even without protections, some buildings are unlikely targets for demolition because they are so attractive, commercial realtors say.

A variety of these factors has worked to preserve the post office in Greenwich, Conn., which was sold to the real estate magnate Peter Malkin for more than $15 million in 2011. Mr. Malkin said he had met no resistance to his plan to convert the Classical Revival building, constructed in 1937 and listed on the National Register, into a Restoration Hardware store.

“One of the reasons I became involved in the purchase of the building was to protect it from being changed in any way,” he said.

The battles over the buildings seem most pronounced here in , where preservationists say they fear dozens of post offices may be sold. Postal officials said such concerns were unfounded because there was no such plan at this point in the state.

Nonetheless, concerns about the post offices “are overwhelming the state historic preservation offices,” said Carol Lemlein, president of the Santa Monica Conservancy.

“There is very little confidence in the Postal Service’s ability to execute a process in a manner that will really protect the buildings,” she added.

Last week, residents of , Calif., rallied to protest the possible sale of their main post office, while Glendale, Palo Alto and have also seen efforts to protest the possible sales of older post offices.

In Ukiah, Calif., a post office on the National Register was sold last August to a private developer despite opposition from area residents. No plan for the building has been announced.

Last year, a post office in Venice, Calif., that was built in 1939 was sold to the Hollywood producer ( ), who is converting it into his company headquarters. As part of a protective covenant agreement with , Mr. Silver’s renovation must preserve the historic parts of the building.

Mr. Silver also agreed to restore and preserve a mural inside, “Story of Venice,” by Edward Biberman, at a cost of $100,000. The agreement is one of a number that have been created for murals that were made for post offices. In Venice, though, some residents are upset that the agreement stipulates that the mural can be publicly viewed just six times a year and by appointment only.

Mr. Silver said through a spokesman that he planned to make the mural available to the public more often.

Even with legal protections in place, advocates say there is no guarantee that these post offices will remain intact once sold. They say such protections can be ignored or prove insufficient in the absence of vigilant monitoring or explicit guidelines that specify which architectural elements deserve protection.

“Unless these features are appropriately defined, the building can be ‘preserved’ without continuing to exhibit the features that made it important in the first place,” said Ms. Lemlein of the Santa Monica Conservancy.

In the building here on Fifth Street in Santa Monica, preservationists point to Art Deco features of the exterior, to the wood paneling in the public lobby and to the original light fixtures as elements worthy of protection. They are trying to establish a covenant for the building, which postal officials said in a letter last December to the State Historic Preservation Office was, “slated for sale,” though it has yet to be listed.

The city joined in Representative ’s appeal of the Postal Service’s decision to close the post office.

“I think they got it wrong,” Mr. Waxman said in an interview. “It’s a Depression-era structure, it’s an historic structure, one of the few Art Deco buildings in Santa Monica.”

The first goal is to keep the post office as a post office, preservationists say. But if it has to be sold, they say they want to ensure that any new owner is sensitive to the building’s cherished history and architectural distinction.

“It could be a restaurant, a store, offices,” said Adrian Scott Fine, the Los Angeles Conservancy’s director of advocacy, “as long as you keep those features that define the building.”
186 2013-03-08 “To Stem Juvenile Robberies, Police Trail Youths Before the Crime” (front page, March 4) suggests that the New York Police Department’s Juvenile Robbery Intervention Program is a largely benevolent effort aimed at addressing the fractured relationships that exist between the police and teenagers, improving the lives of the young people involved and preventing gang violence.

Yet you do not present the more damaging aspects of this program, particularly its potential to undermine the constitutional and due process rights of teenagers. The J-RIP officers often insinuate themselves into the lives of teenagers and gather information from them that can later be used against them. This is a clear violation of an individual’s right to counsel.

As we have seen through the powerful example of the Central Park Five case, teenagers have a hard time saying no to police officers, particularly those who have the power to take away their freedom.

The writer, a former social worker, is an assistant professor of sociology at SUNY New Paltz.

The New York Police Department’s program in which police officers befriend and support at-risk youths appears well intentioned. At the same time, this strategy is risky and inefficient.

First, public displays of friendliness by police officers toward targeted youths can put these young people at serious risk of harm from their peers because of perceptions of collaborating with the “enemy” and snitching.
187 2013-03-08 “Egypt Needs to Act” (editorial, March 5) rightly praised Secretary of State John Kerry’s message during his recent visit to Egypt. But Egyptians have heard American leaders talk about human rights and democracy in their country before, and many have grown skeptical that the United States will act to back up its rhetoric.

Rebuilding the trust eroded by decades of support for authoritarianism will require a sustained, consistent engagement from United States policy makers, beginning at the embassy level, to call out violations of human rights that continue to occur and to stand in support of those in Egypt who embrace and defend democratic freedoms.

As a new secretary of state at the beginning of the president’s second term, Mr. Kerry should seize the opportunity to refocus American policy toward Egypt on promoting universal values of freedom and human rights. That will require more than words.
188 2013-03-08 In a 2009 report, also released on Thursday, the board concluded that auditors “may not be applying an appropriate level of professional skepticism in subjective areas susceptible to management bias.”

The company said in a statement that the board’s criticisms “relate to some of the most complex, judgmental and evolving areas of auditing” and said it was committed to improving its work.

“We take audit quality very seriously,” Tim Ryan, United States assurance leader and a vice chairman of the firm, said in an interview. “While we took significant actions” to respond to the concerns, he added, “the conclusion of the P.C.A.O.B. was that they were not significant enough.”

The board inspects audits of major firms every year, and releases a public report detailing problems that were found in various audits its inspectors reviewed, although it does not name the companies.

At the same time, the board issues a “Part 2” of the report regarding potential defects in a firm’s quality control system. That report is not made public unless the board determines that the firm did not take sufficient steps to remedy the problems over the following 12 months. The board has a backlog of such cases and only recently decided that PricewaterhouseCoopers had not taken enough steps. The audit firm could have delayed the disclosure by appealing to the Securities and Exchange Commission, but decided not to.

The board, under the chairmanship of James R. Doty, who was appointed in 2011, has voiced frustration about what it sees as continued problems with audits, and the decision to release the reports may be another indication of that frustration.

“Inspectors have identified serious audit deficiencies of such a range that it is not possible to ascribe them to isolated technical weaknesses,” Mr. Doty said in a speech late last year. “These include instances where auditors did not approach some aspect of their audit work with the required independence, objectivity and professional skepticism.”

He pointed to a report, issued by a Canadian regulator, that looked at audit firm inspection results from Canada, Britain, the United States and Australia and concluded that the most common problem found was that “auditors are too often accepting or attempting to validate management evidence and representations without sufficient challenge and independent corroboration.”

A lack of review of management estimates was one of three problems the board cited at PricewaterhouseCoopers. The second concerned the firm’s audits of decisions regarding the value of good will.

The third area was in reviewing a company’s internal controls. In some cases, the board said, the firm simply relied on reports by a client’s internal auditors, and did so even after discovering problems with the internal auditor’s work.
189 2013-03-08 “After being in office four years, he’s actually going to sit down and talk to members,” Mr. Boehner said, his voice rising in feigned disbelief. Still, he added in a more serious tone, “I think it’s a sign, a hopeful sign. And I’m hopeful that something will come out of it. But if the president continues to insist on tax hikes, I don’t think we can get very far.”

Those who have studied the relationship between presidents and Congress doubt seriously whether Mr. Obama’s latest outreach will yield much.

“It’s a rather shallow notion,” said George Edwards, a political scientist at Texas A & M University and an expert who has written extensively on presidential power. “You’re not going to get committed conservatives to change their long-held ideological commitments because you play a round of golf or invite them to the White House.”

Or treat them to an expensive dinner, for that matter, experts said. The senators, as is their custom, did most of the talking on Wednesday night. They were grateful to Mr. Obama for the invitation, though they told him they wished he had reached out earlier, instead of first going on a campaign-style cross-country tour accusing Republicans of obstruction.

Mr. Obama’s tone was amenable, and he kept his comments brief. “I don’t think he came there to say, ‘Here’s the way it’s going to be, and I need you to get in line,’ ” said Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska, who estimated that Mr. Obama spoke only about 10 percent of the time. “I think he was saying the opposite.”

They urged him to talk tougher on the need to bring down the cost of programs like Medicare. “You are in the bully pulpit,” Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin said he told the president. “You can be honest with the American people and lay those facts on the table because that is what it’s going to take.”

Around 8:30 p.m., Senator John McCain of Arizona, the self-appointed timekeeper, interrupted to say that they had exhausted their time and should let Mr. Obama be on his way. “The president’s a busy guy,” he said.

And with that, they went their separate ways into the cold, damp Washington night.

Next week Mr. Obama will take the extraordinary step of traveling to Capitol Hill to hold four separate meetings with members of Congress — one with Democrats and one with Republicans in each chamber. The last time he visited the Capitol to meet with the House Republican conference was January 2009; with Senate Republicans it was May 2010, though the president has met with them on occasion since. And on Thursday, Mr. Obama hosted a lunch at the White House that included Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman.

One popular theory that has gained currency in recent years is that Washington would be a much more civil and productive place if there were more bipartisan social gatherings like the one the president held on Wednesday. With members of Congress spending so little time in Washington — most flee back to their districts on Thursday after the week’s legislative business is done — the kinds of bonds that foster cooperation and collaboration have failed to grow.

But political scholars say that bipartisan camaraderie is no substitute for the most crucial factor in advancing a president’s agenda: large majorities in Congress.

“Stories about dramatic interaction between big personalities make for excellent reading, but they do tend to downplay the structural constraints against which that drama is playing out,” said Andrew Rudalevige, a professor of government at Bowdoin College. “What does the Congress look like? Who holds seats? And what does public opinion look like?”

A closer look at the record of the president who is considered the most effective Congressional negotiator in modern times, Lyndon B. Johnson, shows that his success can be attributed as much to circumstance as to his famous powers of persuasion and intimidation.

Much of the Great Society legislation — laws that created the Medicare, Medicaid, the National Endowment for the Arts and financed public schools — passed Congress when Democrats commanded supermajorities in both houses in 1965 and 1966.

But after the Republicans picked up dozens of seats in the next Congress, weakening those majorities considerably by 1967, Johnson had a more difficult time. In battles that mirror today’s big policy debates, he had to swallow considerable cuts in domestic spending before he could persuade Congress to pass a 10 percent income tax surcharge to help pay for the Vietnam War. And he failed to persuade Congress to create a national gun registry after the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy.

“Did Johnson just forget how to do it? No,” Dr. Edwards said. “He didn’t have the votes.”

Members of both parties complain today that the president’s outreach has been distant and dismissive. And they often cite Mr. Obama’s immediate predecessor, George W. Bush, as being especially effective in his first term because of a productive relationship with a divided Congress. But political scientists note that two of Mr. Bush’s signature achievements — the tax cuts and sweeping authority to combat terrorism — were won at a time when the president had, in the first instance, the honeymoon popularity of a new president and, in the second, the political winds of Sept. 11 at his back.

Still, many members of Congress acknowledge that there is nothing quite like taking a call from the president. And while he may not ultimately prevail on them, they always listen.

“Without these overtures, nothing would happen,” said Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who took one of those phone calls on Monday. “It’s not a sufficient step. But it’s a necessary step.”
190 2013-03-08 The four-time winner Martin Buser was the first musher to leave the checkpoint at the halfway point in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race in Alaska. The winner is expected to arrive in Nome early next week.
191 2013-03-08 Notre Dame guard Skylar Diggins, Connecticut forward Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis and South Florida guard Andrea Smith were unanimous selections to the All-Big East team.

They were joined on the team by Stefanie Dolson of Connecticut; Brittany Hrynko of DePaul; Sugar Rodgers of Georgetown; Shoni Schimmel of Louisville; Natalie Achonwa and Kayla McBride of Notre Dame; Nadirah McKenith and Shenneika Smith of St. John’s; and Kayla Alexander of Syracuse.
192 2013-03-08 Michael Albasini of Switzerland beat four other riders in a sprint finish to win the hilly fourth stage of the Paris-Nice race, while the American Andrew Talansky kept hold of the leader’s yellow jersey. Albasini attacked in the last 500 meters and won by a bike’s length.
193 2013-03-08 On Thursday, the United States Patent and Trademark Office published Apple’s application for its own patent for a digital marketplace. Apple’s application outlines a system for allowing users to sell or give e-books, music, movies and software to each other by transferring files rather than reproducing them. Such a system would permit only one user to have a copy at any one time.

Meanwhile, a New York court is poised to rule on whether a start-up that created a way for people to buy and sell iTunes songs is breaking copyright law. A victory for the company would mean that consumers would not need either Apple’s or Amazon’s exchange to resell their digital items. Electronic bazaars would spring up instantly.

“The technology to allow the resale of digital goods is now in place, and it will cause a dramatic upheaval,” said Bill Rosenblatt, president of GiantSteps, a technology consulting firm. “In the short term, it’s great for consumers. Over the long term, however, it could seriously reduce creators’ incentive to create.”

, the best-selling novelist and president of the Authors Guild, sees immediate peril in the prospect of a secondhand digital thrift shop. “The resale of e-books would send the price of new books crashing,” he said. “Who would want to be the sucker who buys the book at full price when a week later everyone else can buy it for a penny?”

He acknowledged it would be good for consumers — “until there were no more authors anymore.”

Libraries, though, welcome the possibility of loosened restrictions on digital material.

“The vast majority of e-books are not available in your public library,” said Brandon Butler, director of public policy initiatives for the Association of Research Libraries. “That’s pathetic.”

He said that 60 percent of what the association’s 125 members buy was electronic, which meant sharp restrictions on use. Libraries cannot buy from Apple’s iTunes, he said. And so, for example, Pixar’s Oscar-winning soundtrack for the movie is not available in any public collection. An Apple spokesman confirmed this.

“If these things can’t be owned, who is going to make sure they exist going forward?” Mr. Butler asked. “Without substantial changes, we can’t do what libraries have always done, which is lend and preserve.”

For over a century, the ability of consumers, secondhand bookstores and libraries to do whatever they wanted with a physical book has been enshrined in law. The crucial 1908 case involved a publisher that issued a novel with a warning that no one was allowed to sell it for less than $1. When offered the book for 89 cents, the publisher sued.

That led to a landmark ruling limiting the copyright owner’s control to the first sale. After that, it was a free market.

Sales of digital material are considered licenses, which give consumers little or no ability to lend the item. The worry is that without such constraints digital goods could be infinitely reproduced while still in the possession of the original owner.

Both the Amazon and Apple systems aim to solve this problem. Amazon’s patent envisions a book or movie or song being kept in a customer’s personalized “data store.” When an item is no longer wanted, the user could sell or trade it to another user, an action that would automatically delete the item from the first user’s store.

The patent describes what is essentially a gigantic swap meet. Amazon’s 152 million active customers would maintain a list of desired secondhand digital objects ( or Cheryl Strayed’s ), as well as a list of used digital objects that are “available for movement” (“Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance” or ’s autobiography).

An Amazon spokesman declined to comment on the patent, including how soon or even whether the digital marketplace would be set up. The patent does not make clear if such a bazaar would need the publishers’ permission.

The degree to which media companies are against secondhand digital marketplaces can be seen in the music industry’s hard line toward ReDigi, a start-up that allows for the reselling of iTunes songs.

ReDigi took some pains to make its approach as friendly to the music companies as possible. For instance, any money gained from selling songs must be spent on new songs. And ReDigi says its system, like both Amazon’s and Apple’s, allows for only one copy of an electronic product to exist at any one moment.

Capitol Records nonetheless sued ReDigi for copyright infringement in a New York federal court and asked the judge to shut the service through a preliminary injunction. The judge declined. He is expected to rule on the merits of the case shortly.

An Apple spokesman did not immediately return a message seeking comment on the company’s patent application, which was first reported on Apple Insider. Apple, which has not sued ReDigi, declined to comment on the court case.

John Ossenmacher, ReDigi’s chief executive, said he was heartened by Amazon’s resale patent.

“Amazon is pretty fearless, which bodes well for the consumers of digital goods.” And, he added, for Amazon itself. “What better value to give an Amazon customer than to say, ‘Buy your book here and then later you can resell it’? You can’t do that with ’s Nook.”

Robert Levine, author of “Free Ride,” an account of how Silicon Valley rose to power by plundering the traditional media companies, said he believed there was a cultural imperative to loosen the restrictions on digital entertainment — but not too much.

Before the Internet, he pointed out, there was little controversy over secondhand stores for books and music. “It never threatened the broader market because it simply wasn’t that efficient,” he said. “You couldn’t always find the book or CD you were looking for.”

Amazon, which caused an uproar with writers and publishers when it started selling used books in 2000, made it as easy as clicking a button. “Digital resale would change it even more,” Mr. Levine said.

Markets usually move toward a solution both sides can live with, he noted. “But that happens slowly, and in the meantime we’re in for one hell of a fight.”
194 2013-03-08 In 1972 the British-American artist Anthony McCall organized a performance in which 15 photographers, filmmakers and video artists milled about, shooting one another in a room strewn with crumpled newspapers and with a pair of large mirrors on opposite walls.

Four decades later he edited footage from the event into a 35-minute video loop, the centerpiece of “Circulation Figures,” one of two philosophically intriguing installations here. The gallery floor is covered by newspapers, and there are large mirrors on opposite walls. Suspended in the middle of the room is a projection screen whose reflected images recede infinitely into the mirrors. The video alternates silent passages showing the photographers in action and freeze-framed moments during which you hear feet stirring the newspaper and shutters clicking.

It is interestingly frustrating to watch: it seems as if the photographers were focused on something of interest — a celebrity, say — but you never see what it is because it does not exist. This suggests that the subject of photography is photography itself. It is an allegory of modern narcissism.

Mr. McCall’s other installation, “Face to Face,” is a new work from his “solid light” film series, for which he became known in the 1970s. In a dark room, two projectors cast simple, slowly morphing compositions of bright white lines upon two suspended screens. Ambient haze from a fog machine gives the projected rays a spectral, crystalline solidity, as if they were made of diaphanous fabric. As with “Circulation Figures,” we ponder the tricky gap between subjective experience and objective reality.
195 2013-03-08 WASHINGTON — Sally Jewell, President Obama’s nominee for interior secretary, deflected many of the questions she faced at her confirmation hearing Thursday but made clear she supports expanded oil and gas development on public lands and waters, including exploratory drilling off the North Slope of Alaska and seismic testing in the Atlantic Ocean.

“Leaning into oil and gas development is an important part of the mission of the Bureau of Land Management and also of the Department of Interior,” Ms. Jewell said, one of the four times she used a phrase popularized by Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook and author of “Lean In,” a book on the challenges confronted by women who are executives.

Ms. Jewell, chief executive of Recreational Equipment Inc. in Seattle, also faced questions on climate change, protection of endangered species, energy development on Indian lands and her role as a board member of a national parks advocacy organization.

The questions were generally polite from Republicans and Democrats on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and Ms. Jewell’s responses were for the most part noncommittal. She referred frequently to the need for balance between exploitation of federal lands for resource extraction and preservation of wilderness.

She also said climate change was real, but dodged questions about whether she supported a carbon tax to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases responsible for the warming planet. “A carbon tax is not something that would come before me, and the president has made it clear he is not pursuing a carbon tax at this point,” Ms. Jewell said.

She said she supported Mr. Obama’s so-called all-of-the-above energy strategy, including increased production of oil and gas as well as renewable energy on public lands.
196 2013-03-08 The report also gave more details about the steps Boeing took to test and certify the first large-scale use of lithium batteries aboard a commercial passenger jet. Some of those details raised questions about how Boeing could have misjudged the risks.

In broad terms, the report echoed what Deborah A. P. Hersman, the board’s chairwoman, told reporters last month — that the problems seemed to have originated in the battery, where one of the eight cells had a short circuit and the fire spread to the rest of the cells.

The incident in Boston was the first serious sign of trouble with the new batteries on the 787. All 50 planes in service were grounded nine days later after another aircraft, operated by All Nippon Airways, made an emergency landing in Japan when the pilots smelled smoke. The inquiry into that incident is being conducted by Japanese investigators.

The safety board released its report a day after federal officials said that the Federal Aviation Administration was close to approving the testing of battery fixes that were proposed by Boeing. That decision is likely to be made next week, and the tests could begin immediately.

Boeing officials said they had identified the most likely ways in which the batteries could fail. They contend that the proposed changes would minimize the odds of future incidents and protect the plane and its passengers if a problem does arise. Meanwhile, the safety board plans to continue its investigation, and said Thursday that it would hold a hearing on the hazards of lithium-ion batteries next month.

The report said the airplane involved in the Boston incident was delivered to Japan Airlines on Dec. 20. At the time of the fire, it had logged 169 flight hours and 22 flight cycles.

The plane had flown from Narita, Japan, and touched down in Boston at 10 a.m.

The flight data recorder showed that at 10:04 a.m., the pilots started the auxiliary power unit, which provides power while the plane is on the ground and is energized by one of the plane’s two lithium batteries.

That battery is in the electronics bay, which is under the main cabin, near the middle of the plane. The other lithium-ion battery, located in the front of the plane, provides power to the cockpit. It was that battery that emitted smoke in the incident in Japan.

The possibility that there could be a fire in the advanced plane was so surprising that the airline’s station manager in Boston, Ayumu Skip Miyoshi, could not initially believe the radio call he got from a maintenance employee who reported smoke in the cabin.

“I wasn’t sure what he meant, therefore I replied, ‘So you mean one passenger smoked in the lavatory?’ ” he said in a witness statement. He rushed from his office and tried to enter the cabin but could not see more than 10 feet from the door because the smoke was so intense.

Meanwhile, one of the plane’s crucial safety mechanism intended to keep smoke out of the cabin in case of a problem did not work. The venting system had lost power after the auxiliary power unit shut down.

It eventually took firefighters 80 minutes to contain the fire and remove the charred battery from the plane.

Boeing’s plan to redesign the battery would add insulation among the eight cells in the battery to minimize the risk of a short circuit cascading through most or all of them. The company also proposed adding systems to monitor the temperature and activity in each cell. It would enclose the batteries in sturdier steel boxes to contain any fire, and it would create tubes to vent hazardous gases outside the plane.

The F.A.A. could still demand changes in the proposed battery design if problems develop in the laboratory and flight tests, which will take several weeks. But the decision to start the tests will be a major step in Boeing’s efforts to get the jets back in the air.

Boeing officials said the company could replace the batteries quickly once a new design was approved. The company has much at stake with the plane, the first commercial jet to be built mostly of lightweight composite materials. Boeing has orders for 800 more of the planes.

Boeing’s plan is still subject to approval by Michael P. Huerta, the head of the F.A.A., and Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary, who will be briefed on it within several days.

Mr. LaHood said in January that the planes “won’t fly until we’re 1,000 percent sure they are safe to fly.” Department officials said he and Mr. Huerta had been kept informed of the details of the proposal as it was created, and were expected to sign off on it.

The two-month investigation found nothing unusual in any of the electrical components linked to the battery, which were all tested. These include the battery charger, its monitoring unit and a starter for the auxiliary power unit.

The safety board is also looking into how the F.A.A. certified the batteries as safe in October 2007 when Boeing’s design and testing and its adherence to required special precautions were clearly deficient. Boeing’s original tests showed that the batteries could catch fire only if they overcharged, which did not happen in the Boston incident.

Boeing also found no evidence that a fire could cascade from one cell to another, and it concluded that the batteries were likely to emit smoke less than once in every 10 million flight hours.

Once the planes were placed in service, the batteries overheated and emitted smoke twice, and caused one fire, after 52,000 hours of commercial flights.

But one safety board document also suggested that while Boeing officials sat on a committee that created new minimum safety standards for lithium-ion batteries in March 2008, Boeing did not update its design even though the first 787s were not delivered to airlines until late 2011.
197 2013-03-08 The company later said it would not seek approval for the drug in the United States and withdrew it from the European market, where it had already been approved.

“There is such a thing as a blockbuster failure, and there have been a few lately,” said Erik Gordon, a business professor at the University of Michigan who follows the pharmaceutical industry. “The analysts have been pointing at Kim, Kim, Kim.”

In a statement, Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck’s chief executive, praised Mr. Kim’s tenure at the company. “Peter has helped sustain Merck’s commitment to outstanding science and innovation during a period of enormous change for our company and our industry,” Mr. Frazier said in the statement.

Dr. Perlmutter was Amgen’s head of research and development from 2001 until 2012, overseeing the development of several successful drugs, including the drug Prolia, to treat osteoporosis, and Xgeva, which prevents problems caused by the spread of cancer to bones. Analysts are also eagerly anticipating an experimental cholesterol drug, which is now entering late-stage clinical trials.

But the company has also suffered some disappointments under Dr. Perlmutter, including its cancer drug Vectibix, which did not perform as well as expected. Sales of Amgen’s anemia drugs, Epogen and Aranesp, have also been declining recently, in part because of safety issues that were brought to light after the company ran clinical trials aimed at increasing the dosages used.

C. Anthony Butler, a pharmaceuticals analyst for Barclays Capital who rates Merck stock a buy, said Dr. Perlmutter’s job will be not just to hire the most talented scientists available, but to turn around what he said has been described as a “soured” research culture. “I believe that Roger Perlmutter’s principal job is to be an internal leader, a cheerleader,” he said.

Mr. Frazier said Dr. Perlmutter was “ideally suited” to lead Merck’s research unit. “I am confident that under Roger’s leadership, Merck will continue to build upon our legacy of translating cutting-edge science into medically important products that make a difference for patients,” he said in the statement.

Merck declined to make either Dr. Perlmutter or Mr. Kim available for interviews.
198 2013-03-08 This paradox, fed by the growth of Internet-based legal research and services, is at the heart of a crisis looming over the legal profession after decades of relentless growth and accumulated wealth. It is evident in the sharp drop in law school applications and the increasing numbers of Americans showing up in court without a lawyer.

“It’s a perfect storm,” said Stacy Caplow, a professor at Brooklyn Law School who focuses on clinical education. “The longstanding concerns over access to justice for most Americans and a lack of skills among law graduates are now combined with the problems faced by all law schools. It’s creating conditions for change.”

A pilot program at the University of California Hastings College of the Law will place some third-year students into offices like the public defender’s for full-time training on the understanding that the next year those students will be employed there for small salaries. The program is called Lawyers for America, a conscious echo of Teach for America, in which high-achieving college graduates work in low-income neighborhood schools. The hope, said Prof. Marsha Cohen of Hastings, is that other law schools will follow the model. Professor Caplow of Brooklyn Law said her school planned to be one of the first.

A dozen law schools, including City University of New York and Thomas Jefferson School of Law in San Diego, have set up incubators to train future solo practitioners in their first year out of school, offering office space and mentors. Pace Law School in White Plains, opened what it calls a community law practice last fall with four graduates serving the region.

“You can’t just hang out a shingle and expect clients to show up in droves,” said Jennifer C. Friedman, executive director of the Pace Community Law Practice. “We want to provide our graduates with the tools of success while serving low- and moderate-income clients.”

And the incoming president of the American Bar Association, James R. Silkenat, of New York, said his top priority next fall would be to establish a “legal job corps” to match lawyers who need jobs with clients who need legal assistance.

“We have these two issues running in opposite directions,” Mr. Silkenat said in an interview. “There are unmet legal needs because of money and geography that seem to be growing, and the question of how to make use of unemployed recent graduates.”

All law schools, including the elites, are increasing skills training by adding clinics and externships. Starting this fall, the University of Virginia will allow students to earn a semester of credit while working full time for nonprofit or government employers anywhere in the world. Law students at the University of Pennsylvania, starting in September, can earn a certificate of management from its Wharton School to improve management skills and accounting literacy. Many of the schools and plans mention medical education as their model.

The Arizona State approach, called the Alumni Law Group, appears to be the most ambitious because of the number of lawyers it will employ (30), its projected cost (a commercial firm of comparable size would cost $5 million a year to run, according to the school’s projections) and its hope to be self-sufficient in a couple of years by charging for its services and gathering donations.

The plan is to have four to five groups of lawyers each overseen by a full-time, salaried supervising lawyer serving a range of clients. The firm will do legal work for other parts of the university, including its high-tech innovation center. The aim is to charge $125 an hour in an area where the going hourly rate is $250. The school also says it wants to reach out to veterans, Hispanics and American Indians whose legal needs are not well met.

Other changes may help the program along. Arizona has just become the first state to allow law students to take the bar exam in their third year rather than after graduation. The school has announced the creation of the North American Law Degree, a three-year J.D. aimed at licensure in both Canada and the United States. Dean Sylvester, who is Canadian, said a big need for lawyers in Canada remained as well as for cross-border practice. The number of Canadians applying to Arizona State for law studies has just risen, as a result.

Arizona’s plan, mooted at bar meetings and within law school circles, is producing envy — but also skepticism. Some see a naked attempt to improve the school’s ratings in U.S. News and World Report by increasing the percentage of its graduates who find work while doing little to address the access-to-justice problem.

Critics say that $125 an hour is too high to serve those in need and too low to break even. Others say that Phoenix, a city of intense growth and few law students, could support such an operation but that others could not and that local law firms would resent the competition.

“We charge $50 an hour, and I don’t take any pay,” said Dennis A. Gladwell, who runs a smaller firm at the University of Utah with a staff of five graduates started 16 months ago. “If you are going to charge $125, you are not going to serve an underserved population.” Mr. Gladwell, who retired as a partner from the big firm of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, also said that despite having asked top local firms to send along cases they considered too small for themselves, none responded.

There are other obstacles. Teaching hospitals have a federal tax dispensation. For nonprofit law firms to qualify for an exemption, legislation is probably required. That seems unlikely at the moment. Arizona State is attaching its firm to its nonprofit alumni association to get around the problem for now.

Still, postgraduate training programs appear to be the way of the future for many of the nation’s 200 law schools. The law dean of Rutgers University just announced plans for a nonprofit law firm for some of his graduates.

“I would love to blink and wake up in 10 years and see where all this ends,” said Ms. Friedman of Pace Law School. “We know about 10 to 15 programs opening in the coming years. That means there are 30 more behind them. Every faculty is talking about this.”
199 2013-03-08 1. Bring 2 cups water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Add the bulgur and salt to taste, reduce the heat, cover and simmer 15 to 20 minutes, until the water is absorbed. Remove from the heat, uncover and place a clean dish towel over the pan, then replace the lid. Allow to sit undisturbed for 10 minutes or longer. Alternatively, reconstitute the bulgur just by placing it in a bowl, mixing with salt to taste, and pouring on 1 1/2 cups boiling water or stock. Cover and let sit for 30 minutes, until the bulgur is tender and the liquid has been absorbed. Transfer to a strainer and press out excess water. Set aside.

2. To make the dukkah, chop the nuts very fine. Mix with the toasted sesame seeds in a bowl. In a dry skillet lightly toast the coriander seeds just until fragrant and immediately transfer to a spice mill and allow to cool completely. In the same skillet toast the cumin seeds just until fragrant and transfer to the spice mill. Allow to cool. When the spices have cooled, grind and add to the nuts and sesame seeds. Add the nigella seeds, sumac and salt and mix together.

3. In a large, heavy skillet heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat and add the red onion and a pinch of salt. Cook, stirring often, until the onion is very tender and lightly colored, about 8 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.

4. Add the mushrooms to the skillet and turn up the heat to medium high. Cook, stirring or tossing in the pan, until the mushrooms begin to sweat, about 3 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and continue to cook, stirring, until just tender and moist, another couple of minutes. Add the remaining olive oil and the garlic, stir together for about 30 seconds, until fragrant, and stir in the wine. Cook, stirring and scraping the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon, until the liquid in the pan has evaporated, and add the spinach and salt to taste. Cook, tossing the spinach in the pan with tongs, until the spinach has wilted, which shouldn’t take much longer than a couple of minutes. Add the dill and stir everything together.

5. Combine the bulgur and chickpeas and heat through, either on top of the stove or in the microwave. Spoon into wide bowls and top with the mushrooms and spinach. Arrange the red onions on top and if desired add a drizzle of olive oil. Sprinkle each serving with about 2 to 3 teaspoons dukkah and serve.

Advance preparation: The bulgur can be cooked ahead; it keeps for about 3 days in the refrigerator. The dukkah keeps for several weeks in a cool dry place. I recommend the freezer.

Nutritional information per serving: 372 calories; 14 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 52 grams carbohydrates; 16 grams dietary fiber; 274 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 19 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
200 2013-03-08 As a battle builds over the $24.4 billion buyout of the computer maker  Dell Inc. , an important date is drawing near.&#xa;   &#xa;That date is March 22, when Dell&#x2019;s directors can begin pushing back against growing shareholder opposition to...
201 2013-03-08 After more than two years of long train rides and selling off more than $120 billion in assets, the chief investment officer of the Treasury Department&#x2019;s bailout program is stepping down.&#xa;   &#xa;The official, Matt Pendo, will serve his...
202 2013-03-09 The team’s highest-paid player has yet to appear in a spring training game this year....
203 2013-03-09 Perhaps the most prominent self-described progressive with doubts about the current version of affirmative action is Richard D. Kahlenberg. He argues that the current race-focused version of affirmative action can be unfair, is inconsistent with m...
204 2013-03-09 “The Incredible Burt Wonderstone” opened the South by Southwest film festival in Austin, Tex....
205 2013-03-09 Maria Sharapova began her pursuit of a second BNP Paribas Open title with an easy victory, and Svetlana Kuznetsova came back from a first-set whitewashing to win as the second round began and the seeded players joined the action in Indian Wells, Calif. Sharapova was 6 for 6 on break points against Francesca Schiavone and wrapped up a 6-2, 6-1 victory when Schiavone double-faulted. Kuznetsova registered a 0-6, 6-2, 7-5 win over Jelena Jankovic.
206 2013-03-09 Security forces fired on stone-throwing Sunni demonstrators in the northern city of Mosul on Friday, killing one and wounding five, according to Iraqi officials. The demonstrators were demanding the release of Sheikh Hussain al-Jubori, a local leader of antigovernment protests that have been going on in Iraq for two months. He was arrested early in the day on suspicion of links to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown terrorist group. After the shootings, members of the mainly Sunni Iraqiya bloc held a news conference to denounce the government as “reckless,” and the minister of agriculture, Izzeddin al-Dolah, resigned, the second high-profile Sunni to do so this month.
207 2013-03-09 Speaking at the end of a two-day visit to Mali on Friday, the French defense minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, said that French forces had discovered tons of weapons stockpiled by fighters linked to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, many of them foreign, and that they had planned to use the country’s north as a base for international attacks. Since mid-January, when France launched a ground and air operation in Mali, France and allied Chadian forces have taken back most of the vast territory that the militants had seized nearly a year ago. But those forces have met heavy resistance from militants holed up in mountains near Algeria. Mr. Le Drian told Europe 1 radio that one cache uncovered in the Ametetai valley included heavy arms, material for improvised explosive devices and suicide bomb belts.
208 2013-03-09 In a fundamental geopolitical turn, Venezuela now relies far more on the United States than the United States relies on Venezuela.

Venezuela depends on the United States to buy 40 percent of its exports because Gulf of Mexico refineries were designed to process low-quality Venezuelan and Mexican crudes that most refineries around the world cannot easily handle. But in recent years, the United States has been replacing its imports of Latin American crudes with oil from Canadian oil sands fields, which is similarly heavy.

American imports of Venezuelan oil have declined to just under a million barrels a day, from 1.7 million barrels a day in 1997, according to the Energy Department. And while Venezuelan exports of oil are in decline, its dependency on American refineries for refined petroleum products has grown to nearly 200,000 barrels a day because of several recent Venezuelan refinery accidents.

Experts expect Venezuela to send barrels no longer needed in the United States to China, as payments in kind under oil-for-loans contracts. Venezuela’s broken refinery sector has left shortages of gasoline and diesel in parts of Latin America, opening the door for valuable markets to American refiners.

Over his 14 years in power, Mr. Chávez relied heavily on oil revenues to finance his social programs. Energy experts say his gasoline subsidies doubled domestic consumption, cutting deeply into exports, but that his hostility to foreign investment and mismanagement of the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela were the primary reasons for the steep decline in production.

A strike and the firing of management talent and 20,000 workers at the oil company in 2002 led to a steep decline in the company, which has been underscored by the refinery accidents.

“Venezuela is a fraction of what it used to be,” said Sadad Ibrahim al-Husseini, a former head of Saudi Aramco’s exploration and production division, “and that’s really because Venezuela’s technocrats have scattered over the world and are no longer active in Venezuela.”

Mr. Chávez further overhauled oil exploration and production with a nationalization program in 2006 that ordered a renegotiation of contracts with foreign companies, mandating that Venezuela’s oil company get a minimum 60 percent share in all production projects. Sixteen foreign companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron, went along with the new rules, while Exxon Mobil, Conoco Philips and other companies resisted, and their holdings were nationalized.

Venezuela has huge reserves, including its Orinoco heavy oil belt, which the United States Geological Survey estimates to have 513 billion barrels of recoverable oil — enough potentially to make Venezuela one of the top three world producers. But foreign oil companies have been wary of investing.

Jose Valera, a Houston energy lawyer, said that if Nicolás Maduro, Mr. Chávez’s vice president until he was sworn in as president on Friday, or another member of the Mr. Chávez’s movement was elected president in a special election “it is reasonable to expect continuity of a substantial portion of the policies.” But as for Venezuela’s economy, he argued, “the situation right now is not sustainable and it’s only a matter of time before some significant changes will have to be instituted.”
209 2013-03-09 He said that even after the jets start flying again, Boeing and the airlines would have to monitor the activity inside the batteries for tens of thousands of flight hours before experts would feel sure enough that the fixes would prevent a fire or that the jet’s range could be safely expanded.

Federal Aviation Administration officials said it was premature to speculate about what they might decide about the plane’s range. Boeing said Friday that it had not changed its goal to win approval for the longer flights.

The 787 fleet was grounded in January after the battery in one jet ignited in Boston and another battery began smoldering on a flight in Japan.

Boeing and other companies that rely on the volatile lithium-ion batteries, including hybrid carmakers, worry about public perceptions of the batteries and want to get the planes back up in the air as soon as possible. The F.A.A. is expected to approve a plan next week to start testing the possible fixes.

Mr. Weber said that several studies had suggested that jetliners have an average of 18 to 20 minutes to land if a fire erupts without special containment in a cargo or equipment bay. And it could take 20 minutes more to get all the passengers and crew members off the plane, he said.

As a result, George W. Hamlin, an aviation consultant, said he believed that to justify even its current ability to fly up to three hours from the nearest airport, Boeing would have to demonstrate that its new battery case could contain a fire for at least 180 minutes. Otherwise, he said, the plane’s appeal could diminish.

Having a fire in a plane is a situation all pilots dread. (They are trained to find the nearest landing spot.) But containing a potential fire could be an acceptable answer for the F.A.A., Mr. Weber and Mr. Hamlin said.

The agency already has many requirements to offset other safety concerns on planes. For instance, Mr. Weber said, the F.A.A. accepts the risk of one engine failing in flight by requiring that all twin-engine jets can fly on the remaining one.

And while the current rule that 787s must stay within three hours of airports is sufficient for most North American, trans-Atlantic and even many flights across the Pacific Ocean, several Middle Eastern, Australian and Asian airlines are counting on the extension to gain more flexibility in their routes and maximize the fuel savings from the plane.

“The part of the raison d’être in the design of the 787 is being able to connect virtually anywhere,” Mr. Hamlin said.

The extended flying standard, known as ETOPS, originally stood for extended twin-engine operations and established a higher level of maintenance and operational reliability for twin-engine planes flying over the Atlantic Ocean.

Today, the standard applies to all types of planes regardless of the number of engines. Boeing’s 777s are the only twin-engine planes approved to fly to the five-and-a-half-hour standard, and Boeing’s rival, Airbus, plans to seek approval for 5 hours and 50 minutes for its A350XWB, which will compete with both the 777s and the 787s.

The extended-range certification also requires a significant investment from airlines, which must demonstrate impeccable maintenance and operating reliability.

“It’s the platinum standard for airlines,” said Robert W. Mann, an aviation consultant.

Boeing originally sought to make the 787s the first jets to be certified to the five-and-a-half-hour standard right from their creation. But software problems with the plane’s low-fuel gauge during the early testing phase delayed those plans. Once the plane entered service, a series of episodes with the 787’s sophisticated electrical systems, in addition to the battery cases, added to the F.A.A.’s doubts over the 787’s basic reliability, analysts said.

“The issue here is that we have intermittent problems with the electrical systems that are happening at an unnerving frequency,” Mr. Mann said. “And all this suggests to me huge reliability issues. And that is certainly not something you want when you’re five hours from the nearest airport over the North Pole or the South Pacific somewhere.”

Qantas, Singapore Airlines, Japan Airlines and Qatar Airways are among the carriers interested in the longer distances.

“Resistance on ETOPS would be fatal for the 787 for long-haul flights over water, which is where it shines and makes money for operators,” said Mr. Weber. “The more restriction the F.A.A. puts on the airplane, the less useful it will be.”

Boeing has estimated that the 787 cuts fuel costs by 20 percent compared with other planes, and that cost advantage increases the farther it flies. Now, many of the longer-range routes are flown by planes, like the Boeing 747, that have more than two engines.

Adding to the uncertainty is that the National Transportation Safety Board announced Thursday that it would host a public forum in mid-April to explore the safety of lithium-ion batteries in planes and possibly hybrid cars. It also plans a hearing in late April on the failures in the earlier certification of the 787 batteries.

The hearings could create complications for Boeing if they occur before the F.A.A. approves a resumption of flights or any findings add to the questions about extending the plane’s range.

“We find ourselves in a place that is new and challenging for the aviation community — simultaneous international investigations, a fleet grounding and the battery redesign and certification process taking place concurrently,” Deborah A. P. Hersman, the chairwoman of the safety board, said in an interview on Friday.

But, she said, the intensity also “provides a lot of opportunity to figure out what happened here and how to make things safer.”
210 2013-03-09 The Week in Pictures From Business for March 8
211 2013-03-09 How much insurance you need is a personal calculation, but even a stay-at-home parent should have some. Parents also need to ask themselves a variety of questions, including how much income they will need to replace. Buy the insurance outside of your employer so you can take it with you wherever you may go, the experts said.

DISABILITY INSURANCE This insurance, which pays a portion of your salary for a period of time if you become disabled, doesn’t tend to rank high on the priority list, but financial planners suggest considering it. Group policies offered through your employer typically pay about 60 percent of your current paycheck, some advisers said. “First look at what is available through your employer,” said Clarissa R. Hobson, a financial planner in Colorado Springs, Colo., who acknowledged that the coverage wasn’t cheap. “Some coverage is better than none.”

CHOOSE A HEALTH PLAN Ideally, you want to think about this before you’re expecting so you can choose the plan with the best maternity coverage. And be sure to inquire whether there are any out-of-pocket costs to avoid surprises later. You generally have about 30 days to add the baby to the plan after the birth — precisely the time you’ll be the most sleep-deprived. So think about how to best optimize family coverage ahead of time. How much more will it cost to cover a new child? Is it more cost-effective to put the baby on the mother’s or father’s plan?

SUSPEND FLEXIBLE SPENDING New mothers going on leave may need to turn off contributions to flexible spending accounts if there is no longer a paycheck to deduct from. The same goes for commuter cards. Speak with your human resources department about spending deadlines, particularly on flexible spending. My human resources department told me that claims must be made while the account is active. Once you’re back at work, you can flip the active switch back on, even outside the open enrollment period, because it’s considered a status change.

EMERGENCY SAVINGS, THEN 529S You should have an emergency cash cushion in place (about six months of living expenses) before even thinking about a 529 college savings plan, several planners said. Still,  you really can’t open one of these state-sponsored accounts soon enough. Its mere existence means you’ll be more likely to deposit found money like cash baby gifts or income tax refunds.

Here’s a quick 529 primer: as long as you use the money for higher education, you don’t have to pay tax on capital gains. Thirty-three states plus the District of Columbia offer income tax deductions on the 529 plan (as long as your plan is sponsored by the state or territory where you file a tax return), and withdrawals are tax-free. It’s best to open the account with the parent as the account owner and the child as a beneficiary, as soon as you get your baby’s Social Security number.

TAX DECISIONS Even babies born on the last day of the year provide their parents with a nice tax bonus: in 2013, a child will reduce your taxable income by $3,900.

But while that exemption is available to all taxpayers, you may need to choose one of two tax breaks if you plan on working and paying for child care. If your employer offers a flexible spending account for dependent care, you can set aside up to $5,000 to pay for day care or a nanny; it’s excluded from your income. The child care credit is a credit (meaning if you owe taxes, you will be credited dollar for dollar) for up to 35 percent of child care expenses up to $3,000 for one child, or $6,000 for two children. (The percentage drops to 20 percent from 35 percent as adjusted gross income rises to $43,000 from $15,000). “If you have both available, the flexible spending account tends to be better, especially for higher incomes,” said Mark Luscombe, principal analyst at CCH, a tax and accounting information service.

In fact, to avoid withholding too much income from your paycheck for taxes, you and your spouse should think about revising your W-4 form with your employer.

THINK ABOUT GUARDIANS Picking a guardian to care for your child should something happen to you or your partner is the last thing you want to think about when welcoming a new baby, and that’s why many parents procrastinate in writing a will. “I have had clients come to me to have a will prepared after their child turns 18 because they could not decide on a guardian,” said Nancy Bender-Kelner, an estate planning lawyer in Minnetonka, Minn., and a mother of four.

One option is to create a temporary arrangement. “You might choose your parents now and then change it as your parents age,” said Ms. Hobson, the Colorado financial planner, who is also a new mother.

And remember that there’s no rule that says the guardian must be the same person who oversees the child’s financial affairs. In fact, some parents prefer to name a couple of people with different strengths, which can serve as a system of checks and balances —  the loving uncle may serve as guardian, while the finance-savvy aunt handles the money. Once you decide, be sure to speak with these people about their role.

THE ESTATE PLAN Depending on whom you ask, you need to create either a will or a revocable trust to serve as the main document to execute both your and your spouse’s wishes in the event of your untimely deaths. Some experts suggest the path of least resistance. Just write a basic will, which should contain what’s known as a testamentary trust, or a trust created for the benefit of the child and that usually goes into effect only if both parents die, said Ms. Bender-Kelner. (But if you have family assets you want to pass directly to the child, instead of a partner or spouse, the trust could be used in that situation, too). Having some sort of trust in place is important; if you don’t, and a minor child is named a contingent beneficiary on a retirement account, for instance, the financial institution will not pay the funds directly to the child, but instead will ask the courts to establish a conservatorship to oversee the child’s finances. (It also means the child would be able to receive all inherited money at age 18, which may not be desired.) That can be a long, burdensome process and is best avoided, experts said.

Creating a will is certainly the simpler and less expensive route. But some lawyers still call a revocable trust the gold standard. One of its main advantages is avoiding probate, or the court-supervised process to settle a deceased person’s estate. But it also streamlines everything: all of your assets are put into the trust during your life. They remain in your control and can be changed at any time. After you die, a trustee that you name distributes the assets according to your instructions, all while avoiding probate.

“You shouldn’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good,” said Robert B. Fleming, an estate planning and elder law lawyer in Tucson. “Better to create a will with a testamentary trust than not to have done anything.”

BENEFICIARIES Once you’ve drafted your estate plan, you need to make sure that all of your beneficiary designations — on your retirement, life insurance and other accounts — coordinate with what is laid out in the will.

REMEMBER DATE NIGHT When the baby arrives, changing just about everything, it can be difficult to remember what it was like when it was just the two of you. So do what you can to stay connected and keep your partnership strong, particularly at what is the happiest and most stressful time of your lives. “Make at least a monthly date night a nonnegotiable part of your spending plan,” said Kristin Harad, a financial planner in San Francisco whose firm, VitaVie Financial, focuses on new parents.
212 2013-03-09 LONDON &#x2014; One thing, at least, is certain in both the fascinating new versions of Harold Pinter&#x2019;s &#x201C;Old Times&#x201D; that are keeping audiences in a rapt state of perplexity here: The man loses.&#xa;   &#xa;Admittedly, he loses...
213 2013-03-09 Daylight saving time resumes at 2 a.m. on Sunday....
214 2013-03-10 Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, officially began her campaign to become mayor of New York. Even before Sunday’s formal announcement, she was the perceived Democratic front-runner.
215 2013-03-10 Comic books went digital long ago, but Marvel Comics upped the ante significantly by unveiling a superhero-size slate of mobile and online initiatives....
216 2013-03-10 The Disney movie sold $80.3 million worth of tickets at North American theaters over the weekend....
217 2013-03-10 The Knicks were 21-9 without Stoudemire to begin the season, and they beat the Jazz, 113-84, without him on Saturday at Madison Square Garden. The Knicks were also without Carmelo Anthony; he has missed three straight games with an unspecified right knee injury.

Woodson said Anthony remained day to day and that he would be re-evaluated Sunday before the team leaves on a five-game trip. In his absence, J. R. Smith continued his torrid scoring stretch, finishing with 24 points in 28 minutes. Raymond Felton added 15 points and Steve Novak went 5 for 10 from 3-point range.

The Knicks (38-22) fell behind, 11-4, but used a 15-0 run in the first quarter to build a lead and then finished the half on a 22-9 run. They held the Jazz to 38.5 percent shooting and won for the sixth time in eight games.

If there was any hangover from the Stoudemire news, the team did not show it. Novak said the players were notified of Stoudemire’s injury shortly after they arrived at the Garden.

“We were taken aback,” Jason Kidd said. Stoudemire had scored 16 points in 30 minutes against Oklahoma City on Thursday, showing no apparent signs of physical struggle.

But he missed the Knicks’ morning shootaround Saturday with what Woodson described as knee soreness. It was revealed later that he had had an M.R.I., and the results were not comforting.

A debridement is a procedure to remove damaged cartilage or tissue in the knee. Stoudemire had a similar operation on his left knee in October, in part because of a ruptured cyst in the area.

He has had two other knee operations: in 2005, he had microfracture surgery on his left knee, and in 2006, he had an arthroscopic procedure on his right. Stoudemire, who has three years remaining on a contract worth $100 million, has not played a full N.B.A. season since 2009-10.

The Knicks had been cautious about easing him back into the rotation in January, bringing him off the bench and restricting him to 30 minutes a game. Feeling better, Stoudemire had pushed that limit twice in the last week, playing 32 and 31 minutes against Cleveland and Detroit.

What affect that might have had on his knee is uncertain. Stoudemire had clearly been playing well enough to warrant the additional time.

He averaged 15.1 points and 5.6 rebounds in 24.5 minutes in his previous 10 games. In 29 games, Stoudemire had led the Knicks in scoring once, in rebounding twice, and had scored at least 20 points six times.

“Amar’e’s been playing great,” center Tyson Chandler said. “He’s been one of the best pick-and-roll players since he came into the game. Not having him is obviously a big blow.”

Losing Stoudemire reinforced the fragility of the Knicks, who have the oldest roster in the N.B.A. and a litany of injuries. Stoudemire, 30, joins Rasheed Wallace, 38, on the team’s injured list, and Anthony, Felton and Kidd, who will turn 40 later this month, have each missed considerable time.

Without Stoudemire, the Knicks will be forced to rely more on 35-year-old Kenyon Martin, whom they recently signed, and a collection of other role players, like Kurt Thomas, James White and Novak. Smith will be expected to pick up his role as the team’s second-leading scorer.

“It’s unfortunate to try to benefit from someone’s injury, but I know that injuries are a part of the game,” Martin said. “You try to take advantage of it.”

As the season wends into its final stretch, though, the loss of Stoudemire puts the Knicks’ pursuit of the Atlantic Division title in jeopardy. Stoudemire provided the Knicks with an instant offensive punch in the low post. Knowing his minutes limit, he was at times electrifying, like a closer in baseball who threw only his best pitches.

He will have at least six weeks to rest even more. The Knicks hope they will still be playing when he returns.

“Amar’e is a big piece of this thing, when you’re talking about getting deep into the playoffs,” Woodson said. “Amar’e had come back and really established himself to help us from an offensive standpoint on that low block.”

He added: “When you start playing playoff basketball, you need some low-post play, you need to mix it up a little bit. So we’re going to miss that.”
218 2013-03-10 David Ferrer, the world’s fourth-ranked player, became the first high seed to tumble out of the men’s event at the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., losing, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3, to the big-serving Kevin Anderson in the second round. Roger Federer advanced with a 6-2, 6-3 win over Denis Istomin, and No. 15 John Isner was defeated, 6-7 (6), 6-3, 6-4, by Lleyton Hewitt. Rafael Nadal, who is seeded fifth, moved into the third round with a 7-6 (3), 6-2 victory over Ryan Harrison.

In the women’s draw, the defending champion, Victoria Azarenka, overcame a 4-1 deficit in the first set to beat the two-time champion Daniela Hantuchova, 6-4, 6-1.
219 2013-03-10 In 2005, Stoudemire had microfracture surgery on his left knee. In 2006, he had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee. He has not played a full N.B.A. season since 2009-10 with the Phoenix Suns.

The team said the operation would take place this week. Given that it took Stoudemire about eight weeks to return from the first debridement procedure this season, Woodson sounded unsure about whether the six-week timetable was realistic.

The Knicks play their final game of the regular season on April 17, five and a half weeks from Saturday.

“He’s going to put in a hard six weeks to get on the floor and help us,” Woodson said. “We’ve just got to patiently wait and hope that everything goes according to plan with his rehab.”

Knicks forward Steve Novak said the players were informed of Stoudemire’s injury soon after they arrived at Madison Square Garden. “It’s not what we expected to hear,” Novak said. “He was out there getting buckets, dunking on guys a day ago. And now he’s hurt. I feel bad for him.”

Stoudemire scored 16 points in 30 minutes against Oklahoma City on Thursday. He was intended to be on a 30-minute-per-game limit to ease his recovery after the earlier operation, and for the first 27 games, he and the team stuck with that restriction. Against Cleveland and Detroit last week, however, he played 32 and 31 minutes.

Stoudemire had yet to start a game this season for the Knicks but came off the bench as an instant offensive punch in the low post. He was shooting 57.7 percent from the field.

“It strains our bench a little bit,” forward James White said. “Coming off the bench, being able to score like he has, he’s been playing well on both ends. It’s real tough.”

The Knicks were also without Carmelo Anthony on Saturday. He remains day to day with knee troubles of his own.
220 2013-03-10 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — The future is unclear for a heart device aimed at preventing strokes in people at high risk of them because of an irregular heartbeat.

Early results from a key study of the device, Boston Scientific’s Watchman, suggested it is safer than previous testing found, but may not be better than a drug that is used to prevent strokes, heart-related deaths and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation in the long term.

Atrial fibrillation, a common heart arrhythmia that affects millions of Americans, causes blood to pool in a small pouch. Clots can form and travel to the brain, causing a stroke.

The usual treatment is blood thinners like warfarin, sold as Coumadin and other brands. But they have their own problems and some are very expensive. The Watchman is intended to be a permanent solution that would not require people to take medication for the rest of their lives. It is a tiny expandable umbrella that plugs the pouch of blood, and is inserted without surgery, via a tube pushed into a vein.

A study four years ago indicated the device was at least as good at preventing strokes as warfarin, but the procedure to implant it led to strokes in some patients. The Food and Drug Administration required another test of its safety and effectiveness.

The new study was led by Dr. David Holmes Jr. of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He and the clinic have a financial stake in the device.

The study involved 407 patients — 269 assigned to get the device and 138 to get warfarin. It had three main goals, and it clearly met the first on safety — strokes, heart-related deaths, blood clots and serious complications a week after implant or release from the hospital.
221 2013-03-10 KADUNA, Nigeria (AP) — A breakaway Islamic extremist group said Saturday that it had killed seven foreigners who its members had kidnapped from northern Nigeria, according to an online message purportedly from the group.

The message, identified as coming from the group, Ansaru, could not be immediately verified, though it included photographs that it claimed showed the dead, who were kidnapped from a construction company compound in February. The kidnappers seized three Lebanese citizens and four others from Britain, Greece, Italy and the Philippines. All seven were employees of Setraco, a Lebanese construction company with an operation in Bauchi State, local officials said at the time.

British officials declined to comment on Saturday. Two Nigerian military spokesmen also declined to comment and a presidential spokesman and a spokeswoman for the country’s domestic spy service could not be immediately reached.

The message, posted to an Islamic extremist Web site on Saturday, said Ansaru members killed the hostages after British warplanes were reported to have been seen in the northern Nigeria city of Bauchi by local journalists.

“As a result of this operation, the seven hostages were killed,” the group said in the statement. It said a video of the killings would be posted online. An online image accompanying the posting appeared to show a gunmen standing over dead bodies.
222 2013-03-10 “Perfect skin,” she whispered. “Elegant face.” When the woman walked into H & M, Ms. Yang intercepted her in the sweater aisle. “I’m so sorry to bother you,” she said with a honeyed smile. “I’m a love hunter. Are you looking for love?”

Three miles away, in a Beijing park near the Temple of Heaven, a woman named Yu Jia jostled for space under a grove of elms. A widowed 67-year-old pensioner, she was clearing a spot on the ground for a sign she had scrawled for her son. “Seeking Marriage,” read the wrinkled sheet of paper, which Ms. Yu held in place with a few fragments of brick and stone. “Male. Single. Born 1972. Height 172 cm. High school education. Job in Beijing.”

Ms. Yu is another kind of love hunter: a parent seeking a spouse for an adult child in the so-called marriage markets that have popped up in parks across the city. Long rows of graying men and women sat in front of signs listing their children’s qualifications. Hundreds of others trudged by, stopping occasionally to make an inquiry.

Ms. Yu’s crude sign had no flourishes: no photograph, no blood type, no zodiac sign, no line about income or assets. Unlike the millionaire’s wish list, the sign didn’t even specify what sort of wife her son wanted. “We don’t have much choice,” she explained. “At this point, we can’t rule anybody out.”

In the four years she has been seeking a wife for her son, Zhao Yong, there have been only a handful of prospects. Even so, when a woman in a green plastic visor paused to scan her sign that day, Ms. Yu put on a bright smile and told of her son’s fine character and good looks. The woman asked: “Does he own an apartment in Beijing?” Ms. Yu’s smile wilted, and the woman moved on.

Three decades of combustive economic growth have reshaped the landscape of marriage in China. A generation ago, China was one of the world’s most equal nations, in both gender and wealth. Most people were poor, and tight controls over housing, employment, travel and family life simplified the search for a suitable match — what the Chinese call mendang hudui, meaning roughly “family doors of equal size.”

Like many Chinese who came of age in the 1960s and ’70s, Ms. Yu married a man from her factory work unit, with their local Communist Party boss as informal matchmaker. As recently as 1990, researchers found that a vast majority of residents in two of China’s largest cities dated just one person before marriage: their prospective spouse.

China’s transition to a market economy has swept away many restrictions in people’s lives. But of all the new freedoms the Chinese enjoy today — making money, owning a house, choosing a career — there is one that has become an unexpected burden: seeking a spouse. This may be a time of sexual and romantic liberation in China, but the solemn task of finding a husband or wife is proving to be a vexing proposition for rich and poor alike.

“The old family and social networks that people used to rely on for finding a husband or wife have fallen apart,” said James Farrer, an American sociologist whose book, “Opening Up,” looks at sex, dating and marriage in contemporary China. “There’s a huge sense of dislocation in China, and young people don’t know where to turn.”

The confusion surrounding marriage in China reflects a country in frenzied transition. Sharp inequalities of wealth have created new fault lines in society, while the largest rural-to-urban migration in history has blurred many of the old ones. As many as 300 million rural Chinese have moved to cities in the last three decades. Uprooted and without nearby relatives to help arrange meetings with potential partners, these migrants are often lost in the swell of the big city.

Demographic changes, too, are creating complications. Not only are many more Chinese women postponing marriage to pursue careers, but China’s gender gap — 118 boys are born for every 100 girls — has become one of the world’s widest, fueled in large part by the government’s restrictive one-child policy. By the end of this decade, Chinese researchers estimate, the country will have a surplus of 24 million unmarried men.

Without traditional family or social networks, many men and women have taken their searches online, where thousands of dating and marriage Web sites have sprung up in an industry that analysts predict will soon surpass $300 million annually. These sites cater mainly to China’s millions of white-collar workers. But intense competition, along with mistrust of potential mates’ online claims, has spurred a growing number of singles — rich and poor — to turn to more hands-on matchmaking services.

China’s matchmaking tradition stretches back more than 2,000 years, to the first imperial marriage broker in the late Zhou dynasty. The goal of matchmakers ever since has usually been to pair families of equal stature for the greater social good. Today, however, matchmaking has warped into a commercial free-for-all in which marriage is often viewed as an opportunity to leap up the social ladder or to proclaim one’s arrival at the top.

Single men have a hard time making the list if they don’t own a house or an apartment, which in cities like Beijing are extremely expensive. And despite the gender imbalance, Chinese women face intense pressure to be married before the age of 28, lest they be rejected and stigmatized as “leftover women.”

Dozens of high-end matchmaking services have sprung up in China in the last five years, charging big fees to find and to vet prospective spouses for wealthy clients. Their methods can turn into gaudy spectacle. One firm transported 200 would-be trophy wives to a resort town in southwestern China for the perusal of one powerful magnate. Another organized a caravan of BMWs for rich businessmen to find young wives in Sichuan Province. Diamond Love, among the largest love-hunting services, sponsored a matchmaking event in 2009 where 21 men each paid a $15,000 entrance fee.

Over the last year, I tracked the progress of two matchmaking efforts at the opposite extremes of wealth. Together, they help illuminate the forces reshaping marriage in China.

In one case, Ms. Yu’s migrant son reluctantly agreed to allow his aging mother to make the search for his future wife her all-consuming mission. In the other, Ms. Yang’s richest client at Diamond Love deployed dozens of love hunters to find the most exquisite fair-skinned beauty in the land, even as he fretted about being conned by a bai jin nu, or gold digger.

Between the two extremes is Ms. Yang herself, whose very success as a love hunter has made her the breadwinner in her own family. Despite her growing discomfort with the sexism that permeates the love-hunting business, she has sympathy for her superrich clients.

“These men are lost souls,” she said. “They worked hard, made a lot of money, and left their old world behind. Now they don’t have time to find a wife, and they don’t know whom to trust. So they come to us.”

When I first visited the Beijing office of Diamond Love last year, Ms. Yang was fretting over a love-hunting campaign for a potential client: a divorced 42-year-old property mogul who was prepared to spend the equivalent of more than a half-million dollars.

This wouldn’t be the biggest case in company history; two years ago, a man paid $1.5 million for a successful 12-city hunt. But the pressure felt more intense this time. It wasn’t just that Ms. Yang would vie with hundreds of other love hunters for a possible winner’s bonus of $32,000. Her boss had entrusted her with a central role in this campaign — the firm’s biggest of the year — with a client who was known to be an imperious perfectionist. Failure was a real possibility.

Ms. Yang started part-time work as a love hunter while a university student eight years ago. After a brief stint as a hospital nurse, she joined Diamond Love full time and is now its most seasoned Beijing scout. Despite a recent promotion to a consulting job, in which she deals directly with clients and their delicate egos, she is often tapped to lead the highest-stakes campaigns.

Her hit rate is astonishing. In three large-scale campaigns over the last three years, the firm’s top clients ended up choosing candidates whom Ms. Yang personally discovered. Her success has earned her huge bonuses — in one case, $27,000 — and a reputation as one of China’s most accomplished love hunters.

Still, she told me that this new case was “nearly impossible.”

Mr. Big, as I’ll call him — he insisted that Diamond Love not reveal his name — is a member of China’s fuyidai, the “first-generation rich” who have leapt from poverty to extreme wealth in a single bound, often jettisoning their first wives in the process. Diamond Love’s clientele also includes many fuerdai, or “second-generation-rich,” men and women in their 20s and 30s whose search is often bankrolled by wealthy parents keen on exerting control over their marital choices as well as the family inheritance.

But fuyidai like Mr. Big are accustomed to being the boss and can be the most uncompromising clients.

Mr. Big had an excruciatingly specific requirement for his second wife. The ideal woman, he said, would look like a younger replica of Zhou Tao, a famous Chinese television host: slim with pure white skin, slightly pointed chin, perfect teeth, double eyelids and long silken hair. To ensure her good character and fortune, he insisted that her wuguan — a feng shui-like reading of the sense organs on the face — show perfect harmony.

“When clients start out, all they want is beauty — how tall, how white, how thin,” Ms. Yang said. “Sometimes the person they’re looking for doesn’t exist in nature. Even if we find her, these clients often have no idea whether that would make their hearts feel settled. It’s our job to try to move them from fantasy toward reality.”

Fantasy, of course, is precisely what Diamond Love sells. Ms. Yang’s boss, Fei Yang, is a smoky-voiced woman in a black leather jacket who used to trade in electronic goods. Inviting me to sit on a bright pink couch in her lushly carpeted office, she explained how the firm has “spread the culture of the relationship” since 2005, when it opened in Shanghai. It now has six branches, with 200 consultants, 200 full-time love hunters and hundreds more part-time scouts, virtually all of them women.

Teacher Fei, as her employees call her, runs a series of “how to be a better wife” workshops that coach women on the finer points of managing a wealthy household, reading their husbands’ moods and “understanding the importance of sexual relations.” The fee for two, 14-day courses is $16,000.

But Diamond Love’s chief target is men, the wealthier the better. The company’s four million members are mostly men who pay from a few dollars a month for basic searches to more than $15,000 for access to exclusive databases with customized assistance from a professional love consultant.

The company’s wealthiest, highest-paying clients — 90 percent of whom are men — show little interest in lectures or databases. They want exclusive access to what Ms. Fei coolly refers to as “fresh resources”: young women who haven’t yet been exposed to other suitors online. It’s the love hunters’ job to find them.

Besides giving clients a vastly expanded pool of marriage prospects, these campaigns offer a sense of security. Rigorous background checks screen out what Ms. Fei calls “gold diggers, liars and people of loose morals.” Depending on a campaign’s size, Diamond Love charges from $50,000 to more than $1 million. Ms. Fei makes no apologies for the high fees.

“Why shouldn’t they pay more to find the perfect wife?” she asked me. “This is the most important investment in their lives.”

Even before Mr. Big signed a contract, Ms. Yang sensed trouble brewing. She and a colleague culled the company’s exclusive databases to find women to serve as templates for the love hunters’ search. Together with Mr. Big, they looked at the files and pictures of their top 3,000 women. He rejected them all.

“Even if the girl’s eyebrow was just a half-millimeter too high, he would toss the photo out and say, ‘No good!’ ” Ms. Yang said. “He always found something to complain about.”

With more than a half-million dollars on the line, Ms. Yang was beginning to doubt her ability to deliver. And not just for Mr. Big. One afternoon when we met, the normally animated Ms. Yang slumped onto the sofa, exhausted. She had just spent an hour with a rich Chinese businesswoman in her late 30s. The woman proposed spending $100,000 on a campaign to find a husband who matched her status.

“I had to tell her we couldn’t take her case,” Ms. Yang said. “No wealthy Chinese man would ever marry her. They always want somebody younger, with less power.”

We sat in silence a minute before Ms. Yang spoke again. “It’s depressing to think about these ‘leftover women,’ ” she said. “Do you have them in America, too?”

Yu Jia kept her search a secret at first. She didn’t want to risk upsetting her son so soon after a trying time for the family. Ms. Yu and her husband, who was sick with lung cancer, had left the northern city of Harbin in the hope of finding better treatment for his cancer in Beijing, where two of their sons already lived. The husband hung on for a year before he died in 2009 — not long, but long enough to wipe out the last of the family’s $25,000 in savings.

Devastated, Ms. Yu stayed in an apartment on the outskirts of Beijing with her sons — one married; the other, Zhao Yong, still single at 36. But one day, Ms. Yu came upon a crowd swarming under the elm trees near the Temple of Heaven.

Her life suddenly had a new purpose. “I decided that I will not go home until I find a wife for my son,” she told me. “It’s the only thing left unfinished in my life.”

Plunging into a crowd of strangers with her sign made Ms. Yu feel awkward at first. Her elder two sons had found wives in traditional ways, one through a matchmaker, the other through a friend. But Mr. Zhao, her youngest, had not. After losing his job in an electronics factory in Harbin, he followed his hometown sweetheart to Beijing. They were in love and planned to marry. But her family demanded a bride price — a sort of dowry used in rural China — of $15,000. His family could not afford it, and the relationship ended.

Mr. Zhao threw himself into his work as a driver and salesman. His former girlfriend married and had a baby. He told his mother he had little time to think about marriage.

The strangers in the park, uprooted from their traditional family and hometown networks, shared similar stories, and Ms. Yu found comfort there. Many other parents, she realized, were even more frantic; they had only one child because of China’s policy. (Ms. Yu, as a rural mother, was permitted to have multiple offspring.)

The marriage candidates on offer in the parks, she discovered, were often a mismatch of shengnu (“leftover women”) and shengnan (“leftover men”), two groups from opposite ends of the social scale. Shengnan, like her son, are mostly poor rural men left behind as female counterparts marry up in age and social status. The phenomenon is exacerbated by China’s warped demographics, as the bubble of excess men starts to reach marrying age.

Finding a Chinese spouse can be even more challenging for so-called leftover women, even if they often have precisely what the shengnan lack: money, education and social and professional standing. One day in the Temple of Heaven park, I met a 70-year-old pensioner from Anhui Province who was seeking a husband for his eldest daughter, a 36-year-old economics professor in Beijing.

“My daughter is an outstanding girl,” he said, pulling from his satchel an academic book she had published. “She’s been introduced to about 15 men over the past two years, but they all rejected her because her degree is too high.”

The failure compelled him to forbid his youngest daughter from going to graduate school. “No man will want you,” he told her. That daughter is now married in Anhui, with an infant son whom the pensioner, so busy seeking a spouse for her older sister in Beijing, rarely sees.

Ms. Yu’s son, Mr. Zhao, was angry when he found out that she had been searching for a wife for him. He didn’t want to rely on anybody else’s marketing, especially his mother’s. But he has since relented.

“I see how hard she works, so I can’t refuse,” he told me.

Ms. Yu doesn’t tell her son about the parents who scoff when they find out he has no property and no Beijing residency permit. But the handful of young women she’s persuaded to meet him never made it to a second date.

One afternoon last summer, however, there was a glimmer of hope. Ms. Yu traded information with a mother who didn’t dismiss her son out of hand. The woman’s daughter was 35, with a good education, a substantial income and a Beijing residency permit. She was, in some eyes, a leftover woman. Ms. Yu e-mailed Mr. Zhao’s picture to her that evening. The daughter declined to meet at first. A week later, she called back: “Yes, maybe.”

Ms. Yu was thrilled. It was her first solid lead in months.

The second time I dropped by Diamond Love’s offices last year, Yang Jing took me by the arm and whispered: “We’ve had a spy!”

A few days earlier, just as Mr. Big was set to sign the contract and begin paying his $600,000 fee, a woman from a competing agency contacted him. Displaying inside knowledge of his contract with Diamond Love, she offered to carry out an even more comprehensive search. Mr. Big called Diamond Love in a rage that his confidential information had been leaked.

Within hours, according to Ms. Yang, the office’s management team ferreted out and dismissed the office mole — a secretary whom the competitor had recruited as a spy. But it took a full week of apologies and vows of enhanced security to coax Mr. Big to finally sign the contract. The terms stipulated that his file would be destroyed, “Mission Impossible”-style, once he had found a wife.

“We always sign confidentiality agreements,” Ms. Yang said, “but now we’re operating like a secret organization.”

The day Mr. Big signed, Ms. Yang took a flight to Chengdu, capital of Sichuan Province, where she would kick-start the campaign. During her 20-day search there, she had recurring nightmares. “I always feel unsettled during a campaign,” she said, “but this time, the stress was crazy.”

Her team of 10 love hunters scoured university campuses and shopping malls for three weeks, trying to meet a daily quota of 20 high-quality women, or two per person. Ms. Yang offered a bonus, about $16, for every candidate above the quota and set a personal goal of finding 10 “Class A” women a day herself.

Ms. Yang wasn’t just haunted by a fear of letting the ideal candidate — and the bonus — slip out of her grasp. The office leak had also made her worry about security. One more false step and Mr. Big would bolt.

One afternoon in Chengdu, after slurping down a bowl of beef noodles at Master Kong’s Chef’s Table, Ms. Yang noticed a young woman sweeping past her into the restaurant, chatting on a cellphone. Long black hair hid most of the woman’s face, but there was something captivating about her laugh and easy gait.

“She seemed open, warm, happy,” Ms. Yang said. After a moment of indecision, Ms. Yang followed her inside, apologized for the intrusion and switched on her charm. Linking arms with the woman — one of her patented moves — Ms. Yang came away with her phone number, photograph and a few pertinent details: she was 24, a graduate student and a near-ringer for the TV hostess Zhou Tao.

One Friday last fall, I met with Yu Jia and her son Zhao Yong at a McDonald’s in western Beijing. Now 39, Mr. Zhao has a youthful, unlined face. Still, he worries that time is passing him by. To save money and to enhance his marriage prospects, he works two jobs simultaneously — one selling microwaves, the other cosmetics — crisscrossing the city on his electric bike. He earns about $1,000 a month, and sometimes adds $80 more by working weekends as a film extra.

It is a respectable income, but hardly enough to attract a bride in Beijing.  Even in the countryside, where men’s families pay bride prices, inflation is rampant. Ms. Yu’s family paid about $3,500 when Mr. Zhao’s older brother married 10 years ago in rural Heilongjiang. Today, she said, brides’ families ask for $30,000, even $50,000. An apartment, the urban equivalent of the bride price, is even further out of reach. At Mr. Zhao’s current income, it would take a decade or two before he could  afford a small Beijing apartment, which he said would start at about $100,000. “I’ll be an old man by then,” he said with a rueful smile.

Mr. Zhao has met several women on online dating sites, but he lost faith in the Internet when several women lied to him about their marital status and family backgrounds. His mother, however, had come through, arranging a meeting between him and the daughter of the woman she had met in the marriage market.

Not long after our conversation in McDonald’s, Mr. Zhao met the woman at a coffee shop. It was, he told me later, even more awkward than most first dates. A rural migrant and door-to-door salesman, he struggled to find a shared topic of interest with the woman, a 35-year-old entrepreneur and Beijing native who had arrived driving a BMW sedan.

The lack of chemistry didn’t seem to bother the woman, who told him about her profitable photo business and the three Beijing apartments she owned. Mr. Zhao didn’t find her unattractive, but how was he supposed to respond? Then, even before broaching the possibility of a second date, he said, the woman made a proposition: if they married, he wouldn’t have to work again.

“She said she made enough money for the two of us,” he said. “I could have anything I want.”

The marriage proposal stunned him. He had never heard a woman talk in such blunt, pragmatic terms. A life of wealth and leisure sounded tempting. Still, in the end, he couldn’t imagine being subordinate to a woman. “If I accepted that situation,” he asked me, “what kind of man would I be?”

It took Mr. Zhao several days before he worked up the nerve to tell his mother he had rejected the offer. He knew how hard she had worked, how much she had been counting on this. The news frustrated Ms. Yu. “Kids these days are way too picky,” she said.

Even with this setback, Ms. Yu has continued her daily pilgrimage to the marriage markets. When I last spoke to her early this month, she was arranging dates for her son with three new marriage candidates she had found. “I’m optimistic,” she said. After all these years, hope is what keeps her going.

The love-hunting campaign for Mr. Big yielded more than 1,100 fresh prospects who met his general specifications, including 200 in Chengdu. “The cruel process of culling,” as Ms. Yang called it, whittled that number to 100, then 20, and finally to a list of eight. (For Diamond Love, a fringe benefit of love-hunting campaigns is that the hundreds of rejected potential mates can be cycled into its databases — a process of replenishment paid for by its richest clients.)

The firm subjected the finalists to another round of interviews and psychological evaluations. Barely two months after the search began, Mr. Big received thick dossiers on each of the eight, with detailed information about their families and finances, habits and hobbies, and physical and mental conditions.

Finally, a series of grainy videos landed in his e-mail in-box. The first showed the top three prospects from Chengdu, sitting and standing, walking and talking, smiling and laughing. One of them, a demure 24-year-old with long black hair and black hot pants who seemed poised in front of the camera, was the graduate student whom Ms. Yang had pursued on a hunch at Master Kong Chef’s Table.

Ms. Yang’s hunting skills and tenacity had paid off again, giving her two of the eight finalists, and a 25 percent chance of winning the bonus of $32,000. (For finding two of the top 20, she had already earned a share of a smaller bonus.) When I asked about the reward, Ms. Yang demurred at first. “My aim is just to find a match that makes both people happy,” she said, before adding: “Inside my heart, I want my girls to win.”

Ms. Yang has worked hard for the chance. She heads to her job early in the morning and returns after 8 p.m., leaving her 5-year-old son in her mother-in-law’s care. She is often gone for weeks at a time on love-hunting trips. Her husband, whom she married at 22, when he was 35, ran a trucking logistics company that folded in 2009. Since then, he hasn’t worked much. With one large bonus, Ms. Yang bought him a Mitsubishi car that he tinkers with. Her occupation has given her a rather jaded view of the prospects for career women like herself. Once she told me half-jokingly: “It’s a good thing I’m already married. I would never stand a chance.”

In June, Mr. Big flew to Chengdu for meetings with the three local finalists. Riding an elevator to the lobby of the Shangri-La Hotel, he fidgeted nervously with the part in his moussed hair. He had invested more than a half-million dollars in the search, and was about to see if the money was well spent.

His final date in Chengdu was with the Zhou Tao look-alike whom Ms. Yang had approached at the noodle restaurant. At first, it seemed a mismatch, and not just because of the 18-year age gap. He knew nearly everything about her — her dating history, her recent acceptance to a graduate school, her father’s lofty government post — while she knew little more than his height and weight. She didn’t even know his name. Diamond Love had told her only that his net worth exceeded $800,000.

The young woman tried to keep things casual by taking him to a local Sichuanese restaurant. But Mr. Big insisted on bringing along a female consultant from Diamond Love and sitting awkwardly off to one side during the meal. According to the consultant, Li Minmin, he sat in this position “to better evaluate her profile, her skin, and her teeth.”

The two barely spoke without the consultant’s prodding. Still, Mr. Big seemed pleased by the woman’s sense of privacy when he inquired about her father’s job. “He’s a civil servant,” she said. What level? “Management.” It took several minutes — and a blunt question about his title — before she acknowledged that her father was, in fact, the boss of an influential government office. “From childhood,” she told him, “my father taught me to keep a low profile.”

Suddenly, this seemed like a suitable match in the Chinese tradition of family doors of equal size. Here were two discreet people of similar social status, a wealthy entrepreneur and the daughter of a high-ranking official.

After dinner, Mr. Big called off all other dates with finalists and dispatched his consultant to buy a Gucci handbag for the woman, as a token of affection. Barely a week later, in early July, he flew her to Hainan Island for a vacation at a luxury beachside resort. The two stayed in separate hotel rooms. When they returned, Ms. Li assured me that “the relationship is still pure.”

Ms. Yang was pleased that her love-hunting had hit the mark, but she wished that the courtship would move faster: a $32,000 bonus could make a big difference to her family. After texting and phoning, the couple met again in Beijing and then took a holiday in a mountainous area of western Sichuan Province. In Chengdu, though, he declined to meet the woman’s parents, and instead of joining her at a wedding of her friends, stayed in the hotel.

The couple has not yet decided to marry. But they are still dating exclusively, and Ms. Yang says Mr. Big is serious about marriage. Nobody pays a half-million dollars “just to play around,” she says. “He just needs a little more time.”
223 2013-03-10 In “The Business of the Minimum Wage” (Economic View, March 3), Christina D. Romer argued that if the minimum wage were increased, the amount of money redistributed to and spent by low-wage workers would be minuscule in comparison with the overall economy.

That misses the point. At the heart of redistributive policies like that for a minimum wage is a belief championed by President Obama: that we’re all in this together, connected as one people. If the proposal to raise the annual income of a minimum-wage worker by $3,500 means that she doesn’t have to go hungry, or doesn’t have to choose between health care and the rent, then my life is richer for it, too — even if I do not directly benefit from her augmented purchasing power.

The column was enlightening. People are constantly arguing about whether to raise or lower the minimum wage — saying either that an increase would greatly improve the economy, or that the current minimum wage is already ruining it.

I am 18, in high school, and work at a movie theater. When there are complaints about the minimum wage, I bite my tongue through most of them, but people do not understand how the economy works. People fail to realize that if the minimum wage was much higher, employers would cut down on their number of employees to offset the costs.

In the column, Professor Romer says that many of her students “assume that government protection is the only thing ensuring decent wages for most American workers.” But, she adds, “basic economics shows that competition between employers for workers can be very effective at preventing businesses from misbehaving.”
224 2013-03-10 The following are a selection of documents that are part of the litigation between eToys creditors and Goldman Sachs over the 1999 eToys IPO. Although they were supposed to be under seal, we found them unsealed in the New York County clerk’s office. We’ve highlighted specific passages (they are numbered) that are of particular interest. — Joe Nocera
225 2013-03-10 Most prominent liberals, including civil rights leaders and the Obama administration’s lawyers, have indeed urged the court to uphold the current version of affirmative action. Yet a rump group of left-leaning legal scholars and education experts share at least some of Justice Kennedy’s concerns. And they find themselves in the unusual position of seeing upsides in another potential liberal defeat in Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.’s court.

When elite colleges describe their admissions process, it sounds like one that follows Justice Kennedy’s standard, with race as just one factor. In an amicus brief supporting the University of Texas, the eight Ivy League universities and six others said they sought a student body that was “diverse in many ways.”

In fact, race plays a role unlike almost any other factor. An African-American student with a similar application to a white student received the equivalent of a 310-point lift in SAT scores, on a 1,600-point scale, according to a study of elite colleges by Thomas J. Espenshade, a Princeton sociologist. For Latino students, the margin was 130 points.

Recruited athletes and so-called legacy applicants also receive huge bonuses. But students who bring the other diversity that colleges claim to value — socioeconomic status, geography and perspective, to name three cited in the brief — receive no such advantage.

One study of 1990s data found that, all else equal, poorer students received no lift relative to affluent ones. Mr. Espenshade found that low-income minorities were somewhat more likely to gain admission than similar higher-income minorities but that lower-income whites received no advantage. In effect, poor and middle-income students are rejected, while others with the same scores and grades — legacies, athletes and minorities, often from privileged backgrounds — are admitted.

As a result, elite public and private colleges remain dominated by affluent students. Some colleges probably have more students from the top 2 percent of the income distribution than the bottom 50 percent.

The current system has left colleges in legal jeopardy because of both the conservative bent of today’s judiciary and the high legal burden that the law places on any race-based program. In a 1978 case, the justices called for “strict scrutiny” of such programs. In his 2003 dissent, Justice Kennedy argued that colleges did not meet this standard. Instead, he wrote, race often determined admissions decisions.

As he said to the University of Texas’s lawyer during arguments in October, “What you’re saying is that what counts is race above all.”

The Kennedy dissent leaves the door open to affirmative action, but only a form that makes the explicit consideration of race a last resort. Other factors would have to come first. As it happens, there are several officially race-neutral factors that would raise no constitutional risk — and help many minority applicants.

The most obvious is income. But others may be more important. If colleges gave students credit for coming from a low-income ZIP code, black and Latino students would benefit enormously, as they would from the consideration of wealth and family status. Only 27 percent of white students grow up in a single-parent family, compared with 60 percent of black children and 34 percent of Latino children.

One possible outcome is that the court will force colleges to show they have tried these forms of affirmative action before they turn to race. Another is a decision holding that racial preferences can be no larger — in terms of SAT points, for instance — than class preferences, says Stuart Taylor Jr., a co-author of a book critical of affirmative action.

The liberal critics of affirmative action believe that many of these approaches would be better than the current one. Racial discrimination obviously continues to exist. But the disadvantages of class, by most measures, are larger today. A class-based system would be more expensive, forcing colleges to devote some money now spent on buildings and other items to financial aid instead, but it would also arguably be more meritocratic.

Predicting the outcome of any Supreme Court case is a dangerous game, of course. Richard Primus of the University of Michigan puts only a two-in-three chance on a ruling along the lines of the 2003 Kennedy dissent. The court could also issue a ruling with little effect beyond Texas.

Perhaps the biggest reason to expect something more is simply that the justices took the case, Fisher v. University of Texas, in the first place.

“I think that after Fisher, there is going to be a lot of experimentation,” Ms. Cashin predicted. “Fisher’s going to create a crisis for people who care about diversity. The good thing about that is it will force some re-evaluation of what’s going on.”
226 2013-03-10 Trump moves money, not mounds of dirt, and he sees gold in a cozy par-3 watering hole with a lake running along one side and well-heeled patrons ensconced in sky boxes lining the other. In the name of entertainment, Trump once threw together the English television host Sharon Osbourne and the chef Curtis Stone on “The Celebrity Apprentice.” So why would he not mix golfers chasing par with fans chasing whiskey and beer?

“Golf is a little different,” Trump said. “You don’t need to do those things in golf. That doesn’t mean you won’t do them.”

He added, “I’m doing that anyway, not because we need to bring in people to this great event, but because that’s just the bonus.”

The sideshow can be lucrative, as the Phoenix Open has discovered in recent years with its signature 16th hole, where mostly college students originally flocked to cheer for former Arizona State stars like Phil Mickelson. Over the years, these daylong parties have been organized and promoted by tournaments hoping to attract corporate clients and expand their fan bases beyond rabid followers of golf.

The popularity of social gathering holes, which lure fans more familiar with Jack Daniel’s than Jack Nicklaus, has given rise to others, like the 17th at the Honda Classic, the center of a thriving social scene that has spread to include a sports pub, a wine garden, a bar sponsored by Oakley, and a 2,000-square-foot hospitality area.

“It’s a bit more like the tournaments are setting up or contriving to create raucous atmospheres,” said Geoff Ogilvy, the runner-up at the recent Honda Classic in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

He added: “The tournament directors and the people who set up tournaments conspire to get everyone into the same place. ‘Let’s go for a walk today and watch a few holes, but please go to 17 towards the end and start making noise.’ That’s kind of what they want.”

The librarylike setting of golf tournaments is gradually disappearing, replaced by crowds not necessarily schooled in golf etiquette who break the quiet by shouting, “You da man!” or “Mashed potatoes!”

Ogilvy, an Australian who lives in Scottsdale, Ariz., is among those who embrace the rowdier atmosphere. “If it gets more people to go, I think it’s a good thing,” he said.

He added: “I know most guys kind of enjoy 16 at Phoenix and 17 last week, for the most part. I think every now and then you get late in the day, you get a few people getting a little bit loud at the wrong moment. But as long as it all happens after golf shots and between golf shots, and not while someone is actually hitting a shot, I mean, fair play, they should be allowed to do whatever they want, especially if they enjoy the time or make the atmosphere better for us.”

Last Sunday, on the 17th hole of the Honda Classic’s final round, a spectator shouted as the leader, Michael Thompson, was putting for par. His attempt rimmed in, and he went on to win by two strokes.

“I honestly never heard him,” Thompson said. “I remember on the first putt, the 30-footer I had, I could hear them yelling in the background. They were just making a huge commotion. I actually backed off the putt once.”

No golfer endures more crowd distractions than Tiger Woods, the sport’s No. 1 draw. Since turning professional in 1996, Woods has won 75 tour events and made golf cool for the casual sports fan.

“The timing of the yells has definitely changed,” he said. “You know, I don’t care if it’s raucous, just as long as it’s respectful, and as long as they don’t do it during swings, it’s totally cool. They can do whatever they want.”

Crowd noise is one thing, said the Englishman Justin Rose, who won this event last year. One person’s voice is another matter altogether.

“It’s very hard to deal with one crazy fan who shouts in the middle of your backswing,” Rose said.

“But the general murmur that goes on now, on holes like Phoenix, there is no silence out there anymore,” he added. “It’s just a general kind of rattling of noise.”

Players, he said, simply have to learn to cope with it.

“If you want to play for all the money we are playing for,” Rose said, “you have to find ways in this economy to also give more and more to the fans and the sponsors, and I think that’s what’s happening. That’s what’s going on right now. But like the Ryder Cup, I think it is dangerous ground if it goes too far.”

At last year’s Ryder Cup, a team event, Bubba Watson of the United States and Ian Poulter of Europe encouraged fans to make noise during their backswings.

“Once a year is good,” Watson said. “Most of the time, we want to stay away from that.”
227 2013-03-10 Out of “common sense,” he said, he needs to be as armed as his neighbors, some of whom he describes as troublemakers with assault rifles. “It is so discouraging, so paranoia-inducing,” he said. “It makes one feel as though you’ve got to be continually vigilant and defensive instead of living your life free.”

Other gun owners interviewed for this article expressed similar reservations, citing their enjoyment of hunting or of introducing family members to the sport while expressing support for stricter gun control legislation. Mr. Kundu, for instance, supports a ban on the kind of assault weapon that he owns, a rifle manufactured by Panther Arms.

It is these voices of ambivalence that policy makers say are likely to be drowned out by the passion at the extreme ends.

“Their views don’t get represented in the debate, and it’s one of the consequences of the polarized nature of our politics,” said Patrick J. Egan, an assistant professor of politics and public policy at New York University. “If all sides had more of an incentive to moderate their arguments in a way that would be appealing to people like this, you could imagine it being a more constructive conversation than it currently is.”

Clearly, not all gun owners are Second Amendment absolutists. Many recent surveys show that majorities of gun owners do favor certain gun control proposals, like making private gun sales subject to background checks. But the extent to which gun owners feel of two minds about owning guns is something polls and surveys typically do not address.

“We’ve been struggling with this whole realm of issues — feelings about guns,” said Michael Dimock, the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. “And that’s because we’ve talked a lot about gun policy, but not about gun culture.”

In a survey it began conducting last month, Pew for the first time asked gun-owning respondents “whether they enjoy having guns, whether they feel uncomfortable about them, and whether they feel safer for having them,” Mr. Dimock said. Those results are expected to be published in a coming report.

“I think it’s easy for a lot of people to assume that all gun owners oppose gun control and all nonowners favor it,” he said. “But our polling data suggests that the correlation is nothing like that. Rather, most Americans appear to have mixed feelings about gun laws.”

Kay H. Wilson, a blogger in Waco, Tex., who recently wrote a post about her “love-hate relationship with guns,” said, “We need people to speak up.” Ms. Wilson describes herself as “a pretty good dang shot” when she practices her aim at a family farm in West Texas, but also said, “I’m no lover of the personal handgun.”

While she and her husband, Richard, have a gun in their suburban home for personal protection, they store it and the bullets in separate rooms. And Ms. Wilson acknowledges that she would sooner throw her cat at an intruder than shoot someone. The gun does not make her feel safer.

“I believe that if I had a gun under my pillow ‘for protection’ from intruders,” she wrote in her blog, “the intruder could be upon me before I could wake up and they could possibly overpower and kill me.”

So why do the Wilsons, who favor stricter gun control, own a pistol?

“It’s there just in case,” said Mr. Wilson, 56, a chiropractor, who also owns an inherited heirloom rifle that has not been fired since he was a boy. “I think you have to be really smart and know what situations it might be useful for. In some situations, yes, you’d be better off not going for it.”

Sonia Wolff, a novelist in Los Angeles, felt compelled to buy a pistol a few years ago for self-defense, a decision she wrote about in The Los Angeles Times. “I had never wanted a gun,” the introduction states. “Now I own a Smith & Wesson revolver. Why?”

The short answer, she said in an interview, was, “When push comes to shove, I’d rather have one.”

But she added, “If I had my way in the best of all worlds, nobody would have a gun.”

Mr. Kundu, the competitive sharpshooter, agreed. “I’ve always thought the Second Amendment is secondary to everyone being able to feel safe and secure in their lives,” he said. “Fewer guns would lead to fewer deaths, there’s no question about that.”

Still, he has trained his wife and teenage sons on his firearms. “I insisted that they be proficient,” he said. “We put out wooden blocks and bricks so they could see how devastating and damaging a bullet can be.”

John Flores and Patricia Speed, a married couple in San Francisco, own two 9-millimeter handguns and a Winchester Model 70 rifle because they have recently come to enjoy shooting at ranges. They say they enjoy the concentration it takes to be a good marksman and find the practice relaxing.

But as first-time gun owners, they say they were shocked by how easily they bought the guns and feel uncomfortable about storing them — even unloaded in a locked safe — in their home.

“It freaked me out how easy it was to buy a gun,” said Ms. Speed, 30, a graphic designer. “I think it’s harder to get an iPhone than it is a gun. Now I’m a gun owner who believes there needs to be way more regulation.”

The couple does not talk much about their guns with other people, especially since the school shooting in Newtown, Conn., that took the lives of 20 children and 6 adults.

“Conversation becomes very antagonistic very quickly,” Ms. Speed said. “It’s hard to have a rational conversation when people are so emotional about it. I’ve just kept my mouth shut.”
228 2013-03-10 No wonder they called it the Little Red School House.

It was always progressive in its pedagogy. But in “Little Red” (PublicAffairs, $25.99), Dina Hampton gracefully connects the private school in Greenwich Village and its Elisabeth Irwin High School to the radical political culture of the 1960s with interwoven profiles of three prominent graduates: Angela Davis (high school class of 1961) and Tom Hurwitz and Elliott Abrams (both 1965).

Ms. Davis, a transplant from Birmingham, Ala., became a leader of the American Communist Party and a public face of the black power movement. She was labeled a terrorist and put on trial for supplying the weapon used to shoot a California judge in 1970 — and then acquitted. John Lennon and the Rolling Stones wrote songs about her.

Mr. Hurwitz, a red diaper baby, figured prominently in the 1968 Columbia University student uprising. Before becoming an acclaimed documentary cinematographer, Ms. Hampton writes, he was booted from a leftist collective because of admitted arrogance — “if being arrogant means I think I have the right to make suggestions that are more weighty than the next person’s suggestion,” he said.

Mr. Abrams took a different path. Fellow students smoked marijuana in his basement in Hollis Hills, Queens, but he went on to reject the school’s liberal agenda and transform himself into an influential neoconservative and foreign-policy adviser for the Reagan and Bush administrations.

The first time these children of the ’60s saw their parents cry, Ms. Hampton speculates, might have been at a vigil the night Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed in 1953. Insights like this flesh out her parallel biographies, which would have been further enriched by details of just how close the lives of the three alumni came to converging after they left Little Red.

“Unlike their revolutionary colleagues from high schools across the country who first discovered activism in college, Hurwitz, Davis and Abrams, like so many other Little Redders, were imbued from their earliest years with the belief that they could change the world for the better,” writes Ms. Hampton — herself a Little Red graduate and the school’s former alumni director. “Decades later, they still believe they can.”
229 2013-03-10 In these days of trendy fusion this and fusion that, diners often have to guess what lies ahead when a restaurant claims modernity. In the case of Coriander, in Larchmont, several factors combine to create a modern feel. The décor is low key: a contemporary beige and charcoal color scheme, brightened by a row of charming white lanterns in the aisle that leads to the dining room. A small handful of cross-legged mustachioed Rajasthani figurines and a dramatic Shiva as Nataraja the cosmic dancer set the Indian theme.

Modernity seems to have influenced the scope of the menu as well, which, compared with that of most Indian restaurants, is minimalist. The dishes themselves also seem lighter; oils and ghee are used sparingly, yet each dish’s flavors and complexities remain in full force. Curries are rich and aromatic, and tandoor roasted items are full of the flavor of marination. There’s plenty here to choose from, and if a favorite dish isn’t on the menu, the kitchen will whip it up if the ingredients are on hand.

Baby eggplant chaat made a terrific starter, the vegetable sautéed with a bit of chutney and topped with fresh cilantro and mint; and under a dark tomato and chili sauce white cauliflower florets (lasooni ghobi) were just as successful. Dressed in a light vinaigrette, autumn salad added a note of freshness with its pleasing variety of chopped greens, cucumber, grape tomato, sweet pepper, nuts and paneer. But vegetable samosas came wrapped in pastry that was all too sturdy; and like bar food, rings of squid were battered and fried, but with Indian spices.

Curries are splendid here, and run anywhere from mild to hot and sour, and from creamy and thick to thin and dry. In the healthful Asian way, and perhaps for economic reasons, meats are used abstemiously, as flavoring, while vegetables, beans and nuts, yogurt, butter and cream and aromatic Indian spices ingeniously carry the dishes.

Chicken can sometimes be a tad overcooked, but nothing was amiss with chicken korma, its luscious, mild sauce thickened with pulverized nuts. The sauce for bhuna chicken, on the other hand, was heady with smoky hot chili and tomato. And fiery chilies delivered the heat that made lamb Kolhapuri sing. Soothing raita helped modify the fire. Incidentally, Coriander offers raitas with avocado and grape, but to my mind, the basic yogurt and cucumber combination is less distracting.

Artistic presentation is not one of this restaurant’s strengths. Offerings from the tandoori oven in particular seemed haphazard. This lack of design might have offended the eye, but not the palate. A hefty trio kebab — enough to feed a family — brought a quartet of chunks of lamb and of chicken three ways. And four well-seasoned, tender lamb chops were served with mushrooms and potatoes.
230 2013-03-10 GENEVA — The evolution of the American automakers in Europe, and their presence at the motor show here, is a study in contrasts. To Chrysler, Ford and General Motors, Europe no longer presents a great opportunity to sell American cars in foreign markets. Not so long ago, those attending the Geneva show could see, touch and kick the tires of a much wider array of American iron than they can today.

Ford introduced small internationally designed people-movers here that are unlikely to be sold in the United States. The Chrysler and Dodge brands are absent since being absorbed into the Fiat empire. And G.M. is displaying fewer vehicles on the international stage.

Chevrolet broke ranks to introduce the Corvette Stingray convertible to an international audience. But it was essentially a sneak preview of the droptop, which will make a splashier debut in front of its true target audience this month at the New York auto show.

Cadillac also showed the ATS sedan along with its ELR plug-in hybrid.

Ford used Geneva to promote its “One Ford” global strategy, but it introduced a couple of vehicles that defy the very idea of making single versions of Ford products that can be sold anywhere in the world.

The Ford EcoSport, a small Fiesta-size utility, is designed for sale in Europe, South America and India, but not in the United States. Likewise, the European-focused Tourneo van family is the latest wave of Ford’s series of “product-led transformations.”
231 2013-03-10 Instead of tarnishing her image, these candid revelations seem to have bolstered her. She is in negotiations to return as a judge for the next season of the Fox reality singing show “The X Factor.” She was arguably the breakout star of the show last winter. And her new song, “Heart Attack,” was No. 1 on iTunes its first week of release. Some critics compare her to the reality-show hall-of-famer Kelly Clarkson.

Ms. Lovato’s second act stands in vivid contrast to that of Miley Cyrus, Ms. Lovato’s direct predecessor in the Disney ranks. Ms. Cyrus’s transition from teen queen to adult star was marred by a steady drip, drip of scandalous revelations and a near-nude photo spread in Vanity Fair, which left many of her fans feeling alienated and confused; her record sales plummeted.

Ms. Lovato’s approach has proved far savvier, as was her decision to use “X Factor,” which last season averaged eight million viewers, as a comeback vehicle. Nowhere did she seem more “authentic,” as her handlers like to say, than on that show, emerging as a lively, relatable judge who was far more at ease than her fellow panelist Britney Spears. While Ms. Spears offered terse, generic-sounding critiques to contestants and appeared to be in a state of quiet distress throughout the season (she is not returning), Ms. Lovato was a nurturing den mother, at one point walking on stage to console a crying singer, Jillian Jensen, who said she had been bullied at school. (Ms. Lovato attributes her own struggles to being bullied when she was 12.)

“When I read about her story and the problems she had, how she’d overcome them and how she spoke openly about them, I was very impressed,” said Simon Cowell, the creator of “X Factor” and its alpha judge, in a phone interview. “I just thought, here’s a girl who’s been through a lot, who’s experienced a lot, is very confident, has this fanatical following, and I thought it was important for the show that someone represented that audience.”

“X Factor” also allowed Ms. Lovato to cultivate her image as a fashion idol with Gwen Stefani and Joan Jett leanings: bright pink bangs, winged eyeliner and lots of leather jackets to go with her multiple tattoos. Virtually all of her looks were supplied by Topshop, for whom Ms. Lovato has become an unofficial spokeswoman ever since she bonded with the chain’s owner, Sir Philip Green, while shopping in the store’s London flagship last year.

“We walked around the store chitchatting,” Sir Philip said on the phone. “I thought she was a sweetie.”

After she landed the “X Factor” gig, he said, “we had one of my girls look after her to see how we could help develop her styling. She became a lot more interested in clothes generally.” (Ms. Lovato’s stylist is Soulmaz Vosough, Topshop’s global head of personal shopping.)

The relationship appears to have paid off for both parties.

“She looks amazing,” said Dana Mathews, senior entertainment editor of Teen Vogue, which featured Ms. Lovato on the cover of its November issue. “People really look at how she dresses, and her hair. On the cover, her hair was dyed blue on the bottom and our readers loved it. Katy Perry was on the cover last May with blue hair, but it was completely dyed, not half and half. Demi kind of takes risks and people like that.”

Ms. Mathews said that Ms. Lovato is popular with young readers also because she is going through what many of them are. “As do a lot of other superstars,” she added, “but Demi is one of the few people who’s actually honest about it.”

In a suite at the Mondrian Hotel on Sunset Boulevard one recent afternoon, Ms. Lovato was nursing a cup of tea (she’d just had bronchitis) while curled up on a white chair wearing black leather pants and an army-green jacket, courtesy of, yes, Topshop.

“Two years ago, I was in treatment and I was spending New Year’s Eve in rehab,” she said. “And that was really difficult. I looked at my life and was like, What have I done to myself? I can’t believe it’s come down to this.”

Cut to this past New Year’s.

“It’s me on the beach literally sipping espresso in a cabana at night with my closest friends,” Ms. Lovato said. “It was just a moment where I was like, wow, yeah. Sometimes doing the right thing is hard to do. But there are so many great things that come about when you start to do that for yourself.”

Ms. Lovato is still deep in the self-reflective world of recovery. Admitting that there “have been slip-ups” and that “you don’t go into rehab and come out totally fixed,” she has spent the last year living in a sober-living facility, where she came home after taping “X Factor” “to a house full of girls, which was really nice.”

She said she meets with a therapist regularly. And she even has recovery professionals on her oft-referenced management team. None of these topics were off limits, even with her day-to-day manager Nikki Bohannon sitting a few feet away, punching away at a smartphone and every so often shooting Ms. Lovato a watchful glance.

“My team isn’t the type of management that will lie,” Ms. Lovato said. “Because, one, it’s not fair. And two, everything comes out anyways. So you might as well save yourself the trouble and not have a reason to make up an excuse for the other excuse.”

Plus, she said, “Nobody hates me for it, which is cool.”

So it seems. At the Grove event, one Lovatic with braces and purple-painted fingernails waved a sign urging Ms. Lovato to “Stay Strong,” a nod to one of the star’s tattoos. Another broke down in tears at the sight of her.

During “X Factor,” Ms. Lovato’s fans were especially revved up, devoting entire Tumblr pages to what she wore each night and accusing Ms. Spears of stealing Ms. Lovato’s look, after the pop singer dyed the tips of her blond locks blue and pink. Another topic of discussion: Ms. Lovato’s shape-shifting eyebrows.

“I went through a crazy brow phase,” Ms. Lovato said, laughing. “I became addicted to eyebrow pencils.”

As for dyeing her hair eight different times: “That was just like, ‘What can I do next? I’m bored.’ ”

It also may have been a rebellious response to growing up in the well-oiled Disney machine. Soon after appearing in the 2008 Jonas Brothers movie “Camp Rock,” Ms. Lovato, who was then 15, landed her own show, “Sonny With a Chance,” and was on a warp-speed track to replace Ms. Cyrus.

Then Ms. Lovato punched a backup dancer while on tour. Soon after, she entered rehab, left the Disney Channel and put her music on hold.

According to Brian Robbins, the executive producer of “Sonny With a Chance,” Ms. Lovato, who even back then had two tattoos (she now has 24, if you count all of the birds on one of her forearms), never fit neatly into the teenage princess role.

“She’s deep,” Mr. Robbins said. “She’s not just a smiley cheerleader from Texas.” (Ms. Lovato grew up in Dallas; her mother was a cheerleader for the Cowboys.) “Which could also explain the trials and tribulations she’s been through.”

Now Ms. Lovato is returning to her love of music with an album that Ken Bunt, the executive vice president of Disney Music Group, calls “the most cohesive album she’s put together. It tells a story.”

“She really is a power singer,” Mr. Bunt said, noting that her vocals were “really soaring” on the track “Give Your Heart.” “I think it made people take her more seriously than they did in the past.”

Ms. Lovato said: “With my earlier songs I hadn’t figured out who I was musically yet. It’s a process. You evolve over time, and you never nail it. But now I have a pretty good idea. I have a better sense of who I am as a musician.”

When asked whether a return to TV or movies is in her future, though, Ms. Lovato smiled and reached for her teacup.

“I feel like I have too many tattoos to go back to acting,” she said.
232 2013-03-10 Miguel Jontel Pimentel, 27, a recording artist known professionally as Miguel, won the Grammy this year for best R&B song with his single “Adorn.” A native of Los Angeles, he currently lives in the city’s Playa Vista section.

In L.A., but had a ton of business to finalize — a remote TV interview and a recording session before we left for shows in South Africa — so I knew I had to be on point. Most days, I wake up an artist; other days, I wake up a businessman. This day, I woke up feeling both. I put on a vintage white burnout tee, gray Calvin Klein blazer, orange Costume National pants and Pierre Hardy gray leopard creepers. It was almost that rock-star business mogul look — allow me my aspirations — especially with my vintage John Lennon-style Ray-Bans and my usual accessories. I only wear silver, so it’s my Cast of Vices ring, my custom herringbone or Cuban link chain (I switch between the two), Cartier bracelets (which are white gold) and rings and a wallet chain by the Great Frog. It’s like the original rock ’n’ roll jeweler. I found out they did jewelry for Led Zeppelin and a bunch of my favorite bands.

In air to Johannesburg and lost a day. Travel aesthetics should be just as comfortable and practical as they are fashionable. I went with my black Alexander Wang muscle tee, and paired it with my cobalt-blue Balenciaga bomber. Funny coincidence since Alexander Wang is the new creative director of Balenciaga. Wore Saint Laurent slim black jeans, the black vintage Lennon Ray-Bans, usual silver jewelry and black Costume National woven leather creepers to finish it off. I like creepers because of the way they make me feel — they’re clunky and sturdy, and it’s more of a belief of wanting to stay grounded. Killer.

Overslept. With late nights and early mornings — an ungodly 6 a.m. interview scheduled with local press and a show at night — I make simplicity my savior. I stumbled out of my room and went on-air in black Levi’s 501s, white burnout tee and a slim, black Surface to Air blazer. I have so many of these tees, it’s ridiculous. This one was really tattered; it’s held together in the back with safety pins.

On the schedule: radio and a more intimate show for the mayor of Pretoria. But I woke up with a slight headache and an “I don’t really care” attitude thanks to last night’s success and epic post-show revelries. It was a mild day, mood- and weather-wise, which made me happy that I packed my favorite denim jacket. It used to be my dad’s and it’s worn in, and out, quite awesomely.

Hopped a two-hour flight to Cape Town, where it was much warmer. I was glad I wore my sleeveless Saint Laurent shirt, black with leather details and a zippered seam along the collar. I’m a huge fan of Hedi Slimane’s photography. I want to meet this dude, and the fact that he’s running Saint Laurent, a Parisian brand, from Los Angeles makes it extra ill to me. It was our last show of the trip, and I was ready to finish strong. We really rocked. I’ve never had fans chase after my car. Hot girls, hot weather and so much love!

No sleep, a slight hangover and 24 hours of travel, including layovers, from Cape Town to Los Angeles ahead of me. I wore black Y-3 sweats that were a bit tapered but still comfortable, a white tee and my Surface to Air bomber in black satin. Crashed on the plane, had breakfast at Atlanta International before our flight home to L.A., where it’s back to work with a tour with Alicia Keys. Fast times, and I’m loving every moment.
233 2013-03-10 Mr. Louis said there were about one million visitors last year, up from 885,000 in 2011, and he expects 1.2 million in 2013. He noted that beachside hotel rooms in the emirate cost up to 40 percent less than similar rooms in Dubai.

Unlike Dubai and Abu Dhabi, Ras al-Khaimah is not oil-rich and is relying on its rapidly growing tourist infrastructure — besides hotels, there’s a new emphasis on promoting the emirate’s ancient sites, rare for a country that celebrates the new and flashy — to keep pace.

“It has coal quarries and ceramic manufacturing, but when it comes to oil and gas, this is where R.A.K. has to come up with alternatives to grow,” Mr. Louis said. “We don’t want to be Abu Dhabi, we don’t want to be Dubai — we want to complement both. Our product is different.”

Indeed, to come here is to see an authenticity often missing in the flashier emirates. Most visitors to Dubai look at its malls, choked roads and treeless urban sprawl and are quick to dub it “soulless.” As the world’s tallest building and its massive mosque were erected, the country’s history was shunted to the side, skyscrapers and indoor ski slopes more celebrated than old Silk Road trading posts.

But in Ras al-Khaimah, an emirate of camels, date farms and dunes that roll as far as the eye can see, one sees Arabia as it was centuries ago.

For a weekend escape last September, I brought my friend Nadia, a Dubai-based French business consultant who was eager to see, she said, “something more real.”

We were met with disbelief by friends who wondered why we would choose the Emirates as the unlikely destination of a historical ramble. But, in fact, Ras al-Khaimah has a very long history. Life here can be traced back to the Umm al-Nar people in the third century B.C. In the 1800s its location on the Strait of Hormuz, bordering Oman and facing present-day Iran, made it an important post on the trade route to India. It was incorporated into the United Arab Emirates in 1972 and watched as, overnight, its oil-soaked neighbors became global business and tourist hubs.

Today, the emirate is home to the Masafi, one of the country’s largest water companies, and counts more than 300,000 residents. Arabic is more widely spoken here than any other place I’ve been in the United Arab Emirates, though it’s not necessary for getting around. The emirate has preserved many of its ancient sites — including the Dhayah Fort, the only remaining dune-top castle in the emirate, from which I gazed at the date farms, and the National Museum of Ras al-Khaimah, housed in the palace of the al Qawasim family, which ruled here in the 18th century.

Nadia and I set off on the 90-minute drive from downtown Dubai through a landscape that began with skyscrapers and turned into vast dune fields as we drove north, stopping once for giant bottles of laban, a thick yogurt drink popular in the Gulf.

As we entered Ras al-Khaimah, there were fewer signs in English. We saw low buildings and men in the traditional floor-length white kanduras strolling on the Corniche, a grass-lined stretch of walking and biking paths. Nadia and I decided to spend an afternoon at the Banyan Tree Resort and Spa, set amid red-clay dunes that roll as far as the eye can see, a 15-minute drive from the city center in the sands of Wadi Khadeja. We wandered the extensive grounds, dotted with trees for shady respite, climbing up and down the dunes as the sand filled our shoes.

The walking and heat fueled our appetites. There’s little traditional food in the United Arab Emirates; much of the cuisine comes from elsewhere in the region, namely Lebanon and India, and Ras al-Khaimah is no exception. Mezze, or appetizers, are a must late in the afternoon in the desert, so we hit the hotel’s Al Waha (meaning “oasis” in Arabic) restaurant. It’s a quiet, airy space with big windows and solicitous service, where each mezze dish was a surprisingly affordable 20 dirham, or about $5.60 at 3.6 dirhams to the dollar. We opened with a yellow lentil soup, followed by kibbe labneh (meatballs in a thick, rich yogurt); squeaky grilled halloumi cheese, a staple of Middle East cuisine; tabbouleh; rakakat, a tasty local cheese fried in phyllo pastry; warm spinach samosa-like fatayer; a creamy hummus; and stuffed vine leaves, all sopped up with basket after basket of warm pita and washed down with tall, icy glasses of bitter lemon juice.

We were interrupted by what looked like an Arabian oryx bounding by outside the window. It kept us company for most of the lunch hour.

“This,” Nadia said, “is definitely not Dubai.”

We walked it off on another stretch of the resort. At a watering hole, we chased what looked like another oryx, an animal I’d never seen before in overdeveloped Dubai, eventually losing it in the dunes.

Later that night, we strolled the length of the downtown Corniche, with bike paths, restaurants and lawns. It seemed that everyone in Ras al-Khaimah had come there on dates and family picnics. Across the street, lines of men dressed in kanduras danced to loud Arab music in what looked like a wedding celebration.

Nearby, the beautiful Ras al-Khaimah Mosque was illuminated. In October 2012, Sheikh Khalifa, the United Arab Emirates’ president, announced plans to build a bigger, $68 million mosque, able to hold more than 28,000 worshipers — in Ras al-Khaimah. It’s a testament to both Ras al-Khaimah’s position as the emirate of the future, and its conservatism.

Daylight brought a drive to the Dhayah Fort, in the Al Rams area. We hiked the steep staircase, with its dazzling views of the valley and jagged surrounding mountains. Across from the fort, we found a small rest house attached to a farm of its own. The worker behind the sales counter granted us permission to meander its canopies of trees, sticky dates crunching beneath our feet.

With the afternoon sun blazing, we sought refuge in the national museum, tucked near the Corniche in a low-rise stucco building. It was cool, low-ceilinged and devoid of tourists; Nadia and I had it to ourselves that afternoon. Each room provided a look at Ras al-Khaimah history.

We flashed back to thoughts of Dubai’s yachts and beachfront hotels as we scoped out room after room of artifacts left over from centuries of pearl diving, one of the ancient emirate’s most prosperous industries; carrying frames once used on camel backs; and pottery dating back to the first century B.C.

Preparing to return to the bustle of Dubai, we sipped drinks at the bar at the Banyan Tree’s second Ras al-Khaimah outpost, a smaller beachfront property a 15-minute drive from the dunes accessible only by a short ferry ride. Visitors drank beer and wore bikinis; a popular misconception of the non-Dubai emirates is that they are too conservative for foreign tourists looking to cut loose.

Standing in the water, thoroughly relaxed and buzzing from the day’s history lesson, Nadia and I had sunset, sea gulls and — in the tradition of the emirates and as a sign of Ras al-Khaimah’s continued growth — a horizon dotted with construction cranes.
234 2013-03-10 Do I feel good about polishing off a bag of Cheetos with a Diet Coke? No. But do I feel better than I did before I had my snack? Heck, yes, I do. Eating is about more than caloric need and logic. It’s emotional (and if it weren’t, you’d feel no need to brag about your love of kale). The food industry doesn’t simply understand this; it relies on it. We need regulation — controls on marketing to children; limits on additives; labeling requirements. We know the food companies won’t change, and neither will individual psychology, so it seems as if hearing it from the government might be a good solution. H.S., posted on nytimes.com

The food-industry behemoths profiled in Michael Moss’s article are every bit as villainous as the writer would have us believe. They are cynically exploiting our worst dietary tendencies for profit. So shame on General Foods and their kind. But we should acknowledge that they are only filling a cultural vacuum. DANIEL SCHORR,

Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

It’s hard to find a decent potato chip these days among all the baked and low-salt options, but I remain loyal to the real thing, the kind of chip where you get that gorgeous squirt of salty grease when you bite down. I try to restrain myself from eating too many, but if I do, I don’t blame the company that sold them to me. Please don’t decide for me what I am allowed to eat. I can take care of myself. MARGARET MCGIRR, Greenwich, Conn.

A huge part of the food problem in the United States is actually a labor problem. People who are able to work normal hours (40) at a living wage and able to leave work at a consistent time have the time to cook more real food, prepare lunches for their kids, etc. Were Americans more secure in their work life, the quality of the food they eat would increase. DAVID WINNICK, Claremont, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

Some love nothing better than to uncover a diabolical plot by corporate fat cats. . . . What makes it funny in this case is the root of the objection: the voluntary relationship between the supplier and the consumer. Customers want certain things, and companies do their utmost to provide them. The Times Magazine piece feebly tries to suggest something much darker is going on, by repeating the word “addiction” (even though it’s not warranted) and by noting “the body’s fragile controls on overeating.” Not to mention the “savage” marketing. A. BARTON HINKLE, Richmond Times-Dispatch, on timesdispatch.com
235 2013-03-10 The idea grew out of Ms. Peterson’s concerns about the struggles of midcareer artists in limbo between hot new thing and revered elder. She had seen many middle-aged choreographers burn out after working, again and again, for months or years with little money on a piece that might receive only three performances. She felt that dance makers and their collaborators didn’t have enough time in the theater before opening night, and that artists didn’t have the resources needed to achieve at their highest level.

“The conversations we have about who we choose are rich,” Ms. Peterson said. “There are a lot of criteria, different in every case, and a lot of institutional self-examination.” Ms. Peterson said Ms. Yokoshi made the top of her list because she believed in Ms. Yokoshi as an artist and thought she had the most distinctive project. Her selection would also make a statement “that we are going to be working on a global stage,” Ms. Peterson said.

Ms. Yokoshi, 51, born in Hiroshima, has lived in New York since 1981. An independent experimentalist, she can be wild. For her 2003 “Shuffle” she channeled a Japanese goddess, topless, with a large wig between her legs as pubic hair. (That one caught Ms. Peterson’s attention.) Since 2003 she has been studying Kabuki Su-Odori, a bare-bones version of Kabuki, and incorporating it into her contemporary dance pieces with award-winning results.

“Bell” ups the ante by taking on “Kyoganoko Musume Dojoji” (“A Maiden and a Bell at the Dojoji Temple”), a classic Kabuki play about a spurned woman who returns as a demon. The work is “a national treasure,” Ms. Yokoshi explained in a West Village restaurant. It’s “very inappropriate for me to do,” and in that transgressive sense, is “very contemporary art,” she said.

Since the demon never quite appears in “Dojoji,” the work often baffles Western audiences. To help, “Bell” draws connections with another supernatural tale of a woman wronged, the Romantic ballet “Giselle.”

Even with expanded resources Ms. Yokoshi did not get everything she wanted. Where she might have preferred a corps of 12 for the “Giselle” sections, she could afford only 3. After two years of development the full cast, which includes New York and Japanese dancers, did not meet until the final two weeks. Though grateful for the opportunity, she said, she remains wary of what’s expected of her and any pressure to become more mainstream.

Kyle Abraham, chosen in November as the second resident commissioned artist, is quite different. At 35 he is a hot young thing, a black choreographer from Pittsburgh who has recently received a host of awards. Last year he created a piece for Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.

Mr. Abraham said he sees the commission as a chance to build his career and add repertory to his company, Abraham.In.Motion. A little intimidated by the hype and exposure, he is giggly with excitement about the resources: the office instead of his studio apartment, the meetings that New York Live Arts has set up with his dream-team list of collaborators, the free tickets to Live Arts shows, the chance to see a therapist and a chiropractor. (Ms. Yokoshi, who had never had insurance before, has yet to make use of hers.)

In his desire to engage audiences outside the dance world (and show that there is more for black dancers than just Ailey) Mr. Abraham would also seem to fit Mr. Jones’s desire for an artist who is deeply committed to the art form but open to a discussion with the culture at large, one who might even be able to find commercial success on Broadway, as Mr. Jones did in “Fela!” and “Spring Awakening.”

“For some of us,” Mr. Jones said, “the quote mainstream is where the true honesty is, and test. If you have something that is so potent that you can have a lot of amens from your crowd, then my challenge to you is to move that into the mainstream and see who is stronger. Can you change the water around you, or do you just get changed?”

Even in an interview the points of view of the two artistic directors converged and diverged. Mr. Jones expressed pride in Ms. Peterson’s caring for artists. Ms. Peterson, while recoiling from Mr. Jones’s use of the term “branding,” showed a pragmatic appreciation for his expanded view of their mission.

“We don’t agree on everything,” Ms. Peterson said several times, but both directors aim to be leaders in, as Mr. Jones put it, “a field that, frankly, really doesn’t know what it is anymore.”

The back and forth between the two is exhausting, Ms. Peterson admitted, but it pushes them to consider things they might not have alone.

“It forces us both to own up to the truth of what we really believe and think is worth doing,” Mr. Jones said.

What is New York Live Arts? It’s Mr. Jones and Ms. Peterson having a long and heated conversation — fascinating from the outside, fatiguing from within and probably of large significance for dance in New York.
236 2013-03-10 Matt Kroll and Catherine Kellogg went looking for a large one-bedroom on the Upper East Side....
237 2013-03-10 In 2010, when the Issue Project Room, a presenter of new music, wanted to show off its new space in the former Education Department building at 110 Livingston Street in Downtown Brooklyn, it made a splash with a  performance of Morton Feldman&#x20...
238 2013-03-10 The French national rail company SNCF is starting an economy high-speed rail service called  Ouigo  on April 2. It will operate between the Paris suburb Marne-la-Vall&#xE9;e (home to Disneyland Paris) to points south, including Lyon, Marseille and...
239 2013-03-10 To the Sports Editor:&#xa;   &#xa;Re &#x201C;Extreme Grief,&#x201D; March 6: I am a musician. One February, I performed in Valdez, Alaska. There were young men at my hotel in sporting outfits that did not look like skiing attire, but they were def...
240 2013-03-10 The gentle jazz sage Charles Lloyd turns 75 on Friday, and he&#x2019;ll celebrate in public, at the Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The sober antiquity of the setting should suit Mr. Lloyd, a saxophonist and flutist who found f...
241 2013-03-10 Half a century ago a young student who grew up in Queens, began photographing a motorcycle gang in Chicago. The student,  Danny Lyon , assembled the black-and-white images he took from 1963 to 1967 into a book, &#x201C;The Bikeriders,&#x201D; that...
242 2013-03-10 STOCKHAMER--Neil Jan. 3, 1930 Mar. 8, 2012 To tell you who Neil was is to tell you who and what he loved: His beloved wife, Janie, whose acting career he championed as her #...
243 2013-03-10 Daylight saving time resumes at 2 a.m. on Sunday....
244 2013-03-10 If you prefer your jeans black and your hair messy, Richard Hell may be the most important musician you&#x2019;ve never heard of. A founding father of the New York punk scene, Hell is often credited with establishing, along with the sound, the sty...
245 2013-03-11 Britain, unlike other economic powers, is responding to the financial crisis by creating two new agencies, one to oversee institutions and another to watch for market abuses....
246 2013-03-11 The New York Senate’s majority coalition, made up of Republicans and some independent Democrats, floated the idea, but other Democratic legislators were unimpressed, saying it was too vague....
247 2013-03-11 Daniel McQuaid, a high school student from Ossining, N.Y., is among 40 finalists in the nationwide Intel Science Search.
248 2013-03-11 Mayuri Sridhar, a high school student from Long Island, is among 40 finalists in the nationwide Intel Science Search.
249 2013-03-11 Jamie Lee Solimano, a high school student from New York City, is among 40 finalists in the nationwide Intel Science Search.
250 2013-03-11 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include revenue implications for a rush to mobile advertising, a new fight over domain names and an animated look at ...
251 2013-03-11 No product shots, no marketing shots. We want photos that reveal what it means to run a small business....
252 2013-03-11 The Knicks plan to raise season ticket prices by an average of 6.4 percent next season, while the Rangers will increase season ticket prices by 4 percent....
253 2013-03-11 Some residents in Woodbridge, Conn., believe that “Sweeney Todd” is too violent for the students in the Amity Regional High School drama program....
254 2013-03-11 In a fund-raising pitch, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky touted his support for Senator Rand Paul’s filibuster of John O. Brennan, even though he opposed Mr. Paul’s candidacy in 2010....
255 2013-03-11 In prepared testimony for her nomination hearing, Mary Jo White placed a premium on unearthing financial fraud, as she works to deflect concerns from lawmakers who question her ability to regulate banks she recently defended....
256 2013-03-11 Brevan Howard, the secretive London-based hedge fund, agreed Monday to donate $30 million to Imperial College to set up a finance research center in its name....
257 2013-03-11 Fill in the blanks in the first eight paragraphs of the article “For Demi Lovato, No Airbrushing Required” by Nicole LaPorte....
258 2013-03-11 The online betting site Intrade said that it had halted trading and frozen customer accounts after it had discovered potential financial irregularities....
259 2013-03-11 Carl C. Icahn said on Monday that he had signed a confidentiality agreement with Dell Inc., potentially heading off a confrontation over its $24.4 billion sale....
260 2013-03-11 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
261 2013-03-11 The sky has yet to fall, employment numbers are up, and here’s how to use Pinterest. So why aren’t you going to SXSW this year?...
262 2013-03-11 As ties between China and North Korea wobble and perhaps cool, Pyongyang may be facing a United Nations inquiry into possible crimes against humanity....
263 2013-03-11 Third-ranked Andy Murray of Britain won in the second round of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., posting 6-2 scores in the second and third sets after dropping the first, 5-7, to Evgeny Donskoy of Russia.

No. 7 Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina also advanced, beating Nikolay Davydenko of Russia, 6-3, 6-4.
264 2013-03-11 Each move had a certain, defensible logic to it, and a predictable downside.

The go-old plan looked great last fall, when Jason Kidd, Rasheed Wallace and Marcus Camby helped lead the Knicks to an 18-5 start. It looks faulty now, with Wallace (38) lost to a season-ending foot operation, Kidd (39) slowing down and Camby (38) a minor factor because of foot troubles.

The Original Sin of the era, however, may turn out to be the Stoudemire signing, a widely celebrated move that looks worse with every M.R.I.

The Knicks announced Saturday that Stoudemire needed debridement surgery on his right knee — a procedure that will require at least six weeks of recovery, wiping out the rest of the regular season and threatening his playoff availability. Stoudemire had the same procedure on his left knee last fall and needed eight weeks to recover. The Knicks’ season could be over by the time he is healthy again.

It’s questionable whether the Knicks can ever expect another dominant season from Stoudemire, a 30-year-old former All-Star. He was brilliant in his debut season with the Knicks, averaging 25.3 points and 8.2 rebounds while playing in 78 games. But his impact has since been blunted by Anthony and diminished by injuries.

Stoudemire played in just 47 of 66 games during the lockout-shortened 2011-12 season, averaging 17.5 points. He managed only 29 games this season, averaging 14.2 points while playing under a 30-minute-per game restriction.

That fully guaranteed contract has never looked like a bigger albatross — or a worse gamble.

Stoudemire is owed $45.1 million over the next two seasons, ensuring that the Knicks will remain far over the salary cap and hamstrung in free agency. They cannot use the so-called amnesty provision to wipe Stoudemire from the books, because they already used it on Billups. The Knicks have repeatedly tried to trade Stoudemire, but his contract — which is uninsured against a career-ending knee injury — is considered toxic.

It was the uninsurable knees that delivered Stoudemire to New York in the first place. The Phoenix Suns wanted to keep him in 2010, and they offered him a generous five-year, $96.6 million deal, with one key condition: that Stoudemire play at least 2,200 minutes in each of the final two seasons to guarantee those years. It was a reasonable hedge, given an injury history that included microfracture surgery on Stoudemire’s left knee in 2005.

The Knicks — desperate for a marquee name after missing on James, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and Joe Johnson — made no such demands, and now they are facing the scary consequences of that decision.

The Knicks are over the cap for at least the next two seasons. They will also be luxury-tax payers, which prevents them from acquiring players via sign-and-trade deals. This is essentially their roster, for better or worse, through 2015.

The sort-of good news, at least in the short term, is that the Knicks have shown they can win without Stoudemire, having gone 21-9 while he recovered from the first knee surgery. His absence means Coach Mike Woodson no longer has to find a way to make Stoudemire mesh with Anthony, ending that fraught experiment for now. The two stars have a losing record when they play together.

For the last two months, Woodson used Stoudemire strictly off the bench, minimizing his minutes with Anthony. Woodson also found it difficult to play Stoudemire and Chandler together, especially against small lineups. Last week, Woodson was criticized for leaving a productive Stoudemire benched for the final minutes of a 99-93 loss to the Miami Heat, after he opted instead for Chandler’s defense. Four days later, Woodson stayed with the offensive-minded Stoudemire down the stretch of a 95-94 loss to the Oklahoma City Thunder, while Chandler was on the bench.

Without Stoudemire, the Knicks could hand larger roles to Camby and Kenyon Martin, providing a much-needed defensive edge.

But really, there is no silver lining in losing a $20 million player with Stoudemire’s skill set. Despite the injuries, he remains a lethal and efficient scorer who demands double teams. The Knicks are left with just two reliable scoring options: Anthony and Smith. That is hardly a formula for beating the Heat, or perhaps even the Indiana Pacers.

It remains unclear whether the Knicks’ most recent tactic — packing the rotation with aging veterans in the hope they can help win a title within three years — will pay dividends before they all break down.

It has often been said that Stoudemire’s knees (and contract) are a ticking time bomb. You might say the same for this entire Knicks era.
265 2013-03-11 Rome is the center of the Catholic world, and almost every cardinal is assigned his own titular church. They usually visit the church when passing through Rome, help out with fund-raising and often develop a personal rapport with local priests and parishioners, some of whom were not quite as restrained with their opinions on who should be the next pope.

At Santa Maria della Vittoria, a church in central Rome best known for housing Gian Lorenzo Bernini’s baroque masterpiece “Saint Teresa in Ecstasy,” the rector, Father Stefano Guernelli, did not hesitate to stump for his assigned cardinal, Sean Patrick O’Malley of Boston. He introduced Cardinal O’Malley as a papal contender and implored him to reconsider his publicly expressed reservations about taking the job.

Taking the lectern, Cardinal O’Malley played down the introduction. “I promise you I’ll return to this church after the conclave as a cardinal,” he said. Then, alluding to Bernini’s famed sculpture, he added with a smile: “But maybe I’ll bring St. Teresa to Boston.”

This is the fourth Sunday of Lent and many of the cardinals offered homilies on the theme of reconciliation, alluding to the day’s Gospel reading about the return of the prodigal son. They wore purple Lenten vestments and, in several cases, were greeted by crowds of television crews and other journalists, especially those cardinals considered leading candidates.

At the Basilica of the Twelve Holy Apostles in downtown Rome, Cardinal Angelo Scola, the archbishop of Milan, had initially ducked dozens of journalists by entering through a garage on a side street. He left the same way after the Mass but not before briefly emerging from the sacristy to face a pack of photographers and videographers. “I was told I should bless you,” he said, and he did so, before disappearing back into the church.

Cardinal Scola, an intellectual known to cite writers from Shakespeare to Jack Kerouac, on Sunday quoted the French poet Charles Peguy. The online betting site, Paddy Power, has Cardinal Scola as the papal favorite, but he offered nothing in the way of a campaign speech other than a broad wish for a good pope.

“Let us pray that the Holy Spirit offers its church the man who can guide it in the footsteps marked by the great popes of the last 150 years,” he said.

Another presumed front-runner, Cardinal Scherer, the Brazilian, arrived at Sant’ Andrea al Quirinale, a church near Italy’s presidential palace, in a black sedan with tinted windows. The cardinal has probably never had a more scrutinized homily in his life as a priest: a video camera recorded his talk from 15 feet away, while a television reporter did a stand-up near the altar as Cardinal Scherer distributed communion to worshipers.

Carmine and Maria Persichetti were greeted with applause when they came forward for a blessing on their 70th anniversary. Cardinal Scherer caressed their faces and offered a pastoral touch.

“Seventy years?” he asked in excellent Italian. “I wasn’t born yet. Is it really possible?”

Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan of New York turned his appearance at a neighborhood church in Rome into almost a celebrity visit: He kissed babies, hugged worshipers and worked the pews like a rope line. He offered no clues as to whom he would support as the new pope — “Boy, it’s good to see you all!” he boomed when asked a probing question by a reporter — and thanked local worshipers for giving him a big basket of Italian biscuits, cookies, tuna and chickpeas.

“Maybe I can take a small candy bar into the conclave,” he said. “I hear that the food is not good.”

Cardinal Erdo of Hungary, seen as a strong dark horse candidate, appeared at Santa Balbina, a small fourth-century church where most of the parishioners were expatriate Hungarians living in Rome. He did nothing to contradict his reputation as a brilliant, intensely serious canonical lawyer; he did not appear to smile once during a service in which he delivered the homily in Hungarian and nearly flawless Italian.

“I think he is the most suited for the job,” said Joszef Rabi, a Hungarian doctor who has lived in Rome since 1956. “The church is falling apart and needs someone to bring order to it.”

He added: “All that is missing is the smile.”

By the end of the day, it appeared that none of the cardinals had violated their oath to keep secret their deliberations in advance of the conclave. Teasingly playing on the code of secrecy, Father Guernelli, the warm Carmelite rooting for Cardinal O’Malley, told the faithful at his church that the cardinal would be leaving out of a “secret” side door.

Remember, he joked, alluding to Dan Brown’s “Angels and Demons,” a best-selling mystery novel that was also made into a movie, “a cardinal was killed in this church, so we know how to act in these situations!”
266 2013-03-11 ¶Lung Huang joined the New York office of Dunnhumby, part of Tesco, as vice president of digital advertising for global partnership, a new post focused on leading efforts to expand the company’s products into online and offline media. He had been vice president for the national accounts division of Arbitron, which is being acquired by Nielsen.

¶Leslie Butterfield, global chief strategy officer at Interbrand, part of the Omnicom Group, who is based in London, will now be based in Shanghai, as part of efforts by Interbrand to increase its presence in China and the Asia-Pacific market. Mr. Butterfield will work with Stuart Green, chief executive for the Asia-Pacific region at Interbrand, who is based in Singapore.

¶Martin Riley, group chief marketing officer at Pernod Ricard, was elected president of the World Federation of Advertisers, Brussels. He assumes the post from Chris Burggraeve, the former global chief marketing officer at Anheuser-Busch InBev.

¶Stein & Partners Brand Activation, New York, and IAS B2B Marketing, London, are forming a joint venture, the agencies said, to operate as SteinIAS, with offices in New York, London, Manchester, Paris and Shanghai. Financial terms were not disclosed. Tom Stein, president and chief creative officer at Stein & Partners, becomes president for the Americas at SteinIAS. Rob Morrice, managing director at IAS, becomes managing director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at SteinIAS.

¶Advertising spending in the United States rose 2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with the same period of 2011, according to a report to be released on Monday by the Kantar Media unit of WPP. That meant ad spending last year increased in all four quarters compared with the same periods in 2011; the other increases were 2.6 percent in the first quarter, 0.9 percent in the second quarter and 7.1 percent in the third quarter. For all of 2012, American ad spending rose 3 percent from 2011, Kantar Media reported; by comparison, ad spending in the United States in 2011 increased only 0.8 percent from 2010. Media that gained ad revenue last year, according to Kantar Media, included television, up 8 percent; outdoor, up 5 percent; and free-standing coupon inserts, up 5 percent. Media that lost ad revenue last year, Kantar Media reported, included newspapers, down 3 percent, including a 12 percent decline in ad spending in national newspapers; Internet display ads, down 3 percent; and magazines, down 2 percent.

¶WPP, London, said it would combine two large agencies that specialize in retail marketing in a joint venture, effective in May. One, OgilvyAction, is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP and the other, G2, is part of the Grey Group unit. The joint-venture agency will have more than 100 offices in 56 countries. Additional information — including who will lead the agency and its name — is expected to come from WPP before May.

¶John St., Toronto, an agency founded in 2001, was acquired by WPP, London. Financial terms were not disclosed. John St., which has about 100 employees who work for clients like AstraZeneca and Maple Leaf Foods, will operate as an autonomous unit of WPP.

¶Mistress, Los Angeles, and Mike Poznansky, who had been national marketing manager for Red Bull, based in Santa Monica, Calif., are founding Neato, a company that will specialize in marketing to college students. Neato will be based next to the Mistress office in the Venice Beach section of Los Angeles and be led by Mr. Poznansky, who will be managing director.

¶GroupM, New York, part of WPP, started a consulting division, GroupM Consulting Services, to be led by Ernie Simon as president; he had most recently been chief strategy officer at OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group unit of the Omnicom Group.

¶Campbell Ewald, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will move its headquarters early next year to Detroit, where the agency was founded in 1911, from the Detroit suburb of Warren, where the agency has been based for 35 years. The new headquarters will be at Ford Field downtown, in a warehouse once used by the J.L. Hudson department store.

¶William Morris Endeavor, Beverly Hills, Calif., acquired what was described as a “significant” minority stake in Chaotic Moon Studios, Austin, Tex., a design and development firm specializing in mobile media. Financial terms were not disclosed.
267 2013-03-11 She spoke of contact between dancers in partnering — noting briefly that amid “abstract” dancing contact allows for more specific meaning — then had two show a duet where contact was often extreme, with one dancer clinging onto and clambering over another. And she and Mr. Schumacher spoke of how dance and music meet in their work.

Although she creates the movement first, she has views on what kinds of music works where. He, more remarkably, said that he and Ms. Gerring were “both classicists” in their interest in clarity and space. She works on the projection of movement in space; he uses polyphony — different music coming from six different speakers.

Further points about specific qualities of movement emerged. It was a highly successful primer. After a short intermission the performance of “she dreams in code” — with six of the dancers (the other two are part of the next work Ms. Gerring is preparing) — followed.

Not least among its virtues is that her dancers not only are attractive but also become more so as they go on doing this movement. I marveled at the elasticity of their spines, but never as an effect in itself. The way those torsos bend, hugely, while they’re doing lower-body movement is breathtaking. Running backward has occurred in plenty of modern dance for decades. Here you look at it as if for the first time because of the precise spring of each step, the easy way the torso contains the impulse of the movement and the dynamic continuity of the sequence as a single phrase.

The dancing allows you to enjoy the individual characteristics of each dancer. The vivid athleticism of Tony Neidenbach and the lustrous intensity of Ben Asriel transform the same suspended pounces in different ways. The unforced ease with which Jake Szczypek rolls backward through a series of slow somersaults has real charm. The striking, relaxed beauty of Jessica Weiss is nothing like the calm, quiet lyricism of Adele Nickel.

The virtuosity stays generalized, though. Ms. Gerring could show a greater interest in tailor-making movement to showcase the individual gifts of each dancer. The time structure of “she dreams in code” stays schematic. She keeps changing the mood, but that feels like an external decision rather than a result of the piece’s inner complexity.

Yet this is a true theater piece. Mr. Schumacher’s changing sonorities are invariably effective as atmosphere and interesting in themselves. Amith A. Chandrashaker’s lighting constantly heightens the dancers’ allure. This work has the texture of both a game and an experiment, happily taking movement this way and that as if testing its properties. I’m impatient to see Ms. Gerring’s next work.
268 2013-03-11 “We saw a very good hitting team come out today,” Netherlands Manager Hensley Meulens said. “Our pitchers left balls up, and they capitalized on all those mistakes, and the game got out of hand very early.”

The winning pitcher, Kenta Maeda, the Central League’s leader in earned run average last season for the Hiroshima Carp, was strong through five innings, allowing one hit and striking out nine.

“I was conscious of not letting them get hits for extra bases by focusing on location,” Maeda said. “But it was thanks to my offense, which scored first, that I was able to develop confidence.”

Maeda’s repertory kept the Dutch off balance, including outfielder Wladimir Balentien, the Central League’s home run champion the last two seasons for the Yakult Swallows. Maeda sent him down on strikes twice.

“He’s a great pitcher,” said Balentien, who did manage to drive in three runs with a double in the sixth. “I’ve faced him a lot during the season. I know he has a great slider and great command. He showed it again tonight.”

The Dutch are not done. They will face Cuba on Monday to determine the final spot from the Tokyo round; the winner will go to AT&T Park in San Francisco for the start of the semifinals Sunday.

Cuba staved off elimination Saturday with a 14-0 thrashing of Taiwan. Monday’s game will be a chance to atone for Cuba, which lost to the Netherlands on Thursday.

With only two major league players on the Dutch roster, it would be easy to assume that the team that upset a powerful Dominican Republic team twice in the 2009 Classic is finally running out of magic. But that may not be the case.

“They are not a surprise anymore,” said Koen Greven, a writer for the Amsterdam-based newspaper NRC Handelsblad, referring to the victory over Cuba and a first-round win over South Korea. “They deserve to be here.

But to beat Cuba a second time, the Netherlands will have to play better defense. Against Cuba, the Dutch turned five double plays; on Sunday, they committed three errors.

They will also have to find a way to stop a Cuban lineup that bruised Taiwanese pitchers with four homers.

“We have to pitch better tomorrow,” Meulens said. “We have to keep the ball down and keep the ball in the ballpark. We gave up six home runs today. It’s hard to win like that.”

Japan’s next game is Tuesday, when it will play the Cuba-Netherlands winner to determine the top seed from Tokyo.

The day before is the second anniversary of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan.

“I imagine the past two years have been tough,” said Yamamoto, referring to the residents of the devastated Tohoku area. “But what we can do is play hard in hopes of bringing some smiles. I hope we can send some kind of positive message as a team.”
269 2013-03-11 According to the F.B.I., Mr. Homm earned commissions as a result of trades between a broker in which he owned a stake and the hedge fund. The trades inflated the prices of penny stocks and made Absolute Capital Management look more valuable than it was, the F.B.I. said in a statement, in a practice known as “portfolio pumping.” Mr. Homm and people he worked with are accused of earning $53 million through the scheme.

Mr. Homm faces charges of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and securities fraud.

In a telephone interview in November, Mr. Homm admitted he had behaved badly and committed many sins. “I’ve always said I’ve been a rogue operator in much of my life,” he said.

But he said his fund, which at one point had $2 billion under management, was highly profitable for investors most of the time. The charges against him were based on lies told by former associates, Mr. Homm said. Prior to his arrest he had been contesting the civil suit filed by the S.E.C.

Mr. Homm resigned as head of Absolute Capital in the middle of the night on Sept. 18, 2007. By his own account, he boarded a private plane in Majorca, his Calvin Klein underwear stuffed with cash, and made his way to Colombia, where he lived under an assumed name.

But Mr. Homm said he was never a fugitive. He said he dropped from view because he wanted to find himself, and also because some dubious people with whom he had done business were trying to kill him. Mr. Homm reappeared in November when he gave clandestine media interviews to promote a book he wrote, “Rogue Financier: The Adventures of an Estranged Capitalist.”

The book was intended as a cautionary tale, Mr. Homm said in a November telephone interview. “The pursuit of happiness is not correlated with the pursuit of money,” he said. In the book and interview, Mr. Homm insisted he was no longer the same person who once owned a stake in a Berlin brothel and lived in a $5 million residence on Majorca with a Russian table dancer. He said he prayed daily and was devoting his energy to charity work.

Given Mr. Homm’s flair for drama, it was perhaps fitting that he was arrested at the Uffizi Gallery, famous for an exquisite collection that includes works by Michelangelo, Rubens, Tintoretto and Rembrandt. At the time, he was accompanied by his ex-wife and son, according to the Italian news agency ANSA.

But it is unclear why Mr. Homm, who is 201 centimeters, or 6 feet 7 inches, tall and something of a celebrity in Germany, would appear in a place where there are many German tourists and he was likely to be recognized. Mr. Homm’s lawyer could not be reached for comment.
270 2013-03-11 Japan has been a strong supporter of a human rights investigation into North Korea. Japan has accused North Korea of kidnapping some of its citizens, and the issue remains a popular human rights and political cause.

The creation of a commission of inquiry would be a victory for defectors from North Korea, including a handful of people who are said to be survivors of the isolated country’s infamous prison camps. Some of them have become among the most vocal campaigners for human rights in North Korea, holding rallies, testifying about starvation and torture in gulags and arguing that foreign governments must break their silence about the people living under one of the most repressive systems in the world.

That argument has not always been popular in South Korea, where many of the defectors live. Many South Koreans believe that without an effective means of pressuring North Korea, which has defied and survived decades of international sanctions, an open challenge of its human rights record would only make it more paranoid and repressive.

South Korea used to abstain from any United Nations vote on human rights resolutions on North Korea. But after a conservative party took power five years ago, Seoul began voting for and even leading such moves. It also supports the creation of the commission of inquiry.

Coupled with the new set of United Nations sanctions, the human rights report was expected to increase the pressure on the young North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. Reports of a guarded relaxation of state control of the economy in North Korea have alternated with signs of a renewed crackdown on outside influences.

Concern over its nuclear program has sharpened international attention on North Korea, but human rights activists say that the North had rebuffed criticism of its abuses and that a commission of inquiry would provide a long-overdue spotlight on them.

“Increased scrutiny by international inquiry affords a measure of protection, especially when coupled with the prospect of future criminal investigations and the deterrent effect such a prospect may have on individual perpetrators,” according to Mr. Darusman’s report.

Mr. Darusman, taking stock of the United Nations investigations to date, identifies nine patterns of human rights violations, including denial of access to food, arbitrary detention in prison camps that are estimated to hold up to 200,000 people, and abductions of foreigners. Many, if not all, of these patterns “may amount to crimes against humanity, committed as part of systematic and/or widespread attacks against civilian populations,” the report says.

Testimony from prisoners who have escaped the North Korean gulags appears to have played a part in the decision to take action. Ms. Pillay, in calling for an international inquiry in January, cited the “extremely harrowing” nature of the accounts she had received in a meeting with two of the escaped prisoners, describing a system that she called “the very antithesis of international human rights norms.”

After eight years of inquiries, investigators had reached the point where they were forced to call for greater resources to continue their research, Mr. Darusman said in a telephone interview. Like other investigators, he has worked with a single assistant, limiting a sustained investigation. A commission of inquiry is likely to have three members, including Mr. Darusman, supported by researchers and a full-time secretariat.

Even if an inquiry is commissioned, it remains unclear how effective it will be except as political symbol. North Korea does not allow outside investigators. And other countries have few means to force Pyongyang to provide access. No outsider has ever had a glimpse of a North Korean prison camp.

North Korea rejected a critical General Assembly resolution in December as a “political plot” that escalated confrontation. The abuses that North Korea is accused of committing “cannot be allowed to exist in our country, where human rights and the fundamental freedom of the people are formally guaranteed by the legal system,” said Kim Song, the North Korean ambassador to the United Nations.
271 2013-03-11 LOS ANGELES &#x2014; Like the rest of the publishing industry, comic books went digital long ago. You can catch up on Batman via mobile app and unfurl Wolverine&#x2019;s claws from your laptop. But Marvel Comics upped the ante significantly on Sun...
272 2013-03-11 LOS ANGELES &#x2014; It was gridlock on the yellow brick road over the weekend as  &#x201C;Oz the Great and Powerful,&#x201D;  backed by a megawatt marketing campaign, took in about $80.3 million in North America and $69.9 million overseas.&#xa;  ...
273 2013-03-12 If the papal odds are less reliable than the odds on, say, sporting events – which have a very good overall record – they still may be the most useful publicly available predictions....
274 2013-03-12 Sara Volz, of Colorado Springs, cultivated populations of algae under her loft bed for her winning project in the Intel Science Talent Search....
275 2013-03-12 In this lesson we’ll help students raise questions and seek answers on the role of the church and the pope around the globe....
276 2013-03-12 The proposal imposes a fee on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, factories, refineries and other major sources....
277 2013-03-12 While Intrade’s predictive record was good, it didn’t foresee the rising controversy over under-regulated speculation....
278 2013-03-12 The American International Group’s former chief executive is moving ahead with a lawsuit against the federal government over its $182 billion rescue of the insurer — even without the backing of the company itself....
279 2013-03-12 When Tesla first revealed the electric crossover in February 2012, the company said production would begin at the end of 2013, with deliveries in 2014...
280 2013-03-12 Dell has agreed to open its books to the billionaire activist investor Carl C. Icahn, signaling a possible truce on one front in the battle over the computer maker’s proposed $24.4 billion buyout....
281 2013-03-12 At a Senate hearing on her nomination to become head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Jo White faced few tough questions....
282 2013-03-12 Mr. Luhrmann’s adaptation of “The Great Gatsby” stars Leonardo DiCaprio as Jay Gatsby, Tobey Maguire as Nick Carraway and Carey Mulligan as Daisy Buchanan....
283 2013-03-12 A start-up company called uMoove says it will offer eye and head tracking to anyone, including device makers like Apple and developers who make mobile apps....
284 2013-03-12 This word has appeared in 25 New York Times articles in the past year....
285 2013-03-12 To reduce payroll, the Yankees allowed the free agents Rafael Soriano, Nick Swisher and Russell Martin to depart for multiyear deals after last season, and may opt not to re-sign other players when they become free agents.

This year, the top luxury-tax rate for four-time offenders rises to 50 percent from 42.5 percent in 2012.

For the first time, under the labor agreement, a team can hit the reset button (17.5 percent) if it drives its payroll below the threshold, even for one year.

A team that stays below the tax threshold becomes eligible to have some of the money it contributed to revenue sharing refunded.
286 2013-03-12 Where did Barcelona lose its edge? Perhaps it would help to retrace the club’s steps. In 2009, it was on top of the world. Under its first-year manager, Pep Guardiola, Barcelona beat Athletic Bilbao to win the Copa del Rey, held off Real Madrid to win La Liga and topped Manchester United in the Champions League final in Rome.

Those triumphs led to berths in the UEFA and Spanish Super Cups and in FIFA’s annual Club World Cup, played in the United Arab Emirates that year. Barcelona swept those competitions as well. After repeating as Spanish league champion in 2010, Barcelona sent 14 of its players to the World Cup in South Africa, where the eight Spaniards on the club’s books picked up winner’s medals.

On and on it has gone, sometimes more than 60 games a season. A third straight Liga title in 2011. Another win over United in the Champions League final, in London, which meant a return to the Club World Cup, this time in Japan.

A semifinal exit from the Champions League last spring was a disappointment, but a Copa del Rey triumph — Barcelona’s 14th trophy in four years under Guardiola — ensured that at least there would be some new silverware to polish. There was little time for reflection, however. Seven of Barcelona’s Spaniards quickly packed their bags for Poland and Ukraine, where they helped their country repeat as European champion. More celebrations.

But this year, there will probably be only one trophy. Two recent losses to Real Madrid have hinted at a power shift in Spain, even if Barcelona looks certain to reclaim its Liga title. And now it may be headed out of the Champions League much earlier than expected.

Where did Barcelona lose the path? Abu Dhabi? Yokohama? Moscow? Glasgow? You choose. The players are probably too tired to look. But rest assured they will find it again. ANDREW DAS

Last Thursday, a Tokyo jeweler put up for sale a 55-pound pure-gold replica of Lionel Messi’s left foot — veins, callused skin and all — and attached to it a price tag of $5.25 million.

The object seemed artless, the metaphor so straightforward as to be uninteresting.

Two days later in Barcelona, Messi scored his 40th league goal of the season, lengthening a run of mesmerizing individual play that has produced a wave of staggering statistics. Consider that Barcelona, as a team, has scored a total of 85 league goals this season and the second-highest individual yield belongs to David Villa, who has seven.

Yet Messi’s individual feats can also symbolize what few shortcomings his team can be thought to possess. Now, as before, there has emerged murmuring about whether Barcelona, the paragon of team play, has become over-reliant on one man.

This was apparent three weeks ago. A.C. Milan applied the shackles to Messi, restricting his space, humanizing him and earning a gigantic 2-0 win at home. Barcelona held possession of the ball for two-thirds of the game, yet directed only two shots toward goal.

Barcelona needs goals on Tuesday night, when the teams will meet for the second leg of the series. And it seems obvious that Messi, who has produced 16 of the team’s 41 goals (counting the league and all cup competitions) since the start of the calendar year, will be the center of attention for both teams.

All eyes will be trained on Messi’s left foot. What sort of alchemy can it conjure?

As amazing as Barcelona’s run has been over the past 10 years or so, it is nearly as amazing how quickly the doubters, skeptics and haters (read Real Madrid fans) spring from the woodwork at the slightest sign of a misstep.

There is no arguing that Barcelona has stumbled, losing the first leg of its Round of 16 Champions League series against A.C. Milan then back-to-back matches against Madrid (in Copa del Rey and in La Liga). But take a glance at the Spanish league standings. After last weekend’s games the “slumping” team at the top maintains a 13-point lead over Real Madrid, which might be the hottest team in the world.

With Barcelona, we are not talking about some Sunday beer-league team. Memories can be short, and there is no doubt that stars like Lionel Messi, Andrés Iniesta, Xavi and Gerard Piqué will be hellbent on stifling their critics by erasing the two-goal deficit against A.C. Milan on Tuesday at Camp Nou.

Talent and skill will trump all, even an expertly organized Italian team that will probably try to thwart Barcelona with smothering tactics. One of soccer’s old saws is that a 2-0 lead is the most dangerous. It is, and it will be. JACK BELL
287 2013-03-12 Re “Corralling Mobsters, if Not Many Big Banks” (“Fair Game” column, SundayBusiness, March 10), about Mary Jo White, President Obama’s nominee for chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission:

Gretchen Morgenson suggests that Ms. White’s record in enforcing the federal securities laws was somewhat “mixed.” I strongly disagree.

Although Ms. Morgenson mentions some of the high-profile cases that Ms. White brought against financial institutions — such as Daiwa Bank, Republic Securities and Bankers Trust — she does not discuss Ms. White’s other significant contributions to the enforcement of the federal securities laws.

During her tenure, the number of securities fraud prosecutions increased dramatically. These results were based, in part, on the strong working relationship that Ms. White forged with the S.E.C. in parallel criminal and civil proceedings. Among her successes were Operation Thorcom, the first successful undercover investigation in the securities industry, and Operation Uptick, which led to the arrest of more than 45 and 120 defendants, respectively. She also brought criminal cases against corporate officers and outside auditors for accounting fraud, boiler room operators and insider trading rings, including the only prosecution of an investment bank chief executive.

In recognition of her successes, Congress provided her office with a supplemental $5 million exclusively for securities fraud prosecutions. This record of aggressive securities law enforcement cannot be seen as anything but exceptionally strong.

The writer, a lawyer, was chief of the Securities and Commodities Task Force during part of Ms. White’s tenure as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.

“Wall St. Ties in a Prospect for Deputy at the S.E.C.” (Business Day, March 6), reporting that Mary Jo White is likely to select her former law partner, Andrew J. Ceresney, as Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement director, is a stark reminder for investors that, regardless of which party occupies the Oval Office, it will be business as usual at the S.E.C.
288 2013-03-12 On Wednesday, a Senate Armed Services subcommittee plans to hold a hearing on sexual assaults in the military, the first Senate hearing on the issue in nearly a decade, and Colonel Wilkerson’s case is expected to be one of the focuses of the hearing.

The Wilkerson case has gained attention because it highlights what critics say is one of the biggest problems in how the military justice system handles sexual assault cases. In the system, senior commanders decide whether criminal charges are brought against military personnel, and even after charges are brought, the commanders also have the ability to veto the findings of a court-martial. That means the military justice system lacks the independence of the civilian law enforcement and judicial systems. For women who have been sexually assaulted, it means that their bosses decide whether charges are brought against their assailants, and that information about their assaults is shared in their workplaces.

Several women in the military have complained about the commanders’ control of the legal process. Last year, the secretary of defense, Leon E. Panetta, said that while there were 3,191 reported cases of sexual assault in the military in 2011, the actual number of episodes was believed to be as high as 19,000, because most women do not report the assaults.

General Franklin’s decision to overturn Colonel Wilkerson’s conviction by a jury came after Colonel Wilkerson had failed a polygraph examination concerning the offenses, according to several people close to the case. General Franklin did not check with the victim before making his decision to dismiss the case, for which he has not given a detailed public explanation, and instead tried to promote Colonel Wilkerson and give him a new command, according to people familiar with the case.

General Franklin “was looking for a way to show the pilot community he had their backs,” said one person familiar with the case.

Documents obtained in connection with Colonel Wilkerson’s case also provide a glimpse into the fighter pilot culture of the Air Force that some women say encourages misogynistic behavior. In a personal e-mail he wrote while he was at Aviano in November 2011, Colonel Wilkerson, who had recently been named the inspector general of the Air Force’s 31st Fighter Wing, describes his own behavior in a confrontation with military police. The e-mail, filled with bravado, expletives and fighter pilot jargon, describes an incident in which Colonel Wilkerson and other fighter pilots burned a couch in the middle of the base and then barked at the police and pulled rank to get them to back down when they came to investigate.

He wrote to another pilot that he deserved an award for helping ensure “the ability for the bros to either continue their merriment or skip away without notice.” He added that he cared “about bros and traditions,” and that he wanted to be remembered by his fellow pilots as someone who is “willing to stand up to the man, flip him the most wary of middle fingers, and then daring him to touch it.”

The couch-burning incident was a small matter, but Colonel Wilkerson’s belligerent treatment of the military security personnel who responded to the fire was considered more serious. The day after the incident, Colonel Wilkerson was dressed down by his commander, and the incident came back to haunt him during his trial, according to a person close to the case. After he attempted to provide evidence about his good military character, prosecutors were able to enter evidence about other incidents, including the couch-burning matter. Colonel Wilkerson’s lawyer, Frank Spinner, did not respond to a request for comment.
289 2013-03-12 “It will be a great moment when we hear the bells ring, and see the white smoke come out of the chimney, and get to see the Holy Father as he comes out and greets the world as the new pope,” said John Connaughton, 36, a seminarian from Trumbull, Conn.

Msgr. James F. Checchio, the rector of the seminary, said the resignation, interregnum and conclave provide a classic teachable moment — a chance to visualize the church history and ecclesiology that seminarians study in class, to understand the global reach of the church by interacting with pilgrims from around the planet, and to humanize the church’s leadership at a time when as many as 10 American cardinals have been staying at the college.

“Where else would you have this opportunity?” he asked.

“They have the ringside seat,” said Monsignor Checchio, who is a priest in the Camden Diocese in New Jersey. “That’s the unique part of this place, this seminary formation here, that it’s under the shadow of St. Peter, as they say, ‘Sub umbra Petri.’ ”

The seminary has nearly doubled in size, with 256 students this year, up from 156 in 2006. And it is on a bit of an unexpected roll: its students won last year’s Clericus Cup, a soccer tournament for teams from various seminaries in Rome.

Many of the men in seminary chose to become priests after the eruption of the sexual abuse crisis, at a time when the choice to become a priest is increasingly mystifying to many. Some of their friends and families were wary; others were encouraging.

“It’s pretty obvious, even for us, the situation is not really all sunshine. It is a tough time that we’re entering,” said Jun Hee Lee, a 25-year-old seminarian from Brooklyn. “Patience, perseverance in prayer and courage — having that faith and hope in our lord that the trueness of the Gospel will prevail, the truth will overcome.”

The seminarians say they felt an unusually personal connection to Benedict, in that most of them decided to become priests during his papacy. They read, and cite, Benedict’s books. And they have had many more opportunities than most Catholics to see the pope up close. Mr. Platania met Benedict on his 83d birthday, because he had been invited to join a group accompanying the archbishop of Newark to a private audience with the pope that day.

And now, startled as they were by Benedict’s decision to resign, they interpret his action as an act of courage. “It’s a very exciting time to be Catholic,” said James Hansen, a 24-year-old seminarian from Franklin Square, N.Y., who has been posting photos of major moments in the papal transition on his Facebook page. “Pope Benedict has just set this example of humility. He’s setting an example for the whole church universal.”

The seminarians, in the throes of their training, do not profess to have favorite candidates going in to the conclave, and they do not seek particular changes in the church. Instead, they tend to speak of this period in spiritual terms.

“You do get a sense that there’s something supernatural going on,” said John Wilson, a 27-year-old seminarian from the New York Archdiocese, who decided to become a priest after a stint as an editorial writer for The New York Post. “This isn’t just a human institution. It’s the mystical body of Christ coming together to choose a new leader.”

Jonathan Ficara, 26, a seminarian from Moodus, Conn., was a leader of fraternity life at the University of Connecticut before deciding to enter the seminary. As he waits for the selection of a new pope, he said, he has moved from sadness about Benedict’s departure to hope for what comes next.

“There is this growing excitement now — there was almost a certain state of mourning, and now we are transitioning to the new life, and a beautiful life in continuity with this 2,000 years,” Mr. Ficara said. “It’s a beautiful, wonderful time. Who wouldn’t want to be here?”
290 2013-03-12 HARTFORD — More than 1,000 supporters of gun rights, most wearing red stickers reading “N.R.A. Stand and Fight,” packed the atrium of the State Capitol on Monday as Connecticut’s protracted negotiations on new gun laws seemed to be lurching toward a resolution.

Many advocates for gun rights, who stood in the morning chill with signs reading “We Will Not Comply” and “Dictators Prefer Unarmed Citizens,” said the aggressive gun-control being pushed by Democrats would do nothing to keep residents safe while infringing on their rights.

But many said that after the Dec. 14 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, they were expecting lawmakers to pass sweeping gun controls, perhaps including an expansion of the state’s assault weapons ban and a prohibition on magazines with more than 10 rounds.

“I almost get the impression they’re going to ignore us,” said John Agnese, 22, who said he had been involved in shooting sports since he was 12.

Leaders in the General Assembly met for the third day on Monday after a bipartisan subcommittee failed to come up with a unified agenda last week. The main sticking points were differences between Democrats and Republicans on which assault and assault-style weapons would be banned, and the maximum sizes of ammunition magazines.
291 2013-03-12 Boeing is likely to seek approval from its board as early as next month to start taking orders for an updated version of its 777 passenger jet, industry officials said Monday.

The company plans to add lightweight carbon-composite wings and new engines to the popular model to take advantage of new technologies that it developed for its 787 Dreamliner and to cut fuel usage by perhaps 20 percent. The 777 holds a sweet spot in the growing commercial plane market. It seats more than 300 people, but with only two engines, it is cheaper to operate than the largest planes, like the Boeing 747 or the Airbus A380.

All 50 of the 787s delivered so far have been grounded after two incidents involving smoke and fire from new lithium-ion batteries, and no decision has been made about which batteries would be in the new 777s.

But the long-awaited decision to upgrade the planes would be an important moment for Boeing as it tries to hold onto its recent dominance in sales of twin-engine planes, which represent the middle of the size range for commercial jetliners.

Airbus, Boeing’s main rival, is building the A350-XWB, its first jet making substantial use of composite parts, to compete with both the 787 and the larger 777. Boeing also plans to build two larger versions of the 787.
292 2013-03-12 The three historians commissioned by the Vienna Philharmonic to carry out an independent study of its Nazi past announced their findings on Sunday. In preliminary materials furnished to The New York Times last month, Oliver Rathkolb, the lead historian, said he had learned, from a “highly trustworthy and well-informed witness,” the identity of a shadowy presence and promised to reveal it with the entire study. That has now been posted on the orchestra’s Web site, in German, with a promise of an English translation to follow. The person served as an emissary, official or not, of the orchestra in delivering a replacement of the orchestra’s ring of honor that had been bestowed on Baldur von Schirach in 1942. Schirach, the Nazi governor of Vienna who lost the ring after World War II, spent 20 years in prison for his part in deporting tens of thousands of Viennese Jews to extermination camps in Nazi-occupied Poland. In late 1966 or early 1967, after he was freed, the replacement ring was tendered by — it is now revealed — Helmut Wobisch, a trumpeter in the orchestra. Wobisch joined the Nazi party and the SS early on, spied on and denounced fellow musicians, was fired by the orchestra after the war, rejoined it in 1947, became its executive director in 1953 and played in it until 1968.
293 2013-03-12 The online betting site Intrade announced late on Sunday that it had halted trading and frozen customer accounts after the company said it had discovered potential financial irregularities.&#xa;   &#xa;The moves followed concerns raised by the com...
294 2013-03-12 Insomnia  may be linked to an increased risk of  heart failure , according to a large new study, and the more insomnia symptoms, the greater the risk.&#xa;   &#xa; The study , published last week in The European Heart Journal, used questionnaires ...
295 2013-03-12 Last Thursday, a Tokyo jeweler put up for sale a 55-pound pure-gold replica of Lionel Messi&#x2019;s left foot &#x2014; veins, callused skin and all &#x2014; and attached to it a price tag of $5.25 million.&#xa;   &#xa;The object seemed artless, t...
296 2013-03-12 Knicks and Rangers fans will have to pay more to see their teams in person next season.&#xa;   &#xa;The Knicks plan to raise season ticket prices by an average of 6.4 percent, while the Rangers will increase season ticket prices by 4 percent....
297 2013-03-12 Crisis? What crisis?&#xa;   &#xa;As amazing as Barcelona&#x2019;s run has been over the past 10 years or so, it is nearly as amazing how quickly the doubters, skeptics and haters (read Real Madrid fans) spring from the woodwork at the slightest si...
298 2013-03-12 LONDON &#x2014; After the financial crisis, countries like the United States adopted wide-ranging changes to their banking regulation.&#xa;   &#xa;Yet Britain was the only major economic power to go a step further by completely overhauling its reg...
299 2013-03-12 Where did Barcelona lose its edge? Perhaps it would help to retrace the club&#x2019;s steps. In 2009, it was on top of the world. Under its first-year manager, Pep Guardiola, Barcelona beat Athletic Bilbao to win the Copa del Rey, held off Real Ma...
300 2013-03-12 Dell Inc. has agreed to open its books to the activist investor Carl C. Icahn, signaling a possible truce on one front in the battle over the computer maker&#x2019;s proposed $24.4 billion buyout.&#xa;   &#xa;In exchange, the billionaire &#x2014; ...
301 2013-03-12 WASHINGTON &#x2014;  Mary Jo White  plans to strike a hard line against Wall Street wrongdoing at a Senate confirmation hearing on Tuesday, as she deflects concerns over her ability to regulate the same banks she recently defended.&#xa;   &#xa;In ...
302 2013-03-12 Barcelona  has become the pre-eminent club team in soccer in recent years but now stands on the brink of being ousted from Europe&#x2019;s annual Champions League without even making it to the quarterfinals. It trails  A.C. Milan  by two goals as ...
303 2013-03-13 At the same time, a federal judge suggested that the plaintiffs’ lawsuit, which accuses 11 firms of rigging the market for multibillion-dollar takeovers, was overly broad and had serious flaws....
304 2013-03-13 SandRidge Energy said it would expand its board by four seats, giving the new positions to TPG-Axon Capital Management. The company also said it would decide by June 30 whether to remove its chief executive, Tom L. Ward....
305 2013-03-13 The You’re the Boss small-business blog recently challenged its readers to try to capture the soul of their businesses in one photograph. The request stipulated that submissions should include no product or marketing shots. Instead, the goal was to see if the submitters could reveal something meaningful about the ups and downs, the grind and the rewards of building a business. The photographs have been pouring in, and we have selected five for this essay. There are more photos and instructions on making a submission at nytimes.com/boss.
306 2013-03-13 Netflix said that it would begin offering United States customers the ability to share their video watching habits with their friends on Facebook....
307 2013-03-13 “Edward Albee’s Laying an Egg,” a new play by the Tony Award-winning writer, will have its world premiere this summer at Signature Theater – one of several productions that the company announced on Wednesday for its 2013-14 season....
308 2013-03-13 Sergio Ruzzier’s illustrations always manage to be soft and fluffy and kind toward children — without slipping into saccharine gauziness. In two new picture books, one written and illustrated by Ruzzier, the other written by Eve Bunting, Ruzzier’s spare pen-and-ink pictures charmingly enliven animal stories in just the way preschoolers like.

Both tales concern befuddled yet lovable animals, trying to bumble their way out of confusing circumstances. The pleasure for young listeners is getting to laugh at these characters, while at the same time feeling at once superior to and affectionate toward them. Isn’t it comforting to know that other creatures forget things, make mistakes and generally have the wrong idea?

For example, children derive great pleasure from those moments when a grown-up who can’t lay hands on his hat or keys or gloves finds the missing object close at hand. In “Have You Seen My New Blue Socks?,” observant readers will notice halfway through that the hapless green duck is wearing his sought-after socks inside his shoes; they’ve just kind of sunk below the heel. (Come on, it’s happened to you.) This isn’t the only story to make much of this particular silly-goose premise; another new picture book, “Mister Whistler,” by Margaret Mahy and Gavin Bishop, concerns a man whose lost train ticket is held all the while between his teeth.

After he can’t find his socks in a box, Duck rhymes out his dismay in simple couplets every child will identify with: “I know I put them somewhere near./How could they simply disappear?” When he sets off to ask his “friend the fox,” readers may guess his next visit will be to Mr. Ox — and then, of course, he will ask peacocks. What makes this version particularly enjoyable are offbeat touches that mirror a preschooler’s precipitously escalated emotions. “I’m trying not to be depressed,” the downcast duck says at one juncture. “Without my socks I feel undressed.”

In this bighearted landscape, everyone wants to help and no one is made to feel stupid or foolish — even at the inevitable moment of epiphany. As they did in their earlier book, “Tweak, Tweak,” Bunting and Ruzzier work together well, capturing preschool fears and uncertain sentiments but, in the end, making it all O.K.

While “New Blue Socks” is about mishap, “Bear and Bee” is about misunderstanding. A putty-colored bear would love some honey but is dreadfully afraid of bees. He has never seen a bee and would prefer not to. When a bee offers a taste, Bear admits he’d love to try. “But what about the bee?” he asks. “Bees are terrible monsters! They are big, and they have large teeth, and they have sharp claws.”
309 2013-03-13 The dearth of prosecutions since the financial crisis is again stirring controversy, but there is still time for political leaders to hold corporate executives responsible when a company engages in misconduct....
310 2013-03-13 The federal minimum wage should be lowered, not raised, so as not to compound the damage it causes....
311 2013-03-13 What “important problem in the world” would you like to solve, if you could, through scientific inquiry?...
312 2013-03-13 The Dutch Supreme Court narrowed its definition of rape on Tuesday, saying that a “forced tongue kiss” no longer qualifies. In one of the court’s more unusual cases, a panel of three men and two women overturned a lower court’s rape conviction of a man for forcing his tongue into the mouth of a woman in a hospital restroom. The ruling reversed a 1998 Supreme Court decision that broadly defined rape as any form of unwanted sexual penetration. The court said that a forced kiss should be considered an indecent assault, which carries a maximum sentence of eight years, as opposed to rape, which has a maximum 12-year sentence.
313 2013-03-13 Mr. Kelly explained that even when street stops peaked at roughly 685,000 police encounters in 2011, the number of stops amounted to “less than one stop a week by a patrol officer.”

Councilman Jumaane D. Williams, a Brooklyn Democrat, however, did not seem satisfied with Mr. Kelly’s answer.

The exchange between Mr. Williams and Mr. Kelly grew heated — inflamed, in part, by the fatal police shooting of a teenage Brooklyn boy over the weekend, and a related community vigil in East Flatbush that devolved into chaos on Monday.

At the start of his remarks before the Public Safety Committee, Mr. Kelly addressed the shooting and the lawlessness that unfolded among a small band of vigil participants.

“Illegal guns continue to plague us,” the commissioner said, adding that the shooting of the teenager, Kimani Gray, occurred after Mr. Gray pointed a loaded .38-caliber revolver at the officers.

“Last night, during a peaceful vigil for Kimani Gray, a splinter group caused disturbances,” Mr. Kelly said.

During the exchange with the commissioner, Mr. Williams, who represents the district where the police shooting and the vigil took place, criticized Mr. Kelly for characterizing what he viewed as long-simmering community anger as a mere “disturbance.”

“All you want to do is belittle the problem,” Mr. Williams said.

Mr. Kelly chided the councilman: “I noticed you didn’t mention anything about a 16-year-old with a gun that brought about this incident.”

Mr. Williams implored the commissioner to come out to his district and talk to residents.

“I’m willing to cancel the rest of my afternoon and have you come to the community and walk with me and talk to some of the people,” Mr. Williams said.

“I go to the community meetings all the time,” Mr. Kelly said. “I understand that that’s a photo op that you would like.”

“Not a photo op,” Mr. Williams retorted. “I haven’t seen you in my district talking to people.”

During the hearing, another council member, Helen D. Foster, a Bronx Democrat, struck a personal chord when she talked about a recent police encounter in which she said an officer cursed at her as she tried to back into a parking space.

“It takes a lot to bring me to tears, but it brought me to tears,” Ms. Foster told the commissioner.

Mr. Kelly did not address her comment, which seemed to add further insult.

“The fact that it wasn’t acknowledged or even mentioned after I mentioned it to the commissioner,” she told reporters later, “shows that there is problem, and it stems from the top.”
314 2013-03-13 Their odyssey included buying a bottling plant that turned out to be a money-eating operation, compounded by other mishaps like mismatched labels, moldy tea and glass shards that set the company back and cost more than $1 million altogether. They also confess to overreaching when they strayed from their core bottled beverage business and produced tea bags, a product that failed to catch fire.

The hallelujah part of the story was getting Coca-Cola to first buy a minority share in 2008, and then full ownership, while retaining control of the company.

To lay out the dozen years of Honest Tea’s ups and downs before that point, Mr. Goldman borrowed an idea from something he loved doing with his three sons — reading comic books. He wanted to illustrate the company’s story, and persuaded Mr. Nalebuff, who has written five other books, to come aboard.

“I wondered if the world really needed another business book,” said Mr. Nalebuff, “but I thought that if we were going to write one, it should be really different.”

They also are adopting a nontraditional approach to marketing the book, set to be published on Sept. 3 by Crown Business, a unit of Random House. The pair, with a budget they did not disclose, are focusing on online and social media efforts, and have created a Web site, missioninabottle.net, where, for $25, a customer can buy a book, a signed bookplate and a T-shirt.

Also available is a $2,100 package for 100 books and other merchandise or a consultation (price negotiable) for people who want to start socially responsible businesses or to inspire their employees.

The book’s marketing is separate from the company, whose advertising spending was $1.5 million in 2012, according to figures from Kantar Media, a unit of WPP. The book may attract some brand customers, but it is aimed at would-be entrepreneurs, with the first year’s proceeds destined to go to three nonprofits, including the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship, which works with high school students on developing start-up skills.

Before they committed to a graphic-style history, Mr. Nalebuff studied how to write a comic book. But the graphic style had typically not been linked to more ponderous business stories, an area for which it may be well suited, said brand experts.

“The graphic approach blends with the Web and digital communications, including the infographics, that all of us use,” said Michel Ruby, executive creative director at Stein & Partners Brand Activation. “Pictures offer a strong sensory experience.”

Using graphics, said Mark Evanier, a Los Angeles-based comics historian, makes “a book more accessible because people think it’s fun. It feels not too heavy, boring or pedantic, and communicates an idea quickly. And it makes the characters larger than life.”

Translating the Honest Tea brand story idled, said Mr. Nalebuff, until the comic book artist Sungyoon Choi was hired to convert their experiences into dozens of illustrations. Even so, Roger Scholl, the book’s editor at Crown Business, decided to add a text-only summary after each of the book’s section to sum up the lessons learned from the illustrated material.

“We’re aiming for the start-up crowd,” said Mr. Scholl, “and we needed something fresh in the business category, and this format makes it easier to digest.”

Mr. Goldman says that some of the company’s crucial survival moments were easier to illustrate than to explain in print, like the warrants that Mr. Nalebuff designed to attract investors, but that allowed the co-founders to keep control of the company, a financial arrangement Mr. Goldman concedes, in one book panel, that he did not then understand.

Putting the book together, said Mr. Nalebuff, helped him focus on what kind of brand they had built, noting that, “for the first five years we thought we were a tea company. That’s why we added tea bags to the line.”

“It wasn’t until years later after our beverages, Honest Ade and Honest Kids, took off that we realized the most important word on our name wasn’t ‘tea.’ It was ‘Honest,’ ” he said. “Our brand meant authentic, healthier, organic products.”
315 2013-03-13 Appealing for a shift in emphasis on nuclear safety, the new head of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission warned a gathering of more than 3,000 industry executives, experts and government regulators on Tuesday against relying too heavily on their ability to predict the future, and suggested that when it comes to commercial reactors, the industry and the government should be ready to deal with the unknown.

Speaking two years after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant disaster in Japan, Allison M. Macfarlane, a geologist who became chairwoman of the five-member commission last July, cited aging nuclear reactors, terrorist attacks and natural disasters, saying, “we don’t know everything about how the Earth behaves, and we must factor this into how we approach nuclear safety.'’

In the past few years the commission has employed a safety technique called probabilistic risk assessment, in which engineers assign probability to equipment failure to determine which accidents are the most likely, and thus which systems and components most deserve improvements.

In her talk on Tuesday morning at the agency’s annual Regulatory Information Conference in Bethesda, Md., Dr. Macfarlane used an oft-repeated quote, attributed to the physicist Niels Bohr: “Prediction is very difficult, especially about the future.” Her field, geology, has traditionally concerned itself with understanding history over long periods, although the nuclear industry, with its focus on earthquake risk and its search for areas to bury nuclear waste, has used that science to make predictions.

Her point suggested support for an emerging approach at the commission, preparing for the unknown with stockpiles of equipment that could be used in accidents that are outside the realm of safety problems that the plants were designed to meet. The reactor sites now have portable pumps and generators, hoses and other equipment, and the industry is planning two centralized depots for similar equipment, an approach that to some extent mirrors the oil industry’s preparations for spills, with cooperative regional depots. The commission began focusing on that approach after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and increased its efforts after the Fukushima accident that stemmed from an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.

But the nuclear industry is moving into the unknown in several ways, Ms. Macfarlane pointed out. By 2017, about half the operating reactors will have exceeded their initial 40-year licenses and will be running on 20-year extensions. The commission is exploring whether some reactors could qualify for a second 20-year extension. But, she said, “there is limited experience to draw from to address life beyond 60 years.”
316 2013-03-13 Professor Jacobs credits muscular lobbying efforts by AARP for establishing free or low-cost auditing programs. “If you are going to give senior citizens a discount for going to the movies, why not give them a discount to take a class?” he said.

Public institutions often have lifelong learning programs. In Florida, for instance, residents 60 and over can audit classes free at state universities through the Senior Citizen Tuition Fee Waiver Program. New York enacted similar legislation in 1974, and perennial bills in the State Senate and Assembly would expand the law by adding classes taken for credit.

More than 900 people of retirement age, including Joseph and Helen Appel, audit classes at Rutgers, a more than twentyfold increase compared with 10 years ago. This semester, Mr. Appel, 80, and Ms. Appel, 75, are taking “Christians, Jews and Paganism” at the New Brunswick, N.J., campus.

They consider the class a weekly opportunity to socialize with friends. “We meet our two friends at Barnes & Noble,” said Ms. Appel, who had just returned from a lecture on “The Golden Ass” by the Roman writer Apuleius. “We have a snack with them before the class.”

Ms. Appel concedes she enjoys a free education that’s free from homework: “Joe does homework; I don’t.”

When Edward Milbry, 64, first attended Kent State University in Ohio in the 1970s, History of Civilization II was mandatory. Now it is an elective, because he enrolled in the university’s Senior Guest Program.

Mr. Milbry, who plans to travel to all seven continents during his retirement, recently visited Turkey, Egypt and Israel, countries he currently studies in class. He avoids chatting with undergraduate students — “they’re too young” he said — but professors use his presence as a motivational tool.

“A couple of my professors, they approached me and asked who I was and introduced me to the class,” Mr. Milbry said. “ ‘Say, here’s a guy taking the class for the fun of it.’ ”

“Novelty is something the brain thrives on,” said Prof. Judah L. Ronch, dean of the Erickson School for aging studies at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. “It helps connections between nerve cells form, and that’s the basis of new knowledge and ability. Research now supports the idea that at any age these connections can continue to be made.”

The classroom may be particularly beneficial for widowed students. Many surviving spouses had socialized only with other couples, and “typically the spouse who has been widowed has been shunted aside by the intact couple,” Professor Ronch said. In college, he said, students are unlikely to ask, “Is your husband dead or alive?”

Bernice Galef, 81, says she believes that the life drawing class she takes at Purchase College, State University of New York , is a “lifesaver.” The experience alleviated her depression after her husband died last year. “After grieving, I looked around for something that made me feel that I was still alive,” said Ms. Galef, who appreciates the company of younger classmates.

“We hang out during breaks,” she said. “I really more or less interview them. I am interested in them. I’m interested in why they have the tattoos they have.”

Maintaining harmony between auditors and colleges can require diplomacy and, sometimes, discipline. On its Web site, Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton publishes a primer on auditor etiquette: “The interests of the tuition-paying students must remain primary; interference by enthusiastic auditors is disruptive.” The university also asks that auditors “sit behind the students enrolled for credit.”

Boston University’s Evergreen program for students 58 and over does not go as far as segregated seating, but it does have its rules. “We hand them a conduct code when they register, and they sign their name to it, that they can’t monopolize classes,” said Rebecca Alssid, director of lifelong learning and food and wine programs at the university. “If they have hearing aids, they have to make sure they are adjusted before they come in.”

Evergreen attracts 1,300 to 1,500 students each semester, but Ms. Alssid has to deal with only one or two code violators a year. Most professors report that retirees enrich rather than disrupt the classroom.

“The whole purpose of the program at the beginning was to have an intergenerational program,” Ms. Alssid said. “It’s a way for older students to give their point of view. The teachers love it.”

As a rule, Prof. Yael Zerubavel, founding director of the Allen and Joan Bildner Center for the Study of Jewish Life at Rutgers, poses questions to younger students in her classes before she calls on auditors. “I don’t want the older students to lead the class,” she said. “Sometimes, the younger students might be inhibited.” Yet she said she valued older students as living, breathing textbooks.

“I teach the Jewish immigrant experience,” she said. “It’s wonderful to have people who can talk about it.”

Professor Ronch, the expert on aging and who is also a psychologist, describes the mix of 80-year-olds and 18-year-olds as “magic.” He suggests that a freshman may associate an aging classmate with a nurturing grandparent.

There is limited research on intergenerational classroom relationships. But a paper presented by Naoko Suzuki at the International Conference in Open and Distance Learning in 2011 found that older students at the Open University of Japan “tried to help young people by giving them advice or telling them their own stories.” Younger students surveyed, who had previously struggled in school, welcomed mentoring from older classmates.

Louise Wazbinski, 67, who is auditing Dada and Surrealism at Kent State free, believes that any cultural chasm between older and younger students quickly evaporates. “I know I look older,” she said, “but through my eyes, I feel like one of the kids.”

Asked if she had experienced any surrealistic moments on campus, Ms. Wazbinski thought of only one.

“I get to take these classes, and all I pay for is parking,” she said. “That’s surreal.”
317 2013-03-13 What can make a fixation on income especially risky nowadays is that while many advisers have begun to take a more “holistic, multidimensional approach,” Mr. Zaharoff said, the quest for income by others with a more traditional approach has pushed prices too high and yields too low on many investments. “Valuations matter,” he said.

They also matter to Christopher M. Zelesnick, senior managing director at Ziegler Wealth Management in Chicago, who likewise finds few palatable options among income-producing assets. He considers it sensible to own high-yield corporate bonds, for instance, in anticipation of rising interest rates and an economic revival, the sort of backdrop that is anathema to Treasury issues, but lofty valuations are putting him off.

“High-yield bonds perform well if the economy is improving,” he said. “The problem today is that a lot of investors have run to that side of the fence and lowered yields below where they should be.”

Jordan Waxman, managing director of the financial advisory firm HighTower in New York, acknowledges that decent income is harder to achieve. Yet he detects it in enough corners of the markets, and with acceptable levels of risk, for retirees to avoid having to dip into their capital.

“With the caveat that you can’t squeeze blood from a stone,” he said, “I would be in the camp that you should secure cash flow from investments to the extent that you can do that. There are areas that might be overlooked that can still get you where you need to go.”

The destination he has in mind is an average yield of 5 to 6 percent. His preferred vehicles include two that offer tax advantages that inflate investors’ net yields: high-yield municipal bonds and master limited partnerships, which are businesses engaged mainly in oil and gas transportation — the type of partnerships he favors — and production.

Mr. Waxman also likes blue-chip stocks that pay big dividends. If that seems like a perilous choice with the stock market at multiyear highs, he points out that different kinds of stocks have enjoyed the rally to different degrees.

“The stock market has had a very nice recovery led by low-quality companies,” he said. “Most financially stable, rock-solid companies have not participated as much. Prices are similar to where they were 13 years ago.”

Higher-yielding stocks are a popular choice among investment advisers, whichever retirement-planning philosophy they adhere to, because they allow investors to have their cake and eat it, too.

“Dividend-paying stocks have yields close to 10-year Treasury yields, and in addition they have growth prospects,” Mr. Zelesnick said. “As a business does better it can increase its dividend.”

Mr. Zaharoff is a fan of stocks with healthy yields, too, particularly “well-regarded global companies that have strong franchises and plenty of cash,” he said. “You want companies to be growing profitably and choosing to distribute some of that back in dividends.”

When trying to find the right mix of assets to produce a suitable mix of income and growth, investment advisers recommend using a professional because of the need to juggle the various market niches along with the needs and wants of investors. Which sort of professional is best depends on the approach an investor wants to take.

“There are two approaches,” Mr. Kelly said. “Work with a financial adviser to put together an appropriate portfolio, explaining what your risk tolerances and income needs are, and let the adviser figure out whether you’re going to be selling assets to derive that income. Another way to go is to buy a broad asset-allocation mutual fund and set it up to take withdrawals every month.”

He considers a global income fund, with holdings in many markets and asset classes, to be a particularly good option, but he stresses to investors that how they put their money into the markets has nothing to do with how they take it back out.

“They should separate the distribution part from the strategic-allocation part,” Mr. Kelly said. “They’re two separate issues. People often get them confused.”
318 2013-03-13 Adding insulation would space the cells farther apart to keep the plane’s vibrations from bringing them into contact. Boeing would also add systems to monitor the temperature and activity in each cell.

But the new plan, which calls for 20 tests that would place the battery under stress, could also sharpen a debate among some safety experts over how certain Boeing and the F.A.A. can be that the changes will eliminate the risk of smoke or fire in the batteries. Investigators in the United States and Japan have not been able to determine the precise cause of the battery problems.

“This comprehensive series of tests will show us whether the proposed battery improvements will work as designed,” said Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary. “We won’t allow the plane to return to service unless we’re satisfied that the new design ensures the safety of the aircraft and its passengers.”

The National Transportation Safety Board has found that in the Boston episode, a short circuit in one cell caused the battery to overheat and burst into flame on Jan. 7.

But investigators in Japan have raised the possibility that a battery on another 787 nine days later started smoldering because it might have been hit by a surge of electrical current from another part of the plane.

Jay F. Whitacre, an associate professor of materials science and engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, said Boeing’s approach was technically reasonable even if the cause of the battery fire was not known. Boeing’s system, he said, was designed to contain any failure of a single cell and prevent it from spreading to the rest of the plane.

“They are taking a systemic approach, and not a find-the-problem approach,” he said. “They also recognize that figuring out what went wrong is a very complicated question, like a crime scene investigation. Meanwhile, they are focused on getting the planes back in the air.”

But not everyone was comfortable with this approach.

“I think the real issue here is to develop a robust storage system that is immune to fire,” said Donald R. Sadoway, a materials chemistry professor at M.I.T. “I am not hearing anything about how to make that battery fire-resistant.”

The long-awaited announcement by the F.A.A. helped propel Boeing’s stock on Tuesday to $84.16, a five-year high. The confidence of investors was also buoyed by earlier reports of a $15 billion order by Ryanair for 170 single-aisle 737s and Boeing’s decision to move forward with a new version of its best-selling twin-aisle 777.

The certification plan requires a series of tests that must be passed before the 787 can return to service. The plan establishes specific pass-fail criteria, defines what should be measured, prescribes test methods and specifies the test setup and design. F.A.A. engineers will be present for the testing and involved in all aspects of the process.

Federal and industry officials said the tests would subject the battery to the most extreme conditions it was likely to face and determine if the case could withstand a battery explosion. The tests will include bursts of power to put stress on the battery and check its flammability as well as how it performs in hot weather.

The F.A.A. has also approved limited test flights for two aircraft. One plane will test the old battery, while the other will test how the new system performs under normal flight conditions. The flight tests will begin within a week.

The agency will approve the redesign only if the company successfully completes all required tests and analyses.

The F.A.A. said it was continuing a review of the 787’s design, production and manufacturing.

“We are confident the plan we approved today includes all the right elements to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the battery system redesign,” said Michael P. Huerta, the F.A.A. administrator. “Today’s announcement starts a testing process, which will demonstrate whether the proposed fix will work as designed.”

Mr. LaHood said in January that the planes “won’t fly until we’re 1,000 percent sure they are safe to fly.”

Boeing officials said they thought they had identified the most likely ways in which the batteries could fail. They contend that the changes will virtually eliminate the chances of future troubles and protect the plane and its passengers if a problem does arise.

Boeing said it would also require its Japanese battery maker, GS Yuasa, to improve its quality control procedures to guard against possible manufacturing defects.

Aviation analysts said the plan would probably protect against the main problem that the safety board identified, a short circuit in one cell that can set off a chemical reaction, causing the battery to overheat.

But some battery experts said they would feel more comfortable if a precise cause were found and the problems that happened on the two flights in January could be replicated in a lab.

“The tests have to be comprehensive insofar that they capture the conditions that started these fires,” Professor Sadoway said. “How is it that Boeing managed to log more than 50,000 flight hours on the 787 and didn’t manage to turn up any of the problems we are seeing today?”

Approval of the changes is a highly political process. Mr. Huerta and Mr. LaHood are trying to balance safety concerns with the interest at Boeing and in the airline industry in getting the planes flying again.

Boeing said the new test plans were based partly on guidelines from the RTCA, an advisory group that provides recommendations on ways to meet regulatory requirements. The guidelines were published in 2008, about six months after the F.A.A. approved Boeing’s original battery plans.

Perceptions of the traveling public also loom large as Boeing tries to restore confidence in the 787, known as the Dreamliner for its use of new technologies that reduce fuel costs by 20 percent.

“It is not inappropriate to test that containment case,” said George W. Hamlin, an aviation consultant, “but until we know more why the fire occurred, simply proving the containment mechanism works doesn’t necessarily imply the airplane should be flying immediately. It’s necessary but not sufficient.”
319 2013-03-13 Thomas Ault, Louisville’s city manager, estimated that the first three buildings under construction would cost $22 million to $24 million. Chesapeake employs 550 people in eastern Ohio, according to company records: Mr. Ault said that if Chesapeake moved a good portion of them into the field office, the company would become Louisville’s second-largest employer next to the city’s public schools, which have 618 teachers and staff members.

“We haven’t had any private development around here to compare to this in a long time,” Mr. Ault said.

Executives with Chesapeake declined to be interviewed. In public statements, though, energy industry executives have said drilling and production are being impeded by a shortage of processing plants and pipelines. Chesapeake and other leading production and processing companies are attacking that problem with an infrastructure development program never seen here, said Thomas E. Stewart, executive vice president of the Ohio Oil and Gas Association.

“Really, there is nothing in Ohio’s drilling and processing history to compare to what’s going on now,” Mr. Stewart said. “It’s transformational.”

Ohio remains a comparatively small producer — 4.8 million barrels of oil and 78 billion cubic feet of gas in 2011 — ranking it 18th in oil and 20th in natural gas production among the states, according to federal figures. Two years ago, though, the first wells penetrated the Utica Shale. Since then, according to the latest weekly tally by Ohio’s Natural Resources Department, 255 of the 548 Utica wells that received permits have been drilled and completed, and 74 are producing natural gas.

Companies are using the process of hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, which pumps a mixture of sand, water and chemicals at extremely high pressure down a well to fracture the rock and release the gas. A completed Utica well, which dives vertically 6,000 to 10,000 feet and then travels horizontally through the shale for roughly the same distance, costs $6 million to $10 million, according to industry reports.

With all this energy-related construction, industry executives believe that Ohio will produce two billion to three billion cubic feet of processed gas daily within the decade. Even so, fracking has attracted some opposition in eastern Ohio, and the process has raised questions about water contamination and air pollution that are under investigation by the Environmental Protection Agency.

The Utica Shale yields “dry” natural gas, which is nearly pure methane and so plentiful in the United States that the market price, just more than $3 per thousand cubic feet, is near a record low.

The shale also contains more valuable “wet gas,” which is methane permeated with ethane, propane, pentane and butane that can be separated and used to manufacture chemicals, plastics, and liquid fuels like gasoline. The abundance of natural gas in the United States also drove prices lower last year for the four liquid compounds. But with a price range of $30 to $95 a barrel, depending on the product, processing and marketing wet gas can be very profitable.

A Utica well in Belmont County, developed by Gulfport Energy, last year produced 21 million cubic feet a day of natural gas, in addition to 945 barrels a day of ethane, propane, butane and other liquids. Tim Carr, a professor of energy at West Virginia University, estimated in January that at $3 per thousand cubic feet of gas and $50 for each barrel of liquids, the well generated more than $100,000 a day in revenue.

Such results have stirred the strong exploration activity in Ohio, where 28 drilling rigs are in operation, according to Baker Hughes, the oil field services company, which tracks rig operations nationally.

East of Louisville, in Mahoning County, NiSource Inc.’s Midstream and Minerals Group is working with an affiliate of Hilcorp Energy Company to build a $300 million gas-gathering system and processing plant in Springfield Township. The plant purifies and cools the gas to minus 150 degrees Fahrenheit, turning it into a liquid that can be separated. Constructed on a 95-acre parcel, the cryogenic plant will process 200 million cubic feet of gas daily when it is completed later this year.

Three counties south, in Harrison County, Mark West Energy Partners, a Denver-based company, is working with the Energy and Minerals Group to build a processing plant near Cadiz, according to company reports. The plant expects to process 385 million cubic feet of gas daily. A second plant, near Summerfield in Noble County, also will process 400 million cubic feet of gas and will start operations this year.

Exterran, a Houston-based company, last year completed a $13 million, 65,000-square-foot office and fabricating plant in Youngstown, about 50 miles northeast of Louisville, to manufacture gas processing equipment.

Chesapeake’s big move in Ohio — by the end of 2012 it had drilled 184 Utica wells — came amid sales of some of its reserves in Ohio to raise cash, as well as administrative turmoil that last year engulfed its home office in Oklahoma. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the company and its chief executive, Aubrey McClendon, over a perk that granted him a share in each of the company’s gas wells. Chesapeake conducted an internal inquiry into the well program and Mr. McClendon’s finances and found no “intentional” wrongdoing by the executive. Mr. McClendon is set to retire on April 1.

At the close of 2012, Chesapeake Energy’s holdings in eastern Ohio included 45 producing gas wells in the Utica Shale, 47 wells awaiting pipelines and 92 wells that were not yet complete. Production from those wells, and dozens more the company says it intends to develop, will make it the largest customer for a $900 million network of pipelines and processing plants under development by EV Energy Partners, Access Midstream and M3 Midstream/Momentum.

The first of the three processing plants planned for the project, which is capable of processing 600 million cubic feet of gas daily, is under construction near Kensington in Columbiana County. It is scheduled to be completed in early summer. Construction of a second plant, to store wet gas, will start in Harrison County in the spring. A third plant, with capacity to process 200 million cubic feet of gas daily, will start later this year in Carroll County, and production is scheduled to start in 2014.
320 2013-03-13 LONDON — When the news reached London on Tuesday that 99.7 percent of Falkland islanders who had participated in a referendum had voted “yes” on retaining their ties with Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron was delighted. The result, he said, proved that the islands were “British through and through.”

“The Falkland islanders couldn’t have spoken more clearly,” he said. “They want to remain British, and that view should be respected by everybody, including by Argentina.”

In Buenos Aires, though, Argentine officials dismissed the referendum as irrelevant, describing the dispute over the islands as a matter of sovereignty, not popular will. No vote by British “settlers,” they said, however lopsided, could trump Argentina’s historic claim to the archipelago that Argentines call Las Malvinas.

And so, at the end of the latest chapter in a push-pull over the islands dating back decades, matters appeared to stand pretty much where they had before the islanders, prodded by the Cameron government, called the referendum in response to a resurgence of nationalist fervor over the issue in Argentina. The dispute, it seemed, will continue to rumble on at the United Nations, with neither London nor Buenos Aires showing any readiness to cede ground.

The vote among the islanders on Sunday and Monday had been expected to produce the landslide that it did because most voters hold British citizenship. Of 1,517 votes cast, 1,513 were in favor of the islands’ retaining “their status as an Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom,” as the ballot question put it, and only three were opposed. Island officials recorded one vote as “unaccounted for,” meaning lost. Officials said 92 percent of eligible voters turned out.

Mr. Cameron went before television cameras to hail the result as a triumph — a rare one, electorally, for the prime minister, whose government has been trounced in several recent by-elections at home. Calling the Falklands result “the clearest possible,” he said the Argentine government of President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner should take “careful note.”
321 2013-03-13 Ms. Marshall is the author of one previous book, the sublime and sustaining “Peabody Sisters: Three Women Who Ignited American Romanticism” (2005). Her “Margaret Fuller: A New American Life” proves that earlier volume was no fluke. This one pushes Ms. Marshall into the front rank of American biographers.

She is comfortable with subtle intellection as well as the sweep of history. She captures the intricacies of Fuller’s editorship of The Dial, the Transcendentalist literary journal, and her stints as a front-page columnist and foreign correspondent for Horace Greeley’s New York Tribune.

Ms. Marshall is terrific on Fuller’s composition of the feminist manifesto “Woman in the Nineteenth Century,” which made her a celebrity. That groundbreaking and instructively peppery book argued that marriage should be “only an experience” for women, not the sole aim of existence. A house is “no home” for a woman, Fuller declared, “unless it contain food and fire for the mind as well as for the body.”

Fuller knew everyone, not just Emerson and Thoreau but the young Oliver Wendell Holmes and Nathaniel Hawthorne as well. When she donated a cow to Brook Farm, the utopian commune founded in the 1840s in Massachusetts, Hawthorne liked to call it the “transcendental heifer.”

Edgar Allan Poe reviewed one of her books; Walt Whitman pored over her columns. Abroad she met George Sand, Matthew Arnold and William Wordsworth, and stayed at the home of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning.

Emerson called Fuller’s “the most entertaining conversation in America.” People wanted to be around her. The tragedy of her life is that she desired more of a career than a woman of her era was able to have. “A man’s ambition with a woman’s heart,” she wrote in a journal. “’Tis an accursed lot.”

“Margaret Fuller” is as seductive as it is impressive. It has the grain and emotional amplitude of a serious novel, especially in its first half. It delivers a lovely and bumpy coming-of-age story, one of the best such stories 19th-century America has to offer. Now that the new season of “Girls” is winding down, this book is an entertainment that ambitious and literate young women should turn their attention toward.

Fuller grew up near Cambridge, Mass. Her father was a lawyer and United States congressman who had been a serious scholar at Harvard. He wanted to fill her with his own learning, and he did.

He started her on Latin at 6. She devoured “The Aeneid” at 8. By 10 she was translating Cicero and Virgil. Holmes, who was around her age and lived nearby, found evidence of her “superiority” to be a “crushing discovery.”

Fuller had a sharp tongue and a certain hauteur, and she wasn’t always popular at school. She was “exposed to petty persecutions,” a contemporary said. When she gave a dance party at her home, it was a humiliation. Almost no one came.

Her teenage years were, physically, a horror show. She was short, plump and awkward, with a congenitally curved spine and a nearsighted squint. She had bad hair and was raddled with acne. Fuller wrote that she “made up my mind to be bright and ugly.” (As an adult, she lost weight and according to some reports became almost swanlike.)

Fuller should have been part of the brilliant Harvard class of 1829, but the college did not enroll women. She realized that, both intellectually and emotionally, she must learn to “be my own priest, pupil, parent, child, husband and wife.”

Her family did not have money, and Fuller had to struggle her entire life to make ends meet. She worked as a tutor and schoolteacher before beginning to publish essays and to make a name for herself as a larger-than-life human being.

Fuller could seem all brain, zero body. Her infatuations with various intellectual men went mostly unrequited. To them she seemed more rival than muse. Ms. Marshall’s book suggests that she was a virgin until meeting, in her late 30s, the man she would marry. He was Italian and not her intellectual equal. Their son was conceived out of wedlock, a scandal to many.(Her husband and son would also die in the shipwreck.)

“Margaret Fuller” slackens in its final third, when Fuller is living in Italy. Too much is made of her lack of sexual experience; the author lingers too long over suggestive phrases from Fuller’s writing like “earthly union” and “mutual tenderness” and “full communion.” Ms. Marshall’s prose, usually so crisp, edges toward the overripe. About Fuller’s husband, we read, “Did the shade of melancholy in his eyes vanish when he looked into hers?”

These are rare slips in an alert and elegant narrative. Ms. Marshall’s rigorous book stands on the shoulders of earlier scholarship and many previous biographies of Fuller. It doesn’t contain a vast amount of new material. But in Ms. Marshall, Fuller has found what feels like her ideal biographer.

Reading this book put me in mind of what Emerson said it felt like to talk with Fuller. It was “like being set in a large place,” he reported. “You stretch your limbs & dilate to your utmost size.”
322 2013-03-13 Merck & Company said on Tuesday that an independent monitoring board would let it continue with a large clinical trial assessing the safety and effectiveness of its Vytorin cholesterol treatment.

The panel’s decision suggested that no safety concerns had arisen for Vytorin.

The study, called Improve-It, will continue to its conclusion in September 2014, the drug maker said. The study is looking at whether Vytorin, with annual sales total $1.75 billion, can significantly reduce heart attacks, strokes and heart-related deaths compared with Merck’s older, generically available Zocor.

Some analysts had hoped the panel, which has the right to look at data from the continuing study, would rule that Vytorin’s effectiveness had already been proved and would order that the trial, which involves 18,141 patients, be halted.

Still, the news may bolster hopes for a rebound in sales of Vytorin and a related Merck cholesterol fighter called Zetia. Analysts have said Merck shares are lagging as investors wait for the results of the study.

Merck shares were up 4.5 percent in premarket trading.

The Improve-It study involves patients with well-controlled cholesterol who had heart attacks or the kind of chest pain that can precede heart attacks.

Vytorin, approved in 2004, combines Zocor with Zetia, so the study is a measure of the clinical benefit of adding Zetia, which lowers bad LDL cholesterol by blocking the liver’s production of the blood fat.

Zetia, which is sold separately and has annual sales of almost $2.6 billion, is prescribed by doctors as a stand-alone treatment or to add to the cholesterol-lowering power of statins like Zocor or Lipitor.
323 2013-03-13 On Tuesday, the South scoffed at the North’s announcement on Monday that the North had nullified the 1953 Korean War armistice, saying such unilateral action is prohibited under the terms of the cease-fire. Despite the bluster, there have been no indications that the North was using its declared end of the armistice to take any drastic steps.

Kim Min-seok, spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, said Tuesday that there had been no sign of imminent nuclear or missile tests by the North or hostilities along the inter-Korean border. He said that the “rhetorical threats” flooding the North’s state-run news media had been aimed at putting “psychological pressure” on the South, which just began its annual Key Resolve joint military exercises with the United States, which are in addition to their two-month Foal Eagle drill that began on March 1.

“Through a series of political and military activities, North Korea is strengthening the solidarity of its people at home, while using the Key Resolve and Foal Eagle exercises as a pretext to threaten and pressure South Korea and the United States to change their policies,” Mr. Kim said. “If they launch a provocation, we will respond more strongly and make sure that they suffer far more.”

Stressing the alliance against North Korean threats, the office of the South Korean president announced Tuesday that she planned to meet President Obama in Washington in early May in her first such meeting since taking office on Feb. 25.

In Washington, Gen. C. Robert Kehler, the commander of United States Strategic Command, which oversees all American nuclear forces, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that “deterring North Korea from acting irrationally is our No. 1 priority.” He said that effort begins with the alliance with South Korea, but extends “to other forces that are available” in the Pacific and “ultimately, all the way back to our nuclear deterrent.”

“We are capable of offering to the president a full range of options,” General Kehler said, referring to the American options should the North initiate an attack. “Whatever he chooses to use in response to a North Korean act, I believe we can make available to him.” But he said that the intelligence agencies and the military were examining whether “the limited missile defense that we have in place” in Alaska and California needed to be altered to keep pace with the North’s newly demonstrated capabilities.

Raising the fear of military clashes by threatening to scrap the armistice has long been part of North Korea’s efforts to draw Washington into negotiations. North Korea demands a formal peace treaty to end the Korean War, as well as security guarantees from the Americans. It also seeks direct talks with Washington for the perceived prestige it would bring the country.

As the crisis over North Korea’s nuclear ambition has dragged on, some analysts have argued that Washington should try negotiating a comprehensive deal that addresses North Korea’s concerns in return for the North’s giving up its nuclear weapons. But South Korean and American officials also suspect that North Korea would turn talks for a peace treaty into endless haggling, demanding the removal of the 28,500 American troops stationed in South Korea and the reduction of American arms in the region.

In Vienna, a group that monitors nuclear testing said Tuesday that it had been unable to discern what type of fissile material had been used in the North Korean nuclear test. “It is very unlikely that we will register anything at this point,” said Annika Thunborg, a spokeswoman for the group, the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, in an e-mail message.

The group’s monitoring system had detected a seismic disturbance from the test that registered a magnitude of 4.9 from 96 tracking stations, she said, but without access to the test site there was little else it could do.

Scientists had hoped detection of airborne particulates would help determine whether the North had used plutonium to fuel the test, as it had done earlier, or uranium. A switch to uranium could enable the North to increase its nuclear arsenal.

Had the test ban treaty been in force, Ms. Thunborg said, “on-site inspections would have been an option to search the location for evidence of a nuclear explosion.”

“Without the treaty in force, we cannot make use of this option, unfortunately,” she added.

The treaty was negotiated between 1994 and 1996 but has not taken force because some nations have not signed it, including North Korea, while others have signed but not ratified it, including the United States and China.
324 2013-03-13 Italians enjoy going out for a good steak, but a steak in Italy isn’t necessarily an individual slab. Yes, there is the famous Florentine bistecca, a large T-bone steak served blood rare. But just as often, restaurants offer a sliced steak, called tagliata, essentially a nice thick piece of beef that is grilled, then carved. It’s simple and delicious but impressive nonetheless, and you really don’t have to go to a restaurant to enjoy it. In fact, it is quite easily prepared at home, year round. Tagliata is what I make for dinner whenever a fuss-free meal is required.

As far as what cut of beef to use, there are several choices. Flank steak is especially good, and not prohibitively expensive. Other cuts, like hanger, or what butchers call London broil (usually sirloin), are good options, too. If you’re feeling flamboyant, go with a thick-cut rib steak.

Purists season tagliata only with salt. I am inclined to make it highly seasoned, using lots of coarsely crushed black peppercorns, as well as garlic and rosemary.

Grilling over coals is, of course, always nice. Lacking that, a stovetop grill pan is fine. But in an apartment kitchen, it’s far easier (and less messy) to grill the steak in the oven. That way, there is no spattering, the stovetop is left free for other things, and you don’t have to worry about setting off the smoke alarm. If you have a powerful broiler, you can use that. I prefer to do my oven-grilling on hot cast iron, which gives a better sear.

Put a large, wide iron skillet on the top shelf of the oven and let it heat for half an hour. Then put in the seasoned steak and let it cook with the door closed for about five minutes, until the bottom of the meat is browned. For a rare steak, flip the meat and cook the other side just until juices appear on top (an instant-read thermometer will read 120 degrees); cook it longer for medium or well, obviously.
325 2013-03-13 Who said there are no second acts in American lives? Oh, right: It was F. Scott Fitzgerald, whose seminal novel, &#x201C;The Great Gatsby,&#x201D; is getting a lavish reinterpretation from the director Baz Luhrmann that will open the Cannes Film F...
326 2013-03-13 WASHINGTON &#x2014; Mary Jo White moved closer to becoming a top Wall Street regulator on Tuesday as she sailed through a Congressional confirmation hearing. But even her supporters on Capitol Hill pointed to significant challenges awaiting the ne...
327 2013-03-14 Saudi Arabia’s human rights record came under scrutiny again this week after seven men were publicly executed and a court sentenced two prominent civil rights activists to jail....
328 2013-03-14 People borrow? Who knew?...
329 2013-03-14 Matthew Keys, a 26-year-old social media editor, was charged with assisting the hacking collective Anonymous in an attack on The Los Angeles Times Web site....
330 2013-03-14 The Federal Reserve cited “weaknesses” in capital plans of JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, while Citigroup and Bank of America got a green light....
331 2013-03-14 Timothy F. Geithner, the former Treasury secretary, will write the book for Crown Books, a Random House imprint....
332 2013-03-14 In the jewelry store where I worked, a robbery at knife-point left me feeling ashamed....
333 2013-03-14 “It is clear from what happened in January that there are other ways for the batteries to catch fire that clearly weren’t captured by the nail test,” said Donald R. Sadoway, a materials chemistry professor at M.I.T.

He said the test — it is standard in testing lithium-ion batteries in cellphones, laptops and electric cars — measures just one kind of failure mode and represents an extreme short circuit of the battery in a very short period of time.

“It can work on a cellphone battery with a single cell, but you’re talking about a very different configuration here,” he added.

A preliminary report on the fire that occurred in a plane parked at Logan Airport in Boston on Jan. 7, released last week by the National Transportation Safety Board, provided new details of Boeing’s initial battery testing, including its reliance on the nail test for some of the basic data on the odds of incidents with smoke and fire.

The board’s report said that Boeing also gathered information from companies using the lithium-ion batteries in other industries and, based on that and the test data, it calculated that the odds of smoke being emitted from a battery was only one in 10 million flight hours.

Given that Boeing has never made its own batteries, it assigned other crucial tests to its subcontractors, including GS Yuasa, the Japanese battery maker, and Thales, a French company that oversees the battery charging system.

The F.A.A. also delegated much of the testing to Boeing, except for a safety assessment conducted once the plane’s electrical power system was certified. The F.A.A.’s decision to delegate some of its certification authority was done under a decades-old program meant to help the agency keep up with fast-changing technology but also to fill a gap in its own expertise.

In the course of the original testing, the batteries were also subjected to other kinds of destructive tests, including provoking an external short circuit, overcharging the batteries for 25 hours, subjecting them to high temperatures of 185 degrees Fahrenheit for an extended period, and discharging them completely. Boeing found that none of these tests in its computer modeling resulted in a battery fire, according to the safety board’s report, leading it to conclude that the chance of a battery fire was one in 1 billion flight hours, a negligible probability. In fact, the Boston fire occurred after the entire 787 fleet had flown with passengers for only 52,000 hours.

F.A.A. and Boeing officials said they did the best they could, given what was known about the batteries when the agency approved them for the 787 in October 2007. The innovative plane, which uses lighter-weight composite materials to cut fuel costs by 20 percent, makes more extensive use of the new batteries than any other commercial aircraft, and the F.A.A. imposed a series of special safety conditions to compensate for that risk.

But in March 2008, the R.T.C.A., an advisory group that suggests regulatory measures, released new and more rigorous guidelines for testing lithium-ion batteries — standards that Boeing says it will meet in its new round of testing.

The safety board’s report said that Boeing continued to test its original battery design in 2010. But the company, which was busy dealing with many other problems that had led to multiyear delays in the 787 program, did not change its test plans to follow the R.T.C.A. guidelines. It was not obliged to do so under the law and Boeing officials said they had not run into any problems with the battery in tests anyway.

It is not clear whether the nail test will be included in Boeing’s new testing regimen. In the test, a metallic nail is driven with blunt force by a machine into a battery to provoke a short circuit. The test is supposed to show whether the battery cells are properly insulated from each other. If they are not, this increases the risk of a thermal runaway where one cell overheats, catches fire and the fire cascades to the other battery cells.

But according to a 2011 presentation by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, a federal research lab, the nail test and other so-called abusive test methods are not representative of the kinds of failures that can happen when the batteries are used in real life. Further, the report found that many of the failures that occurred with lithium-ion batteries in laptops or cellphones originated in an internal short “that was not detectable or predictable” during manufacturing.

Boeing officials said they now have a deeper understanding of what might cause the batteries to fail and how to minimize that possibility. After weeks of engineering work, Boeing has proposed redesigning the batteries to insulate the eight cells from each other to keep a short circuit in one from cascading to the others, as investigators believe happened on the plane parked in Boston.

Boeing plans to enclose the batteries in stainless steel boxes, more resistant to higher temperatures than the earlier aluminum ones. While the original batteries could leak hazardous substances into surrounding bays, Boeing also plans to create tubes made of titanium to vent any overheated air or hazardous gases outside the planes.

Boeing is hoping it can rapidly complete the tests of the new design and get the planes refitted by mid- to late April, though government officials expect a slower timeline. While domestic regulators have approved testing of the redesigned system, Boeing must still convince Japanese regulators and is sending a delegation to Japan to present its technical fix this week.

Ray Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial plane division, said in a statement on Tuesday that this “permanent resolution” was designed to “significantly minimize the potential for battery failure while ensuring that no battery event affects the continued safe operation of the airplane.”

But safety and battery experts are still questioning whether regulators can approve a permanent fix even when the cause of the fire remains unknown. Boeing has brought in a number of outside battery experts, including some from General Electric and companies like General Motors that make electrical cars, to help it design the new system.

One of the plane’s two batteries provides power to start up the cockpit instruments. The other battery helps provide power when the plane is on the ground.

Boeing officials said the batteries never suffered any serious problem during more than 1 million hours of laboratory and flight testing before the first 787 was delivered in late 2011.

Hans Weber, an aviation consultant, said Boeing’s new effort to eliminate every possible source of a problem “is what I would call brute forcing it, which is what you do when you don’t know what went wrong.” Still, he said, “One of the challenges of new technology is that it takes time to learn the ways a technology can fail. And the only way to learn more is to start using the planes again.”
334 2013-03-14 And the Nominees Are...
335 2013-03-14 It is easy to view the new Mississippi law with an ironic eye. As Representative Omeria Scott, a Democrat, pointed out during the debate on the bill, “Mississippi is the fattest and most unhealthy state in the U.S.A.”

But the legislation is the latest and most sweeping expression of a nationwide battle in which some government officials, public health leaders and food supply reformers are pitted against those who would prefer the government quit trying to control what people eat.

“I can’t defend what the statistics show about obesity,” said Senator Tony Smith, the owner of Stonewall’s Barbecue in Picayune, Miss., who introduced the bill after being approached by the Mississippi Hospitality and Restaurant Association. “But this is about personal responsibility. When I go out to eat with my three daughters they get waters. I don’t need the government to tell me to do that.”

Also signing on to the bill were associations that represent sellers of soft drinks and owners of convenience stores, as well as the farm bureau and the Mississippi Poultry Association.

The Food and Drug Administration is working on a new national menu labeling law that would require calorie counts on restaurant menus, vending machines and products from other retailers that sell prepared food.

The law was approved in 2010 but has proved difficult to actually implement. Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, the F.D.A. commissioner, said in a recent interview with The Associated Press that writing a new menu labeling law “has gotten extremely thorny.”

Some states are saying that is plenty of regulation, and have designed laws to prevent more. Ohio passed a bill similar to Mississippi’s in 2011 after toys in fast-food meals were banned in San Francisco and Santa Clara County and Los Angeles restricted the sale of fast food in specific neighborhoods.

States including Florida, Arizona and Alabama have similarly restricted local governments from regulating the restaurant industry.

But Mississippi’s law appears to be the broadest in scope. Cities and counties cannot limit portion sizes or require calorie counts on menus or restrict the sale of food based on how it was grown, which would protect food made with genetically modified grain, a growing concern among some consumers, as well as the way livestock is raised.

Similarly, only the state can control zoning laws that would restrict some restaurants and favor others or mandate labeling of seeds that would force what proponents of the bill call “an organic agenda.”

Mike Cashion, the director of the Mississippi Hospitality and Restaurant Association, said the point of the bill was to avoid having a patchwork of regulations that would be difficult to enforce and put a burden on small-business owners.

“We see the writing on the wall with what’s happened in other parts of the country and we want to make sure we stay one step ahead of the process,” he said.

Still, discussion as the bill made its way through the Legislature was often more about food and health than concerns over regulations.

In its government blog, The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson recorded this exchange between lawmakers:

“We’ve got an obesity problem in the state of Mississippi, haven’t we? Of major proportions. Childhood obesity especially. Do you think that immoderate use of a Coca-Cola is good for a man?” asked Representative Steve Holland, a Democrat who voted for the bill.

“I don’t see where it would kill him,” answered Representative Gregory Holloway, a Democrat who fought for the bill by arguing that “if you want to go eat 20 Big Macs, you can eat 20 Big Macs.”

“All right, what about the excessive use of a Coca-Cola? If you drink 10, 15 a day?” Mr. Holland countered.

“Probably would have some effect on your kidneys,” Mr. Holloway answered.
336 2013-03-14 WASHINGTON — On the day he named a replacement for the United States ambassador slain at the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, in September, President Obama also met with Prime Minister Ali Zeidan of Libya and emphasized the need for his country’s help in finding the attackers who carried out the assault that led to death of the envoy and three other Americans.

A statement issued by the White House after the meeting on Wednesday said that Mr. Obama had “stressed the importance of Libya’s cooperation with the ongoing investigation” and added that he and Mr. Zeidan had also discussed ways to strengthen Libya’s institutions.

Mr. Obama has repeatedly vowed to bring the attackers to justice. But there is no indication that the culprits have been located or that their capture is imminent.

The issue has been a sensitive one for the Obama administration and cast a cloud over Hillary Rodham Clinton’s final months as secretary of state. While American officials assert that they appreciate the help that Libya has provided in investigating the Benghazi attack they have made it clear they would like the Libyan help increased.

Mr. Obama also announced that he was naming a career diplomat, Deborah K. Jones, as the new envoy to Tripoli, filling a job that has been vacant since the Sept. 11 attack that killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. Ms. Jones previously served as ambassador to Kuwait, and in posts in the United Arab Emirates, Syria, Turkey, Ethiopia and Iraq.
337 2013-03-14 “The thing that was important to us was not just the talent of Reggie Bush, but also the way those talents complemented the other players we have on offense,” Coach Jim Schwartz said.

GIANTS BRING IN NEW KICKER Lawrence Tynes’s tenure as the Giants’ kicker appears to be over, with the team announcing that it had signed the veteran Josh Brown. Tynes, a free agent, has spent six seasons with the Giants and helped them win two Super Bowls.

COLTS’ SPREE CONTINUES Indianapolis signed safety LaRon Landry, a Pro Bowl selection last season with the Jets, to a four-year contract, making him the Colts’ sixth free-agent pickup in less than 48 hours.

BUSY DAY FOR TITANS The Tennessee Titans announced they had agreed to terms with running back Shonn Greene, guard Andy Levitre and fullback Quinn Johnson. Just before a news conference, they also announced they had a deal with defensive tackle Sammie Lee Hill.

Greene spent his first four seasons with the Jets. He is coming off the best season of his career, with 276 rushes for 1,063 yards and 8 touchdowns.

That is two fewer than the Titans scored rushing as a team, and they see Greene as a perfect change of pace for Chris Johnson.

FINDING PIECES FOR OFFENSE Arizona reached contract agreements with five free agents, including quarterback Drew Stanton, who followed the Cardinals’ new coach, Bruce Arians, from Indianapolis, and running back Rashard Mendenhall, who had a difficult season with Pittsburgh after tearing a knee ligament in the 2011 season.

Arizona also released free safety Kerry Rhodes, clearing cap space to help accommodate the signings.

JAGUARS ADD AND SUBTRACT Jacksonville signed linebacker Geno Hayes, giving the team a potential replacement for the veteran Daryl Smith, and released receiver Laurent Robinson. Hayes played last year with Chicago. Robinson signed a five-year, $32.5 million contract last off-season before missing considerable time with concussions.

RAVENS RELEASE POLLARD Strong safety Bernard Pollard was released by Baltimore, the latest move in the Ravens’ salary purge. Pollard signed a three-year extension with Baltimore last year, but his release saves the Ravens an estimated $1 million against the salary cap. He is the fifth player to leave the Ravens over the last two weeks.

CHIEFS STAY AGGRESSIVE The Kansas City Chiefs remained active in free agency, announcing a deal with cornerback Dunta Robinson. Robinson, who was cut by the Falcons three years into a six-year, $54 million deal, should provide depth across the defensive backfield.

HISTORY LESSON AT SIGNING It was not until after linebacker Manny Lawson signed with Buffalo on Wednesday that he learned of the Bills’ 13-season playoff drought.

“I did not know,” Lawson said, shortly after signing a four-year, $12 million contract. “That’s new knowledge to me.”

He added, “I look at myself as coming here to change things.”

LEWIS TO ESPN ESPN announced that Ray Lewis would be joining the network as a studio analyst.

AROUND THE LEAGUE Cleveland continued a spending spree to upgrade its defense in free agency, signing the former Arizona linebacker Quentin Groves to a two-year, $2.8 million contract. ... Chicago released tight end Kellen Davis, one day after signing the versatile tight end Martellus Bennett away from the Giants. ... As safety Dashon Goldson landed a deal with Tampa Bay, the free-agent defensive back Charles Woodson had a meeting with San Francisco, Woodson’s agent, Carl Poston, said. In addition, the former Kansas City defensive lineman Glenn Dorsey signed a two-year contract after meeting with the 49ers.
338 2013-03-14 “There is a wave toward in this country,” Dr. Formenti said.

But at the same time, she and other experts say that the cardiovascular risk is real and that when radiation is given, every effort should be made to minimize exposure of the heart.

In addition, women who have had radiation treatment need to be especially vigilant about controlling other factors that increase the odds of heart disease, like and .

Dr. Lori Mosca, the director of preventive cardiology at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, who was not involved in the study, said the findings meant that a history of breast irradiation should be added to the list of risk factors for heart disease and taken into consideration by all doctors who are treating such patients.

“We absolutely need to put on our radar screen that prior radiation to the breast may be a new and important risk factor for women,” Dr. Mosca said.

But she and other experts also warned that the results needed to be verified because the study was not a controlled experiment, but was based on an analysis of records and estimates of radiation exposure to the heart.

Dr. Javid Moslehi, co-director of the cardio-oncology program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in and the author of an editorial accompanying the study, said the research was the first to provide risk estimates correlated with doses in breast cancer treatment, over a long time period.

“This is a huge paper, both in terms of how many women it impacts, and how it opens the door for new studies that need to be done,” Dr. Moslehi said.

He said the study reflected the fact that many people with cancer are now living long enough to encounter long-term effects of both radiation and .

They have given rise to a new and fast-growing field in medicine, cardio-oncology.

About three million women in the United States have been treated for breast cancer, and the majority have had radiation.

Although doctors try to spare the heart, it still gets some of the dose, especially when the left breast is treated. Radiation can damage the linings of blood vessels and scar the heart muscle.

Dr. Darby’s study is based on the records of 2,168 women who had radiation for breast cancer from 1958 to 2001 in and ; 963 of the women had “major cardiac events” sometime after their cancer treatment, meaning a heart attack or clogged coronary arteries that needed treatment or caused death.

From the treatment records, the researchers estimated the radiation dose to the women’s hearts. They found that the risk began to increase within a few years after exposure, and that it continued for at least 20 years. The higher the dose, the higher the risk, and there was some increase in risk at even the lowest level of exposure.

“It was certainly a surprise to us that the risk started within the first few years after exposure, as radiation-related heart disease has traditionally been thought of as usually occurring several decades after exposure,” Dr. Darby said.

Radiation is measured in units called Grays, and the researchers found that for each Gray to which the heart was exposed, the odds of heart attack or another coronary events rose by 7.4 percent. The average dose to the heart over an entire course of radiation treatment was 5 Gray, they said. For an individual woman, the net effect would depend on her baseline initial risk of heart disease and the total radiation dose to her heart.

Women who already had risk factors, especially those who had had heart attacks in the past, would have seen the largest absolute risk from radiation.

Some radiation oncologists say that nowadays, the dose to the heart is lower than 5 Gray.

Dr. Louis S. Constine, vice chairman of radiation oncology at the University of Rochester Medical Center, said that 2 Gray was more common and that doctors could now put shields in front of the heart and “curve radiation around the chest wall instead of shooting it through the heart and lungs.”

Dr. Formenti thinks that for most patients, the best way to protect the heart is to treat them while they are lying on their stomachs, instead of the usual way, lying on their backs. Women lie on a table or a mattress with openings that let the breasts drop away from the chest.

Anatomy differs, but in most women this prone position helps keep the radiation beams as far as possible from the heart and lungs. The heart still receives some radiation, but significantly less than when women lie on their backs, especially when the left breast is being treated.

“If you can keep it below 1 Gray, which is what we are doing, you are probably O.K. with the majority of patients,” Dr. Formenti said.

During the past 15 years, she said, she has treated several thousand patients this way.

Dr. Formenti and her colleagues also teach the technique to other doctors. But, she said, it is taking a long time to catch on.
339 2013-03-14 BERLIN — The German police announced Wednesday that they had arrested four men associated with the ultraconservative Islamic movement known as Salafism on suspicion of plotting to murder the leader of a far-right political party that has repeatedly taunted Muslims with caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad.

News of the arrests came as the federal authorities banned three associations linked to the Salafist movement in Germany, saying the groups were involved in recruitment, in fund-raising and in the distribution of propaganda over the Internet. The police raided the apartments of 20 people associated with the associations, known as DawaFFM, Islamische Audios and an-Nussrah the Interior Ministry said Wednesday.

The Salafist movement has been growing quickly here, attracting mostly young men, including Muslim immigrants and German converts, the authorities say. They believe the number of adherents has risen to about 4,500 from 3,800 over the past two years, as the movement has gained attention in clashes over the caricatures and a nationwide effort to distribute Korans.

The authorities have said videos and propaganda circulated over the Internet by DawaFFM helped radicalize Arid Uka, a young German originally from Kosovo who shot American airmen at the Frankfurt airport in 2011, killing two and injuring two others. Mr. Uka was later sentenced to life imprisonment.

“Our recent past demonstrates what unchecked radicalization based on a Salafist worldview can lead to,” Hans-Peter Friedrich, Germany’s interior minister, said in a statement.
340 2013-03-14 But this is also the Orange’s final appearance before departing next season for the Atlantic Coast Conference, and Boeheim was in a reflective mood. He recalled sitting in the locker room before the game and thinking about what the Big East meant to him.

“Things have kind of been two years coming,” he said, referring to conference realignment. “But now that it’s here, your whole life has been spent in this league, and the last 31 years coming to this building — that’s a lot. That’s a lot of memories. A lot of time.”

It has been a trying season for Boeheim, whose team arrived at the Garden in a tailspin, having lost four of its last five games, including a 61-39 drubbing by Georgetown last Saturday. All four losses had come against teams ranked in the top 25, but that did little to temper Boeheim’s frustration. After the Georgetown loss — a game in which Syracuse scored its fewest points since 1962 — Boeheim told reporters that he was “pretty much ready to go golf somewhere.”

His comments prompted speculation that he might be considering retirement. His employer proceeded to throw fuel on the fire when a message on Syracuse University’s official Twitter account linked to a report that Boeheim would step down after the season. The university removed the post, and Boeheim dismissed it as false. After Wednesday’s game, he talked about how he was looking forward to next season, in the A.C.C.

“It’s a tremendous challenge, and I think that’s good for me,” he said. “Tired of the same old thing every year. It will be great.”

This season has had its own challenges, and Seton Hall provided another one, running out to a 24-14 lead. Six of the team’s first eight field goals were 3-pointers, including three from the senior guard Kyle Smyth. If the Pirates were going to beat Syracuse’s vaunted zone defense, swinging the ball around the perimeter and launching outside shots was the way to do it.

Eventually, however, Southerland asserted himself. He scored 14 of Syracuse’s first 21 points, and had 17 as Syracuse scrambled its way back to 34-34 by halftime. He did most of his damage from the 3-point line, where he was 5 of 7.

“I’m capable of spreading the floor,” said Southerland, a senior forward.

Syracuse also got a lift from the senior guard Brandon Triche, who arrived at the Garden knee-deep in a shooting slump. Over his last five games, he had shot 15 of 52, or 28.8 percent.

But against Seton Hall, he scored three straight baskets in a pivotal second-half sequence — a 3-pointer, a 12-foot turnaround and a feathery midrange jumper. After the 3-pointer, Triche pumped his fist, an unusual show of emotion for him.

“I hadn’t made a 3-pointer in like a month, so I figured I’d celebrate a little bit,” he said.

It was that kind of day for Syracuse, the sun poking through the clouds at just the right time. Carter-Williams, a sophomore, was nearly flawless. He committed only one turnover while equaling the assists record held by Mark Jackson, Pearl Washington and Brandin Knight.

“Mike played, I think, his best game of the year,” Boeheim said.

Boeheim, 68, can be notoriously prickly, but he was unusually contemplative in his postgame news conference. In response to a question about whether he felt any different walking into the Garden this time around, Boeheim talked about the former commissioners Dave Gavitt and Mike Tranghese, about playing at the old Garden as a college sophomore (“the old, old Garden”) and about games long gone.

“Walter Berry should have never blocked Pearl’s shot,” Boeheim said, referring to the 1986 championship game against St. John’s. “It would have been a happy ending.”

This week, he has one last shot at another.

CINCINNATI BOUNCES PROVIDENCE Cincinnati made an ill-advised alley-oop attempt in the second half of its game against Providence on Wednesday afternoon. High-flying acrobatics are not a particular strength of the Bearcats, but the pass caromed off a tangle of hands and arms before Cincinnati’s Shaquille Thomas corralled the loose ball and deposited a put-back from short range.

The Bearcats relied on those sorts of plays — put-backs, rebounds and steals — in their 61-44 victory over Providence in the second round of the Big East men’s basketball tournament at Madison Square Garden. Sean Kilpatrick scored 17 points and JaQuon Parker added 15 as Cincinnati (22-10, 10-9), the ninth seed, earned a quarterfinal meeting with top-seeded Georgetown on Thursday at noon. Kadeem Batts led eighth-seeded Providence (17-14, 9-10) with 14 points.

Cincinnati’s winning formula has little to do with scoring truckloads of points. (In fact, during the regular season, the Bearcats were 21-1 when they scored as few as 61 points.) Coach Mick Cronin’s team would rather lean on tough defense. Such was the case against Providence, which shot 28.1 percent over all and was 1 of 16 from the 3-point range.

“We were committed to not letting them get comfortable, where they could just pick us apart,” Cronin said.

The Bearcats were decked out in Adidas’s new Zubaz-like uniforms, with zigzag stripes on their shorts and jerseys. And that was the way they played, flustering the Friars with an aggressive, trapping defense.

While Cincinnati had little trouble summoning energy for the noon tipoff, the same could not be said of Providence. It was a bad sign that the Friars took the court with two empty seating sections adjacent to their bench. They were reserved for the team’s cheerleaders and pep band. The cheerleading squad arrived five minutes into the first half. The pep band showed up 10 minutes after that, with the Friars trailing by 14.

Cheikh Mbodj, a 6-foot-10 center from Senegal, was an intimidating presence for Cincinnati early on, blocking three of Providence’s first 12 shots. The third was particularly vicious, as Mbodj got so high to reject Providence’s Vincent Council that he practically swatted the ball away with his forearm.

Thanks to Mbodj, a swarming full-court press and solid guard play from Parker, Cincinnati led by as many as 18 points. One of the problems for the Friars (among many) was that they could not set up their press without scoring first. As a result, the Bearcats had no trouble pushing the ball upcourt.

Providence finally found its footing late in the first half. Bryce Cotton, a first-team all-conference guard, sparked the spurt, converting a lob from the freshman point guard Kris Dunn that livened up the bench.

The Friars had been playing well heading into the tournament, having won seven of their last nine regular-season games, and they fought their way back into Wednesday’s game. Cotton trimmed Cincinnati’s lead to 6 points with 5 minutes 13 seconds remaining when he steered himself into the lane for a layup.

Cincinnati always had an answer, though, and Kilpatrick quickly drilled a 3-pointer for some breathing room.

About playing Georgetown next, Kilpatrick said: “We know they’re a great team, but we’re a great team as well, especially when we’re playing the way we are. We’re a team that’s hungry.”
341 2013-03-14 Many of the provisions have been regularly added to appropriations bills since 2004. But Senate Democrats on the committee — pushed by Republicans and some Democrats who have made gun rights a signature issue — reluctantly agreed to make them permanent to stave off what they saw as an even more far-reaching House version of the bill.

The House offering contained a new rider that would prevent the A.T.F. from requiring gun dealers on the Southwest border to notify the agency when selling two or more long guns — semiautomatic rifles, higher than .22 caliber with detachable magazines — to the same buyer within five days. These firearms are the preferred weapons of Mexican drug cartels, Senate aides said.

“The Second Amendment is a fundamental right guaranteed by our Constitution,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, in a statement about the provisions. “And we should protect it wherever we can.”

As part of his agenda to regulate some firearms, President Obama recently signed an executive order lifting the ban on gun research. Other restrictions sought by the White House after the Newtown, Conn., shooting in December must go through Congress.

On Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee will consider the renewal of an assault weapons ban and restrictions on magazine sizes. This week, the panel passed a measure that would expand the use of background checks to private gun sales, and another to renew a grant program to help schools improve security. The committee also approved a measure last week that would make the already illegal practice of buying a gun for someone else who is legally barred from having one — known as a straw purchase — a felony and to increase penalties for the crime.

The debate in the Judiciary Committee will end Thursday, moving consideration of gun legislation to the Senate floor and perhaps the House, where members have indicated they might consider any legislation that the Senate passes.

But any legislation that comes to the Senate floor could be undermined by riders on appropriations bills like the one being debated on the floor now, which would keep the government running through the end of September. The Senate is trying to pass a short-term measure to prevent the government from shutting down, as members from both parties and chambers go about the business of creating actual budgets. For the last two years, Republicans and Democrats have fought over these short-term spending agreements, over the amount in them and the policy riders that Republicans often attach to them as part of the deal.

These riders are a boon to Senate Republicans, particularly those who are strong advocates of Second Amendment rights, and a bit of an embarrassment to some Democrats on the Senate Appropriations Committee, who are trying to avoid policy riders and also not handcuff their colleagues who are active in creating new gun legislation.

Even though the gun-rights provisions are long standing, making them permanent is “counterproductive,” said Garen J. Wintemute, the director of the violence prevention research program at the University of California, Davis. “Regular inventories help identify retailers who are not adequately protecting their firearms from loss or theft and, more important, those who are letting firearms go out the back door and declaring them lost or stolen,” he said.
342 2013-03-14 Under the new E.U. rules, if they eventually become law, an airline presumably would be held more closely and quickly accountable.

At the same time, though, the new rules would cap the airline’s liability to three days of lodging and meal reimbursement — meaning Ms. McDonagh would have been eligible for less than half the sum the court awarded.

That is why John Hennessy, the lawyer who represented Ms. McDonagh against Ryanair, considers the European Union’s move to update the traveler-protection rules a step in the wrong direction. “The whole ethos of the original directive is that if someone is stuck in a foreign place and can’t get back, the airline pays the reasonable expenses,” Mr. Hennessy said by telephone from Dublin on Wednesday.

Ryanair said Wednesday that it welcomed the capping of the passenger food-and-lodging provision to three nights, even if it was not completely happy with all the proposed changes.

The debate is likely to continue, but one thing seems certain: Eight years after the European Union introduced its far-reaching package of passenger rights legislation, the law is still not well understood by customers. And critics say this leads to frequent abuses by airlines.

Among the proposed changes is a rule obliging airlines to inform passengers about the nature of any flight disruption no later than 30 minutes after the scheduled departure time. Passengers who are delayed two hours or more would be entitled to care and assistance at the airport, including meals and refreshments, regardless of the distance of their flight. After five hours, passengers would have the right to renounce the flight and have their ticket price reimbursed.

In the event of a flight that has already boarded and is delayed by more than an hour on the tarmac, passengers would have the right to free drinking water, access to toilets and medical assistance. Should the tarmac delay extend to five hours, passengers would have the right to cancel their ticket and get off the plane.

“Complaints about air travel amount to 80 percent within the transport sector, which shows the extent of the problem in Europe,” Monique Goyens, director general of the Brussels-based consumer organization BEUC, said in a statement. “We hope this prompts a much-needed upsurge in airlines’ respect for passenger rights.”

The proposal, which would require approval by a majority of the Union’s 27 member countries, as well as the European Parliament, aims to address the most common airline practices that remain a regular source of frustration to travelers. Helen Kearns, a commission spokeswoman, said that if adopted, the new rules would probably take effect before the end of 2015.

The E.U. regulation applies to all carriers that take off from an airport in one of the Union’s member states, regardless of their nationality. The rules do not apply to non-European airlines on flights that originate outside the European Union.

Few air travel disruptions are as chaotic as the notorious ash cloud, of course. But delays are commonplace. In January of this year, for example, when air traffic was significantly disrupted by winter storms, about two of every five flights within the Union experienced some kind of delay, according to data compiled by Eurocontrol, which manages air traffic for the bloc. But the average delay was only 12 minutes, well below the 30-minute threshold at which most of the proposed changes would take effect. Just 4.5 percent of flights were delayed by more than one hour.

The new proposal would clarify the rights of passengers who miss a connecting flight because of a delay. Travelers would be entitled to care and assistance after two hours of waiting at their connecting airport and financial compensation if their arrival was delayed by more than five hours on any flight of less than 3,500 kilometers, or about 2,175 miles.

For flights of up to 6,000 kilometers, the right to compensation would kick in after nine hours, while for longer flights the deadline would be 12 hours.

Airlines would also be compelled to re-route passengers on another airline — or an alternative transport mode — if they were unable to find an alternate route on their own services within 12 hours of the original departure time.

Rules for handling passengers’ complaints would also be tightened. Airlines would have to establish clear complaint procedures and systems and to acknowledge complaints within a week of receipt. A deadline of two months would be set for airlines to formally reply.

Airline groups also cautiously welcomed the proposal. Viktoria Vajnai, a spokeswoman for the Association of European Airlines, in Brussels, described it as “a step in the right direction” for both airlines and passengers.

“We believe that a comprehensive and coherent regulation will benefit not only passengers but the whole aviation industry,” Ms. Vajnai said.

The International Air Transport Association applauded the new limits to airlines’ obligations as an “important outcome.” But the airline lobbying group, which represents 240 airlines worldwide, also cautioned that the regulations might be difficult to enforce outside the European Union if they conflicted with other countries’ consumer protection regimes.

It also said that the proposed regulation covering delays to connecting flights unfairly placed the entire burden for compensation on the operator of the first flight — at odds with existing international rules that require such costs to be shared between affected carriers.

And Ryanair, which is a budget airline, took issue with the proposed requirement that airlines rebook passengers on competing airlines if a solution could not be found within 12 hours.

That rule would “unfairly and disproportionately increase costs for low-fare airlines, which do not participate in airline alliance programs,” the company said. It was alluding to the alliances of big airlines that can enable them to send passengers to other carriers and still share the ticket revenue.

For all the potential benefits to customers, the new rules would set strict limits on the amount of care and assistance airlines must provide in extraordinary circumstances beyond their control, like extreme weather or an air traffic controllers’ strike. Or a volcanic ash cloud.

Current rules provide for an unlimited right to such care, but airlines have long argued that this places an unfair financial burden on them. During the weeklong volcano aftermath in 2010, for example, global airlines claimed nearly $2 billion in lost revenue and added customer-care expenses.

Even during the ash-cloud disruption, though, many airlines resisted meeting their legal obligations — as the European Court of Justice ruled in Ms. McDonagh’s case against Ryanair.

But under the new proposal, airlines would have to pay only for a maximum of three nights of hotel accommodation in such situations. Beyond that, airports and local authorities — not the airlines — would be expected to prepare contingency plans for dealing with mass disruptions.

Rights to financial compensation would also be significantly curtailed. The proposal extends the delay threshold for any compensation to five hours from three hours currently for intra-European flights. But the right to compensation for inter-continental passengers would not kick in until a delay reached at least nine hours.

BEUC, the European consumer rights group, said it was disappointed by the new limits on passenger care and compensation. But it said it welcomed the clarification of legal gray areas that until now had often made it difficult for passengers to seek redress.

Mr. Hennessy, the lawyer for Ms. McDonagh, said that carriers reaped tens of millions of euros each year from cancellation insurance they sell to passengers, which goes toward offsetting expenses when things go wrong.

“Let’s say I’m stuck for two weeks through no fault of my own, while these airlines have already charged me and everyone else an insurance levy,” Mr. Hennessy said. “So now they don’t have to give me my full compensation? I think that’s wrong.”
343 2013-03-14 About 2 tablespoons grapeseed or canola oil for frying

1. In a large bowl, combine the mushroom base, bulgur, chopped herbs, garlic, onion, baharat, cumin, and ground turkey. Salt generously.

2. Steam the spinach for 2 minutes, rinse with cold water and squeeze out excess water with you hands. Chop medium-fine and add the turkey mixture.

3. In a food processor fitted with the steel blade, blend together the chickpeas and egg. Scrape into the bowl with the turkey mixture and mix everything together well. Shape into patties, about 2 tablespoons (45 grams) each; they should measure about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and be about 1/2 inch thick. Place on a sheet pan and refrigerate for 30 minutes if possible.

4. Meanwhile mix together the ingredients for the yogurt sauce.

5. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Line a sheet pan with parchment. Heat 1 or 2 large, heavy skillets over medium-high heat and add enough oil to lightly coat the bottom. When the pans are hot, add the patties and cook for 4 minutes on each side. Transfer to the parchment-lined sheet pan and place in the oven for 5 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve hot or room temperature, with the yogurt sauce.

Advance preparation: The roasted mushroom base will keep for three days in the refrigerator. The cooked patties will keep for 2 or 3 days in the refrigerator and can be reheated or eaten cold.

Nutritional information per serving (4 servings; dark meat from Trader Joe’s used for turkey analysis): 385 calories; 22 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 5 grams polyunsaturated fat; 11 grams monounsaturated fat; 95 milligrams cholesterol; 25 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 214 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 26 grams protein

Nutritional information per serving (6 servings; dark meat from Trader Joe’s used for turkey analysis): 256 calories; 15 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 63 milligrams cholesterol; 16 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 143 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 17 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
344 2013-03-15 If you find your files on Microsoft’s SkyDrive service are not quite in sync, a workaround or some troubleshooting may help....
345 2013-03-15 Bucks readers discuss their experience with a new rule that requires their brokerage firms to report to the I.R.S. the price they paid for certain taxable investments....
346 2013-03-15 Financial advisers share their advice to Americans under 40 who are having trouble putting aside money in savings....
347 2013-03-15 Insider trading settlements totaling $616 million underscore SAC Capital Advisors’ central role in the government’s push to prosecute illegal activity by traders and executives....
348 2013-03-15 They have made a desert and called it a “delicate balance”....
349 2013-03-15 The vehicles are the 2013 Nissan Altima, Leaf, Pathfinder, Sentra and Infiniti JX35....
350 2013-03-15 At CPAC, the senator insisted that everyone’s wrong about the character of the two parties....
351 2013-03-15 A prospective study found that regular aspirin use may be linked to a lower risk for melanoma, the most serious kind of skin cancer....
352 2013-03-15 A social media editor at Thomson Reuters has been charged with helping Anonymous hack into The Los Angeles Times Web site, British talks on a new method to regulate the press have fallen through, and NBCUniversal News Group put a positive face for...
353 2013-03-15 Goldman Sachs has named Steven Barg, the co-head of investment banking in South East Asia, to head mergers and acquisitions capital markets in New York....
354 2013-03-15 Increasing the stakes in the smartphone battle, the South Korean manufacturer showed off the Galaxy S IV, the latest version of its flagship device, Brian X. Chen and Nick Wingfield report on Friday in The New York Times....
355 2013-03-15 Vanya and Sonia have been living in their pajamas, spiritually speaking, for their whole lives. They essentially never left the home in which they grew up and in which their parents died. The house’s upkeep — and theirs too — has long been financed by Masha, a movie star who returns home soon after the play begins with a shiny new boy toy, a set of walking and talking pecs and abs with the refreshingly un-Chekhovian name of Spike (Billy Magnussen).

Masha’s preening egoism ruffles the feathers of her siblings, who have always envied her the shining success that reflects back to them their contrastingly miserable lives. (“I am a wild turkey,” Sonia madly mutters repeatedly, echoing Nina in “The Seagull.”) When Masha blandly announces that she thinks it’s time to sell the house — the upkeep has begun to strain her finances, now that her action-movie paychecks have evaporated — Vanya and Sonia find themselves facing a future even bleaker than their dreary pasts.

In Durang Land, of course, heartache is generally fodder for belly laughs. There are enough sprinkled throughout his latest play to keep the temperature in the theater from cooling for long, although this romp through an Americanized version of Russian anomie is more a series of loosely connected set pieces than a cogently put-together play. (With little more than a postage-stamp of plot to embroider, Mr. Durang has his characters dress up as Disney cartoons and wander off to a costume party.)

Mr. Pierce delivers Vanya’s enraged rant about the debased nature of contemporary culture with sputtering, funny zest. Playing Cassandra, the housekeeper who dabbles in both classical Greek drama and voodoo (go figure), Shalita Grant swaggers away with just about every scene she’s in, thanks to Mr. Durang’s hilariously demented monologues full of fantastically dark premonitions and mashed-up quotations from the theatrical canon. Mr. Magnussen bounds around the stage gymnastically as the self-satisfied Spike, crisply capturing the Teflon egoism of the young and the gorgeous. (He doesn’t notice the shiv buried in the compliment when Sonia, after hearing for the umpteenth time that Spike “almost” landed a role in “Entourage 2,” sweetly observes, “Maybe you’ll come close to getting another part soon.”)

I wish I could say that Ms. Weaver holds her own amid this skilled comic company, and in a sense she does. The audience laps up her character’s absurd narcissism, delighting in the way Masha sprinkles Splenda over every patronizing swipe at her beloved brother and sister. But while Ms. Nielsen and Mr. Pierce can do big, broad acting and somehow give it the texture of finely spun glass, it comes across less felicitously in Ms. Weaver’s hands. (This surprised me, given her history with Mr. Durang dating back to their days at the Yale School of Drama.)

At one point Masha is asked by the aspiring actress Nina (a charming Genevieve Angelson) to define the difference between film and stage acting. “In film you are acting in front of a camera, and you need to speak in a normal voice,” she earnestly explains. Raising her voice, she adds, “And onstage you are in a sort of wooden box in front of people who are looking at you, and you must speak more loudly. So that they can hear you.”

This dum-dum explanation would be much funnier if Ms. Weaver had not seemed to be taking it so literally from the get-go. Throughout the play, she bellows her lines as if she had a megaphone stuck in her throat. To be fair, it cannot be easy to play a character who is in some sense a sendup of yourself. But I found Ms. Weaver’s athletic attempts at physical humor to be a bit embarrassing.

Still, like everyone involved with “Vanya and Sonia,” which has been smoothly transferred to a proscenium theater after its premiere at Lincoln Center Theater’s Mitzi Newhouse, Ms. Weaver certainly seems admirably game to try anything for a laugh. Judging from the jubilant reception the play received both times I saw it — Off Broadway and now on — audiences tired of reading headlines about the stalled recovery are up for anything that delivers the release of a heedless good time too. I can imagine many satisfied patrons leave the theater muttering, “Now if only real Chekhov plays were this funny, maybe I wouldn’t keep falling asleep.”
356 2013-03-15 TOKYO — Boeing executives said on Friday that they expected commercial flights of the company’s troubled new 787 Dreamliner jet to resume within weeks and that the company was fully confident that it had eliminated all risk of fire or smoke from its batteries, defending its use of the volatile lithium-ion technology.

Making an ardent pitch in Japan, home to two of the largest buyers of the next-generation 787, Boeing said that more than 500 engineers had worked with outside experts to put in more than 200,000 hours of analysis, engineering work and tests to understand what might have caused the batteries to overheat in two aircraft in January. Those incidents prompted American, Japanese and other aviation regulators to ground the 50 Dreamliners already delivered.

Michael K. Sinnett, the Dreamliner’s chief engineer, acknowledged that Boeing had not pinned down the exact cause of the overheating, and said the company might never know what, and by extension who, was responsible. A lithium-ion battery caught fire aboard a parked plane in Boston operated by Japan Airlines; another emitted smoke during an All Nippon Airways flight in Japan, forcing the jet to make an emergency landing.

The batteries are made by the Japanese manufacturer GS Yuasa of Kyoto. Japanese safety regulators have not yet ruled out that a problem other than the battery, like a surge in current, could have caused the malfunctions. But Boeing has ruled out any possibility the batteries might have been overcharged, citing measurements from instruments aboard the plane.

“We may never get to a single root cause,” Mr. Sinnett said. But he said that engineers had examined 80 potential problems that could lead to a battery fire, grouped them into four categories and designed solutions for each category.
357 2013-03-15 Whatever else is going on in the psychedelic science-fiction tale “Vanishing Waves,” an unflattering portrait of the male psyche is front and center. Focusing on Lukas (Marius Jampolskis), an unlikable, emotionally withdrawn scientist who discards all professional ethics the instant an attractive woman sheds her clothing, this Lithuanian love story from Kristina Buozyte offers a discomfiting blend of visual ecstasy and narrative sterility.

To further a research project that’s never fully explained, Lukas passes his days immersed in a sensory-deprivation tank (echoes of “Altered States”), his brain electronically linked with that of an anonymous coma patient. His task is to rake around in her unconscious and report his experiences; instead, he and his fantasy woman, Aurora (Jurga Jutaite), have sex — lots and lots of sex. On golden sands and sun-streaked floors, on a picnic table and amid the sweatless writhings of an airbrushed orgy, the wordless pair go at it like post-prom teenagers.

Toggling between clinical laboratory and sensual dream land, “Waves” exerts a primal pull, its milky blue cinematography (by Feliksas Abrukauskas) and druggy soundtrack infinitely more expressive than its male lead. As Lukas becomes increasingly obsessed with hunting down the woman in his visions, the film wonders what we will risk to get lost in lust. With Aurora struggling for sensation and Lukas beginning to feel too much, we’re left with a single question: Who is awakening whom?
358 2013-03-15 Coca-Cola has said it is cooperating with Chinese authorities who are investigating whether its employees engaged in illegal mapping using GPS devices in Yunnan Province. The investigation was reported by a provincial Web site on Feb. 28, and a reporter at China Radio International asked an official with a national mapping agency about that case and others involving illegal mapping on Tuesday at a legislative session in Beijing. The official, Li Pengde, did not mention Coca-Cola but expressed concern that some information could have been given to “foreign intelligence agencies.” The report on the Yunnan Web site said the Coca-Cola case was one of 21 in which a provincial agency was investigating the “illegal use of hand-held GPS equipment to collect classified information.” A Coca-Cola spokeswoman said some bottling plants had adopted electronic mapping and equipment that was “commercially available in China through authorized local suppliers.”
359 2013-03-15 For many in South Korea, Ms. Park’s gender has long been a secondary concern, even as vestiges of the country’s patriarchal past remain. She was elected in good part because she is the daughter of a dictator who is rated South Korea’s most popular former president.

And Ms. Park has a reputation of her own as tough-minded. Her promise to retain a tough stance on any North Korean threats was a major factor in her election victory. (She has named her father, President Park Chung-hee, a former army general and a staunch anti-Communist, and former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain as her role models.)

Although Ms. Park has also promised to seek a reconciliation with Pyongyang if Mr. Kim’s conduct earned South Korea’s “trust,” there was a widespread belief that she would be far stricter in dealing with North Korea than her liberal rival, Moon Jae-in.

Several analysts said that the North Koreans — who have held on to their patriarchal traditions even as the South has rapidly become more egalitarian — are aware of Ms. Park’s reputation. The North got a direct glimpse of her in 2002, when she traveled to meet Kim Jong-il.

“I don’t think her gender is a disadvantage,” said Yoo Ho-yeol, a North Korea specialist at Korea University. “The North Koreans know that she is not an easy woman, or an easy female leader, to deal with.”

But Andrei Lankov, a North Korea scholar at Kookmin University in Seoul, is less convinced. He called the North “a deeply patriarchal culture where women are believed to be generally unsuitable for any position of power and influence.”

“Hence,” he said, “they might assume that President Park is weak and irrational.”

To her conservative supporters, Ms. Park’s steadfastness in the face of adversity is legend. In 1974 a Communist tried to kill her father, but killed her mother instead. He was later assassinated by his own spy chief, in 1979. In an episode she liked to cite during the campaign, the first thing she said when told of this was: “Is everything all right along the border with North Korea?”

And during her time in the legislature, to which she was first elected in 1998, her stern language prompted political commentators like Mr. Choi to call hers a “neuter leadership.”

Mr. Yoo, the North Korea specialist, said that by Pyongyang’s standards, the skirt reference was relatively restrained because her name was not mentioned. He viewed that as an indication that North Korea was allowing room for future dialogue.

Over the years, North Korea had heaped worse epithets on others, calling former President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea a rat. And North Korea was harder on Ms. Park when she was still an opposition leader; in 2006, a North Korean Web site carried a poem that called her a “dirty prostitute” for the Americans.

Some analysts say that Ms. Park appears sensitive to any questions raised by her gender in a country where men still dominate politics and business. She formed her own cabinet mostly with men, and filled her national security team with hard-line former generals. Her top national security adviser, the former Defense Minister Kim Jang-soo, is remembered for skipping the Korean custom of bowing when he met Kim Jong-il, then North Korea’s leader, in 2007.

“She seems to surround herself with former generals to cover herself from any doubt that she might be weak in national security,” said Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korean expert at Dongguk University in Seoul.

The test of her resolve would come if the North Koreans, vexed by tough new international sanctions, launch some limited strike on border islands or South Korean naval ships, as many analysts suspect might happen.

But few believe she will hold back from a strong but limited response, because she knows her history. Her predecessor was criticized for what many considered a weak response to the artillery barrage of a South Korean island in 2010 that killed four people.
360 2013-03-15 NEW DELHI (AP) — India’s Supreme Court on Thursday barred Italy’s ambassador from leaving the country and demanded that he explain why his country is refusing to return two Italian marines to stand trial in the killing of two Indian fishermen, a government official said.

The court had allowed the marines to go home in February to vote in national elections with a written promise from Ambassador Daniele Mancini of Italy that they would return to stand trial. Italy announced Monday that it would not send them back.

The dispute has damaged relations between the countries, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India said there would be consequences if Italy did not back down.

The Supreme Court demanded Thursday that Italy explain why it was reneging on its promise, barred Ambassador Mancini from leaving India without its permission and insisted that he file his response by Monday.

The Italian marines were part of a military security team aboard a cargo ship when they opened fire on a fishing boat in February last year, killing the two fishermen. The marines said they mistook the boat for a pirate vessel.

Italy maintains that the shooting occurred in international waters and that it should have jurisdiction. India says the ship was in Indian territorial waters.
361 2013-03-15 You are to be commended for shining a spotlight on violence against women. Draft language in the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women urges countries to “strongly condemn all forms of violence against women and girls and to refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations with respect to its elimination.”

I strongly urge the international community take a firm stand on gender-based violence and not to go back on previously agreed language on women’s equity and rights. The commission’s draft language, though not yet adopted, clearly lays out the international community’s aspirations for women all over the world, and I commend those efforts to make these aspirations a reality.

The time has long passed when anyone can or should be allowed to dictate or restrict women’s rights. No young girl should be forced into marriage. Each woman should have the means to exercise her human right to choose when and how often to have children.

Finally, the world should affirm, once and for all, that no argument can ever justify violence against any woman on any grounds whatsoever.

Regarding the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, you write that “delegates and activists are pointing fingers at the Vatican ... for trying to eliminate language in a draft communiqué asserting that the familiar excuses — religion, custom, tradition — cannot be used by governments to duck their obligation to eliminate violence.”
362 2013-03-15 Eight people face federal charges of illegally trafficking paddlefish caviar from a prime paddlefish location in western Missouri after an investigation that spanned nine states and several years, the Justice Department said Thursday. More than 100 people were also issued citations. Paddlefish are protected by federal and Missouri law.
363 2013-03-15 “We were trying to do everything we could to try to save its life,” said Dr. Emily M. Green, one of the veterinarians at Herkimer Veterinary Associates who worked on Ape.

But he died a short time after he arrived.

Ape was 2 years 4 months old, and had been on active duty for the F.B.I. for a little over two weeks.

“Ape was doing what he was trained to do and made the ultimate sacrifice for his team,” the agency said in a statement released by Special Agent Ann Todd. “His actions were heroic and prevented his teammates from being seriously wounded or killed.”

Ape was to be taken to the agency’s headquarters in Quantico, Va., where he will be buried and have his name added to a memorial wall dedicated to dogs killed while on duty.

Ape was the second F.B.I. tactical dog killed in the line of duty, Agent Todd said. On Oct. 28, 2009, Freddy, a 2 ½-year-old Belgian Malinois, was also killed while accompanying F.B.I. agents who were attempting to make an arrest. He had begun duty with the F.B.I. in September 2008.

Though the F.B.I. and the police declined to discuss the specifics of why and how Ape was used in the raid, outside experts said his role highlighted the increasing use of dogs by civilian law enforcement agencies in some of the most dangerous assignments.

In fact, the use of the dog in the quiet village of Herkimer, N.Y., is strikingly similar to the way dogs have been used by the military during more than a decade of war in Afghanistan and Iraq.

A dog accompanied a Navy SEAL team on the raid that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden, and the elite military unit has reportedly purchased a number of vests, equipped with infrared night-vision cameras, for their dogs.

The cameras allow a handler to see what the dog is seeing from as far as 1,000 yards away.

“This is a military application brought to local law enforcement, which is a very common thing now,” said Robert S. Tucker, the chief executive of T and M Protection Resources.

And with scores of veterans trained to handle dogs retiring from the military, there are more people capable of working with dogs in a civilian setting.

It is a far cry from how dogs were used when the New York Police Department acquired its first bomb-sniffing dog in years — Brandy — in 1971.

Michael Stapleton, a former police officer who was working on the tactical patrol force at the time, recalled how Brandy was viewed skeptically until she detected explosives on a plane at Kennedy Airport.

Still, Mr. Stapleton said, in the 1980s there was resistance to using dogs to patrol sensitive locations. “The thought was people would take offense to the aggressive stance of dogs,” said Mr. Stapleton, who in 1986 founded Michael Stapleton Associates, a security consulting firm.

That changed almost overnight on Sept. 11, 2001.

Dogs can now be found sniffing out everything from bed bugs to bombs.

But it was not until more recently, experts said, that dogs started to be used on raids like the one in upstate New York.

The F.B.I. said that Ape had just started working on active duty on Feb. 25 after “successfully completing a demanding tactical training course.”

“He will be missed by his F.B.I. family,” the agency said.
364 2013-03-15 But on Tibetan monastery shelves over the centuries, Ms. Selig Brown said in a phone interview, “They must have been gorgeous, glittering in the light.”

The book covers have a distinct odor, a vestige of the fumes from temple lamps fueled by yak butter. In the book Ms. Selig Brown describes “the potent scent that wafts through the room when the MacLean covers are all together, the aroma intensifying when the covers are handled.”

No Western scholars know how many manuscripts and covers survive in Tibetan libraries because the Chinese restrict access. “At this stage in research there are still many uncertainties,” Ms. Selig Brown writes.

A traveling show of the MacLean covers is in development.

During the current Asia Week New York sales, Tibetan book covers and a few manuscript pages are for sale at Bonhams, Christie’s, Sotheby’s and the Carlo Cristi gallery in Manhattan, each with four- and five-figure prices and estimates.

Luggage slathered with hotel stickers used to signify a well-traveled owner or a determined poseur.

By the early 1900s so many people were plastering bags with ads for places they had never actually visited that Gaston-Louis Vuitton, a scion of the handbag and luggage manufacturer, was busy ferreting out the exaggerators. “If you got into conversation with one of them, you’d soon find out that the would-be globe-trotter had never needed a passport,” he recalled in a memoir around 1930.

His holdings of 3,000 stickers survive at the company archives. Francisca Mattéoli, a Chilean-born writer living in Paris, pored through them to research “World Tour: Vintage Hotel Labels From the Collection of Gaston-Louis Vuitton” (Abrams).

They advertised accommodations from Cincinnati to Belfast and Kuala Lumpur. The imagery is typically the hotel itself, nearby attractions and scenery, and bellhops carrying bags covered with little ads.

The Vuitton collection even documents the evolution of particular hotels’ designs. The Hotel Scribe, on the Right Bank in Paris, commissioned fussy cartouches for its 1910s stickers and then switched in the 1930s to stripes suggesting trains in motion. Its competitor Claridge’s, along the Champs-Élysées, kept using sketches of the facade but minimized the amount of visible architectural ornament over the years.

Ms. Mattéoli has her own family’s albums of souvenir stickers from world tours. She leafs through them for solace and distraction when sad moods settle over her, she said in a phone interview. “It’s a refuge, in a way,” she said. At book signings, she added, “There’s always someone who has a great story to tell and shows me labels I haven’t seen before.”

In 2011 the University of Hong Kong’s museum and art gallery organized an exhibition, “Early Hong Kong Travel (1880-1939): The Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, Limited, Benjamin W. Yim and Louis Vuitton Collections” (with a sumptuous catalog from Columbia University Press). Vuitton trunks were displayed alongside labels, including a European-designed 1910s ad for the Peak Hotel with a border of Chinese characters that actually spell gibberish.

Europeans in India laid claim to natural wonders by paying local artists for watercolors of flora and fauna. Two dozen of their paintings, depicting an assortment of purple-shouldered pigeons, shorebirds and jasmine and geranium stalks, are for sale through March 23 at the Arader Galleries’ Asia Week shows in Manhattan.

The dealer Walter Arader acquired works (priced between a few hundred dollars and six figures each) that belonged to 18th-century adventurers. The British naturalist Mary Impey bore nine children and ran a menagerie in Bengal. William Roxburgh, a Scottish surgeon turned botanist, nurtured 100,000 plants at a time on Madras plantations. The French officer Claude Martin collected mistresses, eunuchs and bird paintings.

Through April 14 the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology at the University of Oxford in England has an exhibition of bird paintings from Impey’s collection. In a naturalistic style that later influenced the ornithologist John James Audubon, she had her white cockatoo depicted pecking at a custard apple branch, and a pied hornbill clutching a tree stump entwined in a flowering creeper vine.

One of the most famous images from her circle of artists belongs to the Metropolitan Museum of Art: a portrait of a fruit bat extending one scalloped wing, which cost around $260,000 at Christie’s in London in 2008.

Generations of aesthetes have taken different approaches to quilt appreciation. The textiles, during the last century, have been perceived as testimonies to domestic resourcefulness and maternal love; products of slaves and oppressed wives; and precursors of abstract art.

A show opens on Friday at the Brooklyn Museum, “ ‘Workt by Hand’: Hidden Labor and Historical Quilts,” with textiles ranging from a 1790s linen street scene to 1880s silk-and-velvet grids to the artist Anna Williams’s 1995 swath of cotton pinwheels. The catalog (published by the museum) and wall texts explain how the fabrics were displayed during various eras.

In the 1860s crowds gathered to watch women perform nostalgic re-enactments of colonial quilting bees. In the 1970s tastemakers including Gloria Vanderbilt happily cut apart old quilts to cover floors and walls with patchwork.

The Brooklyn exhibition is part of a current wave of reinterpretation of quilters’ lives and practices. In late August a show opens at the Bennington Museum in Vermont about the impoverished farmer Jane Stickle’s 1863 quilt, made of 5,602 pieces. Scholars have recently found evidence that Mrs. Stickle exhibited her work. In fact, it won top honors at the Bennington County fair.
365 2013-03-15 “I think it’d be like a double root canal,” Pat O’Keefe, a Detroit-area financial consultant who has dealt with municipal turnarounds, said of the assignment.

Under a revised state law governing emergency managers that will go into effect on March 28, the same week that Mr. Orr is to begin his job, he will be granted sweeping powers to remake the city’s financial plan, change labor contracts and sell city assets. He will make $275,000 a year, nearly all of it paid by the state, and may choose to hire staff to be paid for by the city. Many of his decisions will trump those of elected officials, although some leaders — most notably Mr. Bing — have indicated a willingness to collaborate with Mr. Orr.

Despite Mr. Orr’s legal background, he said he hoped the city would not ultimately need to file for bankruptcy. Municipal bankruptcies are rare, but it was lost on no one that the state had selected an expert in bankruptcy law for Detroit, as opposed to a financial accountant, former city manager or elected official. Under Michigan law, a city can file for bankruptcy only under certain conditions, including if an emergency manager has attempted other measures and concluded that such a move is needed.

For now, Mr. Orr said he was hopeful that he could move quickly, perhaps faster than expected. Solutions, he said, can come “as quickly as anybody is ready to make a deal.”

Mr. Orr’s appointment, which had been many months in the making, drew mixed and sometimes muted reactions in Detroit. The City Council, which had contested the governor’s decision to bring in an emergency manager, decided in a closed-door session on Thursday not to pursue its challenge further, said Charles Pugh, the council’s president, though he added that legal challenges by other groups remained possible.

Mr. Orr was praised for his experience with financially troubled businesses and for overseeing bankruptcies and guiding restructurings. He also has worked at federal agencies like the .

He was also part of a legal team involved in bankruptcy proceedings on behalf of Chrysler in 2009, and he pointed to the resurgence of American automakers as a good omen for Detroit. He said he was resigning his post at Jones Day, where he was recently named to lead the firm’s new office.

Mr. Orr, 54, who received his law degree from the and has served as chairman of his law firm’s diversity task force, is black — a fact that some in Detroit, whose population is nearly 83 percent black, said was likely to temper the racial tension that many anticipated after Mr. Snyder declared the financial emergency.

Outside the building where Mr. Orr was being introduced, a group of protesters chanted and marched in the cold, one carrying a sign in the shape of a coffin that read: “RIP They Are Killing Detroit Over Our Dead Bodies.”

Critics have said that the state’s intervention is an undemocratic of power. “Fundamentally, this is unconstitutional,” said Josh Mack, a retiree who was among the protesters.

But Mayor Bing, who had contended that the city did not require an outside manager but accepted that Mr. Orr’s appointment had grown inevitable, said residents were no longer particularly interested in who was in charge.

“I don’t think that they care at this point who the mayor is or who the City Council is,” Mr. Bing said on Thursday. “They want things fixed.”

Diane Markus, a Detroit resident who works as a receptionist, briefly watched the protests. “The City Council had a long time to do something, but what did they do?” she said. “I mean, I don’t like this, but maybe something good will come out if it.”
366 2013-03-15 LONDON — The American dollar rose 0.2 percent to a six-month high against the Swiss franc, at 0.95555 francs, after the Swiss National Bank voiced concern about the threats its overvalued currency posed to price stability and the economy.

The central bank said the euro zone crisis could resurface, potentially driving investors back into the safe-haven franc, underlining its determination to maintain its cap on the franc at 1.20 per euro.

The Swiss franc was at its lowest since early September following the statement from the Swiss National Bank, which said it stood ready to take more monetary easing measures if needed, adding that the currency was still too high and that it would enforce the 1.20 franc per euro limit with “utmost determination.”

The euro was last at $1.2951, down 0.1 percent and close to a three-month low of $1.2923 hit on Wednesday. It has shed around 6 percent from a peak of $1.3711 set early last month.
367 2013-03-16 The woman, 39, was on a cycling tour with her husband when they were attacked and she was raped by four men....
368 2013-03-16 “A bunch of states this year are pushing corrosive religious legislation of all kinds,” said Joe Conn, a spokesman for Americans United for Separation of Church and State.

The bills have become more prolific in part, he and others say, because conservatives control both the governorships and legislatures in 24 states.

Several bills use tax money to finance private religious schools, and efforts to bring prayer to public schools have been introduced in states around the country, most noticeably in the South.

Lawmakers in South Carolina this year introduced legislation that would allow for prayer during a mandatory minute of silence at the start of the school day, provided that students who do not want to hear the prayer can leave the classroom.

Last year, Florida approved a bill to allow students to read inspirational messages at assemblies and sporting events, which prompted groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and Mr. Conn’s organization to send letters to every school district in the state threatening legal action if the law was put into practice.

In Missouri, voters in 2012 approved a constitutional amendment that gives residents the right to “pray and acknowledge God voluntarily in their schools,” and in Virginia this year, State Senator Bill Stanley has introduced a similar amendment.

The laws follow a 2000 United States Supreme Court ruling that stopped student-led prayers over public address systems at high school football games in Texas, said Daniel Mach, director of the A.C.L.U. program on freedom of religion and belief.

“These laws go further, requiring public schools to create opportunities for proselytizing from the school’s official podium during events that students must attend,” he said.

School prayer has become a touchstone in the nation’s divide over religion.

In the days after the December school shooting in Newtown, Conn., former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, who is a minister, advocated school prayer.

“We ask why there is violence in our schools, but we have systematically removed God from our schools,” he said in a television interview. “Should we be surprised that schools would become places of carnage?”

In Mississippi, local A.C.L.U. leaders said the new law would prove unconstitutional if challenged in court, a move the group would not make until a school instituted the new policy, which takes effect in July.

Mr. Bryant, anticipating a legal challenge, said, “We would be honored to spend it in defending religious freedoms for the people of the state of Mississippi.”

Under the law, Mississippi school districts would have to follow guidelines allowing a “limited public forum” at school events for students to express religious beliefs. For example, the districts must include a disclaimer that says the students’ prayers do not reflect an endorsement or sponsorship by the district.

But that still exposes children who might not share the religious views of the students expressing themselves, said Bear Atwood, legal director of the Mississippi A.C.L.U.

“People never think, what if it’s a different religious prayer than my child’s faith?” she said.

Fighting to keep religion out of schools is a frequent task for the group. In October, the group sent a letter to the Lincoln County School District asking that a school remove Christian symbols and stop prayers before events.

“Mississippi is a very religious state,” Ms. Atwood said. “There are always people who are going to push back.”
369 2013-03-16 ST. LOUIS — Here on Thursday night, the winners of the Baldwin North American Open Pairs were Kevin Dwyer of Tampa, Fla., and Gavin Wolpert of Jupiter, Fla. They finished one and a half boards ahead of Jim Munday of Southaven, Miss., and Richard Oshlag of Memphis. Third were Robert Lebi of Toronto and John Rayner of Mississauga, Ontario.

This was Dwyer’s first major national title and Wolpert’s fifth. They modestly said they won primarily because of inaccurate play by their opponents, as seen in the diagramed deal from the final session.

The brief auction left Dwyer (South) at one spade.

West led a low heart. Dwyer overtook dummy’s ten with his king, returned a heart to dummy’s jack and discarded his diamond on the heart ace. Then declarer led dummy’s club ten, which was covered by the jack, queen and king.

Now two rounds of spades before shifting to diamonds would have held South to his contract. But West tried to cash the diamond ace.

Declarer ruffed, took his club ace and continued with the club nine. When West ruffed with the spade ten, dummy overruffed with the king.

After another diamond ruff in his hand (South’s seventh trick), declarer led the club six.

West ruffed high with his jack, and dummy and East discarded diamonds.
370 2013-03-16 Pictures From the Week in Business
371 2013-03-16 “This enclosure keeps us from ever having a fire in the beginning,” Mike Sinnett, the 787’s chief engineer, said during a news conference in Japan along with Ray Conner, the president and chief executive of Boeing’s commercial airplane division. “It eliminates the possibility for fire.”

Mr. Sinnett said that Boeing engineers had identified 80 different ways that the batteries could fail and modified the batteries as a result. But if, for whatever reason, a cell did overheat and combust, the steel casing would contain the smoke and fire, the venting tube would open, and the smoke would be pushed outside the plane instead of venting inside the cabin.

Donald R. Sadoway, a materials chemistry professor at M.I.T., was not persuaded that Boeing’s plan went far enough. He said Friday that the proposals seemed intended to mollify the F.A.A. to lift the grounding of the planes, but the approach seemed to focus more on dealing with a battery failure rather than preventing one. He pointed out that automakers had developed large-format lithium-ion batteries without encountering the problems Boeing has had.

“It doesn’t have the look and feel that they are going to extreme measures to make sure this thing is robust,” he said.

The presence of senior Boeing officials in Japan reflected the central role that Japanese companies have played in financing and manufacturing the planes. Japanese authorities also need to approve Boeing’s new design.

The lithium-ion battery is made in Japan by GS Yuasa, which Mr. Conner called “a tremendous partner.”

During the presentation, Boeing also disputed characterizations made by the National Transportation Safety Board in its investigation of the Boston episode. The safety board has described it as a fire event that was caused when a failure in one cell cascaded to others, in what the board referred to as a thermal runaway. Boeing executives took issue with both assertions, contending there never was a fire inside the battery. They pointed out that the only eyewitness report referred to two three-inch flames on the connectors outside the battery box. The second episode involved only smoke.

In a report last week, the safety board said that firefighters reported “radiant heat waves” along with considerable smoke, but no flames, and one firefighter was burned in the neck when the battery exploded.

In response, a safety board spokeswoman said the board stood by its report and would “release only factual information as we are able to corroborate it.”

Boeing’s stock closed at $86.43 on Friday, up 2.14 percent.

Boeing’s solution, which company officials call comprehensive and permanent, involves using the same battery cells and blue-box aluminum casing. The cells from the existing batteries will be retested and repurposed.

The batteries’ original insulation made of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, can withstand heat of 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Instead, the cells will be wrapped with another insulating material called phenolic glass laminate, made of thin layers of a fiberglass material and resin, with a resistance of more than 900 degrees.

Boeing is also taking steps to reduce vibrations inside the battery that might have been one of the possible causes of the short circuits.

The changes to the two batteries will add 150 pounds to the weight of the airplane — a small addition to the 350,000 pound jet — but enough to offset the weight advantage from using the lighter lithium-ion batteries in the first place.

Boeing said it had been testing its new system for the last six weeks and found that the steel casing could withstand three times the pressure generated when a battery suffered a catastrophic failure.

“We think the likelihood of a repeat event is very unlikely,” Ron Hinderberger, a senior Boeing 787 engineer, said on a conference call on Friday.
372 2013-03-16 Ms. Lundberg described this as “buying forgiveness from the government.” The credits’ popularity has driven up the price nearly tenfold since January.

On the other side of the debate are the ethanol producers, who say prices are pushed lower because their product is cheaper than gasoline. This is true on a gallon-per-gallon basis, although ethanol provides less energy per gallon.

The argument over ethanol and gas prices highlights the politics of the Renewable Fuel Standard, set by a 2007 law. The ethanol lobby accuses the oil companies of ratcheting up the demand for fuel credits as a way of applying pressure on lawmakers to reduce the alternative fuel mandates. Congress could change the rules, or the Environmental Protection Agency, which set up the electronic marketplace where ethanol credits are traded, could adjust them.

The ethanol credits, like some other kinds of environmental credits, can be banked as well as bought and sold. Some companies have a surplus. But those without them have rushed into a market that is thinly traded, driving the spike in prices, according to the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, a trade association.

“The market’s broken, because the Renewable Fuel Standard has been broken since the day it was enacted,” said Charles T. Drevna, president of the group. The refiners rely on a certain amount of ethanol as a way to increase octane, but they have been fighting the standard since it was created, partly because it requires them to use advanced biofuels that are not actually in commercial production.

Oil refiners also warn that higher prices for the credits will encourage fraud, something the ethanol trading system has encountered in the past.

There are two ways the ethanol credit issue could drive gas prices higher. Mr. Drevna said that refiners would probably seek to recover the cost of the credits, which were a mere seven cents or so at the beginning of this year, in the prices they charge. And Eric G. Lee, an analyst at Citi Research, said that some refiners might seek to avoid the ethanol requirement by exporting their gas, which could tighten supplies in the United States.

According to Mr. Lee, large refiners spent $100 million to $300 million each for credits in 2012, when prices were about 4 cents. “At $1 a gallon levels, the numbers become astronomical very quickly,” he said Wednesday.

But at the Renewable Fuels Association, Bob Dinneen, the president, said that the refiners were the sellers of the credits as well as the buyers, so that it was a flow of money among the oil companies. Ethanol companies make the fuel, he said, and sell it to refiners, who either use it themselves to meet their obligations, or use it but spin off the credit for sale to someone else.

“When I see volatility like that in any market, it’s not market fundamentals at work, it’s probably something else all together,” he said. “It’s more like the oil companies trying to create a little hysteria to support the notion that the Renewable Fuel Standard is broken, but I think it’s working just fine.”

He said oil companies should be investing in stations so that they can sell e85, the blend that is 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gas, which millions of “flex fuel” cars can use, or e15, the 15 percent blend. The E.P.A. has approved e15 for most cars but the manufacturers advise against using it, and most service stations would need substantial investments in new equipment to sell it.

Using ethanol once was a cheap way to increase octane to make premium fuel, said an oil expert, Lawrence J. Goldstein, of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, because it has an octane of 113. But refiners have reached the limit of the amount they can blend, he said.

In addition, he said, an increase in American oil production, mostly from shale, allows refiners to use domestic crude instead of imported crude, but some of the new domestic supply has fewer high-octane ingredients than the African crudes it is replacing. And some refiners may increase their exports of gas in response to high credit prices, experts said. If the gasoline is exported, it does not have to meet the American ethanol requirement.

The long-term outlook for premium fuel is uncertain. Auto companies can build cars that get more miles per gallon if they use high-octane fuel, and the auto companies have agreed to double the average fuel economy of their cars and light trucks by 2025.

At Edmunds.com, analyst Bill Visnic said the demand for premium would be higher except that carmakers had learned to use an alternate technology, direct injection of fuel, combined with turbocharging, to get higher mileage.

But the number of cars that use high-octane fuel is substantial.

Michael Webber, of the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy at the University of Texas at Austin, said he asked his students how many of them drove cars that needed premium fuel. “Out of 100 people, 10 hands went up,” he said. These were probably not mostly luxury cars, he said. “Grad students normally aren’t rich,” he said.
373 2013-03-16 Seems as if it weren’t long ago that Steven Weber was playing the dashing, reckless younger brother on the sitcom “Wings.” In “Tom, Dick & Harriet,” a made-for-television movie Saturday night on the Hallmark Channel, he’s playing an adman who is fired because he’s too old. Time, apparently, rushes on.

Mr. Weber — he’s still pretty dashing, by the way — is Tom, who is accustomed to winning advertising awards but is forced out when his company is sold to another that’s run by a brash young hotshot. It’s a blunt comeuppance.

“Your wardrobe needs an upgrade,” an employment consultant tells him. “Lose the gray. Hit the gym. Laser treatments would help with those crow’s feet. And you might want to consider doing something about the sagging hoods.”

Instead Tom concocts an entirely different plan: He joins forces with a young con man, Dick (Andrew Francis), who with a fake résumé and no actual advertising experience gets a job at the company that fired Tom, on the strength of the ideas and advice Tom feeds him via e-mail and text message.

It’s not “Mad Men,” but the script by Ken Krauss has more wit to it than many Hallmark offerings, and the story is appealingly acted by a cast that includes Michelle Harrison as Harriet, an art director at the agency who becomes entangled with the fake adman and the real one.

This being Hallmark, the tale ends in a happy fantasy land for over-50 men. If it were more true to life, Tom would spend years searching unsuccessfully for work, lose his home and health insurance and then come down with a serious medical condition. But who would want to watch that movie?
374 2013-03-16 Wright missed several weeks last year during spring training battling the same injury, as did Scott Hairston and Jason Bay, both of whom have since left the team.

In mid-February, second baseman Daniel Murphy sustained an intercostal muscle strain that has kept him out of spring training games. Murphy played the field and ran the bases during a minor league game on Friday afternoon, but he did not swing a bat.

Wright received treatment this week from the United States team’s medical staff for discomfort on his left side. When the Mets became aware of this, they worked with national team officials to remove him from the competition.

Alderson said the minor nature of Wright’s case — he did not report feeling pain during games — was a reason for optimism. “From a medical standpoint, it’s a moderate strain, which is a good thing,” Alderson said.

And last year, Wright came back from the injury to put together one of his better seasons.

But the news will nevertheless cause concern for the Mets, a team that lacks depth and that expected to rely heavily on Wright for offense. Wright, 30, batted .306 and hit 21 home runs last season, then signed an eight-year, $138 million contract extension.

A hot start to 2013 made him the centerpiece of the American team’s offense. But now the Mets may have to race to get him ready for opening day. Once Wright can resume baseball activities, it will take time for him to work his way back to full speed.

“I’m trying to be optimistic, knowing that this kid is as tough as he is,” Manager Terry Collins said Friday after the Mets’ 5-2 win over the Atlanta Braves, “but I’m sure it will be two to three weeks.”

The headaches for Collins were already coming in waves. Johan Santana, who was named the opening day starter at the beginning of spring training, now appears to be a candidate to begin the season on the disabled list as he deals with arm strength problems. Frank Francisco, signed before last season to be the team’s closer, has just begun to throw off a mound after surgery on his elbow this winter.

Among position players, the Mets will continue to wait for Murphy as well as Kirk Niuewenhuis, who has not played in a game since sustaining a bone bruise on his left knee almost two weeks ago.

But the injury to Wright, the face of the franchise and de facto captain of the team, is the most worrying of them all.
375 2013-03-16 The latest bailout for the euro zone broke new ground by requiring haircuts, or losses, for all Cypriot bank depositors. A previous bailout for Greece required a significant haircut for Greek bondholders in early 2012 — something that European Union officials said at the time would be a one-of-a-kind measure.

Mr. Dijsselbloem declined to rule out taxes on depositors in other countries besides Cyprus in the future, but insisted that such a measure was not being considered. He said the tax would generate 5.8 billion euros.

Going into the meeting, finance ministers sought to limit the overall costs of the rescue plan while Christine Lagarde, managing director of the I.M.F., pushed for a deal that is generous enough to enable Cyprus eventually to pay the money back.

The Cypriot authorities wanted a plan that ensures that the island remains attractive to investors, who include many Russians with large deposits in the country’s banks.

Ms. Lagarde was blunt about the need for ministers to agree to a realistic package of measures. “All I know is that we don’t want a Band-Aid,” she said. “We want something that lasts, something that is durable and that will be sustainable.”

The key to a breakthrough was finding a way to bring down the bailout package, estimated at 17 billion euros ($22.2 billion). That amount is small compared with the rescue deal for Greece, but represents almost as much as Cyprus’s gross domestic product, which is about 18 billion euros.

The deal that emerged on Saturday morning was for a bailout of up to 10 billion euros, Mr. Dijsselbloem said.

Cyprus asked for the bailout in June last year. But talks faltered when the former president Demetris Christofias, a Communist, balked at measures like privatizations. The talks sped up after the election last month of Nicos Anastasiades of the Democratic Rally, a center-right party, to the presidency.

Some of the other elements of the deal involved Cyprus raising its low corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent from 10 percent, privatizing state assets and overhauling its banks to ensure that they are not havens for money laundering.

Russia also was expected to contribute to the arrangement, perhaps by agreeing to lower the interest rate on a loan worth 2.5 billion euros it has already made to Cyprus.

Mujtaba Rahman, a senior analyst with the Eurasia Group, a political risk research and consulting firm, said it was likely that countries like Germany and Finland would ultimately reach a deal with the I.M.F.

“The fact is that some governments in the north of Europe need the I.M.F. also to be contributing money to Cyprus in order to convince their parliaments to give approval to a deal,” Mr. Rahman said.
376 2013-03-16 In interviews over recent days, Obama administration officials described internal debates at the White House and the Pentagon about how strongly to react to the recent provocations. It is a delicate balance, they said, of defending against real potential threats while avoiding giving the North Koreans what one official called “the satisfaction of seeming to make the rest of the world jumpy.”

In announcing the deployments at a Pentagon news conference, Mr. Hagel cited North Korea’s third test of technology last month, the successful test of a long-range missile that sent a satellite into space, and the discovery that a new generation of mobile missiles appeared closer to development.

“We will strengthen our homeland defense, maintain our commitments to our allies and partners, and make clear to the world that the United States stands firm against aggression,” Mr. Hagel said.

All 14 of the new interceptors will be placed in silos at Fort Greely, Alaska, where 26 interceptors are already deployed. Four others are at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California.

North Korea has always been an unpredictable, provocative dictatorship. But even by its own standards, the isolated Communist regime’s recent decision to nullify a wartime cease-fire and weeks of increasingly hyperbolic warnings, including of a pre-emptive nuclear strike, appear to have crossed new and dangerous lines.

Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., the vice chairman of the , also spoke at the Pentagon on Friday and described how the United States was deliberately building a two-tiered system of deterrence against North Korea.

The United States will “put the mechanics in place to deny any potential North Korean objectives to launch a missile to the United States, but also to impose costs upon them if they do,” Admiral Winnefeld said.

In an unusually pointed warning to the new North Korean leader, Admiral Winnefeld added, “We believe that this young lad ought to be deterred by that — and if he’s not, we’ll be ready.”

The arguments for bolstering the limited missile defense were symbolic of the larger problem.

The antimissile systems are considered less than reliable, and some administration officials were  reluctant to pour additional resources into deploying more of the existing technology.

But in testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee, Gen. C. Robert Kehler, the commander of the United States Strategic Command, made clear they serve a larger purpose. “Deterring North Korea from acting irrationally is our No. 1 priority,” he said. He acknowledged that there were doubts that the 30 existing antimissile systems would be sufficient, and added that an additional site in the United States, on the East Coast, may be needed to deter .

But the new deployment is also intended to send a signal to China, which tried but failed to block the more recent nuclear test, to rein in the North. “We want to make it clear that there’s a price to be paid for letting the North Koreans stay on the current path,” a senior official said Friday.

The North’s new leader, some analysts say, is intensifying the threats because he has failed to get the Obama administration and its South Korean allies to return to an established pattern in which the North provoked and the allies followed with much-needed economic aid in return for Pyongyang’s promises to finally halt its nuclear weapons program.

But a growing number of experts believe North Korea also views its recent advances in missile and nuclear technology as game changers that will allow it to build the nuclear arsenal it desperately wants, both as a deterrent against better-armed enemies and a cudgel to extract more concessions and possibly even international recognition.

“Developing nuclear weapons gives North Korea a chance to turn the tables in one stroke,” said Cheong Seong-chang, an expert on North Korea at the Sejong Institute. “They can get around the weakness of their economy and their outdated conventional weapons.”

The short-term risk, analysts say, is that the North’s chest-thumping will lead to another round of limited conventional military skirmishes with the South that could get out of control and, in the worst case, draw in the United States. With a new leader in South Korea under political pressure to stand up to her country’s longtime enemy, the risks are especially high.

The main newspaper of North Korea’s ruling party, Rodong Sinmun, recently gave the North’s own explanation for its actions. “Let the American imperialists and their followers know!” the paper said. “We are not a pushover like or .”

Some missile-defense experts express deep skepticism about the capability of the ground-based interceptors deployed in California and Alaska.

“It remains unclear whether these ground-based interceptors can work effectively, and they should be subjected to much more rigorous field testing before taxpayer resources are spent on a system that is ineffective,” said Tom Z. Collina, research director at the Arms Control Association, an advocacy group here.

James N. Miller, the Pentagon’s under secretary for policy, said the new missiles would have to show success before they would be deployed. “We will continue to stick with our ‘fly before we buy’ approach,” Mr. Miller said, citing a successful test as recently as Jan. 26. George Lewis, an antimissile missile expert at , said 15 flight tests of the defensive system have tried to hit targets, and only eight have succeeded.

The Defense Department’s interceptors in California and Alaska are to blunt a long-range missile threat from North Korea. The United States also deploys Patriot Advanced Capability batteries in South Korea for defense of targets there, and the South fields an older model of the Patriot.

Japan is developing its own layered missile-defense system, which includes Aegis warships and Patriot systems as well.

The United States deploys one advanced TPY-2 missile-defense tracking radar in Japan to enhance early warning across the region and toward the West Coast, and it has reached agreement to deploy a second.

And the Navy also recently bolstered its deployment of ballistic missile defense warships in waters off the Korean Peninsula, although the vessels were sent as part of an exercise even before the increase in caustic language from the North. As part of the Foal Eagle military exercise with South Korea, the Navy has four Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers in the region.
377 2013-03-16 There is reason to take all the numbers with a grain of salt. The American figures were estimated after the fact, by the government for G.D.P. and by the National Bureau of Economic Research for unemployment. For G.D.P., only annual changes were estimated.

The Hellenic Statistics Authority, Greece’s compiler of official numbers, has a history of deception — the country lied to get into the euro zone — and it now cannot apply seasonal adjustments to its quarterly G.D.P. estimates. As a result, the figures shown in the charts are calculated by adding up the four quarters of each year. But European officials now vouch for the quality of Greek figures.

Perhaps the most telling difference between the course of the two economies comes in government consumption spending — basically spending that is not for investment, as in building roads or bombers. In the United States, that spending was growing even under President Herbert Hoover and helped to cushion the economy’s fall. In Greece, required by Europe to follow a course of harsh austerity, that spending has fallen rapidly, even if it has not declined as rapidly as some Europeans want.

By the fifth year of the Depression, personal consumption spending had begun to recover in the United States. In Greece last year, it fell 9.1 percent, more than in any other year of the downturn.

Greece publishes monthly overall unemployment figures, but provides details only on a quarterly basis. The charts show the trends of joblessness by sex and age group through the third quarter of last year, the most recent available. Women are more likely to be unemployed in every age group shown, and older workers are far less likely to be jobless than younger ones. Even the groups that look good by comparison are doing poorly. Among men age 45 to 64, nearly one in six is out of work. Among men 30 to 44, the figure is one in five.

Rates for teenagers and people over 65 are not shown, since few of them are in the labor force. The picture is glum for those teenagers who do want jobs. The male unemployment rate is 52 percent, and the rate for women is 81.5 percent. Most of those over 65 who say they want to work do have jobs, but the proportion of such people in the labor force has been falling in recent years.
378 2013-03-16 “He’s pretty bummed — no golf the rest of the year for him,” Mr. Schmidt wrote in an e-mail.

There followed a sinkhole on Tuesday in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Washington and a 17-foot-deep sinkhole discovered on Wednesday morning in Holyoke, Mass.

According to geologists, sinkholes have opened up on a daily basis for as long as anyone can remember. But nobody paid them much heed until now.

“I don’t believe we’re having any more today that we’ve had before,” Randall Orndorff, director of the Geology and Paleoclimate Science Center at the United States Geological Survey, said in an interview. “They happen all the time.”

Of course, he noted, there are sinkholes, and then there are man-made sinkholes. Real sinkholes occur when rain naturally transformed into weak carbonic acid eats away particularly susceptible underground rock like limestone or gypsum — also known as karst — creating underground holes.

Man-made sinkholes are made the same way, only quicker. The Louisiana sinkhole is above a salt dome being mined by a brine-making company.

All this is of intense interest to sinkhole enthusiasts. There is, for instance, thesinkhole.org, a Web site that bills itself as “the world’s largest collection of sinkholes” and posts breezy accounts, replete with photographs, of holes in the ground. There is also the Thirteenth Multidisciplinary Conference on Sinkholes and the Engineering and Environmental Impacts of Karst, known by insiders as the Sinkhole Conference, which is coming up in May. As many as 150 experts will be there.

The conference includes a tour of a radioactive waste pilot plant inside a New Mexico salt mine. It also includes extensive tours of real and mostly untouched natural New Mexico sinkholes, which, for some attendees, could be a refreshing change of pace.

“Every time I’m in the country and see a sinkhole in an agricultural area, it almost always has an old refrigerator, an old washing machine or an old junk pickup truck that someone didn’t want to haul off to the salvage yard,” said Lewis Land, a New Mexico government karst hydrologist who is a conference organizer. “A sinkhole on a farmer’s property is almost like God has gifted him with a naturally occurring landfill.”
379 2013-03-16 Yet Mr. Li inherits economic hazards that could preoccupy his government and deter bold policy moves. The hazards include an overheated property market that has defied government measures intended to tame price increases and make housing more affordable, worries about debts run up by local governments, and cautious lower-income consumers who remain reluctant to spend at the level many economists say is needed for healthy growth over the long term.

“I do think that there are some signs that, first of all, they recognize this is a new world, and the market economy or liberalization has given great successes but also great vulnerabilities,” said Yukon Huang, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington who studies the Chinese economy.

Mr. Li and his cohort believe that China “needs a growth driver in the next 5, 10, 15 years, because it can’t rely upon exports again and can’t rely on investment expansion for the sake of investment expansion,” Mr. Huang said.

Last year, China’s economy grew by 7.8 percent, compared with a year earlier, the slowest pace since 1999. The property market has been a driver of that growth, but a recent sharp rise in prices has kindled jitters about a potential bubble. On March 1, Mr. Wen’s State Council took a parting jab at the sector, demanding that local governments enforce an earlier rule imposing a 20 percent tax on profits when people sell secondary homes.

Votes by the National People’s Congress are a predictable ritual, with party officials exercising discipline behind the scenes to ensure that there are no upsets, but there were pinpricks of dissent. On Thursday, one delegate voted against Mr. Xi to succeed Hu Jintao as president, and three abstained. Mr. Li attracted three “no” votes and six abstentions among the 2,949 votes counted as valid. The secret electronic ballot makes it impossible to publicly identify the dissenters, despite the avid curiosity voiced by some Chinese online.

Another prominent economic decision maker in the new government will be the incoming deputy prime minister Wang Yang, a former party secretary of Guangdong Province in southern China who cast himself as a reformer willing to challenge entrenched privilege.

Lou Jiwei, the chairman and chief executive of the China Investment Corporation, a sovereign wealth fund, appears likely to become finance minister. He will oversee thorny issues like revamping taxation and dealing with debt-saddled local governments that complain of having too many spending burdens.

However, the likely retention of Zhou Xiaochuan as the leader of the People’s Bank of China, or central bank, reflects the anxieties weighing on the new leadership, analysts say. Mr. Zhou was dropped from the party’s Central Committee — a council of senior officials — in November, and he is 65, an age when retirement becomes likely for officials of his rank. But he appears likely to keep his job for now.

“I think that is an indication that they haven’t built up any successor,” said Joerg Wuttke, a former president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. “They don’t trust anybody else, maybe, to deal with a potential financial crisis.”

“They need an experienced old hand, and they can’t let him go,” he said.

Mr. Li grew up in rural Anhui Province and worked for years on one of the impoverished farm communes that Mao Zedong believed could deliver communist equality and bountiful harvests. In late 1977, he won a place in the prestigious Peking University, where he studied law before moving on to economics, and he retains a bookish demeanor and a confident grasp of English. Like his mentor, Mr. Hu, he made his start up the leadership ladder in the Communist Party’s Youth League.

Mr. Wen left office dogged by unwelcome attention on his family, which was the subject of a report by The New York Times into its wealth, and lamenting that he “fell short in some tasks” to improve people’s lives. Mr. Li and his colleagues appear eager to avoid being tainted with the same accusations of frustrated promises, said Damien Ma, a researcher at the Paulson Institute, a center in Chicago focused on China-United States relations.

“They’ve got to show that they’re willing to act,” Mr. Ma said. “Before they felt that they could defer reforms, and they did.”

Mr. Li is scheduled to give his first news conference as prime minister on Sunday, after the end of the parliamentary session.
380 2013-03-17 The Clippers did not re-sign Kenyon Martin after last season, and despite their 93-80 win Sunday, he says their style still is not made for the playoffs....
381 2013-03-17 For the 10th anniversary of “The Da Vinci Code,” the book will be available for download free for a week, and it will feature the first chapter of “Inferno,” Dan Brown’s coming thriller....
382 2013-03-17 Unmanned aerial vehicles, also known as drones, may soon become commercialized. In Grand Forks, N.D., people are preparing for a coming boom in drones-related business.
383 2013-03-17 Louisville is the No. 1 overall seed, with Indiana, Gonzaga and Kansas ranking as the other three top seeds for this year’s N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament....
384 2013-03-17 Kim Yu-na won in her first appearance at the World Figure Skating Championships in two years with an exquisite and elegant performance that left the audience in London, Ontario, spellbound. With a score of 218.31, she was more than 20 points ahead of the defending champion, Carolina Kostner.

In the ice dance competition, the Americans Meryl Davis and Charlie White bested the defending Olympic and world champions Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir.
385 2013-03-17 Civil Rights Cold Cases: ‘We Are Writing to Inform You ...’

In 2006, the F.B.I. started re-opening unsolved homicide cases from the civil-rights era. Despite hopes for justice, almost all have ended the same way, with agents hand-delivering or mailing letters to families of the long deceased to notify them that their cases have been closed. 

 

 Sometimes nothing could be done because the prime suspect had died. Sometimes it was unclear whether a hate crime had occurred in the first place. Copies of dozens of these letters were given to The New York Times by James Shelledy, a journalist in residence at the Manship School of Mass Communication at Louisiana State University, and a team of journalism students who have been working on an unsolved civil rights-era murders project. They obtained the letters through the Freedom of Information Act.
386 2013-03-17 While most experts on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have long imagined Jerusalem as ultimately being divided, with Jewish neighborhoods remaining part of Israel and Arab ones joining Palestine, these new buildings make such a plan more complicated if not impossible — which may be exactly the point.

“The world is talking about dividing Jerusalem — it’s in many ways churning water,” said Daniel Luria, executive director of Ateret Cohanim, an organization that is not involved in these two projects but that has led many other efforts to establish Jewish beachheads in the area. “What has happened since 1967 in the Old City and around the Old City has made any discussion of dividing Jerusalem the way the Arabs see it irrelevant, because on the ground it ain’t going to happen.”

Palestinian leaders say that Maalot David and Beit Orot are part of an insidious ring of Israeli activity around the so-called Holy Basin of sites sacred to Jews, Christians and Muslims, which includes a vast national park and a planned military academy.

“It is all part of the plan, part of the scheme, to undermine the two-state solution and East Jerusalem being the capital,” said Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, on Thursday during a tour for foreign diplomats intended to highlight the issue ahead of Mr. Obama’s visit.

On a similar outing last month, the Palestinian Authority’s governor of Jerusalem, Adnan Husseini, declared, “This phase of colonization is very dangerous, because it disintegrates inside the Palestinian neighborhoods — now they want to disfigure the core itself.”

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and most of the leaders in his new coalition, as well as the mayor of Jerusalem, have steadfastly maintained Israel’s right to build anywhere in the city, though its 1967 annexation of the Arab areas has not gained international acceptance.

Daniel Seidemann, a lawyer and settlement opponent who documents Israeli building in East Jerusalem, estimates there are 196,000 Jews living in such areas. The vast majority are in large, established neighborhoods like French Hill, near Hebrew University, or Har Homa, at the city’s southern edge, and are not seen by most Israelis as settlers.

About 2,200, according to Mr. Seidemann, are scattered in Palestinian enclaves in and around the Old City — many of them ultra-Orthodox extremists who took it as a religious and political mission to seize individual homes and raise Israeli flags on them.

Beit Orot and Maalot David represent a different approach: modern, comfortable apartments tucked into existing Palestinian neighborhoods. (It is not unprecedented: About 90 Jewish families live in Maale Hazeitim, across the street from Maalot David, and a similar number in Nof Zion, which opened several years ago in nearby Jebel Mukaber.)

But these projects come at an especially anxious time — with the peace process long stalled, confidence between the parties all but absent, and international condemnation of settlements generally intensifying. Heightening concerns of settlement critics, the new Israeli government finalized on Friday named as minister of housing and construction a former leader of the settlers’ council, whose Jewish Home Party opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state.

Beit Orot, on the edge of the Palestinian neighborhoods of Al Sawana and A-Tur, includes 24 units in four, four-story buildings next to a yeshiva by the same name whose property was bought by Irving I. Moskowitz, a wealthy Miami doctor who has financed many East Jerusalem projects. There are three-, four- and five-bedroom apartments with large porches and parking spaces, starting around $350,000.

Maalot David, a former police compound used by Jordan when it controlled the area from 1948 to 1967 and then by Israel, has 20 units, three of them small houses. The asking price for its 2,500-square-foot penthouse, with views of the Dome of the Rock out the 14 windows in the open kitchen-living area, is near $1 million.

Harel Basel, the real estate broker handling sales, said buyers so far had been religious but not ultra-Othodox families, some from West Bank settlements, drawn by both location and relative affordability. Similar apartments in prime West Jerusalem, he said, go for two or even four times as much.

“Something that is more than just an apartment in Jerusalem,” Mr. Basel. “Something for the soul, something with a goal, a vision, not just a house.”

Nechama Meir, who moved into Maalot David six months ago, said that she is no pioneer and that her address is “not a geopolitical question.”

A 33-year-old mother of six, ages 6 months to 11 years, Ms. Meir said she wanted more space (860 square feet, compared with 600 in the old place) and a yard (they planted their own grass). She also yearned to be closer to the Old City, where the children go to school, and to the Mount of Olives, where her husband’s great-grandfather is buried, along with generations of great rabbis.

A few weeks ago, the family visited a site believed to be where the red heifer was sacrificed, during biblical times, in a purification ritual.

“It’s a very holy place,” said Ms. Meir, who grew up in Neve Yaakov, a settlement of about 20,000 people in the northern reaches of East Jerusalem, and sells natural cosmetics. “You go out, you feel connected to all the generations of the nation. It’s just special to live in a place that you feel connected to your roots.”

Her children ride their bikes in the parking lot, behind Maalot David’s iron gates and tall fences; the streets outside are deemed too dangerous. They are not allowed to walk alone to the Old City: the Ras al-Amud traffic circle is notorious for Palestinian youths throwing stones at Israeli soldiers, settlers and visitors.

The parents do sometimes shop at the produce stand down the street. And when some Palestinian young men accidentally tossed their keys over the fence one recent afternoon, the couple said, they spent an hour searching in the bushes, though they would not risk letting the neighbors in to hunt for themselves.

Muhammad Zaghal, an optometrist who grew up in Ras al-Amud, has watched tensions swell as first Maale Hazeitim and then Maalot David opened their doors.

After Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier kidnapped in the Gaza Strip, was released in late 2011 in exchange for 1,000 Palestinian prisoners, Mr. Zaghal said, some Jews threw stones and water at people celebrating in the street, and made a big sign declaring, “One Jew is Worth 1,000 Arabs.”

“Everyone knows they don’t love us and we don’t love them,” Mr. Zaghal, 32, said. “They think that this is their place and this is their land, but this is not the case. We are here and we are staying here, but they won’t. There are people here who won’t let them.”
387 2013-03-17 Pentagon officials said that Russia’s longstanding objections played no role in the decision to reconfigure the missile interceptor program, which they said was based on the increased threat from North Korea and on technological difficulties and budget considerations related to the Europe-based program.

“The missile defense decisions Secretary Hagel announced were in no way about Russia,” George Little, a Pentagon spokesman, said Saturday.

Still, other Obama administration officials acknowledged potential benefits if the decision was well-received in Moscow, as well as the possibility of continued objections given that the United States is not backing away from its core plan for a land-based missile shield program in Central Europe.

“There’s still an absolutely firm commitment to European missile defense, which is not about Russia; it’s about Iran these days,” said a senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “If there are side benefits that accrue with Russia, so be it. But that wasn’t a primary driver.”

Regardless, some experts said it could help relations by eliminating what the Russians had cited as one of their main objections — the interceptors in the final phase of the missile shield that might have the ability to target long-range intercontinental ballistic missiles, which are part of Russian’s nuclear arsenal.

The Obama administration has sought cooperation from Russia on numerous issues, with varying degrees of success. Russia generally has supported the NATO-led military effort in Afghanistan and has helped to  restrict Iran’s nuclear program by supporting economic sanctions. But the two countries have been deeply at odds over the war in Syria, and over human rights issues in Russia. Most recently, Mr. Obama has said he would like further reductions in the two countries’ nuclear arsenals, something Russia has said it would not consider without settling the dispute over missile defense.

American experts insisted that the Russians’ concern over the antimissile program was exaggerated and that the system would not have jeopardized their strategic missiles had the final phase been developed. That Russian concern has now been addressed.

“There is no threat to Russian missiles now,” said Steven Pifer, an arms control expert who has managed Russia policy from top positions at the State Department and the National Security Council. “If you listen to what the Russians have been saying for the last two years, this has been the biggest obstacle to things like cooperation with NATO.”

“Potentially this is very big,” said Mr. Pifer, now of the Brookings Institution. “And it’s going to be very interesting seeing how the Russians react once they digest it.”

In Washington, many officials have said they believe  Russia’s real objections are not only about the particular capabilities of the missile shield but also about a more general political and strategic opposition to an expanding American military presence in Eastern Europe. Canceling only the final stage of the program does not address that concern, so it is possible that Russia’s position will remain unchanged.

Sean Kay, a professor at Ohio Wesleyan University and expert in international security issue and Russian relations, said that the so-called fourth stage of the Europe-based missile defense program “was largely conceptual” and might never have been completed.

Eliminating that portion of the program made sense, Mr. Kay said. “In effect, by sticking with a plan that was neither likely to work in the last stage but was creating significant and needless diplomatic hurdles at the same time, we gained nothing,” he said. At least some of the canceled interceptors were to have been based in Poland, which will still host less-advanced interceptors.

In the past, efforts to restructure the antimissile program provoked sharp criticism in Poland, but this time reaction from Warsaw has been more muted. Analysts have said Poland’s main goal in hosting the interceptors has been having an American military presence there as a deterrent to Russia.
388 2013-03-17 People hate that stuff, and have not exactly stormed the Capitol to stop diversions and budget tricks and the sorts of things many of us have used, from time to time, to make our checkbooks balance.

Still, some people do mind. Senator Kirk Watson, Democrat of Austin (of which he is also a former mayor), minds. And after several years of talking about it, he has company on both sides of the aisle. It turns out that transparency is popular with Republicans and Democrats.

“We’ve got to get some more transparency,” Mr. Watson said. “Everybody recognizes this is not an honest way to budget. If you’re going to collect a tax and not use it for that purpose, quit collecting the tax.”

It looks especially dishonest if the programs that are supposed to be supported by dedicated income go wanting. The state has been starving state parks for years, all the while collecting money specifically to keep those parks flourishing.

The state comptroller expects the fiscal year to end with $39.8 million sitting unused in one parks account, and $37.7 million in another.

“The folks in the 911 area would tell you the same thing,” Mr. Watson said. “Or the emission reductions program — we fixed that? We can divert the money?”

One aspect of the comptroller’s report on dedicated revenue is how well the various funds are named. Who would be against a fund for coastal protection, or oil-field cleanup, or breath alcohol testing, or college tuition loans?

The names, and the overall size of the diversions, could be the impetus for reform. It is a lot of money, rising from $4 billion, at the beginning of the current two-year budget to $4.9 billion forecast for the end. And those programs — each with a constituency that probably helped get the money dedicated in the first place — have advocates who would like to see the original purpose served.

The economy is better, too, and might bring the state enough new income to wean itself off the diversions now in place.

Some lawmakers want to limit diversions in the future. Mr. Watson wants to cut them out altogether, but even he would leave an exception, allowing the Legislature to divert funds from programs, one by one, in recorded votes.

Mr. Watson called diversions a “grossly political” way out of a budget pinch. “Nobody wants to be for raising taxes, but everybody wants to be for giving the public whatever they want,” he said.

Others have picked up on this. One piece of legislation would allow diversions up to what is now in place, but no more. Another would order a study by the Legislative Budget Board.

“I don’t think people ought to be let up just because they’re saying the right things,” Mr. Watson said. “I really worry that we’re not going to be candid about how big a problem this is.”

Thanks to the comptroller’s report, we know exactly how big it is: $4,949,031,180.
389 2013-03-17 Scholars began referring to this theory as “mismatch.” It’s the idea that affirmative action can harm those it’s supposed to help by placing them at schools in which they fall below the median level of ability and therefore have a tough time. As a consequence, the argument goes, these students suffer learningwise and, later, careerwise. To be clear, mismatch theory does not allege that minority students should not attend elite universities. Far from it. But it does say that students — minority or otherwise — do not automatically benefit from attending a school that they enter with academic qualifications well below the median level of their classmates.

The mismatch theory, if true, would affect many kids. According to a 2009 book, “No Longer Separate, Not Yet Equal: Race and Class in Elite College Admission and Campus Life,” by Thomas J. Espenshade and Alexandria Walton Radford, a black student with an otherwise similar application to a white student receives the equivalent of a 310-point bump in SAT scores.

Mismatch theory attracted little attention until 2005, when a law professor at , Richard H. Sander, published a provocative article in the Stanford Law Review, which focused on how affirmative action affected law students. Mr. Sander claimed that “a student who gains special admission to a more elite school on partly nonacademic grounds is likely to struggle more” and contended that “if the struggling leads to lower grades and less learning, then a variety of bad outcomes may result: higher attrition rates, lower pass rates on the bar, problems in the job market. The question is how large these effects are, and whether their consequences outweigh the benefits of greater prestige.”

In other words, do the benefits of the connections made at, say, U.C.L.A. School of Law, and the weight U.C.L.A. carries in the job market, outweigh the cost of struggling academically there? Based on his reading of the data, Mr. Sander concluded that they did not.

Law school, as it turns out, is a somewhat natural, though imperfect, environment for studying mismatch effects. Law students have their knowledge tested in a fairly uniform way, first on the LSAT and then again, after graduation, on a state licensing exam, the bar.

MUCH of the squabble over mismatch centers on differing interpretations of the Bar Passage Study. The B.P.S. was commissioned by the Law School Admission Council in 1989 to determine whether blacks and Hispanics had disproportionately poor bar-passage rates. In 1991, more than 27,000 incoming law students — about 2,000 of them black — completed questionnaires for the B.P.S. and gave permission to track their performance in law school and later on the bar.

Among other things, the questionnaire asked students (a) whether they got into their first-choice law school, (b) if so, whether they enrolled at their first choice, and (c) if not, why not.

Data showed that 689 of the approximately 2,000 black applicants got into their first-choice law school. About three-quarters of those 689 matriculated at their first choice. The remaining quarter opted instead for their second-choice school, often for financial or geographic reasons. So, of the 689 black applicants who got into their first choice, 512 went, and the rest, 177, attended their second choice, presumably a less prestigious institution.

This data presented a plausible opportunity to gauge mismatch. The fact that 689 black students got into their first-choice law school meant that all 689 were similar in at least that one regard (though possibly dissimilar in many other ways). If mismatch theory held any water, then the 177 students who voluntarily opted for their second-choice school — and were therefore theoretically better “matched” — could be expected, on average, to have better outcomes on the bar exam than their peers who chose the more elite school. Mr. Sander’s analysis of the B.P.S. data found that 21 percent of the black students who went to their second-choice schools failed the bar on their first attempt, compared with 34 percent of those who went to their first choice.

The experiment is far from ideal. Mismatch opponents argue that there are many unobservable differences between second-choice and first-choice students and that those differences, because they’re unknown, cannot be accounted for in a formula. In the case of the B.P.S. data, maybe the second-choice students tended to have undergraduate majors that made them particularly well suited to flourish in the classroom and on the bar, regardless of which law school they attended. “All this work on mismatch assumes you know enough to write an algebraic expression that captures what’s really going on,” says Richard A. Berk, a professor of criminology and statistics at the . “Here, there’s so much we don’t know. Besides, the LSAT is a very imperfect measure of performance in law school and thereafter, as is the bar exam.”

Daniel E. Ho, a law professor at Stanford, also disputes the mismatch hypothesis. In a response to Mr. Sander’s 2005 law review article, Mr. Ho wrote in the Law Journal that “black law students who are similarly qualified when applying to law school perform equally well on the bar irrespective of what tier school they attend.”

Political changes in the ’90s created another opportunity to study mismatch. In 1996, California voters passed Prop 209, a ban on affirmative action. Critics of Prop 209 expected black and Hispanic enrollment at top schools, like U.C.L.A. and , to plummet — and it did, for a while. But these schools eventually saw increases in minority enrollment, particularly among Hispanics, as sophisticated new outreach programs kicked in. Enrollment has not, however, gotten back to pre-Prop 209 levels.

Recently, economists from Duke studied the effects of Prop 209, comparing undergraduate graduation rates for blacks, Hispanics and American Indians before and after the ban. In a paper being considered for publication by The Quarterly Journal of Economics, the Duke economists conclude that mismatch effects are strongest for students in so-called STEM majors — science, technology, engineering and math. These subjects proceed in a more regimented way than the humanities, with each topic and class building on what came before. If you don’t properly learn one concept, it’s easier to get knocked off track.

The Duke economists say that lower-ranked schools in the University of California system are better at graduating minority students in STEM majors. For example, they conclude that had the bottom third of minority students at Berkeley who hoped to graduate with a STEM major gone to instead, they would have been almost twice as likely to earn such a degree.

“Prior to ’s ban on affirmative action,” Peter Arcidiacono, one of the study’s authors, told me, “what Berkeley did well was switch relatively ill-prepared minority students out of the sciences and into majors where credentials are relatively less important.”

SOON the Supreme Court will decide Fisher v. University of Texas. The case is complex, but essentially boils down to a young woman’s claim that U.T. violated the Constitution’s equal protection clause by denying her admission because she is white. The justices, save perhaps Clarence Thomas, are unlikely to address mismatch in their opinions. But the court could force schools to be more transparent about the racial preferences they use in admissions, and even to track the consequences for their students. For now, social scientists debate what can be gleaned from flawed data sets. They continue to argue over whether mismatch even exists and the extent of the harm it causes if it does. This raises another question: Do some of the more concrete if intangible benefits of affirmative action, like prestige and the superior connections one makes attending a fancier school, outweigh the potential cost? If affirmative-action admits are less likely to pass the bar after going to a certain type of school, or less likely to follow through with their field of choice, then the cost is potentially considerable. But are we really going to tell a kid embarking on adult life that he’s better off attending a less prestigious school?

“The real question is what we want affirmative action to achieve,” says Richard Brooks, a law professor at Yale. “Are we trying to maximize diversity? Engagement in the classroom? Whatever it is, I don’t think the purpose of affirmative action is for everyone to have average grades.” Mr. Brooks believes that mismatch exists. But he rejects the idea that it’s as insidious as others claim and says that some mismatch might even be a good thing. Striving alongside people more capable than we are is a key ingredient for growth of all kinds.

In the Fisher case, Messrs. Brooks, Berk and Ho signed a friend-of-the-court brief disputing a brief on mismatch that was co-written by Mr. Sander and the legal journalist Stuart Taylor Jr. Messrs. Sander and Taylor also wrote a book together that was published last fall, “Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students It’s Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won’t Admit it.”

“Mismatch angers affirmative-action supporters because it quantifies a downside without weighing it against potential upsides,” says Theodore Eisenberg, a law professor at , “such as the benefit of a diverse classroom, and the reality that some people who do attend better schools because of affirmative action are more successful in life as a result and help other minorities thrive.” Mr. Eisenberg is on the board of The Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, which in June is publishing a paper by E. Douglass Williams, an economist at Sewanee: The University of the South, that appears to corroborate Mr. Sander’s “first-choice/second-choice” analysis of the B.P.S. data.

In essence, affirmative action is about how to fairly distribute opportunity after our long history of racial discrimination. Whether it “works” is as much an issue for school administrators as for policy makers. That is, before we tell a student to choose School B over School A, it’s worth asking what schools can do to improve the experiences of students, particularly those pursuing STEM majors, who arrive less well prepared.

The upside of affirmative action might be harder to quantify. But part of the problem with the current affirmative action regime is how its supporters define the goal, what the Supreme Court calls the “compelling state interest”: classroom diversity. Meanwhile, little regard is given to the actual forms of adversity that disadvantaged students of all races must overcome. If affirmative action continues — either until Justice O’Connor’s 2028 horizon or beyond — then the results from California and the Bar Passage Study suggest it’s worth a closer, numbers-based look at the consequences, for everyone.
390 2013-03-17 I didn’t have the faintest idea how to make an inanimate object move on stage. And the challenge was even more daunting since we wouldn’t even see the puppets until hours before the world premiere in Geneva, because they were still being made in Canada.

To help me become more comfortable with the task, my boyfriend bought me tickets to the musical “Avenue Q,” which uses puppets. As I watched, I started to understand how you could almost make a puppet an extension of your body and have it convey emotion.

We rehearsed our show for three days with Eric, but I had only a rudimentary foam prototype of the puppet I’d be using. Adira and Jessi used two Muppet-like puppets that belonged to Eric’s young daughters. Our puppets’ creators in Montreal also chatted with us over the Internet, giving us some tips before we left for Europe.

STILL, I was a little nervous. We’d be performing before hundreds of people. I wanted to do a good job because I take pride in my work. But I also wanted Eric to hire our group again so we could continue collaborating with him. I value being a part of a group that charts new paths with him; he’s very creative and the entire process pushes me to be a better artist. That’s more important to me than the paycheck. It’s the reason I keep such a busy schedule — to continue building my network and creating new things. I hope to bring all my experiences together.

Everything worked out well for us in Europe. Nine hours before showtime, we unfurled the Bubble Wrap that had safely cradled the puppets across the Atlantic, and started using them.

The moment that the puppets came alive, the audience did, too. I called on all I’d learned from “Avenue Q” and even channeled the “Sesame Street” puppets of my childhood. And, thankfully, Eric asked us to perform on another tour, which was recently completed.

Even if you work in a nonartistic job, you can learn a new skill by taking the approach I did. Whatever the challenge, see if there’s a model for what you need to learn, or something similar, and check it out.

And don’t be afraid to ask for help. It sounds so simple, but some people don’t want to reveal any difficulty with tackling something new. When I needed help with the big feathered fans we also used in the show, I found someone in the performing arts who could teach me. Often, you don’t realize how generous people can be until you ask. If you’re learning a new skill, there’s probably a person in your workplace or network who can help — and wants to.

Along that line of thinking, try talking about your assignment. Once my group got the job, I talked incessantly about having to learn puppetry — I think I was psyching myself for the challenge. And you never know who’s listening — maybe it’s someone with good ideas.

Finally, never shy away from learning a new skill. It can lead to a new career path or help build an arsenal for your life’s journey. Learning to work with puppets ignited a new interest for me and provided a whole other way to express myself.
391 2013-03-17 This fascination with “openness” stems mostly from the success of open-source software, publicly accessible computer code that anyone is welcome to improve. But lately it has been applied to everything from politics to philanthropy; recent book titles include “The Open-Source Everything Manifesto” and “Radical Openness.” There’s even “OpenCola” — a true soda drink for the masses.

For many institutions, “open” has become the new “green.” And in the same way that companies will “greenwash” their initiatives by invoking eco-friendly window dressing to hide less-palatable practices, there has also emerged a term to describe similar efforts to read “openness” into situations and environments where it doesn’t exist: “openwashing.”

Alas, “openwashing,” as catchy as it sounds, only questions the authenticity of “open” initiatives; it doesn’t tell us what kinds of “openness,” if any, are worth pursuing. We must differentiate the many different types of “open.”

Take the “openness” celebrated by the philosopher Karl Popper, who defined the “open society” as the apotheosis of liberal political values. This is not the same openness implied by open-source. While Popper’s openness is primarily about politics and a free flow of ideas, open-source is about cooperation, innovation and efficiency — useful outcomes, but not in all situations.

Take how George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, defined “open-source politics” recently. “Instead of relying on politicians” and “civil servants to have a monopoly of wisdom,” he said, “you’d be engaged through the Internet” with the “whole of the public, or as many of the public are interested, in solving a particular problem.”

As an add-on to existing politics, this is wonderful. As a replacement for existing politics, though, this is terrifying.

Of course, it’s important to involve citizens in solving problems. But who gets to decide which “particular problem” citizens tackle in the first place? And how does one delineate the contours of this “problem”? In open-source software, such decisions are often made by managers and clients. But in democratic politics, citizens both steer the ship (with some delegation) and do the rowing. In open-source politics, all they do is row.

Likewise, “open government” — a term once reserved for discussing accountability — today is used mostly to describe how easy it is to access, manipulate and “remix” chunks of government information. “Openness” here doesn’t measure whether such data increase accountability, only how many apps can be built on top of it, even if those apps pursue trivial goals. This ambiguity of “openness” allows British Prime Minister to champion open government while also complaining that freedom of information laws are “furring up the arteries of government.”

This confusion isn’t limited to government. Take the obsession with massive open online courses. In what sense are they open? Well, they are available online for free. But to celebrate this as a triumph of openness is premature. A more ambitious openness agenda would not just expand access to courses but also give users the ability to reuse, remix and repurpose their content. I could take somebody’s lecture notes, add a few paragraphs and distribute them further as part of my own course. This is not what most MOOCs currently offer: their terms of use often ban such repurposing.

Will “openness” win, as the digital Pollyannas assure us? It well might. But a victory for “openness” might also signify defeat for democratic politics, ambitious policy reform and much else. Perhaps we should impose a moratorium on the very word “open.” Just imagine the possibilities this could open up!
392 2013-03-17 Under an emergency deal reached early Saturday in Brussels, a one-time tax of 9.9 percent is to be levied on Cypriot bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros effective Tuesday, hitting wealthy depositors — mostly Russians who have put vast sums into Cyprus’s banks in recent years. But even deposits under that amount are to be taxed at 6.75 percent, meaning that Cyprus’s creditors will be confiscating money directly from pensioners, workers and regular depositors to pay off the bailout tab.

Cyprus’s newly elected president, Nicos Anastasiades, said taxing depositors would allow Cyprus to avoid implementing harsher austerity measures, including pension cuts and tax increases, of the type that have wreaked havoc in neighboring Greece. That thinking appealed to some Cypriots, including Stala Georgoudi, 56. “A one-time thing would be better than worse measures,” she said. “Procrastinating and beating around the bush would be worse.”

But Sharon Bowles, a British member of the European Parliament who is the head of the body’s influential Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, said the accord amounted to a “grabbing of ordinary depositors’ money,” billed as a tax.

“What the deal reflects is that being an unsecured or even secured depositor in euro-area banks is not as safe as it used to be,” said Jacob Kirkegaard, an economist and European specialist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “We are in a new world.”

Cyprus had been a blip on the radar screen of Europe’s long-running debt crisis — until now.

Hobbled by a devastating banking crisis linked to a slump in Greece’s economy, where Cypriot banks made piles of loans that are now virtually worthless, Cyprus on Saturday became the fifth country in the euro union to receive a financial lifeline since Europe’s debt crisis broke out. As the euro zone’s smallest economy, Cyprus had hardly been considered the risk for the euro union that Greece, Ireland, Portugal or Spain were.

But the surprise policy by the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission is the first to take money directly from ordinary savers. In the bailout of Greece, holders of Greek bonds were forced to take losses, but depositors’ funds were not touched.

Mr. Anastasiades, who was elected just a few weeks ago, called the decision “painful” but said it would lead to “the historic and definitive rescue of our economy.” He said the consequences of rejecting the deal would be the collapse of at least one of Cyprus’s major banks, amid widespread weakness in the country’s banking system.

Cypriot banks are loaded up on bad loans made to Greek companies and individuals, which have turned sour at an alarming rate as Greece deals with the fourth year of a devastating economic and financial crisis.

“I’m not surprised that people are trying to get their money out in Cyprus; that is entirely to be expected,” Mr. Kirkegaard said. “They wake up Saturday morning and are told on the radio their bank deposits are at risk.”

The deposit tax, which is expected to raise 5.8 billion euros, or $7.6 billion, appeared aimed at gleaning large amounts of cash from the accounts of wealthy Russians, who have poured deposits into Cypriot banks in the last several years. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who faces a pivotal election in September, has been particularly concerned that most of the bailout money could wind up in the hands of Russian gangsters and oligarchs, a fear backed by a recent report by Germany’s intelligence agency. Officials in Cyprus have said there is no proof the Russian cash is of questionable origin. They insist they cracked down on money laundering before joining the European Union.

Because Russian depositors would have to share the burden, it would ultimately relieve Cyprus from its debt load by allowing a one-time payment upfront rather than deeper cuts to salaries and pensions or additional privatizations in the future.

Mr. Kirkegaard said he was surprised that Cyprus’s creditors had decided to go after smaller depositors, but that part of the rationale might have been avoiding putting too much pressure on businesses, which hold a large share of the high-value accounts.

The Cyprus Parliament must vote on the measure, and it was planning an emergency session on Sunday. Given the stunned reaction, it was not certain to pass. Nicholas Papadopoulos, the head of Parliament’s financial affairs committee, said the decision was “much worse than what we expected and contrary to what the government was assuring us, right up until last night,” Reuters reported.
393 2013-03-17 “There is no doubt that we will miss this,” Groat said. “New York has been a home away from home for all Syracuse fans. We don’t know what the future holds. But there will be a different feel next year. It won’t be like this.”

He put his mask back on and resumed celebrating a victory that meant nothing in the grand scheme of the N.C.A.A. tournament but in the moment felt like the grand prize of March.

In the Syracuse locker room, the senior walk-on was asked for his most special memory at the self-proclaimed World’s Most Famous Arena.

He had played a game at the Garden once, with his Amateur Athletic Union team, the Riverside Hawks, but that wasn’t it.

“This one, tonight,” said the walk-on, Griffin Hoffmann, a 6-foot-1 guard who had not played a second of the semifinal. “In my four years, I think we’ve beaten them once and they crushed us twice this season. And to beat them in the last Big East tournament, in the Garden, right where I grew up — I mean, I live 10 blocks from here.”

Hoffmann gave his address as 20th Street and Avenue of the Americas; he said he could walk home.

His family had been in the Garden, which had been electric from the beginning and chock-full of Syracuse fans, especially visible in orange swaths when searchlights scanned the crowd.

Hoffmann dressed next to Matt Lyde-Cajuste, a 6-5 forward, another senior walk-on, out of Mount Vernon, N.Y.

Boeheim had rewarded them for their service with scholarships this season, and now they would get to hang around the city for another day.

“I grew up around this place, rooting for the Knicks,” Hoffmann said. “To me, the Garden is home. It’s Syracuse’s home.”

On the other side of the Syracuse locker room, the star forward with the sweet jump shot talked about savoring the victory over the Hoyas and having tied the former Syracuse backcourt ace and current Boeheim assistant, Gerry McNamara, for the most converted 3-point shots in a single Big East tournament.

“Make a thousand,” McNamara said, mindful of the final, in which Southerland made three more 3s, not enough to stop a furious Louisville rally.

Southerland, another child of New York, played high school ball at Benjamin Cardozo in Queens for Coach Ron Naclerio. Syracuse was his choice, he said, because it struck the perfect balance.

“You know, kids don’t want to stay home and go to school,” Southerland said. “But if you’re from New York and you choose Syracuse, you know you’re going to play in the Garden during the season against St. John’s and then in the tournament.

“It’s a big factor — the dome up there and the Garden down here.”

For Southerland, as it had been for others before him, it was the perfect recruiting pitch.

In the corridor outside the locker room, the coach said, oh, sure, we could count on Syracuse remaining a player in and around the city.

“We’re going to play St. John’s here next season, and in a tournament the year after,” Boeheim, 68, said, not sounding like anyone thinking about retirement. “We’ll try to play here every season, here and in Brooklyn.”

Like Hoffmann, Boeheim began at Syracuse as a freshman walk-on, in 1962. Fourteen years later, he was head coach.

“When we first played St. John’s, we had about 400 people,” Boeheim said, referring to the number of fans at the Garden. “Now we come down here and we have 6,000, or more.”

It was something he and countless others had built across five decades, the Syracuse basketball brand, about to be ripped from its mooring as university administrators chased after the money like some gasping defensive tackle in pursuit of Victor Cruz.

Will Syracuse really find football prominence playing Wake Forest and Clemson in the A.C.C., or will it wind up compromising what it is has done best?

Will the promise of knocking off Coach K in Greensboro mean as much to a college prospect in the Bronx or North Jersey as beating one John Thompson or another at the Garden?

“The important thing was to come here and play well and to beat Georgetown,” Boeheim said, savoring the semifinal certain to obscure the final.

Why, exactly? On Syracuse’s last Big East weekend in New York, that was much easier to feel than to explain.
394 2013-03-17 VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis on Saturday offered a silent blessing to an audience of journalists and other news media workers, acknowledging that not all of them were Catholic or believers — a rare gesture for a pontiff and a sign of openness toward other faiths and engagement with the secular world.

“Given that many of you do not belong to the Catholic Church, and others are not believers, I give this blessing from my heart, in silence, to each one of you, respecting the conscience of each one of you, but knowing that each one of you is a child of God,” he said. “May God bless you.”

The pope, the former Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Buenos Aires, was concluding an audience with thousands of members of the news media and press operators, who have been in Rome for the conclave in which he was elected last Wednesday.

In his address on Saturday, he offered his impressions of the conclave and said that he had chosen his name in honor of St. Francis of Assisi, who worked for the poor and for peace.

“Let me tell you a story,” he said. He then recounted how during the conclave he had sat next to Cardinal Cláudio Hummes of Brazil, whom he called “a great friend.”
395 2013-03-17 BEIRUT, Lebanon — A Syrian general who was in charge of army supplies and logistics has defected from the army, he said Saturday, a day after the rebels’ top military commander again called for members of the armed forces to join the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad, now entering its third year.

But there were no reports of unusually widespread or decisive defections in response to a video address in English and Arabic released Friday by Gen. Salim Idris, who defected last July and is now the leader of the Free Syrian Army’s unified military command. Instead, Mr. Assad’s government went on the political offensive, calling on Brazil, China, India and other developing powers to help stop the Syrian conflict and find a political solution to the uprising.

Protests across Syria to observe the uprising’s two-year anniversary were small and muted compared with the exuberant demonstrations that initially set off the revolt, underscoring the growing sense that the war is nowhere near an end. The government remains dug in and is willing to use extreme force, and a political solution appears remote.

The request for political support from developing nations came in a letter delivered by an Assad adviser, Bouthaina Shaaban, to the president of South Africa, who is hosting a meeting next week of the so-called Brics nations: Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.

As Europe and the United States weigh stronger action to aid the Syrian rebels, including directly arming them, Mr. Assad appeared to be appealing to those nations’ aversion to Western military interventions.
396 2013-03-17 Cypriot authorities had begun to monitor deposit outflows from Cypriot lenders to watch for signs of a bank run ahead of Tuesday when the levy is expected to be imposed, E.U. officials said.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the group of euro area ministers, told a separate news conference that lenders had reached “a political agreement” to aid Cyprus. The challenges to reaching a deal were “of an exceptional nature,” he said.

The latest bailout for the euro zone broke new ground by requiring haircuts, or losses for all Cypriot bank depositors. A previous bailout for Greece required a significant haircut for holders of Greek bonds in early 2012 – something that European Union officials said at the time would be a one-of-a-kind measure.

Mr. Dijsselbloem declined to rule out taxes on depositors in other countries besides Cyprus in the future, but he insisted that such a measure was not being considered.

Going into the meeting, finance ministers sought to limit the overall costs of the rescue plan while Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., pushed for a deal that is generous enough to enable Cyprus eventually to pay the money back.

The Cypriot authorities wanted a plan that ensures that the island remains attractive to investors, who include many Russians with large deposits in the country’s banks.

Under the deal, depositors would be compensated with shares in the banks, giving some “upside potential” to the measure, Mr. Sarris said.

Ahead of the meeting, Ms. Lagarde was blunt about the need for ministers to agree to a realistic package of measures. “All I know is that we don’t want a Band-Aid,” she said. “We want something that lasts, something that is durable and that will be sustainable.”

Ms. Lagarde told the news conference after the meeting that she would recommend that the I.M.F. make a contribution to the package for Cyprus. She said the size of that contribution still needed to be determined.

The key to a breakthrough was finding a way to bring down the bailout package, originally estimated at 17 billion euros ($22.2 billion), which represents almost as much as Cyprus’s gross domestic product, which is about $23 billion, or 18 billion euros.

The deal that emerged on Saturday morning was for a bailout of up to 10 billion euros, Mr. Dijsselbloem said.

Cyprus asked for the bailout in June last year. But talks faltered when the former president Demetris Christofias, a Communist, balked at measures like privatizations. The talks sped up after the election last month of Nicos Anastasiades of the Democratic Rally, a center-right party, to the presidency.

Some of the other elements of the deal involved Cyprus raising its low corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent from 10 percent, privatizing state assets and overhauling its banks to ensure that they are not havens for money laundering.

Russia also was expected to contribute to the arrangement, perhaps by agreeing to lower the interest rate on a loan worth 2.5 billion euros it has already made to Cyprus.
397 2013-03-17 Under the category “Summer Rentals That Have Gone Terribly Wrong,” there are perhaps few parallels to the experience of Charles Henry Warren, a banker who, in 1906, took a house in Oyster Bay on ’s North Shore. By the end of the season, Mr. Warren’s young daughter had developed . She was soon followed in illness by Mr. Warren’s wife, a second daughter, two maids and a gardener. At the time, typhoid, a bacterial illness spread through contaminated food and water, was largely a disease of the urban poor. The property’s owner, George Thompson, concerned that the house, on which he relied for rental income, would become associated with tenement filth in the minds of wealthy New Yorkers, invited a sanitary engineer to determine the source of the outbreak.

What the medical investigator, George Soper, discovered was that the Warrens’ cook, Mary Mallon, an Irish immigrant, had left an imprint of malady in other quarters of upper-class Manhattan and its summer enclaves. Typhoid, he wrote, had erupted in every household in which Mallon had worked over the previous decade. An asymptomatic carrier of the disease, Ms. Mallon would be known to history as Typhoid Mary and spend most of the remainder of her life quarantined on North Brother Island in the East River, having failed to abide by a promise to cease working in the city’s kitchens.

The events supply the narrative of “Fever,” a new novel by Mary Beth Keane, which arrives at a time when we are once again debating the parameters of public health policy’s encroachments on our behaviors. Last week, a State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan used the words “arbitrary and capricious” in striking down the ’s efforts to limit the size of sugary drinks (which pertained to certain sweetened beverages but not others, and some retail environments but not all). The phrase, though, could have been similarly applied a century ago to the city’s treatment of Ms. Mallon, given that officials were not in the habit of isolating other healthy carriers whom they had identified as ignoring ordinances against the spread of the disease.

Sequestering Ms. Mallon was not the only possible solution to her defiance. As the medical historian Judith Walzer Leavitt has argued, the city might have helped provide her with the kind of long-term employment that would have given her a salary commensurate with what she was earning preparing meals for the well-off. But it didn’t. Health officials were presumably most unnerved by the fact that Ms. Mallon was transporting an illness of the steerage classes uptown.

Then as now, economic disparity was, in many cases, driving disparate demographic patterns of disease. (Just to be clear, typhoid, though communicable, was not a greater threat to public health than is today. In the early 20th century, there were about 3,000 to 4,000 new cases a year in New York, approximately 10 percent of them resulting in fatalities. Last fall, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said 6,000 New Yorkers a year died from obesity.) Obesity and its related illnesses, as we know, disproportionately affect low-income communities. In , for instance, the rate of heart-attack hospitalizations among adults 35 and older in East New York is nearly twice the rate in wealthier Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope.

The larger issue, though — larger than the matter of how much more time we should spend trying to ensure that no child ever grows up with a memory of a 32-ounce Sprite — is the recognition of poverty itself as a public health problem. The poor are more likely to live with , depression, gun violence and pests (and the chemical used to eliminate them). The articulated goal should not simply be to create a population of poor people who are thin, but to create a population of poor people who are less poor. In 2010, the poverty rate in the city remained what it was 10 years earlier, 21 percent.
398 2013-03-17 As always, much of the drama of Formula One takes place off the track. In a series where a two-car team can spend upward of $300 million a year and still come up empty, a shortage of willing investors has left only 11 two-car teams participating in 2013, although the regulations allow for 13.

The breadth of the financial gap separating the teams that have and the teams that don’t made news last week. Bloomberg News reported that the power broker behind every Formula One action, Bernie Ecclestone, raised the possibility that an initial public offering that had been delayed until 2014 might instead happen this year.

Last year’s prospectus for the offering indicated that the biggest shareholder, CVC Capital Partners, sold its original 63.4 percent share down to 35.5 percent, with the customers being three investment houses. CVC has now made about $4 billion on its original investment of $1.25 billion and should earn another $3 billion after the offering.

Litigation is a looming problem. Most of this is directed at Ecclestone, 82, the Englishman who brought the series out of fiscal darkness in the 1970s and became a billionaire in the process. He has also made fortunes for many others, and as a result he meets with little or no opposition from the teams.

The legal questions are another story, and as a result grand prix racing faces its first major tipping point since Ecclestone bought the Brabham team in 1971 and gained a seat at the owners’ table. By the time he sold the team in 1987, Ecclestone was head of the Formula One Constructor’s Association, or FOCA. He was in charge, among other things, of negotiating for the worldwide television rights — retaining 23 percent for himself.

He is being sued, along with CVC Capital Partners, for $650 million by a failed suitor for the empire. In addition, German government agencies are still investigating a payment of $44 million that Ecclestone made to a German banker in connection with the 2005 sale to CVC for $1.25 billion. The banker, incidentally, is in jail.

In addition, the series is having difficulty finding teams to fill the two available slots, which only goes to show the basic imbalance of the F1 situation.

When viewed with dispassionate eyes and after its veneer of glamour is rubbed away, Formula One presents a picture unlike that of any other series. While this year’s championship will almost certainly go to one of the previous winners — Alonso has won it twice — the chase for the constructor’s title, which doesn’t receive the media attention devoted to the driver’s competition, presents an almost comical picture: the defending champion (and three-time winner) is an energy-drink company, Red Bull, that races largely to promote its product.

Red Bull has the engineer widely considered to be the sport’s best, Adrian Newey, and the top-ranked driver in 25-year-old Vettel. So world-famous names like Ferrari and Mercedes-Benz are, in effect, chasing a soda can.

In addition to hiring Hamilton, Mercedes fired its longtime racing director, Norbert Haug, and replaced him with Toto Wolff and a former world champion driver, Niki Lauda, forming a triumvirate with the chief racing engineer, Ross Brawn.

One of the more positive events in the Formula One saga was the return last fall of a race in the United States. The Grand Prix of the Americas, held on a new track near Austin, Tex., proved an exciting race, won by Hamilton when he ran down Vettel in the closing stages.

A hoped-for 2013 championship event in New Jersey, just across the river from Manhattan, ran into financial problems and has retained its “hoped for” status for 2014.
399 2013-03-17 HOW TO SPEND 47 HOURS ON A TRAIN AND NOT GO CRAZY

In 1978 I took the Amtrak on the eve of a huge snowstorm. The conductor asked me to move seats; I was reluctant until I saw my new seatmate, a cute grad student. She shared her granola mix, and I shared some rum. The next day we shared a blanket as the Midwest was blanketed in a blizzard. You could see the snow coming into the open spaces between cars, but the train kept plugging on. We arrived in Chicago and spent New Year’s Eve in a disco having a blast. She left early the next day to continue her trip; we lost touch. I took trains for years after that but never replicated that ride. EDWARD ARDERY, Alexandria, Va., posted on nytimes.com

Nathaniel Rich’s article does not mention one of my primary reasons for choosing Amtrak over flying: the absence of the indignity of airport security. Amtrak travel almost never has intrusive security, and when it does, it is minimal. Not every experience on Amtrak is perfect. But being able to look out and see the countryside is an asset that can’t be duplicated. I regret that there are some in government who want to drown Amtrak; they complain about train subsidies and ignore the vast subsidies afforded to air and highway travel. Sometimes I have to drive. I will always take Amtrak when I can. And I hope I never, ever have to fly. JOHN C. KITE, Terre Haute, Ind., posted on nytimes.com

While the latest New York Times Magazine paints a portrait of the relatively small slice of the U.S. population that takes long-distance train rides, a recent Brookings Institution report notes that millions of shorter-distance riders have made Amtrak the fastest-growing mode of travel in the U.S. Amtrak ridership has grown 55 percent since 1997 (compared with a 20 percent increase in air travel) and now carries more than 31 million riders annually. This renaissance of rail doesn’t reach the entire country, though. The report tells us that 10 metropolitan areas — in the Northeast, metro Chicago and California — account for nearly two-thirds of Amtrak ridership. Short-distance corridors generated a positive 2011 operating balance and are responsible for nearly all of the system’s growth, while corridors of more than 400 miles had a negative operating balance. . . . Maybe we’ll decide to address the deficit by eliminating fossil-fuel subsidies or adopting a carbon tax, or maybe airline mergers or constrained oil supplies will make plane tickets far more expensive than they are today. In such a future, even those who call for slashing federal subsidies to Amtrak might be glad to have the option of taking the train. LIZ BORKOWSKI, on The Pump Handle blog on scienceblogs.com

I lived in Norway for a time 45 years ago. I’ve often tried to explain to friends what it was like to experience the light shows there. Your photographs and article do a wonderful job of expressing a sliver of what living there can be. CAROLINE PAULSON, New Paltz, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

I grew up in Indiana. As a kid, I used to pretend I was Larry Bird or Steve Alford draining the three. I supported Coach Knight as a kid and as a student at the University, and after I graduated was sad to see him go. His toughness and grit resonated with so many Hoosiers; it was almost as if he was out there fighting for us. But the truth, all these years later, is that he’s not a real Hoosier, because he lacks two key ingredients: humility and respect for everyone around him, especially those lesser than he is. Bobby Knight is just another person who was brilliant athis job and blessed with success. ROBERT GIBSON, Charlotte, N.C., posted on nytimes.com

This week’s @NYTmag is the Voyages Issue, which means I’m spending the weekend looking up flights. @mhess4, via Twitter
400 2013-03-17 is one of this country’s great bar cities, a place where you can hit a graceful classic, a shady dive and a bitters-besotted new-school lounge in the same evening. During a trip last month, I set out on an extraordinary pub crawl — 20 bars in four days.

I started at Tosca Cafe, to which a local literary organization invited me. The bar remains a vision in chrome and red vinyl and checkerboard floors, with a long, polished, dark wood bar and men in crisp white fitted jackets behind it. Jeannette Etheredge, who has owned Tosca since 1980, pulled me into the back room, and while I sipped an old-fashioned, plied me with stories of luminaries, like Nureyev, who drank there. I expected to find Etheredge with a heavy heart; I had heard the news that she was turning the bar over to and Ken Friedman of New York’s Spotted Pig. What I found was the opposite. They’re going to keep Tosca much as it is, she told me, down to the signature House Cappuccino, a Prohibition-era concoction of chocolate, brandy and steamed milk. “Of course, I’ll still hang out here,” Etheredge said. “I won’t have to be working.”

The next afternoon, my friend Sarah and I parked ourselves at a picnic table in the sunny backyard at the raffish, bike-messenger favorite Zeitgeist, in the Mission, and drank bloody marys. Afterward I returned to North Beach for Vesuvio Cafe, another venerable spot. I said hello to the bartender, Janet Clyde, who has been part-owner of the bar for 14 years. Before I even had a chance to order, she asked, “What’s a nice girl like you doing in a place like this?” I immediately loved her.

After a Bohemian Coffee, the house special, Clyde urged me to visit the Comstock Saloon, a much newer place down the street, and to “tell Jonny I sent you.” What else could I do?

Jonny mixed me a just-right Sazerac. But that night belonged to the Tenderloin. I met a friend I hadn’t seen in 20 years at Big, a very small lounge. There’s no menu. Just tell the bartender (in our case, Mo, perhaps the friendliest haute-cocktail nerd you will meet) what you’re in the mood for — a cardamom-laced rye variation for me — and he’ll come up with something great. From there, we went to Edinburgh Castle, a dark and immensely likable dive, with an impressive whiskey selection and a killer jukebox.
401 2013-03-17 This was somewhat unusual. When someone decides to “come out” as a politician, it is typically in connection with a specific job — as in, “I will be running for such-and-such.” They don’t generally say, “I’m being called to service, please write a foundational story about me.” My immediate question involved exactly what service Ted Jr. was being called to. And where? Would it be in Massachusetts, where he purchased the former home of his Uncle Jack, behind the main family compound in Hyannis Port? Or in Connecticut, where he lives in the suburb of Branford with his wife, Kiki, a psychiatrist, and teenage son and daughter (their oldest daughter is a freshman at )? There was also the possibility of an executive appointment from a president who regarded his father as a crucial Senate mentor and kingmaker. Ted Jr. wanted me to know that he was open to that.

Whatever the case, there was some urgency that the foundational story be done soon, presumably to help get his name “in play” for the imminent job openings. We were joined at the table by Dick Keil, a former White House reporter for Bloomberg News who now works for a media consulting company called Purple Strategies, which was co-founded by Steve McMahon, a Democratic strategist/TV pundit/friend of Ted Jr.’s from the old days, when he worked on Ted Sr.’s 1980 presidential campaign. Keil, McMahon and Ben Binswanger, another friend, who attended Wesleyan with Ted Jr. and later worked for Senator Kennedy, were all helping guide the soon-to-be-candidate-for-something through the delicate paces of his “rollout.” Ted Jr.’s brother, Patrick, a former congressman from who now lives in , was also part of the small advisory team, as was Kiki.

In addition to the whats, whens and wheres, there was also the matter of who — as in: Who did Ted Jr. think he was? As we talked over lunch about the rollout, wherever it may be rolling, I thought of a famous line inflicted on Ted Sr. during his 1962 Senate campaign by his Democratic primary challenger, Edward J. McCormack Jr. McCormack told his 30-year-old opponent — the brother of the sitting president — that he would have no chance in that race if his name were Edward Moore instead of Edward Moore Kennedy. When I started to recall that line, Ted Jr. interjected with the exact quote: “If it was Edward Moore,” he said, “your candidacy would be a joke.”

In fairness, Ted Jr. is more than two decades older and far more experienced than his father was in 1962. He has been a longtime advocate for the disabled — having lost part of his right leg to bone at age 12 — and his -based management-consulting firm, the Marwood Group, employs 130 people. But the Edward Moore line resonates within the family. Patrick Kennedy — who was elected to the Rhode Island Legislature at 21 and the at 27, and who himself once dismissed the campaign of in Massachusetts as “a joke” — told me that he entered politics “as a Kennedy” but was “still looking for my identity.” His brother, on the other hand, “knows where his true compass is,” Patrick assured me, deploying another pet family term — “true compass” — that happened to be the title of their father’s memoir.

Entire touch-football rosters could be filled with Kennedys who could never have been elected at their tender ages without their last names. In November, Ted’s 32-year-old cousin, Joseph Kennedy III — the son of a former U.S. representative, Joseph Kennedy II — became the latest pledge when he won the congressional seat left by , who retired. Even Ted Jr.’s son, Edward Kennedy III, has announced his intention to run for U.S. senator from Massachusetts someday. He was, at the time of his announcement, 11.

“There is this question with every member of my family,” Patrick Kennedy said. “How do we fit into this amazing legacy that we have been given by dint of our birth?” That is not a sentence most people utter. But his point was that simply running for an office because it is available is the family default option, and it’s not necessarily the best one.

Patrick did not seek re-election in 2010 and now devotes much of his life to promoting treatment and research for his twin causes, mental illness and brain injuries. He married, moved to New Jersey and has two children. He has sad green eyes, a big pillow of red hair and the gawky bearing of an overgrown boy. But he also has the weary voice of someone who could be 65.

Patrick told me he has no regrets about his career choices, but his own life proves his original point: that the family reflex to run early is not for everyone. He has battled depression and alcohol and drug addictions for years, and he admits that the United States Congress was not the best place to wrestle these goblins. “When you grow up in my family, being somebody meant having power, having status,” Patrick told me back in 2006, when I was reporting an article for The Times not long after police found him disoriented, having crashed his car into a barrier near the Capitol at 2:45 a.m. “The compensations you got were all material and superficial,” he said. “I’ve come to realize, in the last few months, that that life made me feel all alone.” After the article ran, Patrick told me his father was furious at him for unburdening himself publicly. “Save that stuff for your shrink, not a reporter,” Senator Kennedy said to him.

Ted Jr. is less the unburdening type. He has granted few interviews and he seemed nervous when we talked, or perhaps a bit suffocated by Keil, who was always with us. Keil, whom I first met back in his journalism days, is a friendly and earnest operator who, like many in Washington, is always working. (I ran into him once at the supermarket and teased him about the work Purple Strategies was doing to help BP “reposition” its image after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Without missing a beat, Keil unleashed his own gusher, calling BP the “the greatest corporate turnaround story in history” before moving on to the deli counter.) He sat in on all three of my meetings with Ted Jr., monitored a subsequent phone call and also stayed close by during my meeting with Patrick. He made backup recordings of all of our conversations, which is not unusual for public-relations people to do, but typically happens with high-level subjects, not with someone who has never run for office and wasn’t really running for anything now. The aggressive “management” of the story conveyed an impression of both loftiness and hand-holding — or, at worst, of a Not Ready for Prime Time Kennedy being propped up by consultants.

All of that said, there’s something innately likable about Ted Jr. People who have known him over the years generally describe a solid, down-to-earth guy who is quite normal, given his royal lineage. And his instinct to become a fully formed human being before answering the “call to service” was admirable. His priority, by all accounts, has always been to raise a family and nurture them as unassumingly as possible (again, for a Kennedy). As he put it, “I pretty much spent half my life trying to resist other people’s timetables.” Later, when I asked him to elaborate on this, he added: “My father was the single most important person in my life. But in some ways, we all live our lives resisting what our parents want us to become.”

In early 1985 Ted Jr. was 23 and living in Somerville, Mass., outside . , the district’s longtime representative, had announced he would retire at the end of his term. This seemed an obvious starter gig, but Ted Jr. was not interested. His 34-year-old cousin, Joe — ’s son — ran and won instead. “I never seriously considered that race,” Ted Jr. told me. “My father was strongly considering me.” Ted Sr. commissioned a poll that came back “a slam dunk for Ted,” said Steve McMahon, who was one of the people then running Senator Kennedy’s political operation. Ted Jr.’s decision not to run, McMahon said, “was against the advice and counsel of pretty much everyone around him.” Senator Kennedy was disappointed, Ted Jr. told me. “He couldn’t understand why someone with all the built-in advantages would not take advantage of the opportunity.”

Instead, Ted Jr. enrolled in Yale’s graduate school of forestry. Beyond setting a course away from politics, Ted Jr. told me that he was also trying to escape a one-dimensional identity as an amputee and advocate. “I did not want to be seen as a professional disabled person,” he said.

He gained weight, grew a beard, drank heavily and invited concern that he was priming himself for another, more darkly familiar Kennedy fate. He indulged in what described as “a playboy-style high life” and “careless social habits.” At about the same time, his cousin, William Kennedy Smith, was charged with rape and faced a subsequent trial that showcased the family’s history of boozy carousing — with the patriarchal senator in a leadership role.

At 29, Ted Jr. enrolled himself in a drug-and-alcohol-treatment program in . He was always reticent and closed off, he said, which he attributed to being a Kennedy. “It was never very easy for me to express my feelings,” Kennedy told The Globe in 1993, on the eve of his marriage to Kiki. “I think it’s a consequence of growing up in my family and having people prying and feeling like somebody’s always trying to get something from you,” he said. “Then I realized this is no real way to live a life.” His priority, he said, was to start a family and be present as a father. “I realized if I messed that up, it would be the most serious mistake of my life,” he told me. He has not touched alcohol in more than 20 years, he said, because “it just didn’t take much imagination to see the impact that alcohol had on many different people in my family.” Ted’s mother, Joan Kennedy, has also faced many public struggles with over the years.

As other Kennedys passed in and out of office (and rehab), the great mentioners and orchestrators consigned Ted Jr. to the terminal-ambivalence compound. His father encouraged him to open a Boston office of Marwood, his consulting firm, to establish more of a presence in Massachusetts, but Ted Jr. resisted.

Then in August 2009, Senator Kennedy died of brain cancer, and Ted Jr. delivered a powerful and much-discussed eulogy. “My name is Ted Kennedy Jr.,” he told the mourners assembled at the Basilica of Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Boston. “Although it hasn’t been easy at times to live with this name, I’ve never been more proud of it than I am today.”

The speech’s emotional climax was a story of his father’s taking him sledding at age 12. He was trying to adapt to his artificial limb, and the hill was slick and hard to climb. He kept slipping and started to cry. “And he lifted me up in his strong, gentle arms and said something I will never forget,” Ted Jr. said. “He said: ‘I know you can do it. There is nothing that you can’t do. We’re going to climb that hill together, even if it takes us all day.’ ” The eulogy drew a standing ovation and, almost immediately, renewed talk of Ted Jr.’s political future. “A lot of people were asking, ‘Where have you been?’ ” Ted told me.

Over lunch at the University Club in Washington, I asked Ted Jr. if he had spoken to anyone in the Obama administration about a job. “I can’t talk about that,” he said, wincing a little. Then he laughed.

“Have you talked to the president?” I asked.

“I can’t talk about that,” he repeated. His face turned red, which I found refreshing, given how comfortable most politicians are with stonewalling.

Ted Jr. then turned to Keil. “I need to think of a way to respond to this question that is respectful,” he said.

“No, you just did respond,” I interrupted. “It’s O.K.”

“But I don’t want the quote to be ‘I can’t talk about it.’ ” He was slightly plaintive at this point.

Kennedy laughed again. Later, when I returned from the men’s room, he said he regretted that he didn’t answer that question differently. He wished he could change the quote. To what? “What I should have said,” he told me, “was ‘I would be honored to serve.’ ”

Obama’s re-election created a few possibilities for Ted Jr. There were potential jobs in the administration or seats in Congress being vacated by members who would become cabinet officials. The most titillating prospect involved Kerry’s seat. “I haven’t thought seriously about that possibility,” he said. Except he and Keil and Binswanger met on Nov. 13 to discuss the matter at a tavern in Georgetown, then held subsequent sessions with McMahon and Patrick and Kiki. Team Ted told him that changing his official residence from Connecticut to Hyannis Port would be no problem. They all said he could win, and the time was now.

“Political consultants want everyone to run for office,” Ted Jr. said. A former Connecticut senator, , a close friend of the family, seconded that notion, saying, “They’re either telling you, ‘You can never win, and you need me,’ or ‘You can’t lose, and you need me.’ ” Dodd cautioned Kennedy against the Massachusetts race. If Kennedy lost, Dodd told me, it could preclude future runs in Connecticut. “It could look like he’s on a shopping spree.”

Once again, to the disappointment of others, Ted Jr. decided not to run. Ted Kennedy Jr. running for the U.S. Senate in Massachusetts in 2013 was “as close to a slam dunk as you’re going to get in politics,” McMahon told me. I wasn’t buying this. When I mentioned to Ted Jr. that he would have faced charges of carpetbagging if he ran for Kerry’s seat, he took issue. “Yes, I’ve lived in Connecticut for 25 years,” he said. “But the idea of calling a Kennedy a carpetbagger in Massachusetts is like. . . .” He did not finish the thought.

There were other issues at play, too, among them , Ted Kennedy’s widow. Strains between Vicki and her late husband’s sons were no secret. According to a Boston Globe article last July, Ted Jr. and Patrick Kennedy were convinced that their stepmother was mismanaging their father’s legacy, in particular the construction in Boston of the $71 million Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate. Vicki Kennedy declined to comment for The Globe article (as well as for this one), and when I raised the subject of her with Ted Jr., he looked as if he would rather be cleaning an oven. “I never spoke to her about it,” he said of his decision not to run in Massachusetts. On the subject of Vicki generally, he said in a separate e-mail: “Vicki was a great source of love and support for my father, and she is working hard to ensure that my father’s memory and legacy are properly honored.”

Another argument against the “slam dunk” theory: while Ted Jr. was likable and had a good story to tell, he did not strike me as a candidate who would be ready from Day 1, given the scrutiny he would endure. He could be stumbling and tentative. My mind jumped to and her ill-fated effort to take over Hillary Clinton’s Senate seat in New York. Other than Ted Sr., no member of the Kennedy family has been on the ballot for statewide office in Massachusetts since in 1958. Kennedys are always mentioned as potential 800-pound gorillas in statewide campaigns, but none ever jump. It’s safer that way, not to risk being the one who loses and messes up the mystique of invincibility, such as it is.

“The Kennedy mystique is more of a hologram at this point,” said Jon Keller, a longtime political analyst in Massachusetts. “You can see it sometimes, but it’s not really there in any meaningful way.”

Ted Jr. told me that turning away from the Massachusetts option allowed him to “mentally cross a bridge.” “I think for me to go into politics with the name Ted Kennedy Jr. was going to be difficult enough,” he said. To do it in the state his father represented for nearly 47 years would possibly be too much.

In our last discussion, I asked Ted Jr. if he had ever been in therapy. “I think it’s very healthy,” he said, and then he added an endearing nonanswer that I took to be a yes: “I’ve done a lot of thinking, O.K.?”

It was early March, and we were on the phone. He seemed more animated and relaxed than when we last met. “I’ve had a lot to think about in my life,” he said. “I’ve been through a lot.” No doubt it all had to be a handful. From what I could tell, he had managed it admirably, raised a nice family, avoided scandal and embarrassment and seemed genuinely committed now to “making a contribution.”

I had been pressing Ted on his timing, trying to get an answer to whether this “coming out” was part of some grand plan. He said he had a “general plan, and I kind of stuck to it.” I relayed to him something Steve McMahon told me earlier — that he, McMahon, found it poignant that Ted never responded to his father’s wish that he run for office when he was still alive. “But now that Senator Kennedy’s gone,” McMahon said, “it’s almost like Ted’s responding to his father’s call from above.”

I asked Ted if he agreed with this, the overly poetic construction aside. He did, he said, and took it further. “All children want to please their parents,” Ted said. “I know it would have pleased my father for me to have had political success when he was still alive. But I think in many ways, now that he is no longer alive, that’s really freed me up.”

That, as much as anything, would seem like the foundational story.
402 2013-03-18 Some economists say that they are optimistic about reducing Europe’s debt levels after leaders took controversial steps in the Cyprus bailout....
403 2013-03-18 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include a Kickstarter project for a ‘Veronica Mars’ movie that has already surpassed its goal, a video of a pengu...
404 2013-03-18 Megan Coryat says she loves every day now that she’s her own boss....
405 2013-03-18 A panel finds that a blend of intensified research and strong policy could take a big bite out of oil use and CO2 emissions....
406 2013-03-18 Finally getting a glimpse of Ina Drew, the subject of my October article who I had previously never met or caught on video or heard on tape....
407 2013-03-18 Transferring loan balances to a zero percent interest credit card may seem to be a good idea, but it may come at a cost....
408 2013-03-18 Christians and Muslims, we have many things in common, as believers and as human beings. We live in the same world, marked by many signs of hope, but also by multiple signs of anguish. For us, Abraham is a very model of faith in God, of submission to his will and of confidence in his goodness. We believe in the same God, the one God, the living God, the God who created the world and brings his creatures to their perfection.
409 2013-03-18 Kimi Raikkonen managed to conserve his tires well enough – while maintaining a strong pace – to make only two pit stops in the race. The other top contenders had to make three stops....
410 2013-03-18 Hundreds of arrests planned in Indian police crackdown....
411 2013-03-18 Do reporters care about the tiny trophies of governance? Ashley Parker and David Carr review episode seven, and discuss whether the people who wield pens care about getting one with presidential pixie dust on it....
412 2013-03-18 The Times’s Peter Eavis explains why markets are on edge over the plan to save Cypriot banks.
413 2013-03-18 Chrysler is telling owners of about 2,500 of its 2013 Dodge Challengers with the 3.6-liter V-6 to stop driving the cars and not park them near any structure. Ford also announced a recall of some 2013 models....
414 2013-03-18 Why is the Small Business Administration asking General Electric to participate in small-business discussions?...
415 2013-03-18 Louisville is the nominal favorite to win the tournament despite its tough draw, according to the FiveThirtyEight forecast. Still, it has only a 23 percent chance of doing so....
416 2013-03-18 Building Blocks: In a $9.8 million renovation project, the 47-year-old Queens Central Library in Jamaica is being transformed into a more appealing space....
417 2013-03-18 Just as pressure was easing on Europe’s financial sector, the situation in Cyprus has created chaos, sending bank shares tumbling and raising concerns that other institutions could face similar problems....
418 2013-03-18 Gayle Fuguitt, a longtime research executive at General Mills, is to be introduced to the Advertising Research Foundation’s members on Monday....
419 2013-03-18 Competing budgets, competitive vigor, and nap time. Plus, do you have time to button your shirt?...
420 2013-03-18 The Giants signed tight end Brandon Myers, who played four seasons with the Oakland Raiders, as a free agent. Last season, he started all 16 games with career highs of 79 receptions for 806 yards and 4 touchdowns. (AP)
421 2013-03-18 During the league’s annual meeting, which begins here Monday, a diversity session will be held for owners, and hiring practices will be addressed with coaches, general managers and others. When the N.F.L.’s collective bargaining agreement was completed almost two years ago, it added “sexual orientation” to a section that forbids discrimination.

Next month, Troy Vincent, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president for player engagement, will meet with six groups that represent the gay community to go over the league’s policies and seek input on improvements. The league will also do what Gulliver called “culture change work” by adding training on gay issues at its annual rookie symposium.

“I think there have certainly been instances where there have been individuals that have made poor decisions, that were ill informed, ill advised and showed a lack of education about L.G.B.T.,” Gulliver said, referring to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community. “If anything, there are opportunities to educate more players about our expectations from a diversity standpoint, but I would not say we’re painted with this brush where there is broad-based homophobia.”

When the president of the players union, Domonique Foxworth, wrote in The Huffington Post recently that he would support the first openly gay player, he did so, he said, in part because “players were painted as Neanderthals” after Culliver’s Super Bowl comments.

“Stereotypes are easy,” Foxworth said recently. “I’m not trying to say we’re the most enlightened group. The point I’m making is we’re no different than the general public. I think our country has a homophobia problem. I don’t think we’re where we need to be. It’s not about whether you agree with it; it’s about accepting it and not ridiculing it. All of us have something that makes us a minority in some way. Try to put yourselves in the shoes of someone else.”

Last week, the New York attorney general’s office sent a letter to Commissioner Roger Goodell, asking the league to issue a formal written policy to ensure there be no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. It asked for a meeting to be updated on the league’s investigation into the combine incident.

The office has not closed the door on taking its own action, under its powers to investigate potential employment discrimination in companies based in New York.

After Kasa said he was asked about liking girls, and at least two other players indicated they were asked similar questions, the league issued a statement noting that its policy did not allow sexual orientation to be considered in hiring, and that all teams were expected to abide by employment laws.

But Outsports’s Buzinski and several team officials and players said last week that they want Goodell to make a sweeping statement about embracing diversity. Late last week, Scott Fujita, a member of the union’s leadership who will soon add his name to the amicus brief, wrote to the N.F.L. spokesman Greg Aiello and to the union spokesman George Atallah asking them to consider issuing a statement on the league’s position of acceptance, while clearly defining what is acceptable workplace behavior.

“Roger Goodell needs to stand up and say something about this,” Buzinski said. “He has never uttered a word about having gay players in the N.F.L. There are gay players who are known by some people. It’s going to happen. We’re not going to be waiting seven years for it, like we’ve been waiting 70 years for it.”

He added: “Why should sports be the last closet? They’ve got to get over it. If you can be openly gay serving in the military, you can be a football player.”
422 2013-03-18 Ms. Holten, however, managed to dial 911 on her cellphone and slip it under a blanket on the couch. The dispatcher heard Ms. Holten begging for her life and quickly directed officers to the scene. As they mounted the stairs with their guns drawn, Mr. Holten surrendered. They found Ms. Holten cowering, hysterical, on the floor.

For all its rage and terror, the episode might well have been prevented. Had Mr. Holten lived in one of a handful of states, the protection order would have forced him to relinquish his firearms. But that is not the case in and most of the country, in large part because of the influence of the and its allies.

Advocates for domestic violence victims have long called for stricter laws governing firearms and protective orders. Their argument is rooted in a grim statistic: when women die at the hand of an intimate partner, that hand is more often than not holding a gun.

In these most volatile of human dramas, they contend, the right to bear arms must give ground to the need to protect a woman’s life.

In statehouses across the country, though, the N.R.A. and other gun-rights groups have beaten back legislation mandating the surrender of firearms in domestic violence situations. They argue that gun ownership, as a fundamental constitutional right, should not be stripped away for anything less serious than a felony conviction — and certainly not, as an N.R.A. lobbyist in Washington State put it to legislators, for the “mere issuance of court orders.”

That resistance is being tested anew in the wake of the massacre in , as proposals on the mandatory surrender of firearms are included in gun control legislation being debated in several states.

Among them is Washington, where current law gives judges issuing civil protection orders the discretion to require the surrender of firearms if, for example, they find a “serious and imminent threat” to public health. But records and interviews show that they rarely do so, making the state a useful laboratory for examining the consequences, as well as the politics, of this standoff over the limits of Second Amendment rights.

By analyzing a number of Washington databases, identified scores of gun-related crimes committed by people subject to recently issued civil protection orders, including murder, attempted murder and kidnapping. In at least five instances over the last decade, women were shot to death less than a month after obtaining protection orders. In at least a half-dozen other killings, the victim was not the person being protected but someone else. There were dozens of gun-related assaults like the one Ms. Holten endured.

The analysis — which crosschecked protective orders against arrest and conviction data, along with fatality lists compiled by the Washington State Coalition Against Domestic Violence — represents at best a partial accounting of such situations because of limitations in the data. The databases were missing some orders that have expired or been terminated. They also did not flag the use of firearms in specific crimes, so identifying cases required combing through court records.

Washington’s criminal statutes, however, contain a number of gun-specific charges, like unlawful possession of a firearm and aiming or discharging one, offering another window into the problem. Last year, The Times found, more than 50 people facing protection orders issued since 2011 were arrested on one of these gun charges.

In some instances, of course, laws mandating the surrender of firearms might have done nothing to prevent an attack. Sometimes the gun used was not the one cited in the petition. In other cases, no mention of guns was ever made. But in many cases, upon close scrutiny, stricter laws governing protective orders and firearms might very well have made a difference.

The Times also looked at several other states without surrender laws. In , more than 30 people facing active protection orders were convicted of some type of assault with a dangerous weapon over the last three years, court records show.

And in , The Times found the case of Barbara Diane Dye.

Ms. Dye, 40, obtained an emergency order of protection in July 2010, on the same day she filed for divorce from her husband, Raymond Dye, a firefighter. Ms. Dye, who worked as a personal trainer at a gym the couple owned, explained in her petition that since telling her husband she wanted a divorce because of his infidelity, he had repeatedly threatened to kill her. She wrote that she feared he would “have a violent reaction when he receives divorce papers.”

When asked if there were weapons on the premises, she wrote, In fact, Mr. Dye possessed an arsenal of weapons, which Ms. Dye and her family would later beg the local police to help them deal with, to no avail.

After obtaining the court order, which was good until a hearing about a lengthier order three weeks later, Ms. Dye went into hiding in but returned to Oklahoma to attend divorce proceedings. Two weeks after obtaining the initial order, she was in a bank parking lot in the city of Elgin when her husband pulled up in his truck, blocking her in.

Witnesses later told the police that Mr. Dye, 42, tried to drag her into his truck. When she fought back, Mr. Dye brandished a .357 revolver and shot her in the leg. She fell to the ground. Mr. Dye fired several more shots into her, saying, “I love you, I love you,” according to the police report. He then shot himself in the chest with a different gun, a .45-caliber semiautomatic pistol, and collapsed, dead, onto his wife.

“We kept telling them, ‘He’s got all of these weapons,’ ” said Ms. Dye’s mother, Barbara Burk, a local official who has fought unsuccessfully in Oklahoma for a measure that would give judges issuing protective orders the power to order sheriffs to confiscate weapons and hold them for a “cooling off” period. “Is there nothing you can do?”

Intimate partner homicides account for nearly half the women killed every year, according to federal statistics. More than half of these women are killed with a firearm. And a significant percentage were likely to have obtained protection orders against their eventual killers. (A 2001 study, published in Criminal Justice Review, of women slain by intimate partners in 10 cities put that number at one in five.)

It was in recognition of these converging realities that Congress included a provision in the 1994 crime bill, over the objections of the N.R.A., that barred most people subject to full protective orders filed by intimate partners from purchasing or possessing firearms. In a nod to the concerns of the gun lobby, the statute excluded most people under temporary orders, on the ground that they had not yet had the opportunity to contest the accusations in court.

The statute, though, is rarely enforced. In 2012, prosecutors nationwide filed fewer than 50 such cases, according to a Times analysis of records from the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research center at that collects federal government data.

It has, therefore, largely fallen to a state-by-state patchwork of laws to regulate this issue — or not.

A handful of states have enacted laws requiring that judges order the surrender of firearms when issuing even temporary protection orders. The strictest states, like , and , make it mandatory for essentially all domestic violence orders; others, like New York and , set out certain circumstances when surrender is required. In a few other states, like and , surrender is mandatory only with a full injunction, granted after the opposing party has had the opportunity to participate in a court hearing. Several other states, like and , do not have surrender laws but do prohibit gun possession by certain people subject to protective orders.

Although enforcement remains an issue, researchers say these laws have made a difference. One study, published in 2010 in the journal Injury Prevention, found a 19 percent reduction in intimate partner homicides.

Washington State has seen several efforts to enact firearm surrender laws. In 2004, Representative Ruth Kagi, a Democrat, introduced a bill mandating the surrender of firearms with temporary protective orders. But after strong opposition from the N.R.A., the bill failed to make it out of committee. The N.R.A.’s lobbyist in the state, Brian Judy, testified that the measure granted “extraordinarily broad authority to strip firearms rights.”

Gun-rights groups stress that the subjects of temporary orders have not even had the chance to be heard in court, and that many temporary orders do not become full injunctions. Advocates for domestic violence victims counter that the most dangerous moment is when such orders are first issued, and that the surrender of weapons at this stage may be only temporary.

Nevertheless, in 2010, they decided to lower their ambitions and backed a proposal in the Washington Legislature requiring surrender only after a full protective order was issued, restraining threatening conduct against family members or children of family members. The measure also would have made it a felony to possess a firearm while subject to such an order.

Once again, the N.R.A. and its allies strenuously objected. The group sent out a legislative alert to its members, who besieged legislators. A veteran gun-rights lobbyist flew in from Florida to meet with Representative Roger Goodman, a Democrat who had introduced the measure.

Mr. Judy, the state N.R.A. lobbyist, wrote in an e-mail to Mr. Goodman that his organization considered the current Washington law “already bad on this subject.” He added, “It is the N.R.A.’s position that any crime that is serious enough to cause an individual to lose a fundamental constitutional right should be classified as a felony.”

Ultimately, lawmakers stripped the gun measure out of a broader package of domestic violence legislation.

This year, the issue is pending once again in the Washington Legislature, part of a number of gun-related proposals introduced after the Newtown shooting. The proposed legislation, further narrowed in an attempt to placate the N.R.A., seeks to mirror the language of the federal prohibition, which bars most people under full protective orders from buying or owning weapons. But in an e-mail to House Judiciary Committee members considering the measure, Mr. Judy wrote that the federal law “does not provide adequate protection” and argued that individual firearm rights were more broadly protected in Washington’s State Constitution than in the Second Amendment.

The bill seemed on the verge of being scuttled as the N.R.A. pushed to amend it in a way that supporters argued would render it meaningless, but House Democrats managed to close ranks and pass it. It faces a much steeper climb in the Republican-controlled State Senate, where the N.R.A. wields greater influence.

The issue has also gained traction in — a traditional power base for the gun lobby but also the state where 12 people were shot to death and 58 were wounded at a movie theater in July. A measure that would require the surrender of firearms in protection-order cases is part of a gun-control package passed by the State Senate last week, though not a single Republican voted for it.

And in Congress, Representative Lois Capps, Democrat of California, introduced a bill last week that would expand the federal prohibition to include temporary orders and current or former “dating partners.”

Even so, across the country, any suggestion of a broad shift must be tempered by history.

In the mid-1990s, Wisconsin became one of the first states to require the surrender of firearms with full protective orders. But in 2010, seeking to strengthen enforcement, advocates for domestic violence victims pushed for the statewide adoption of procedures that had been successful in a few counties. Among a host of provisions, people subject to protective orders would have been required to list their firearms and surrender them to the county sheriff or a third party within 48 hours.

The N.R.A. mobilized, calling the measure “a blatant violation of Americans’ Fifth Amendment rights” in an alert to its members. , an N.R.A. lobbyist, expanded in his testimony on the bill before an Assembly committee: “Once a person has an injunction issued against him, he is already a prohibited person. He cannot, under the Fifth Amendment, be forced to disclose whether he is in possession of firearms, because that would be tantamount to forcing him to admit a crime.”

The bill died in the State Senate.

In , the gun lobby has repeatedly stymied efforts to make it illegal for people subject to court injunctions to possess firearms. (Currently, they are barred only from buying and transporting firearms.)

“There’s often recognition that firearms and domestic violence is a lethal combination, but it’s followed quickly with concerns about taking away an individual’s right to possess a firearm,” said Kristine Hall, the policy director for the Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Action Alliance.

The lack of a state surrender law helps explain what happened when Deborah Wigg, a 39-year-old accountant in , obtained a protective order in April 2011 against her husband, Robert Wigg, whom she was in the process of divorcing. In her petition, she described a violent encounter in which Mr. Wigg grabbed her by her hair, threw her down, ripped out a door and threw it at her. He was arrested and charged with assault. She also made clear in the petition that her husband owned a 9-millimeter semiautomatic handgun.

She eventually won a full protective order, but Mr. Wigg kept his gun, which he used in his business installing and servicing A.T.M.’s.

Ms. Wigg and her co-workers at an accounting firm openly fretted about the weapon. She agreed that every morning she would call Marty Ridout, a partner at the firm, so he could make sure she was safe.

On the morning of Nov. 8, 2011, Ms. Wigg left Mr. Ridout a voice mail message saying everything was fine.

Around 11 p.m. that night, however, Mr. Wigg, 43, showed up at his wife’s home and began ringing the doorbell and pounding on the door. Ms. Wigg called her parents. Her mother, Adele Brown, told her to hang up and call 911.

But as Ms. Brown and her husband, who lived about a half-mile away, were heading over, Mr. Wigg smashed through the door and into the house. The Browns arrived to find a neighbor bent over their daughter’s bleeding form, screaming, “Debbie, don’t leave me!”

“When we got to her, those beautiful blue eyes were already set,” Ms. Brown said.

Ms. Wigg died of a single shot to the head.

After shooting his wife, Mr. Wigg drove to the Browns’, apparently to kill them as well. He killed himself in their front yard.

“It astounds me,” Mr. Ridout said. “I cannot believe we have a society where a person has physically abused another person and been charged with assaulting her and that they don’t automatically take away his weapon.”

One state with strict laws in this arena is California, where anyone served with a temporary protective order has 24 hours to turn over any weapons to local law enforcement or sell them to a licensed gun dealer.

Enforcement, however, has been inconsistent. So in 2006, the state set up pilot programs to increase enforcement in San Mateo County, just outside , and Butte County, a largely rural area north of . The programs’ money dried up in 2010 with the state’s fiscal woes, but San Mateo sought other financing because it believed that its program was saving lives.

“We have not had a firearm-related domestic violence homicide in the last three years,” said Sgt. Linda Gibbons, who oversees the program as the head of the major crimes unit in the county sheriff’s office.

Last year alone, the program took in 324 firearms through or surrender from 81 people, out of more than 800 protective orders it reviewed.

Every morning, Detective John Kovach, who handles a range of domestic violence investigations, reviews a stack of protective orders filed the day before — generally 15 to 20 a day — looking for any mention of firearms.

Usually, a handful of orders a day will contain some reference to guns, which Detective Kovach follows up on. He sometimes contacts the person protected by the order to find out more. He also checks various law enforcement databases, including one available in California that tracks handgun purchases.

He goes out once or twice a week and serves the restraining orders himself. Usually, he says, he tries to collect firearms immediately, employing a well-honed sales pitch about helping the person comply with the law. If he believes beforehand that the person might not be cooperative, he will sometimes request a search warrant.

“My experience is the quicker you act, the more successful you’re going to be,” he said.

Notably, given the gun lobby’s objections to seizing guns after just a temporary order, Detective Kovach said he had handled only one or two restraining orders involving firearms in the last year that were eventually dropped after the court hearing.

In a typical case, a 19-year-old woman from Redwood City filed for a restraining order against her husband in December, explaining that he had become increasingly abusive and that she had recently moved out. She checked off a box on the form saying he had used firearms to threaten her and, on a confidential “weapons possession data sheet” provided as a part of the San Mateo program, indicated that he owned an assault rifle and a handgun.

The detective picked up her order the following morning and, with a colleague, arranged to meet that day. She told them that after an argument a year earlier, her husband had threatened to kill himself, sending her in a text message a picture of himself holding an assault rifle to his head. More recently, he had warned that if she started dating, he would shoot the man, her and then himself.

Detective Kovach quickly secured a search warrant. He and several other detectives staked out the man’s home and served him with the protective order while he was walking his dog. In their search, they turned up seven guns, including two AR-15 assault rifles.

“Every murder, when you look at it, there are always points where law enforcement could have made a difference,” the detective said. “I don’t ever want to be that guy who goes to sleep knowing he hasn’t done everything to protect the public.”

In Washington State, The Times’s analysis highlighted danger at play when there is no broad mandatory firearm surrender law.

Under current law, judges issuing protective orders are required to order the surrender of firearms only in very specific situations, like a determination by “clear and convincing evidence” that the person has used the weapon in a felony or has committed another offense that by law would disqualify him from having a firearm. Otherwise, judges have the discretion to issue a surrender order under a variety of circumstances, including a finding that there is a threat of “irreparable injury.” (There is also a court form specifically requesting the surrender of firearms, but advocates say it is rarely used because few victims of domestic violence know about it.)

All five of the Washington cases identified by The Times in which the woman who obtained the protective order was later killed were murder-suicides. In three cases, the woman wrote in her petition that her husband or ex-boyfriend possessed firearms. In none of the cases did the judges issue surrender orders.

In fairness, it was not always clear that such an order would have prevented the deaths. Even so, those cases can show the existing system’s weakness in the face of obvious peril.

Melissa Batten, a 36-year-old software developer for Xbox, secured a temporary protective order in July 2008, describing a series of episodes in which her estranged husband harassed her and also broke into her workplace in Redmond. She said he also pointed a loaded gun at her in an argument and then put it to his head, threatening to kill himself.

It fell to a mutual friend, however, not the courts or law enforcement, to deal with the gun. He persuaded the husband, Robert Batten, to sell his .22-caliber handgun back to the dealer, according to a police report. But Mr. Batten later bought two more guns, a .357 Smith & Wesson revolver and a 9-millimeter Taurus semiautomatic, according to the police. It is not clear exactly when he bought them, but the police found evidence that he went to a gun show a few days after being served with the protective order. (In some states, the existence of the order would have barred him from buying guns.)

Mr. Batten shot his wife eight times in the parking lot outside her home before shooting himself, killing them both.

Ms. Batten’s case made headlines. Then there are the more routine episodes that unfold outside the public eye.

Julie Lohrengel obtained a temporary order for protection against her estranged husband, Shawn Lohrengel, in August 2010, detailing several encounters, including one in which he had shaken her and grabbed her by the throat. She checked off the box in the petition that indicated he possessed firearms.

The court commissioner did not order Mr. Lohrengel to surrender his guns. Several weeks later, Ms. Lohrengel and a friend, with Ms. Lohrengel’s two children in the back seat, drove up to her home in Centralia but stopped when they saw Mr. Lohrengel’s truck parked outside the garage. As they started backing out of the driveway, between five and eight gunshots rang out, but no one was wounded. When the police arrived, Mr. Lohrengel ran out onto the front porch with a rifle, as if looking for someone, the police report said. He eventually pleaded guilty to aiming and discharging a firearm and reckless endangerment.

Sometimes, the person who takes out a protective order is not the one ultimately victimized.

James Anthony Mills, 17, pleaded guilty last year to second-degree murder for firing two shots that killed Adrian Wilson, 16, at a birthday barbecue in Auburn, Wash. Less than a year before, an ex-girlfriend of Mr. Mills’s had obtained an order for protection against him. She explained in her petition that Mr. Mills had threatened her with a gun during an argument. Nothing was done about the weapon.

Even in cases where there was evidence that someone subject to a civil order for protection possessed a gun in violation of state and federal law, no move was made to remove it.

Dennis Pirone was arrested in in July 2009 and charged with harassing his ex-girlfriend Jody Mayes. A criminal no-contact order was issued, requiring him to surrender his firearms. He filled out a form declaring that he had none. He was arrested again a few weeks later for violating the no-contact order. Once again, after being ordered to surrender firearms, he declared that he did not have any.

That December, Ms. Mayes sought a protective order, writing in her petition that Mr. Pirone had bought a gun even though “he is a convicted felon and is not supposed to have it in his own words.”

Two months later, Mr. Pirone flew into a rage at another woman, a roommate, after she refused his sexual advances. He came back with a small silver handgun, told the woman, “I will kill you,” and pointed the gun at her before firing a shot into an old sofa, according to a Seattle police report. The police later found two .22-caliber semiautomatic handguns in the house.

More than a year after her ordeal in Spokane, Stephanie Holten still cannot understand why the judge did nothing about her former husband’s guns.

“I do believe in the Second Amendment,” she said, “but at the same time, public safety has to be paramount.”

Ms. Holten, 39, who is still seeing a counselor about the episode, said her mind relentlessly replays the scene of her on her knees, looking down the barrel of a loaded gun. In the recording of her 911 call, she can be heard sobbing and begging Mr. Holten to leave. He can be heard responding, between expletives, that she is going to die.

Mr. Holten — who later pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree assault and was sentenced to more than six years in prison — ordered her upstairs to her bedroom, forcing her to show him that she still had their wedding photos and other mementos. He then offered her a deal: he would put the gun down if she promised to drop the protection order, give him custody of their son and not call the police. When she tearfully assented, Mr. Holten placed his 9-millimeter carbine — the same weapon Ms. Holten believes she saw at his home a month earlier and cited in her court petition — in a hallway closet. That was when they both heard a male voice say “Police Department.”

Her legs buckled, and she crumpled to the ground.

“I wish in my case he had to surrender everything,” she said. “If the cops had been able to take the firearms out of that household when they served him, I think it would have averted the entire thing.”
423 2013-03-18 “Can you imagine going into a game of this magnitude with a backup quarterback?” Kennedy said. “And that’s what this team had to do.”

Florida (26-7), the regular-season champion, has not won this tournament since 2007. The Gators go into the N.C.A.A. tournament 0-6 in games decided by 6 points or fewer.

The Gators had a final chance to force overtime Sunday, but Scottie Wilbekin missed two free throws with 4.2 seconds left, and Kenny Boynton’s last-gasp 3-point attempt glanced off the rim after he took a step back to make sure he was behind the line.

MIAMI WINS A.C.C. Shane Larkin scored 8 of his career-high 28 points in the final two and a half minutes, helping No. 9 Miami beat North Carolina, 87-77, in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament final in Greensboro, N.C.

Trey McKinney Jones added a career-high 20 points for the top-seeded Hurricanes (27-6) and hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 6 minutes 27 seconds left, which started Miami’s final push toward its first tournament title.

The victory came one week after Miami completed its surprising run to its first A.C.C. regular-season title.

Larkin was named the tournament’s most valuable player after finishing as the runner-up for the league’s player of the year.

“I don’t know about the other guys on the team,” Larkin said, “but I do a lot of research online, seeing what people are saying about us individual players on our team, and I just kept seeing that everywhere: ‘They peaked too early; they’re not going to do anything; they’re finished.’ And that just motivated me to go out there and play as hard as I could.”

In a back-and-forth game, the Hurricanes slowed P. J. Hairston and the third-seeded Tar Heels (24-10) enough down the stretch to secure what amounted to a road win in front of North Carolina’s home-state crowd.

OHIO STATE WINS BIG TEN Deshaun Thomas scored 17 points, and No. 10 Ohio State used its stout defense to beat No. 22 Wisconsin, 50-43, in Chicago for its conference-best fifth Big Ten tournament title.

Thomas was 6 for 19 from the field, but he made some big free throws down the stretch as Ohio State (26-7) won the championship for the third time in the last four years.

Traevon Jackson scored 10 points for the Badgers (23-11), who shot 38.3 percent from the field. None of his teammates reached double figures.

ST. LOUIS WINS A-10 Kwamain Mitchell had 19 points, including a clutch 3-pointer with the shot clock winding down, to lead No. 16 St. Louis to its first Atlantic 10 tournament title with a 62-56 win over No. 25 Virginia Commonwealth at Barclays Center.

The top-seeded Billikens (27-6), overcoming the Rams’ defensive pressure and a boisterous crowd, stayed just poised enough to win the program’s second conference tournament crown. (The first was in Conference USA.)

St. Louis led, 45-32, with less than 12 minutes left. But the second-seeded Rams (26-8) were only a point behind three minutes later.

Cody Ellis hit a 3-pointer on the Billikens’ next possession and then made another clutch 3 for a 57-51 lead.

DELAWARE WINS C.A.A. No. 15 Delaware blew a 17-point lead and failed to make a basket from the field in the final six minutes, but the Blue Hens held off Drexel (22-10), 59-56, in Upper Marlboro, Md., to win their second straight Colonial Athletic Association title and extend their team-record winning streak to 25 games.

Delaware (30-3) is a host in the first and second rounds of the N.C.A.A. tournament and will almost certainly open at home next Sunday.

GREEN BAY WINS HORIZON No. 20 Green Bay missed 21 of its first 23 shots in the second half but still maintained a double-digit lead, beating visiting Loyola of Chicago, 54-38, in the Horizon League tournament championship game. Green Bay (29-2) won its 24th straight game.

The Green Bay defense held Loyola (17-15) to 7-of-22 shooting in the second half. But Green Bay was just 8 of 34.

Green Bay won its third league tournament title in a row and will compete in the N.C.A.A. tournament for a fifth straight year.

WICHITA STATE WINS M.V.C. Alex Harden and Michaela Dapprich scored 19 points each to lead Wichita State to a 69-65 win over Illinois State in the Missouri Valley Conference tournament title game in St. Charles, Mo.

The top-seeded Shockers (24-9) won the tournament for the first time and will be making their first N.C.A.A. tournament appearance.

QUINNIPIAC WINS NEC Brittany McQuain scored 14 points to lead top-seeded Quinnipiac to a 72-33 rout of visiting St. Francis (Pa.) in the Northeast Conference title game, earning the Bobcats their first trip to the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Quinnipiac (30-2), which has won 22 straight games, is headed to the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference next season. The Bobcats will leave in record-setting fashion: it was the most lopsided game in conference history.
424 2013-03-18 Contrary to “No to Keystone. Yes to Crazy,” by Thomas L. Friedman (column, March 10), Keystone XL will have no impact on global greenhouse gas emissions because oil sands crude will replace current American imports of similar heavy oil from Venezuela and Mexico.

Oil sands operations account for just 0.16 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. If all operations shut down tomorrow, the impact on greenhouse gas emissions would be infinitesimal. Even so, industry reduced oil sands emissions per barrel by 26 percent since 1990 and continues to seek reductions through technology and innovation.

The Alberta government implemented oil sands greenhouse gas regulations in 2007, including a carbon price. Of the top five oil suppliers to the United States — Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela — only Canada has such regulations in place.

Keystone XL is not about greenhouse gas emissions or how much oil the United States chooses to use; it is about where the United States gets that oil.
425 2013-03-18 The lead plaintiff, David Floyd, a medical student in the Bronx, was stopped twice, according to the suit. The first time was in April 2007, as he walked on the sidewalk; the following year, he said, he was stopped while standing outside his home, helping a neighbor try to get back inside an apartment after becoming locked out. (Mr. Floyd had retrieved a number of keys from his godmother, who owned the house, and was trying them one by one.) The police approached Mr. Floyd and the neighbor and detained them on suspicion of burglary, ordering Mr. Floyd against a wall and searching his pockets.

The trial’s outcome will be decided by a federal judge, Shira A. Scheindlin, who is currently hearing two related stop-and-frisk lawsuits. One of the suits already resulted in a lengthy hearing held late last year, which included testimony by both police officials and Bronx residents who had been stopped.

But that suit deals with only a small number of stops at private residential buildings in the Bronx, whose landlords had authorized the police to patrol there. In that case, Judge Scheindlin has issued a preliminary ruling that many of the stops at issue were unconstitutional, a ruling that would seem troublesome for the city in the Floyd case.

The third lawsuit, still a long way from trial, concerns stops in public housing projects.

But the Floyd suit, which was filed in 2008, challenges the largest number of stops — several million in recent years — and embodies the stop-and-frisk debate most closely. The trial centers on whether street stops in the city have soared because, as the plaintiffs claim, the Police Department has increasingly ignored constitutional limits on its authority to detain people when they investigate behavior that they deem suspicious.

For decades, the Supreme Court has recognized police authority to detain someone while determining whether the person has committed a crime or is about to do so. But the legal precedent for such stops requires the police to have reasonable suspicion, a standard less stringent than the probable cause required for arrest. Nonetheless, the police cannot stop someone on the basis of a vague hunch.

Every day, judges across the country apply that standard in criminal cases, as they weigh the facts that led the police to approach a person they later arrested. The Floyd case asks Judge Scheindlin to consider not just one stop, but rather the Police Department’s overall practice.

Of the five million stops in New York that the police have recorded since 2004, some 88 percent of those encounters ended with the person’s walking away without a summons or an arrest. One of the core questions in the trial is whether that low rate of finding evidence of criminality suggests, as the plaintiffs claim, that many of the stops were baseless.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs hope to convince Judge Scheindlin that officers are under pressure to make stops as part of a quota system, and that police supervisors use subtle hints and coded language to encourage officers to stop young minority men. In response to the accusations, the Police Department has denied using a quota system and points to its written policy forbidding racial profiling.

“Minorities are overwhelmingly the victims of violent crime in New York City, and the neighborhoods in which they live demand and deserve the Police Department’s attention,” the city’s executive assistant corporation counsel, Celeste Koeleveld, said in a statement about the coming trial. “Precinct by precinct, the rates at which minorities are stopped are consistent with the rates at which minorities are identified as crime suspects.”

The suit alleges that the stops violate the 4th Amendment’s prohibition against unreasonable search and seizure, as well as the 14th Amendment’s equal protection clause.

The lawsuit, brought by lawyers from the Center for Constitutional Rights and elsewhere, asks Judge Scheindlin to create “a process for obtaining community input” to change the stop-and-frisk practices and to appoint a monitor to ensure that the department’s policies comply with the Constitution.
426 2013-03-18 I’ll bet that billionaires around the country are eliminating their assets now and buying small studios in Queens, and that trash cans in New York are overflowing with new MacBook Pros.

A great mistake one could make after reading Graham Hill’s article is to think that anyone living in a 420-square-foot apartment with a modicum of possessions has achieved satisfying living.

I live in a 489-square-foot apartment with my fiancée and, like Mr. Hill, do not own much in the way of possessions. Not that I am satisfied with this; I cannot afford to have anything more.

My fiancée and I are both gainfully employed. With a better financial situation, we would buy a 3,600-square-foot home for ourselves and family members.

Mr. Hill and I share an aversion to an excess of material possessions. Religions, authors and self-help gurus have agreed for centuries that the key to existence is to minimize what occupies our time and focus on what helps us grow spiritually, mentally and physically.

Realizing this, anyone can solidify the personal foundation upon which satisfying living is based, regardless of the square footage of one’s dwelling.

Graham Hill says that after simplifying his life, he doesn’t have a single CD or DVD, and owns only 10 percent of the books he formerly did. He also says, “Intuitively, we know that the best stuff in life isn’t stuff at all, and that relationships, experiences and meaningful work are the staples of a happy life.”

I’m happy for Mr. Hill that he can say his life is bigger now than before. But something tells me — I can’t say whether it’s intuition or rational judgment — that my music and film collections, not to mention my treasured books, may well prove to be, over the coming decades, my most reliable and truest companions, the source of my deepest experiences and the closest thing to happiness achievable in this life.

Graham Hill makes a good argument that there can be such a thing as having too much. But plenty of New Yorkers live very comfortably in 500 square feet or less without having to throw out everything they own. Trust me; I should know.

I really hope that we have seen the last of articles about how rich young people can live in tiny studios while a record number of New York families are crowded into shelters and thousands of people have lost everything they own and are still homeless from Hurricane Sandy.
427 2013-03-18 Cable reality shows aside, whom would a cabdriver ever tell?

Mr. Wilson’s 37-minute piece, called “9Y40,” after the medallion number of the taxi he used during the recordings, draws on a four-week period spent driving on the 5 p.m. to 5 a.m. shift. It includes an observation on fashion trends (“antlers are so hot right now”), introspection from a bachelor (“I am extremely datable and extremely interesting, but I wouldn’t actually date myself”) and a woman’s insistence that her sister is too well-liked.

“Kelly’s not miserable and alone,” the woman said, slurring slightly. “She has a wonderful husband; she has friends. That’s what’s sick.”

There is also a good deal of profanity.

What is not certain is whether Mr. Wilson’s recordings were obtained legally. Though New York is a so-called one-party consent state — conversations can be lawfully recorded if only one party is aware of the device — legal experts say Mr. Wilson’s interactions with his passengers may not constitute conversations. He often took pains to remain silent, he said, letting his riders riff without provocation.

Before presenting his work, Mr. Wilson sought the counsel of Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts, he said. He was told that while passengers who heard their voices in the piece could sue to prevent him from using the recording, he was unlikely to face serious liability.

The city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission would not say whether the recordings violated any rules, but David S. Yassky, the taxi commissioner, chided Mr. Wilson for “very poor judgment.” He added that the city would decide whether a rule should be drafted to address similar circumstances in the future.

Other reviews have been more charitable, though Mr. Wilson has presented his work to a handpicked audience. He recently drove his cab exclusively between art fairs, pegging his efforts to Armory Arts Week, which was held from March 5 to 10. On a recent Saturday, he played his work for passengers from a makeshift speaker system assembled in the back seat of his Crown Victoria and refused to charge, for the ride or the show.

One rider, Victoria Reis, 42, who was visiting from Washington to attend the Armory shows, called the project “the least pretentious and most experimental” she had seen all week. She tipped him $20.

Mr. Wilson remained technically off-duty on the days he drove, careful to follow taxi commission guidelines. But his attire ensured that prospective riders would spot him nonetheless; he wore a chauffeur’s hat with adjustable plastic snaps in the back, a suit jacket and white gloves.

“I think these are actually Santa gloves,” he said.

Even his vehicle had been accessorized. In a nod to a godfather of covert recordings, he affixed a Richard M. Nixon hood ornament — more precisely, the severed head of a Nixon bobblehead doll — to his taxi.

“There is a presence,” a stately woman who attended a Chelsea art show said on a Saturday, eyeing Mr. Wilson as she puffed on a cigarette a few feet from his car. “You very well notice that something is going on.”

At the garage in Long Island City, Queens, where he rents his cab, the other drivers sense that Mr. Wilson, with his Seoul Fashion Week bag slung over his shoulder, is different. But no one seems to be aware of his traveling artwork, he said.

On a recent weekend, though, his cover was nearly blown. The trouble began on Mercer Street, where two men slid into the back of Mr. Wilson’s cab. One was a painter named Tim Kent. The other was the actor Adrian Grenier, who was a star of the television show “Entourage” and played one of Hollywood’s biggest celebrities.

Immediately, driver and passenger began chatting — the actor who once played the actor, the cabby who continued to play the cabby, Santa gloves and all.

“Most of your life is ambient impressions anyway, you know?” Mr. Grenier said, as he listened to Mr. Wilson’s recordings.

Everyone thought about that for a moment. Perhaps a moment too long.

Suddenly, a loud thwack jostled the cab, and a headlight sailed into the air near West Houston Street and Sixth Avenue. Mr. Wilson had struck the back of another taxi, which had come to a stop at the light.

A small crowd stared from the sidewalk. No one appeared to be hurt. The other car had barely been scratched. Mr. Wilson charged out of the cab to confer with the other driver. Mr. Grenier pointed his iPhone.

Mr. Grenier and Mr. Kent left to flag down another ride, while Mr. Wilson and his colleague worked to strike a deal: They would travel to the other driver’s garage on West 21st Street. Grease the palm of a mechanic there. Forty dollars, tops. Mr. Wilson would pay $30. O.K., sure, he’d pay the full $40. No paperwork.

About half an hour later, the repair was complete. The headlight looked better than before.

Mr. Wilson drove back to Long Island City, predicting, correctly, that the garage workers would not notice the difference. And even if they did, Mr. Wilson said — even if they stopped renting him cabs, and even if the city revoked his cabby’s license someday soon — no one could diminish one monument to his art’s endurance.

Little Richard Nixon, leering from the hood, had never budged.
428 2013-03-18 A letter from a lawyer for the Fountain-Fort Carson school district explained that “as Coy grows older and his male genitals develop along with the rest of his body, at least some parents and students are likely to become uncomfortable with his continued use of the girls’ restroom.”

Now, Coy’s case is at the heart of legal dispute that is likely to test Colorado’s anti-discrimination law, which expanded protections for transgender people in 2008.

The case is unfolding in this small town just south of Colorado Springs, as other states across the country seek to clarify their policies relating to transgender students.

It is an issue that has become more commonplace in recent years as advocacy groups push to ensure that school districts are more attuned to the needs of transgender children.

According to the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, which has filed a complaint with Colorado’s civil rights division on the Mathises’ behalf, 16 states and the District of Columbia offer some form of legal protections for transgender people.

In many instances, those protections extend to schools, where the most mundane rituals like going to the bathroom and using a locker room can be especially traumatic for transgender students.

These days, even in states where no protections exist, school districts have become more amenable to meting out a solution when a dispute arises, said Michael D. Silverman, the group’s executive director.

Mr. Silverman cited a recent Kansas case handled by his group, in which a 10-year-old biologically male student wanted to be known by a female name and dress like a girl. The school, he said, ultimately agreed.

“In most cases, when you’re dealing with children this age, nobody is usually fussing about this sort of thing,” Mr. Silverman said. “The schools are much more willing to work with families to ensure that their child is successfully integrated.”

Nonetheless, conflicts over gender identity are, understandably, sensitive territory for administrators, transgender students and their families.

Last month in Batesville, Miss., a group of high school students protested after a transgender classmate was permitted to wear women’s clothing. The students felt that their classmate was being given preferential treatment given the school district’s gender-specific dress code, according to local news reports.

The Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education recently issued guidelines on the treatment of transgender students, two years after the legislature passed a law banning discrimination based on gender identity.

The guidelines explain the new law and lay out scenarios that schools might encounter.

“Our primary concern is to make sure that every child has a safe and supportive learning environment,” said Jonathan Considine, a spokesman for the department.

The guidelines point out that deciding how best to handle bathroom access for transgender students can be especially challenging. The department recommended that students be permitted to use bathrooms that conform to the gender they identify with and also suggested that schools create gender-neutral restrooms.

“I have been stunned over the last three years by the explosion of concerns and interest and outreach coming from educational professionals around transgender issues,” said Eliza Byard, the executive director of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network.

Still, gay and transgender advocates say transgender students, while typically a small minority, are particularly vulnerable to bullying and harassment.

In a 2012 study by Dr. Byard’s organization, many elementary school students reported hearing comments from fellow students about how both boys and girls should act and look.

About a third of teachers surveyed said that elementary school students who did not conform to gender norms would feel uncomfortable at their schools.

The Mathis case has drawn particular attention, advocates said, because Coy is so young and the Colorado school district had clashed with her parents over what was best.

In that case, the state’s civil rights division is looking into whether the district violated Colorado law by prohibiting Coy from using the girls’ bathroom.

A lawyer for the district, Kelly Dude, declined to comment. In recent public statements, the school district criticized the Mathises for widely publicizing Coy’s situation while it was under review and said it had acted “reasonably and fairly” in the matter.

In a letter to Mr. Silverman, Mr. Dude wrote that Coy was allowed to wear girls’ clothing to school and was referred to as female, as the Mathises had requested. Though Coy could no longer use the girls’ restroom at her elementary school, Mr. Dude said she still had access to staff bathrooms and a gender-neutral restroom in the school’s “health room.”

Mr. Silverman countered that the school district was, he said, “punishing a little girl for what may or may not happen down the road.”

At the Mathises’ home along a stretch of rolling hills, Coy’s parents said they were still mystified over what prompted the school district to change its mind, especially because school administrators seemed so supportive at first.

“It didn’t make any sense to me,” said Jeremy Mathis, a stocky Marine veteran and Coy’s father, noting that Coy had made plenty of friends and grown noticeably happier since identifying as a girl.

“This is elementary school, and you’re singling out this one kid and saying she has to use a special bathroom?”

In the meantime, Coy and her sister and brother — they are triplets — are being home-schooled. While torn about it, the Mathises said they would not return them to school until Coy is allowed to use the girls’ bathroom again.

In the backyard, Coy played happily with her bike, dirt dusting her face and her pink, sparkly boots. She said she would rather be back in school with her friends but knows why she is not.

“They’re being mean to me,” she said. “And they’re telling me that I’m a boy when I’m really a girl.”
429 2013-03-18 After years of misrule and unrest, Zimbabwe is at a critical juncture. In 2008, Mr. Tsvangirai won the most votes in the presidential election, but refused to take part in a runoff because of violent attacks on his party’s supporters. Hundreds of people were killed and injured by the police, the army and allies of President Robert Mugabe’s party, ZANU-PF. Mr. Mugabe won the disputed runoff and remained in office.

Regional powers brokered an uneasy power-sharing agreement in which the government would reform the security services, rewrite the Constitution and hold a new presidential election.

But wrangling between the political parties dragged out the Constitution-writing process, and the draft that Zimbabweans voted on Saturday was substantially watered down, critics say, because it failed to check the president’s expansive powers. Still, the new charter was expected to win approval, and early results heavily tilted toward “yes” votes.

The stakes are high in the presidential election. Mr. Mugabe, who has been in power since 1980 and is now 89, failed to win outright in 2008, and many here worry that he will use the country’s police and security forces to keep opposition supporters away from the polls to avoid defeat.

“Already the telltale signs are there,” said Douglas Mwonzora, the senior M.D.C. official on the constitution-drafting commission. “Unless the international community takes full responsibility and discharges its full duty to ensure the regime of Mugabe is brought into check, we will see a repeat of 2008.”

Human rights groups have borne the brunt of the crackdown. This month the police raided the offices of the Zimbabwe Peace Project, a pro-democracy organization, and arrested its director, Jestina Mukoko. Ms. Mukoko was also abducted and tortured by the security services in 2008. In January the leader of ZimRights, another human rights organization, was detained and accused of conducting illegal voter-registration drives. The police have seized two-way and shortwave radios from other organizations, claiming they were broadcasting illegally.

Ms. Mtetwa’s arrest on Sunday particularly troubled activists. Though she has been at the forefront in defending human rights groups, some activists said, she has always acted as a lawyer defending her clients, not as an activist herself.

“Her work has been very critical to keeping human rights defenders going in terms of the works they do,” said Irene Petras of Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights.

In a recorded statement sneaked out of the Harare police station where Ms. Mtetwa was being held, she said she had been called to Mr. Mpofu’s house on Sunday morning by one of his colleagues, who informed her that he had been arrested and that his house was being searched. She demanded that the officers show her a search warrant.

“I asked for a search warrant, they said they would give it to me at the station,” Ms. Mtetwa said. “I said, no, you cannot give me a search warrant at the station after you have searched.”

The officers tried to take away her cellphone and purse, but Ms. Mtetwa resisted and was placed under arrest.

“The allegation is that I have been obstructing the police in the performance of their duties,” she said. “The view I take is they have been obstructing me in my duties as a lawyer. I have a client whose rights have been violated, and I am unable to help him because I am now an accused myself.”
430 2013-03-18 Disc jockeys from the upper echelons of electronic dance music were willing to play smaller rooms and shorter sets than usual to make a SXSW appearance. Rappers brought their posses on their coattails, as did Trae tha Truth, or expanded their solo ambitions, as Earl Sweatshirt from Odd Future did. Musicians can also pick up improbable collaborators at SXSW: The R&B singer Usher appeared halfway through an afternoon set by the Afghan Whigs, an indie-rock band fascinated by romantic strife, and suavely proved that his croon could sail over churning rock versions of his songs.

Yet there were also more than 2,000 lesser-known acts struggling to get noticed — and for me they are the core of SXSW. They offer glimpses of whatever ideas are spreading across pop — which, this year, meant more electronics. In my very limited sampling it was clear that the big pomp-rock anthem, anchored by a march beat, is still thriving; some baby bands are seeking arena-scale sounds. Electronic dance music is also slipping into rock in both obvious and subtle ways. Synthesizers and programmed drumbeats percolate through the introspection and tentative self-affirmation of songs by Indians, from Copenhagen. Even with guitar-centered bands (like Girls Names, from Belfast, Northern Ireland), I heard longer instrumental passages that pushed songs toward the length and hypnotic repetition of dance tracks. The abstract blips and throbs of dance music are also making inroads in hip-hop for rappers like Mykki Blanco and Earl Sweatshirt.

But there’s also a counterweight. The folk-rock resurgence set off by Mumford & Sons has not abated, and hand-played, guitar-strumming songs — sometimes kicked along by a beat hinting at dance music’s four-on-the-floor — found appreciative audiences. The Staves, three English sisters with a rhythm section, offered gorgeous three-part harmonies in songs about romance and mortality. Another English songwriter, Jake Bugg, leaned toward American country, and offered what might be a SXSW maxim in one song: “I have a guitar but I have no money/That don’t mean that I am blue.”

The festival’s critical mass draws in musicians who are well-established abroad and willing to play tiny clubs for a chance to get noticed in the United States: musicians like Gepe from Chile, who played jovial pop songs with undercurrents of Andean styles, and Emicida, a quick-tongued, forthright Brazilian rapper who mingled funk with Brazilian beats.

Laura Mvula, a songwriter and singer who has already been nominated for awards in Britain, arrived with polished and unconventionally structured songs that suggested Joan Armatrading by way of Cecil B. DeMille. Her songs had a few lines of exposition that would suddenly be answered by her whole band — which included harp, cello and violin — with choirlike vocal harmonies, pushing Ms. Mvula toward exultant incantations that gave obsessions a cinematic glow.

The festival included musicians aiming for the Top 10 like Charli XCX, an English songwriter with furious, catchy, electronic dance-pop songs about being a woman scorned, or f(x), a Korean K-pop “idol band” of five young women with busy dance routines and English-language choruses, or Willy Moon, who belts pithy pop lyrics over any beat with muscle, from a Bo Diddley stomp to a hip-hop sample. Palma Violets, an English band, brought a beery, punky exuberance to big Brit-pop choruses, smearing them enough to make them fun.

Yet there were also musicians whose aspirations are decidedly more underground, like the young psychedelic die-hards Outer Minds, a Chicago band merging Jefferson Airplane harmonies with garage-rock organ, and Föllakzoid, a Chilean band that played pulsing, eruptive, drone-centered jams. Punk and its variations provided the impact of live and loud guitars, whether it was Fidlar from Los Angeles, singing about booze- and drug-addled slacker lives with music that was precisely honed, or Parquet Courts from Brooklyn, playing a punk variation with talk-sung lyrics and room for guitar solos.

Baby bands or not, I wasn’t going to miss one big event: Prince’s club show, at La Zona Rosa. With sponsorship money from Samsung, it was an elaborate production — he had a wraparound LED screen for a backdrop and a large band including a full horn section — and a euphoric show of professionalism that was funky down to the last backbeat. Prince didn’t take the easy choice of playing an entire set of hits. He clearly wanted the audience to savor the physical effort and preparation that went into the music, from elaborately arranged horn-section interludes to the way the band followed every cue. And he earned the crowd’s whoops, squeals and nonstop dancing as a performer, one who’s more seasoned and confident than any baby band could be.

But the corporate context also had an effect. Before the set started, a member of his entourage mysteriously announced, “Company Play.” And part of the way through his set he paused to thank the sponsor. Prince — who was photographed in the 1990s with the word “slave” written on his face when he was battling his label — added: “I love being a musician. It feels like being a servant — being a servant for you.”
431 2013-03-18 ¶General Motors, Detroit, has given the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies sole responsibility for the worldwide creative account of its Chevrolet division as a joint venture ends between the McCann Worldgroup and Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group. Billings were not disclosed. A year ago, the McCann Worldgroup and Goodby, Silverstein created a joint venture agency, Commonwealth, to work on Chevrolet, with Goodby, Silverstein taking the creative lead for American ads and the McCann Worldgroup handling ads for markets like Brazil, Canada and China. Now, the McCann Worldgroup assumes sole responsibility for Commonwealth by buying out the 50 percent stake owned by Goodby, Silverstein. The almost 200 employees of a Detroit office that Goodby, Silverstein opened in 2010 are to be offered jobs at Commonwealth under the sole McCann Worldgroup ownership.

¶Terry Kent, chief executive at Kantar Media North America, New York, part of the Kantar Media division of WPP, was named global chief executive at a new unit, Kantar Media Ad Intelligence.

¶Gunther Schumacher, chief operating officer at OgilvyOne Worldwide, New York, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, will also be president of the agency, a new post.

¶Kevin McNulty, chief marketing officer at Momentum Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was named president for international, a new post focused on markets like Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and the Asian-Pacific region.

¶Susan Danaher, president and chief executive at the Digital Place-based Advertising Association, New York, is leaving, the organization said, after she informed the board that she would not renew her contract when it expires on March 31. A search for a successor is under way by a nominating committee that includes Ms. Danaher, the organization said, who will serve as an adviser to the board after her successor is named.
432 2013-03-18 His comments, delivered with a casual spontaneity seldom seen from a Chinese leader, offered a tantalizing palette of economic and social reforms that promised to transform the lives of the rural poor, the migrants flooding into the cities and retirees who worry about rising prices and unaffordable health care.

Acknowledging that he has been “depressed” by the noxious pollution shrouding Beijing, Mr. Li encouraged the news media and the public to hold him accountable should his government fail to clean up China’s contaminated water and food supply.

“Poverty and backwardness in the midst of clear waters and verdant mountains is no good,” he said, “nor is it to have prosperity and wealth while the environment deteriorates.”

Li Weidong, a political commentator and former editor of China Reform magazine, said that he took “comfort in seeing that Li has an accurate understanding of the country’s problems.”

“He made a lot of promises, which shows he has confidence,” Mr. Li said, “and he seemed ready to take on the responsibility of fighting vested interests.”

Even if bloggers and political analysts were encouraged by Mr. Li’s comments — and his down-to-earth, direct speaking style — they noted that his promises were short on specifics. Mr. Li declined to discuss political reform, an issue that liberal intellectuals and policy advisers say must be addressed if the country is to tackle some of its most intractable problems. Instead, they said, he defended the modest package of administrative adjustments approved by the country’s party-run legislative session.

Mr. Li faces formidable obstacles. Changes that seek to increase opportunities for farmers, migrant workers and entrepreneurs are sure to face resistance from an elite that has shown little interest in sharing the fruits of China’s economic growth. He must also operate within a consensus-driven leadership, including a seven-member Politburo Standing Committee dominated by conservatives.

Even Mr. Li acknowledged the potential obstacles posed by those who have accumulated power and wealth during China’s three-decade embrace of market reform. “Nowadays moving against these interests is often harder than laying a hand on a soul,” he said.

As the leader of the State Council, China’s cabinet, Mr. Li is responsible for economic policy, health care and education; he has expressed an interest in the challenges of urbanization. Responding to a reporter’s question, he said Beijing would spend liberally to help the millions of rural residents who are flocking to Chinese cities each year and would enact policies that foster sound development. “We must also be on guard against urban ills,” he said. “We can’t have it so there are skyscrapers side by side with slums.”

Expectations for China’s first new leadership in a decade are high, heightened by Mr. Xi, who since his elevation as Communist Party chief in November has spoken about fighting corruption and shifting China’s growth toward domestic consumption and less on exports and infrastructure spending. But Mr. Xi has also provoked some unease, especially among China’s neighbors, with his emphasis on bolstering the military and by promoting “a great national revival” that some have interpreted as code for a more muscular foreign policy.

Earlier on Sunday, in his inaugural speech as president, Mr. Xi returned to the theme of the “Chinese Dream,” striking a nationalist note as he emphasized the glory of Chinese civilization. “Patriotism is always the spiritual force bonding the Chinese nation together as strong and unified,” he said.

While both men are unvarnished party loyalists, reformers have placed much of their hopes for change on Mr. Li, 57, whose law degree and doctorate in economics from Peking University make him one of China’s best-educated leaders.

Unlike Mr. Xi, a so-called princeling whose father was a Communist Party luminary, Mr. Li comes from a humble background.

The state-run news media has promoted the image of Mr. Li as a modern, no-fuss leader. Commentators noted that compared with his predecessor, Wen Jiabao, who occasionally adorned his speeches with classic Chinese verse, Mr. Li seemed to talk unscripted, his hands slicing the air for emphasis.

Still, the news conference was not an impromptu free-for-all. The questions were vetted, and journalists from The New York Times, which has reported on the finances of Mr. Wen’s family, were not allowed to attend.

Asked about China’s role in cyberattacks targeting the United States, Mr. Li issued the party’s standard rebuttal, saying that China was also a frequent target of hackers and that Washington should stop making “groundless accusations.”
433 2013-03-18 By size, Cyprus’s economy represents not even half a percent of the combined output of the 17 euro zone countries. Yet the impact of this weekend’s decision by European leaders to impose across-the-board losses on bank depositors — from the richest Russian oligarchs, who have increasingly deposited their money in Cyprus’s banks, to the poorest Cypriot pensioners — in return for 10 billion euros, or $13 billion, in bailout money could not be more far-reaching.

After five years of bailouts financed largely by European taxpayers, wealthy European nations have decreed that when a bank or country goes broke, bond investors and perhaps even bank depositors will pay a significant portion of the bill.

The change is driven in no small part by the growing reluctance by residents of nations like — whose chancellor, , faces an election this year — to continue to finance bailouts of troubled neighbors like , , Italy, Spain, and now Cyprus. The resulting turmoil could create a wave of investor contagion that will challenge , the president of the , to make good on his promise to do whatever it takes to protect the euro.

On Sunday, it was clear that a majority of Cyprus’s 56 lawmakers would not approve the terms of the bailout, which would lead to a likely loss of the rescue money that Cyprus so desperately needs.

The government extended a bank holiday it had imposed over the weekend, meaning banks will not open Tuesday as planned. There was talk that they might not open Wednesday, either.

In response, the European Central Bank applied more pressure to have the deal approved, sending two representatives to Cyprus on Saturday night to assure Cypriot banks that the central bank was “here for them — as long as the bill goes through Sunday or Monday morning before financial markets in Europe open,” said Aliki Stylianou, a press officer for the central bank of Cyprus.

Mr. Anastasiades’s cabinet gathered early Sunday with the heads of the central bank and the finance ministry to discuss how to carry out the levy, should it pass.

But some analysts expressed skepticism about the measure’s long-term effects even if Cyprus approves it.

“Whether the Parliament approves the measure or not, the effect will be the same,” said Stelios Platis, the managing director of MAP S.Platis, a financial services firm, and a former economic adviser to Mr. Anastasiades. “As soon as banks in Cyprus reopen, people will rush to take all their money out” because they do not believe it will not happen again.

To some degree, this policy shift was foreshadowed last month when Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the finance minister for the who was recently tapped to lead the Eurogroup, forced investors of a failing Dutch bank to pay their share by writing down 1.8 billion euros’ worth of high-risk bonds to zero.

But it is one thing to wipe out bond investors and quite another to force a loss on bank depositors, including Cypriot savers who had their deposits insured and, like people all over the world, had the impression that a government-backed savings account was inviolable.

This is the first time depositors have taken a loss in a euro-zone rescue, said Adam Lerrick, a sovereign debt expert at the , who has long argued that debt-heavy countries in Europe must make private investors, including bank depositors if need be, share the cost of bank bailouts. “It prevented the insolvency from being transferred from the banking system to the government,” he said.

While such a notion may please the financial hard-liners, it carries significant financial risks.

Indeed, as many stunned Cypriots rushed to A.T.M.’s to remove their savings, Europe had to confront the prospect that savers in Spain and particularly in Italy — where cash-poor banks have been hit hard by loan losses — would do the same.

Public officials in Spain and Italy did their best over the weekend to say that the situation in Cyprus was unique and that deposits in those countries — especially Spain, which experienced a period of deposit flight last year — remained safe.

Also Sunday, George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, said that would compensate British government and military personnel based in Cyprus whose finances would be affected by the levy. About 3,500 British troops are based on the island.

The tax on deposits is sure to make small banks with bad loan problems in other countries seem all the more risky — to depositors as well as to investors holding the banks’ bonds.

Economists warn that the psychological consequence of such a shock could lead not only to a bank run but a devastating economic collapse and plunge in gross domestic product similar to what happened in Greece.

“There has been a huge shock, and fall in G.D.P. will be very large just as it was in Greece,” said Alexandros Apostolides, an economist based in Nicosia. “Why would someone keep their deposits in a bank here if he cannot be assured that there will not be another bailout?”

Indeed, throughout the weekend many Cypriots were withdrawing as much as they could from their bank accounts.

“Why should I leave my money in Cyprus?” said an investment banker who for the past two days had been withdrawing the maximum 2,000 euros he was allowed from his foreign bank account in Nicosia. “I have already instructed my bank to send my entire savings to when the banks open on Tuesday. A precedent has been set — what is to stop them from doing this again?”

The contentious talks over how to rescue Cyprus have continued for more than six months and only accelerated in the wake of an election last month that brought into power a new government that promised to impose the austerity measures required by Europe.

But when it came to losses for depositors, the government had assured the public as late as this past Friday that this was a red line that would not be crossed.

In the capital, Nicosia, the long lines at cash machines Saturday disappeared temporarily — mainly because A.T.M.’s had been drained of cash. But on Sunday, at a main branch of Laiki Bank — one of Cyprus’s two major financial institutions — employees were seen inside the darkened building hovering over computers and filling machines with bills.

As word got out, groups of people arrived in a steady stream to withdraw money, but not before expressing anxiety over what they said were decrees from and that would have implications far beyond Cyprus’s shores.

The general feeling was that European leaders were using Cyprus to test whether confiscating deposits would work, before possibly applying it more widely.

“They are trying to make an experiment with a small country,” said Stefan Kourbelis, a manager at the Centrum Hotel in Nicosia’s main square, echoing a widely held view. “If it works, the next one could be Spain, Italy and others. If things go badly, they can just say, who cares about Cyprus?”
434 2013-03-19 Bank customers will be allowed to stop withdrawals for high-interest payday loans and close their accounts sooner....
435 2013-03-19 On the eve of President Obama’s visit to the Middle East, Israel’s embassy in Washington posted an animated YouTube clip apparently designed to make light of reported tension between the countries’ leaders....
436 2013-03-19 Little League Fields on Staten Island were demolished by Hurricane Sandy. A group called Pitch In for Baseball did just that....
437 2013-03-19 The statue has been closed since Hurricane Sandy damaged several structures on Liberty Island, including the ferry dock....
438 2013-03-19 Tougher fuel economy standards and surcharges for inefficient vehicles are among the solutions cited for reducing fuel consumption....
439 2013-03-19 A gala on May 2 will include Plácido Domingo and Anna Netrebko, among others....
440 2013-03-19 No, I didn’t make an elementary logical error....
441 2013-03-19 The investigation into JPMorgan Chase’s multibillion-dollar trading loss shows that bankers are not acting cautiously and regulators remain docile....
442 2013-03-19 A bankruptcy judge has approved the sales of several major Hostess Brands product lines, including Twinkies, fetching about $800 million for the bankrupt baker....
443 2013-03-19 Mary Jo White has cleared an important hurdle on her path to becoming a top Wall Street regulator, as the Senate Banking Committee cast a 21-1 vote in her favor....
444 2013-03-19 I visited 20 bars in four days in San Francisco. Here, a recipe for Vesuvio Cafe’s signature drink, the Bohemian Coffee....
445 2013-03-19 The plan for a bailout of Cyprus has a lot to do with the particulars of that country, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes. | A richer offer for Dell may not readily materialize. | The penalty SAC Capital is paying does not end its possible legal troubles. ...
446 2013-03-19 One of the prosecutors, Joanne Pescatore, an assistant district attorney, told the court that Dr. Gosnell routinely performed illegal late-term abortions, killing the seven fetuses in operations that would have caused the infants pain.

“If the baby is alive and you don’t want it to be, that doesn’t mean you have the right to take a pair of scissors and plunge it into the baby’s neck,” Ms. Pescatore told the jury during opening arguments of a trial that is expected to continue for four to six weeks.

She also accused Dr. Gosnell of falsifying clinic records to show that no abortions had been performed beyond the legal limit of 24.5 weeks of pregnancy, and of storing fetal remains throughout the clinic, including 20 to 30 jars containing only their feet.

“Disturbing: that’s an understatement,” Ms. Pescatore said as Dr. Gosnell, wearing a dark suit and taking notes on a yellow legal pad, listened from the defense table. “Was he keeping trophies for what he had done?”

Prosecutors have also accused nine of Dr. Gosnell’s staff members with violating abortion laws, perjury and other charges. All but one — including the doctor’s wife, Pearl Gosnell — have pleaded guilty.

Ms. Pescatore said that Dr. Gosnell had performed many abortions in unsafe and unsanitary conditions, including using unqualified assistants. She said that as a result of financial motivations, the clinic had taken in many women who were beyond the legal abortion limit in their pregnancy.

“If they were far along, that didn’t matter,” Ms. Pescatore said. “They made more money for him.”

Among the patients was Karnamaya Mongar, a 41-year-old Bhutanese woman with three children, who had gone to Dr. Gosnell seeking an abortion in her 19th week of pregnancy, four months after arriving in the United States from a refugee camp in Nepal.

Dr. Gosnell’s staff gave Ms. Mongar a painkilling drug during her labor, Ms. Pescatore said, but the patient reacted badly and died after being taken to a nearby hospital. The prosecutor blamed the doctor for the death.

Mr. McMahon said the prosecution was trying to manipulate the jury’s emotions by leveling charges that he said would not be supported by the facts during the trial.

The defense lawyer said that there was scientific evidence on the viability of only two of the seven fetuses Dr. Gosnell is accused of killing, and that claims that the other five were viable were based on verbal reports by clinic staff members that the fetuses had been moving after they were aborted.

In fact, neither of the two fetuses was born alive, Mr. McMahon said. He promised jurors that assertion would be confirmed by the mother of “Baby A,” who is to testify during the trial. As for “Baby B,” he said, post-mortem tests on its lungs showed that they were never aerated, indicating that the child was born dead.

Rebutting prosecution claims that Dr. Gosnell was profiting from the desperation of poor women, Mr. McMahon said his client had passed up lucrative positions in obstetrics and gynecology so that he could provide an essential service in West Philadelphia, where he performed more than 16,000 abortions over 31 years.
447 2013-03-19 The first time the police stopped and then frisked him on his block in the Bronx, David Floyd remembered wanting only “to get home” and “be in my own space.” The second time it happened, Mr. Floyd testified, he was left with the impression that “I needed to stay in my place, and my place was in my home.”

Mr. Floyd’s testimony on Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan about his encounters with the police, in 2007 and 2008, came during the first day of a trial in a class-action lawsuit over whether the New York Police Department has been unconstitutionally stopping hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of black and Hispanic men and boys in the street.

While the judge deciding the case, Shira A. Scheindlin, will consider the significance of the soaring number of recorded street stops by the police over the last decade, the testimony on Monday focused on just three specific encounters. Two were police stops of Mr. Floyd, now a 33-year-old medical student in Havana, and the third was a stop of a Manhattan teenager, Devin Almonor, who testified that the police stopped, frisked and ultimately arrested him when he was 13, as he walked home in Hamilton Heights.

Both Mr. Floyd and Mr. Almonor are black, and Mr. Almonor, now 16, testified that he could think of “no other reason” besides race that police officers would have stopped him on that March night in 2010. A lawyer for the city, Suzanna Publicker, suggested that the cellphone Mr. Almonor had in his front pocket might have “created a bulge,” hinting that it might have resembled a concealed weapon to a police officer.

None of the officers involved in the stops testified on Monday.

The trial, which is expected to last six weeks, is one of the most significant courtroom tests of a crucial Bloomberg administration policy, and the stakes are high for the city. Lawyers for the plaintiffs are asking Judge Scheindlin to create “a process for obtaining community input” to influence the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk practices and also to appoint a monitor to ensure that the department’s policies comply with the United States Constitution.
448 2013-03-19 If the wage increase is approved by the Legislature, as expected, New York would join 18 other states with minimum wages above the federal minimum as of the start of this year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. The $9 wage would be one of the highest in the country, although lawmakers in many other states are also contemplating increasing their minimum wage this year. New York’s current minimum wage took effect in 2009 when the federal minimum became $7.25.

Michael Kink, the executive director of the Strong Economy for All Coalition, a group backed by labor unions that has advocated a minimum-wage increase, said he was pleased with the emerging deal. But Mr. Kink said it was disappointing that the wage increase would not be indexed to inflation, as liberal groups and labor unions had sought so that the wage would automatically increase in the future.

“If this stays on track to get to $9, then workers all over the state are going to get a real raise, and that’s a good thing,” Mr. Kink said.

Republicans were concerned that raising the wage could hurt the state’s fragile economy, but have agreed to the increase in exchange for tax breaks; the Senate Republican leader, Dean G. Skelos, told reporters that the plan would also include at least $700 million in new tax cuts for businesses and families.

Some business groups remain concerned about the proposed minimum-wage increase. Mike Durant, the New York State director for the National Federation of Independent Business, said the wage increase would still have a detrimental effect on small businesses, especially upstate.

“In an economy that’s stagnant, that’s an enormous amount of significant pressure on small businesses that’s going to threaten their viability,” Mr. Durant said. He said the fact that the increase would be phased in, and would be accompanied by tax breaks, was a plus, but not enough.

“Does it help? Sure,” he said. “Does it mitigate the damage completely? Absolutely not.”

The developing agreement on the minimum wage and the tax cuts came as Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders continued to negotiate over the fine points of an overall state spending plan, which must be approved by April 1. Mr. Cuomo proposed a $143 billion spending plan in January.

Legislative leaders said they were hopeful that an overall deal on the budget could be reached by Tuesday; they are trying to finish the budget early this year so lawmakers can head home for Passover and Easter.

“We’re very close to having a deal,” Mr. Skelos, of Long Island, told reporters after the meeting with Mr. Cuomo.

Among the other items under negotiation: whether to extend a new tax bracket on the state’s highest earners that was created in December 2011 and is scheduled to expire at the end of 2014, and whether to decriminalize the visible possession of small amounts of marijuana in an effort to reduce the number of low-level marijuana arrests in New York City. The marijuana decriminalization proposal, which Republicans in the Senate resisted last year, remained a sticking point on Monday night.
449 2013-03-19 A wild card in this instance were the Russians, who have deposited billions in Cypriot banks, extended a $3.25 billion line of credit to Nicosia in 2011 and were in negotiations to help out Cyprus once again. Cypriot leaders apparently were so concerned with keeping their wealthy offshore Russian customers happy that they pushed their own citizens to pay even more than some of the lenders were demanding.

The Russians reacted angrily to a so-called stability tax on deposits in Cyprus, and at being left out of the negotiations. On Monday, Russia’s minister of finance, Anton Siluanov, warned that Russia might not extend the existing credit line because the Europeans had not consulted authorities in Moscow about the deposit levy plan. On Sunday, one Russian official was reported by the Interfax news agency as advising Russians to withdraw funds from Cyprus, saying the banking system was untrustworthy.

The all-night discussions began Friday and ran for 10 hours, ending shortly before dawn on Saturday. Cyprus needed to come up with billions of dollars to help cover the costs of the bailout of the country’s financial sector, or its European allies said they would leave it to face the prospect of collapse alone.

Each of the major stakeholders, which included the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and euro zone finance ministers, entered the room with a conflicting goal. Protecting the small-time saver was at the top of no one’s list. The result was a compromise solution everyone is now unhappy with, officials say, one that stands to cost ordinary Cypriot depositors 6.75 percent of their savings.

The Germans and their northern European allies wanted to exact a maximum contribution from Cyprus to ensure the deal could pass their recalcitrant, bailout-weary parliaments at home. A confidential report by the German foreign intelligence agency, known by its German initials as the B.N.D., was making the rounds, one that painted the island as a haven for money-laundering. The stigma attached to helping the Cypriots — and the political cost in an election year — was rising rapidly.

The I.M.F. was dead set on keeping the debt at what its number-crunchers considered a sustainable level. The Cypriots, meanwhile, wanted to spread the pain around.

After midnight, negotiators thought they had a proposal that could work: a one-time “tax” of 12.5 percent on depositors with $130,000 in the bank and milder but still painful cuts of around half that or less for everyday account holders — the pensioners and laborers who thought their money was protected.

The proposition, worked out by small group of finance ministers, including those from Germany and the Netherlands, and the European Central Bank, was taken to a different room in a sprawling, Brutalist Brussels office mocked by some as the Kremlin and shown to Nicos Anastasiades, the newly elected president of Cyprus.

The president, who had left initial talks in the hands of his own finance minister, flatly rejected the offer. He insisted, according to European officials, that large depositors must not face a levy higher than 10 percent.

This meant that small savers would have to take a bigger hit, but it did soften the blow on Russians and others who, looking for a safe place to park their money, have turned the tiny Mediterranean island into a financial center known for not asking too many questions.

What happened next sealed the deal, which now appears to be coming apart amid strong protests from ordinary Cypriots. Jörg Asmussen, a German member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, told Michalis Sarris, the Cypriot finance minister, that stopgap financing for Cyprus would be cut off this week if no agreement was reached.

Mr. Asmussen’s message “really did sharpen the thinking of Mr. Anastasiades,” said a European official with knowledge of what happened during the talks but who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were conducted in private.

“The Cypriot president understood clearly he faced the collapse of his banking system and disorderly exit from the euro area,” said the official.

What emerged was a deal that took a bite out of average savers, one that made sense in the wee hours between the dealmakers. In the light of day, as Cypriots tried desperately to pull their savings out of A.T.M.’s, it looked like a threshold that many experts say should never have been crossed.

“The result is a likely bank run in Cyprus alongside financial and sovereign instability in the wider euro area,” said Mujtaba Rahman, a senior analyst with the Eurasia Group who has followed the European debt crisis.

At several points along the path that led to the decision on Saturday morning, the European Commission, the union’s policy-making arm, tried to warn that imposing losses on bank accounts could be a recipe for panic — and not only in Cyprus.

In the weeks leading up to the meeting on Friday, Olli Rehn, Europe’s commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, told a representative of the Eurogroup of finance ministers that the levy should probably be set at 2 percent, and certainly at a level no higher than 5 percent, across all types of deposits.

The European Central Bank also had reservations about levying higher taxes, but the Germans wanted $9.2 billion from depositors, officials said. That was an enormous contribution for a country the size of Cyprus.

Imposing the tax on all bank deposits in the country was, in part, a move “to stop money being put into smaller packages or to have it sliced up” so that wealthier depositors, including Russians, would be able to avoid the tax, said one diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were held behind closed doors.

The Cypriots insisted that they couldn’t “go beyond a one-digit number for higher deposits,” said another official familiar with the discussions. “From there its simple mathematics if you don’t want to go above that.”

Mr. Rehn then went to Mr. Sarris with slightly revised numbers lowering the rate on larger deposits, right up against the threshold at 9.9 percent. The contribution from depositors had come down to $7.6 billion, leaving the rate on smaller holdings at 6.75 percent.

With few options, Mr. Anastasiades accepted the new terms.
450 2013-03-19 One of New York City’s largest providers of special education services to preschoolers with disabilities illegally diverted millions in taxpayer financing to a girls’ religious school, summer camps and a kosher supermarket owned by the group’s officers and board members, state auditors said on Monday.

The auditors were unable to confirm that any of the hundreds of children who were supposed to get one-on-one instruction from the agency, Island Child Development Center, ever actually did, said the office of the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.

After subpoenaing more than 13,000 checks from the agency’s bank, auditors said they gave up counting after the first 1,549 checks they reviewed turned up $5.8 million in what they said was fraudulent spending over a six-year period when Island Child billed the state and the city more than $27 million.

Mr. DiNapoli’s office called it the largest misappropriation unearthed yet in its inquiry into New York State’s $2 billion special education prekindergarten program. Spending on the program has jumped in recent years, and regulation has not kept pace.

Several proposals for enhanced oversight have been debated as part of the state budget process, though prospects for their approval are not clear.
451 2013-03-19 ANKARA, Turkey — The fatal encounter between a Staten Island woman and a homeless man in Istanbul earlier this year began when she resisted his attempt to kiss her, according to a two-page statement he gave to prosecutors.

On Monday, a Turkish court formally charged the man, identified by the authorities as Ziya Tasali, 46, with the killing, the semiofficial Anatolian News Agency reported.

Mr. Tasali, an itinerant paper collector who the authorities said had prior convictions for burglary and weapons violations, fled to Syria as news of the killing gained international attention. He was taken into custody on Sunday at the Turkish border and later transferred to an Istanbul prison. He would face a possible life sentence if convicted.

In his statement to prosecutors, which was quoted by the news agency on Monday, Mr. Tasali described the deadly encounter with the woman, Sarai Sierra, a 33-year-old mother of two on her first trip abroad.

She was walking near the Old City walls on Jan. 21, the day she vanished, when he tried to kiss her. “She resisted me,” he said, “and a struggle broke out between the two of us.”
452 2013-03-19 A federal judge has struck down a Missouri law because it conflicts with a federal mandate for insurers to cover birth control at no additional cost to women. Judge Audrey G. Fleissig of Federal District Court, who issued a temporary restraining order against the law last year, cited the provision in the Constitution declaring that federal laws take precedence over contradictory state laws. Missouri’s Republican-led Legislature overrode the veto of the Democratic governor last September to enact the law, which appeared to be the first to directly challenge the Obama administration’s contraception policy. The law required insurers to issue policies without contraception coverage if individuals or employers objected because of religious or moral beliefs.
453 2013-03-19 At a Congressional hearing last week, John S. Pistole, the T.S.A. administrator, said that given fortified cockpit doors, more sophisticated terrorist watch lists and “the demonstrated willingness of passengers to intervene in a determined way, it is the judgment of many security experts worldwide, which I agree with, that a small pocketknife is simply not going to result in catastrophic failure of an aircraft.”

The reaction from the aviation industry was swift. The Flight Attendants Union Coalition said that the nearly 90,000 flight attendants it spoke for were “outraged.” Along with some pilots unions and a few major airlines, the coalition is demanding a reversal of the new policy. “We are the last line of defense in aviation security,” the coalition’s statement said.

Largely unheard from, incidentally, are passengers — probably because passengers have no real public representation in aviation matters. But let’s not forget that while flight crews are certainly a bulwark against threats, passengers themselves now form a solid defense. It was passengers, for example, who thwarted the attempt by Richard Reid to ignite explosives in his shoe on a flight bound for Miami in December 2001.

In the so-called shoe-bomber case and in others, explosives were the threat. But is there a viable threat from a 2 1/2 -inch pocketknife — if we define threat as a potential terrorist attack that could bring down an airplane, or allow a cockpit to be breached and an airplane commandeered, as on Sept. 11?

At a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Transportation Security last Thursday, Mr. Pistole defended the security agency’s revisions as a move to “apply more common sense to aviation security” and reduce “the hassle factor that T.S.A. has come to represent.”

He pointed out that in 2010, international aviation authorities changed the rules to “permit knives with a blade length of 6 centimeters” (about 2.36 inches) in cabins on flights not originating in the United States. Since then, “we not aware of a single incident involving these small knives on commercial aircraft,” Mr. Pistole said.

He said that similar concerns were expressed in 2005 when the T.S.A. revised the prohibited items list to allow small scissors, knitting needles and screwdrivers less than 7 inches long onto planes. Since then, “we’ve had billions of passengers — 620 million a year traveling in the U.S. with these items permissible — and there has not been a single incident involving an attack on passengers, flight crews, federal air marshals, anybody,” Mr. Pistole said.

Of course, emotions understandably can run high in discussions of terrorist threats. Security experts routinely refer to what they call the “what if” problem inherent in the T.S.A.’s stated efforts to improve its evaluation of risks rather than focusing just on items like pocketknives.

What-if situations can be endless. Obviously, one way to thwart all conceivable threats from passengers would be to require everyone to fly naked and without any possessions. But even then, some what-ifs can be imagined.

But here’s a what-if that the T.S.A. might have considered before this latest imbroglio. What if the agency, which had a group spend two years assessing the changes, had thought to include flight attendants in that review? “I could have done a better job of bringing them in earlier,” Mr. Pistole conceded.

Not to mention the flying public itself. So I’m asking readers: How do you feel about passengers being able to carry small pocketknives on planes?
454 2013-03-19 Moreover, Sri Lanka has already embarked on restoring harmony, the government says, pointing to a reconciliation commission set up in 2010 and a national plan of action and national humanitarian plan adopted later to carry out its recommendations. “Sri Lanka needs adequate time and space to resolve such wide-ranging and deep-rooted issues,” Mahinda Samarasinghe, the president’s special envoy on human rights, told the council at the start of its current session.

But that version of events has faced growing skepticism since March 2011, when a United Nations panel of experts issued a report concluding that 40,000 civilians were killed in the closing weeks of the war. The panel said there was credible evidence that the Tigers had committed war crimes, using civilians as a buffer, but most died in sustained army shelling of areas it had designated as no-fire zones.

A day or two before they vote on the resolution, council members will hear a report from Navi Pillay, the United Nations human rights chief, acknowledging significant government progress on rebuilding infrastructure but saying that the steps Sri Lanka’s leaders have taken to investigate abuses are “inconclusive and lack the independence and impartiality to inspire confidence.” Ms. Pillay calls instead for an international investigation, a move that drew a rebuke from Sri Lanka and accusations of bias.

Adding to the heated atmosphere, a new documentary, shown for the first time before the Human Rights Council in Geneva this month, purports to show the flesh-and-blood reality of events reviewed by the panel. The film, “No Fire Zone: The Killing Fields of Sri Lanka,” juxtaposes footage of an army commander asserting that his troops had not used heavy weapons with harrowing video of villagers struck by artillery shells aimed at food distribution points and hospitals.

The documentary confronts official denials of summary executions with trophy videos, apparently filmed on soldiers’ cellphones, showing troops shooting naked, blindfolded prisoners. In the same vein, a series of photos, apparently shot from the same camera, show Balachandran Prabhakaran, the 12-year-old son of Velupillai Prabhakaran, leader of the Tamil Tigers, first sitting in a bunker munching a snack, then lying dead with five bullet holes in his chest.

“We see it as a film of record but also a call to action,” Callum Macrae, who made “No Fire Zone” and two other television documentaries on the same subject, told reporters before its first screening. Digital forensic experts examined all photographs and video for evidence of tampering and found none, Mr. Macrae said.

The film, and the use of United Nations premises to show it, drew swift protests from Ravinatha Aryasinha, Sri Lanka’s ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva. He did not watch the film, but appeared at the end of its first screening to condemn “footage of dubious origin, content that is distorted and without proper sourcing and making unsubstantiated allegations.”

Council watchers foresee more support for this year’s resolution than last year’s, a prediction that appears to reflect growing international concern about human rights abuses. Beyond the forced disappearances and reprisals, Sri Lanka’s security forces have used rape and sexual violence against Tamil men and women detained as suspected supporters of the Tamil Tigers, according to a report released by Human Rights Watch last month.

Beyond such extremes, analysts say Tamils, who are mostly Hindu, now live in a state in which the largely Sinhalese military is the dominant force in daily life, creating large military settlements, building settler camps and temples for the predominantly Buddhist Sinhalese in largely Hindu areas, and taking up economic ventures in the north and east.

“There is a project to undermine the political power of Tamil people in the northern province and Sri Lanka generally,” Alan Keenan, a project director and senior analyst at the International Crisis Group, said in a telephone interview. Sri Lanka has a long history of Sinhalese and Tamil militancy against perceived injustice, he noted. “They are playing with fire if they continue so harshly to deny Tamils their rights.”
455 2013-03-19 “You can’t continue to see the price increases in land like we’ve been seeing. That’s just heading for trouble,” said Michael Duffy, an economist in farm management at Iowa State University. If the price of a bushel of corn were to fall to $4.50 from about $7 now, farmland values could collapse by as much as 25 percent, he said.

The potential dangers for the economy are nowhere near as serious as the consequences of the housing collapse. But for individual farmers and farming communities, as well as rural farming banks, the repercussions could be severe.

As far back as 2011, when the run-up in land prices was still gathering momentum, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation held a symposium in Arlington, Va., for bankers, regulators and investors titled “Don’t Bet the Farm: Assessing the Boom in U.S. Farmland Prices.” But banks and others continued to offer farmers low-interest loans.

Debt held by the nation’s farmers has risen nearly 30 percent since 2007, to an expected $277.4 billion this year. The bulk of those loans were made by commercial banks, the farm credit system and the Farm Service Agency. Some regulators and critics say that figure is most likely undercounting debt from specialized finance institutions or credit extended by seed companies like Monsanto and equipment manufacturers like John Deere.

While national data does not show sharp jumps in closely watched debt gauges, some analysts point to other data that reveal farm debts have already topped levels reached just before the farm crisis of the ’80s. Data that the Kansas Farm Management Association has collected from more than 1,300 farms in the state showed the amount of debt compared to the value of underlying assets had climbed to 25.5 percent at the end of 2011, slightly above where it stood in 1979.

Some farmers are in over their heads already. One of the heartland’s most talked about bankruptcies in years is that of Stamp Farms, of Decatur, Mich. In less than a decade, Michael D. Stamp, 37, built his farm into a huge operation growing corn and soybeans. In November, he was hailed as a savvy farming entrepreneur on the cover of Top Producer, an agricultural magazine, and was one of three national finalists in its annual contest.

“Multiple bankers have laughed me out of their office,” Mr. Stamp said in a video accompanying the article. “I wonder what they’re thinking now.”

Before the month was over, Stamp Farms filed for bankruptcy. Its debts totaled more than $94 million, including $63 million in a loan made a year earlier by Wells Fargo. Millions more were owed to over 200 creditors, including $1.9 million to Deere and $3.9 million to Monsanto.

In bankruptcy filings, Wells Fargo accused Mr. Stamp of misrepresenting his farm’s size, part of what the bank described as an elaborate fraud. The lawyer handling Mr. Stamp’s personal bankruptcy wrote in an e-mail that Mr. Stamp denied the bank’s accusations. He declined to make Mr. Stamp available for an interview, citing possible litigation against his client.

“We all started to wonder what was going on last fall when the corn was still green and he was out there picking it,” Tom Jerdon, who leased land to Stamp Farms, said of Mr. Stamp. Mr. Jerdon said he believed that Mr. Stamp was harvesting early to raise cash. Aware of the allegations made by Wells Fargo, Mr. Jerdon said he found Mr. Stamp to be a hard-working farmer who kept his promises, even those made on a handshake.

“It sounds like he was really growing the farm with borrowed capital,” Mr. Jerdon said. “There was just a lot of debt.”

Regulators say it is difficult to determine exactly how much farm debt exists, because much of it involves debt owed to various vendors and suppliers.

“In so many ways, we’re blind to some of that information,” said Jason Henderson, a vice president at the Omaha branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.

In the meantime, large investors have been moving in. In November, an investment unit of the big Swiss bank UBS bought 9,800 acres of Wisconsin farmland for $68 million, a purchase first reported by Farmland Investor Letter. The financial services firm TIAA-CREF is managing a $4 billion fund and now owns 600 farms — half of those in the United States, according to an executive there. But as prices soar, investors say it is becoming difficult to find bargains.

“There are some opportunities out there, but man, it’s tough,” said Shonda Warner, a former Goldman Sachs trader who returned to her Midwest farm roots in 2006, when she started Chess Ag Full Harvest Partners, a private equity firm that specializes in farmland. Like many other investors, Ms. Warner’s fund buys land and then rents it to farmers. As land prices have risen sharply, so have rents.

“I worry about people who are buying farmland and expecting to get big rents, $500 or even $600 in the Midwest,” Ms. Warner said. “What happens when corn prices fall next year and they can’t pay? What are you going to do? Take their television set?”
456 2013-03-19 I STARTED flying quite a bit for business around 2002. I used to work for a public policy group and I had to go to a ton of meetings. It wasn’t really hands-on, and I really wanted to do more with my career.

When I became president of the American Humane Association, it was exactly the kind of position I wanted. I mean, really, how can you go wrong working to protect children and animals? And in terms of being hands-on and making a difference, it’s been absolutely wonderful. Most of my travels involve going to shelters, or places where there have been disasters or sadly, abuse situations. One day I might be on a dairy farm in the middle of nowhere and the next day I might have to be at some huge event.

There are good days and bad days, but thankfully many more good days in this kind of work. I don’t let any of the hassles of travel bother me. But I don’t think I’d ever put the word “joy” in a description of business travel nowadays.

Once a fellow passenger finds out what I do, it’s inevitable that person will show me a picture of their pet or pets. A grandparent may show me one picture of a grandchild, but only one, even if they have a lot of grandchildren, before they show me a picture of an animal. But parents usually skip their children and go right to the pet pictures. It’s very amusing. Animals really are family.

Because I’m from the South, people automatically think I know everything about Nascar. No, I don’t. But a young man I was sitting next to on a flight started talking, and he showed me a picture of his dog, too. He was supernice, and I found out he was a Nascar driver.

He mentioned that he and his wife were looking forward to getting involved in a charity. As the flight was landing, I gave him our materials. He texted me shortly after saying he wanted to help, and now the driver, Blake Koch, is our newest national ambassador. So talking to a seatmate can have some unexpected payoffs. Plus, my nephew, who liked Nascar since the day he was born, thinks it’s pretty cool, too, so I got a lot of points from him.
457 2013-03-19 Berkeley Young, chairman of the Southeast Tourism Society’s Marketing College, said programs to upgrade skills were also important. “The way we communicate to potential travelers is changing so rapidly, it’s important for any professional to continue education and professional development to stay on top of the latest trends,” he said. “You’ve got to stay fresh.”

Since 2010 the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group has provided graduate-level business training for hotel management. The company also offers online programs, provided by the American Hotel and Lodging Association, for service-level employees, like front desk and housekeeping workers, interested in career advancement.

Enterprise Holdings, which owns and operates the Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Alamo Rent A Car and National Car Rental  brands, has an extensive military recruiting effort. Nearly 10 percent of its workers based in the United States were previously in the military.

Cheryl Hargrove, president of HTC Partners, a consulting firm specializing in heritage tourism (focusing on the culture of regions), said many veterans successfully transition to travel jobs.

Sallay Kim, retired after 20 years in the Army, recently earned a master’s degree in tourism administration at George Washington University, taking traditional and online classes. “She used a skill set from the Army to start a business,” Ms. Hargrove said of Mrs. Kim, who co-founded Serenity Event Solutions, an event management company based in Lorton, Va., that helps local companies and groups visiting the Washington area. Mrs. Kim, 41, a former intelligence officer, said: “What military professional is not proficient in planning? That’s what we do for a living.”

But despite the robust travel job market, educational offerings and data suggesting that many travel jobs pay well, some industry insiders say they suffer from an image problem.

“Many countries around the world place a greater value on travel,” said Geoff Freeman, U.S. Travel’s chief operating officer. “In this country, tourism and travel is not seen as a critical economic driver.” It is ironic, he said, that when the United States helps other countries grow economically, “one of the first places is to kick-start tourism.”

Henry Harteveldt, an analyst for Hudson Crossing, a travel industry consulting firm, says due diligence when choosing a continuing education program is important. “Promises or guarantees of employment need to be carefully examined,” he said.

Ted Bravos, chief executive of the International Tour Management Institute, says he is careful to enroll only the number of students that the market can support.

Still, he is always looking to develop new markets, like the growing number of tourists from Brazil and China, by training Americans who speak the languages of those countries. The institute also provides hands-on training and job referrals.

Mr. Linder, the tour director, confirms this. “Most of the work I get is through International Tour Management Institute,” he said.

But even with such support, challenges remain. “This pays nowhere near what my old salary was,” Mr. Linder said, and the work is seasonal. “But it offers more opportunities for professional and personal growth than the corporate world,” he said. “I feel on balance, it works for me.”
458 2013-03-19 The Romanian former prime minister Adrian Nastase will be released early from prison after serving nine months of a two-year term for corruption, a Bucharest court ruled on Monday.

The decision to release him appeared to mark the end of an extraordinary episode that riveted Mr. Nastase’s compatriots. In June, when the police arrived at Mr. Nastase’s villa to arrest him, he apparently pulled out a revolver and tried to kill himself. Millions of Romanians watched on television in shock as he was carried off on a stretcher, a Burberry scarf wrapped around his neck. He survived and was soon behind bars.

Mr. Nastase, 62, the most senior Romanian politician to be imprisoned since the end of Communism in 1989, was convicted of siphoning $2 million in state funds for his presidential campaign. His arrest was lauded by anti-corruption advocates as a seminal moment in Romania’s law enforcement history. But Mr. Nastase called the charges against him a preposterous “political game.”

Mr. Nastase, prime minister from 2000 to 2004, was expected to be released late Monday.

Even Mr. Nastase’s critics said his release was understandable given his age and exemplary behavior, including writing three books while in prison.

“The fact that such a high-level politician served jail time for illegal financing is a lesson that no one in this country is above the law,” said Laura Stefan, an anti-corruption expert at Expert Forum, a research group. “The point has been made.”

Romania, among the poorest countries in the European Union, has struggled to shed a culture of lawlessness and corruption, one legacy of decades of Communism under the brutal dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu.

Mr. Nastase wrote Monday on his jailhouse blog that he looked forward to returning home to family and friends. “For a few days, I’ll just use the time to ‘breathe’ the freedom outside,” he wrote.
459 2013-03-19 The online posts by Joseph Cassano only served to underscore the difficulty the department faces as it seeks to change its culture.

Using the Twitter handle @jcassano15, Mr. Cassano wrote, “Getting sick of picking up all these Obama lovers and taking them to the hospital because their medicare pays for an ambulance and not a cab,” The New York Post reported on Monday. Mr. Cassano’s account has been suspended.

He also reportedly wrote, “I like jews about as much as hitler #toofar? NOPE.” On Martin Luther King’s Birthday, he posted, “MLK could go kick rocks for all I care, but thanks for the time and a half today.”

At a news conference on Monday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that he “found the messages offensive.”

“It is my understanding that he has chosen to resign from the Fire Department and I think that’s the appropriate thing and I’ll leave it there,” the mayor added.

Mr. Cassano, who had earned a salary of nearly $32,000, released a statement on Monday apologizing for his actions.

“My intention was never to hurt anyone, or any group, and these tasteless comments do not reflect the person my parents raised me to be,” Mr. Cassano said.

John Coombs, president of the Vulcan Society, the fraternal order of black firefighters, which joined in the federal lawsuit that led to Judge Garaufis’s ruling, said that Mr. Cassano’s Twitter posts were indicative of a systemic problem and “proof” of the type of issues raised in the lawsuit.

“Our commissioner, if I recall, said not that long ago that he had never been exposed to nor witnessed racism or racist practices in the Fire Department in his 40 years,” Mr. Coombs said during an afternoon news conference. “Well, that lends to a question: I wonder where the younger Cassano got such thinking from? I wonder where he found the courage to tweet what he tweeted, who made comments about people who he was supposedly serving? It lends to the bigger issue. Not only is it embedded, it is accepted.”

Some of Mr. Cassano’s posts on Twitter took issue with the nature of his work. “Got kicked in the shin by a drunk and had to carry a 275 pound guy down 5 flights of stairs,” he wrote in early March. “my job is the worst.”

A more recent post, from March 11, has proved prophetic: “I can’t wait until I don’t have to wake up and dread going to work.”
460 2013-03-19 In much of the rest of the entertainment industry, the metabolism has sped up as digital technology and the opportunities of the Internet have led to new paths of content creation. Web-based television, YouTube, seed money from groups like Kickstarter — all have contributed to a more egalitarian process that favors a faster pace. Even Hollywood can occasionally move quickly when it needs to stay current with the world around it, as the producers of “Zero Dark Thirty” did after the killing of Osama bin Laden in 2011.

But this year the release schedules feature at least eight high-budget films that were conceived 5 to 14 years ago. At Warner Brothers, “Man of Steel,” a Superman makeover to be released on June 14, has been working its way through the system for at least seven years. That was time enough for five “Twilight” movies, and for Kristen Stewart’s relationship with Robert Pattinson to cycle in and out of the public eye. “Ender’s Game,” produced by OddLot Entertainment and others for release on Nov. 1, took root at Warner a decade ago. It is based on a science-fiction novel by Orson Scott Card that was first published in 1985.

On the whole, it may not much matter if such popcorn pictures, which are generally geared to a diverse world audience, become detached from the cultural moment in which they were conceived.

“I don’t think there’s tremendous risk that a genre film, whether it be zombie, vampire, alien or superhero, is doomed to failure just because of the long turnaround time,” said James Thompson, who teaches a course on American cultural industries for Duke University’s Duke in Los Angeles program.

“It can just start a new cycle,” he said.

“World War Z” might find the next swell.

“When you’re creating a film of this scale and you catch the wave,” said Brad Grey, Paramount’s chief executive, “the excitement surrounding it can spread exponentially.”

But for the biggest movies, staying current is no small trick. Graphic novels were all the rage in 1999, for instance, when the producer Lawrence Gordon bought rights to “R.I.P.D.,” an illustrated series about the “Rest in Peace Department” of dead law enforcement officers.

The film was almost made in 2004, with the director David Dobkin. But he instead went to work on “Fred Claus,” which opened in 2007. Eventually, Robert Schwentke signed on to direct, and “R.I.P.D.,” starring Jeff Bridges and Ryan Reynolds, will be released by Universal Pictures on July 19.

Other films begun five or more years ago include “The Croods,” at DreamWorks Animation; “Epic,” at 20th Century Fox; “The Lone Ranger,” at Walt Disney; “The Great Gatsby,” at Warner; and “47 Ronin,” at Universal.

Typically, animation is slow-footed because of the painstaking attention that goes into the design of characters and immensely complicated scenes. It can take years of research and development just to get a heroine’s curly hair right, as in “Brave,” which was four years in the works at Disney’s Pixar unit.

“The Croods,” about a prehistoric road trip, got under way around 2003 with an initial script by Kirk De Micco, and took more than nine years to make — about twice the average at DreamWorks — partly because Chris Sanders, who directed the film with Mr. De Micco, first slipped away to make “How to Train Your Dragon.”

The scheduling delay was compounded by years of work on the precise traits of a cave family and its world. “It takes a really long time to make something look effortless,” said Bill Damaschke, DreamWorks’s chief creative officer.

Among live-action films, the first movie in an intended series tends to move far more slowly than sequels. That is because executives and filmmakers often struggle for years with decisions that will permanently define the inhabitants, the look and the governing rules of a newly created universe — a world that may prove as lucrative as that of “Avatar,” which was 15 years in the making, or as barren as that of “John Carter,” a Disney box office disaster made in half that time.

“When you get it right, the upside can be enormous,” Mr. Grey said. “When you get it wrong, to state the obvious, the downside can be enormous.”

“World War Z” has undergone no shortage of scrutiny and revision at Paramount in the seven years since it took root.

First came a year of head-scratching over the peculiar structure of Mr. Brooks’s novel, which is set up as an “after action” report to the United Nations on the zombie wars. Then J. Michael Straczynski began to write what he now says were about 10 drafts of the first script.

All were built around a United Nations investigator who uncovered a conspiracy that intentionally evoked the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. But “nothing of any of my drafts remains, other than the names of the characters,” Mr. Straczynski said in a recent e-mail.

Instead, Mr. Straczynski said, he was dropped in favor of a new writer, Matthew Michael Carnahan, who came aboard when Marc Forster agreed to direct the film in 2009.

The action was punched up. Hurricane Katrina was tamped down. Mr. Pitt, who was already involved as a producer, signed on to star in 2011.

The film was shot for almost five months in Britain and Hungary, and principal photography was finished on Nov. 4, 2011. Postproduction work stretched into 2012. But then another writer, Damon Lindelof, went to work on new scenes.

“World War Z” went back into production for 20 days last fall, and a planned release last December was scrapped in favor of the new date in June. Its cost by then was reported to be about $170 million.

Elsewhere, the zombies kept piling up.

Before 2006, the phrase “zombie apocalypse” had appeared just twice in The New York Times, the first time in a 2003 article about the director Danny Boyle and his horror film “28 Days Later.” But last year it logged 20 appearances — in political columns, in television coverage and in an article about peanut butter-and-pickle sandwiches.

The zombie-filled “Resident Evil” film series from Sony’s Screen Gems unit stretched to five films by 2012.

At the annual Comic-Con International fan convention in San Diego, Mr. Brooks and his zombie books, conceived just after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, were a sensation. But they were eventually overshadowed by the rival inventions of the comic-book writer Robert Kirkman and his colleagues. Their Walking Dead comic, first published in 2003, made it to the small screen as an AMC series in 2010, and is now among the most popular shows on television, regularly outperforming network series in the ratings.

“Brooks was all the rage at Comic-Con until ‘The Walking Dead’ started its first season,” Mr. Thompson said. “Now, zombie fans have read his stuff, but Kirkman is the voice of the craze.”
461 2013-03-19 HONG KONG — China said Monday that the United States’ decision to strengthen antimissile defenses in response to threats from North Korea risked deepening regional tensions, underscoring Beijing’s caution on further pressuring the North despite its third nuclear test.

Earlier this month, China backed a United Nations Security Council resolution imposing banking, trade and travel sanctions on North Korea after it held the test on Feb. 12.

China’s warning was in response to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s announcement on Friday that the Pentagon would spend $1 billion to put in place more ballistic missile interceptors to counter the growing reach of North Korea’s weapons.

The 14 new interceptors will be in Alaska, where 26 of the existing 30 are already deployed, and American officials said the decision was meant to show its allies South Korea and Japan that the United States would muster the resources needed to deter the North.

But a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hong Lei, told reporters in Beijing that the decision risked adding to regional instability.
462 2013-03-19 Ericsson’s chief executive, Hans Vestberg, acknowledged Monday that the venture had been hobbled by the difficulties at Nokia and SonyEricsson. The venture had originally been set up to create components for so-called feature phones, handsets that were the forerunner to today’s smartphones. But with the advent of the iPhone and other smartphones, the market for feature phone components basically dried up, Mr. Vestberg said.

“The whole market changed and suddenly the demand for feature phones vanished,” Mr. Vestberg said.

Ericsson, based in Stockholm, said it would re-employ 1,800 of ST-Ericsson’s 4,350 employees, with most workers returning from operations in Sweden, Germany, India and China. STMicroelectronics, which is based in Geneva, said it would assume responsibility for 950 ST-Ericsson employees, most of whom are working in France and Italy.

The 50-50 venture had generated about $2.8 billion in losses for Ericsson alone. In the fourth quarter of last year, ST-Ericsson generated an operating loss of 8.5 billion Swedish kronor, or $1.3 billion, for Ericsson, almost all of which resulted from an 8 billion kronor write-down.

ST-Ericsson said the fate of 1,600 employees not being repatriated by the two parent companies — roughly 37 percent of the venture’s work force — would depend on the outcome of a global work force review. As part of that review, ST-Ericsson said it was looking for a buyer for its business that develops handset components for Wi-Fi and other short-range connection technologies. That business employs about 200 people.

“ST-Ericsson will carry out restructuring of its current operations, which could impact some 1,600 employees worldwide,” the company said in a statement.

The jobs under review include 500 to 700 in Europe, of which 400 to 600 are in Sweden and 50 to 80 are in Germany, the company said. The rest are spread around the world, including in North America and Asia.

Ericsson said it expected to complete the unwinding of ST-Ericsson by the third quarter.

The Swedish gear maker said it would claim the ST-Ericsson business that makes thin, low-power smartphone modems for fast, Long Term Evolution mobile networks from the venture. STMicroelectronics will reclaim the other remaining ST-Ericsson products, Ericsson said, as well as some assembly and test facilities, which it did not further identify.

Shares of Ericsson were down 1.9 percent, at 83.5 kronor ($13.06), in Stockholm trading, while shares of STMicroelectronics rose 5.2 percent, to 6.19 euros ($8.09), in Paris.
463 2013-03-19 “The I.E.E.E.-U.S.A. represents more American high-tech workers than anybody else, so we have sources,” Ms. Panetta said Monday afternoon. “One from inside the industry, looking at the offshoring companies that dominate the H-1B program, is that their global hiring is 70 percent men.” But in the United States, where outsourcing companies get more than half of the limited number of H-1B visas, she added, “the ratio is more like 85 percent men.”

Ms. Panetta, whose organization has filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the Department of Homeland Security to get data on the gender breakdown of H-1B visas, accused the government in her written testimony of “stonewalling” on their request.

“How many women get H-1B visas?” she said Monday.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security said that there is not a gender-based cap for H-1B visas and that gender is not taken into account when deciding who qualifies for the program, so the department does not have this data readily available.

Ai-jen Poo, the director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, emphasized the need for domestic care workers who are illegal immigrants — “a growing workforce of mainly immigrant women who take care of our children, our aging loved ones and our homes,” as she described them — to be allowed some flexibility in proving that they have been living and working in the United States.

A nanny who is an illegal immigrant, Ms. Poo said, most likely does not have pay stubs or tax forms to prove she worked for her employer because she largely exists in “a paperless world.” She called on the senators to accept “proofs of presence as opposed to proof of employment” when it comes to providing a work history for domestic care workers — many of whom are female.

Another issue of concern is that immigration legislation that is likely to emerge from the Senate might eliminate the ability for United States citizens to sponsor their married adult children, as well as their siblings, on an immigrant visa. Currently, these two groups represent the third and fourth preference categories when it comes to family immigration, but there is some discussion that they might be reshuffled and ultimately cut during the coming immigration overhaul.

“Our family is what permits us to be able to set root and really begin to build a life in this country,” said Mee Moua, the president of the Asian American Justice Center. “If those two categories were eliminated, unless some alternative version was put on the table, I think that it would just unfortunately affect women and their families.”

Ms. Moua argued that large, extended families can be critical to helping immigrants become a productive and integrated part of American society.

“Family immigration is critical to our economy, and we know that our communities and all Americans benefit when we’re able to provide immigrants with an opportunity to set roots,” she said. “We know that siblings provide immigrants an immediate social support system, that is able to help them with child care or if they fall on hard times, or instances where they need some help to start a business. The family network is what has helped our immigrants, regardless of how you come to this country, survive and start a life in this country.

“Children will always be our children, whether they’re over the age of 21 or not.” she said. “For us to start to think about which members of our family we’re going to trade away is a dramatic and drastic departure from the core values of what has been driving this country since our founding days.”

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, however, was not so convinced that all family members of immigrants deserved special consideration, simply because they have family in the United States.

“Because a person chooses to leave their home country and come to the United States does not necessarily mean they have the right to demand that their father or their other extended family members be allowed to come if they don’t otherwise meet the standard,” he said.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, on Monday also introduced legislation that, he said, would help overhaul the H-1B visa system.

“Somewhere along the line, the H-1B program got side-tracked,” Mr. Grassley said in an e-mail statement. “The program was never meant to replace qualified American workers, but it was instead intended as a means to fill gaps in highly specialized areas of employment. When times are tough, like they are now, it’s especially important that Americans get every consideration before an employer looks to hire from abroad. The legislation will benefit the American worker, while still ensuring that U.S. companies get the specialized workers they need.”

Only four members of the committee — Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota; Mr. Grassley; Ms. Hirono; and Mr. Sessions — attended Monday’s hearing. None of the committee members who are also part of the bipartisan group of eight senators working on comprehensive immigration legislation showed up.

Monday’s hearing also kicked off a weeklong series of events on Capitol Hill as part of the “We Belong Together” campaign, in which hundreds of women from 24 states will call for an immigration overhaul that specifically addresses the challenges that female immigrants face.
464 2013-03-19 But victims of hacking, the Labour opposition and the Liberal Democrats — the junior partners in the coalition — pointed to the failures of existing self-regulation and pressed for a “statutory underpinning” to enshrine the changes in law. That was in line with a central recommendation of a voluminous report published last November after months of exhaustive testimony into the behavior and culture of the British press at an inquiry by Lord Justice Sir Brian Leveson. His inquiry was called after the hacking scandal crested in July 2011.

There will be minor legislation to accompany the new system. One law will be amended to ensure that changes to the charter — and therefore to the system of press regulation — can be made only if there is agreement by two-thirds of both houses of Parliament. Another change will make news groups that opt out of the new regulatory system subject to higher fines for defamation. Britain’s existing legislation already includes some of the world’s most stringent defamation laws, along with rules governing what may be published on matters relating to national security and judicial procedures.

Mr. Cameron said the new system had averted direct legislation of the press. “I believe it would be wrong to run even the slightest risk of infringing free speech or of a free press in this way,” Mr. Cameron told lawmakers. “We don’t want a situation where politicians will be able to meddle with this system.”

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, concurred. “Today’s agreement protects the victims and upholds a free press,” he said. “First, in its appointment and the way it works, the regulator will be independent of the press; second, it is a regulator with teeth with the powers to direct apologies and corrections with equal prominence.”

The agreement eased strains between Mr. Cameron and the Liberal Democrats that had raised the likelihood that they might end up voting with the Labour opposition.

In the end, all three main parties agreed early Monday to the system, which Mr. Cameron said should empower a new, independent watchdog to impose fines of up to £1 million, or $1.5 million, and oblige newspapers to print prominent corrections for errors and take other measures to protect privacy. Many details remain unclear.

The drive for a new law was led by a privacy group called Hacked Off, supported by the actor Hugh Grant and the parents of children whose disappearance and loss became the object of tabloid frenzy. In particular, the case of Milly Dowler, a schoolgirl whose cellphone was hacked after she disappeared and was later found murdered, prompted Rupert Murdoch to close The News of the World, his flagship Sunday tabloid, in July 2011.

Since then, the scandal has led to civil suits, criminal investigations, a parliamentary inquiry and the Leveson hearings — scrutiny that coursed through British public life, exposing previously hidden relationships between the press, the police and politicians. The affair has cost Mr. Murdoch’s newspapers hundreds of millions of dollars.

Brian Cathcart, a professor of journalism and one of the founders of the Hacked Off campaign, said on Monday that the use of a royal charter was a “second best” option, but he welcomed the deal and added that “there is a statutory underpinning without doubt.”

The new system “will protect the freedom of the press and at the same time will protect the public from the kinds of abuses that made the Leveson inquiry necessary,” Mr. Cathcart said.

He said at a news conference that the agreement had been struck by politicians “despite the scaremongering of powerful newspaper groups which had their say at the inquiry and didn’t like the outcome.”

Hugh Tomlinson, a lawyer for victims of phone hacking, told Britain’s High Court on Monday that British investigators had uncovered a new conspiracy potentially affecting hundreds more victims. He did not go into detail. More than 100 reporters, editors, investigators, executives and public officials have been implicated in wrongdoing by police units investigating accusations of criminal activity, including phone intercepts and bribery.

Many newspapers had railed against the notion of tighter controls. Mr. Murdoch’s tabloid The Sun published a photograph of Winston Churchill on its front page on Monday, quoting him as defending a free press as “the most dangerous foe of tyranny.”

In the right-leaning Daily Telegraph, Boris Johnson, London’s Conservative mayor, himself a columnist and former magazine editor, wrote: “Like any strong detergent, the work of the British media may cause a certain smarting of the eyes. But if you want to keep clean the gutters of public life, you need a gutter press.”

The media, he wrote, have for centuries “been lifting up the big, flat rocks to let the daylight in on the creepy-crawlies; and in all that time we have never come close to the state licensing of newspapers.”
465 2013-03-20 Health concerns continued to pile up for the Mets, as they announced that right-hander Shaun Marcum had flown to New York on Tuesday to receive a cortisone shot for a shoulder impingement....
466 2013-03-20 The Mets’ David Wright was prescribed five days of rest and treatment Friday because of a strained intercostal muscle in his left rib cage. He still cannot do much more than rest....
467 2013-03-20 The group says the president’s choice to be the energy secretary, Ernest J. Moniz, had close ties to the natural gas industry that he did not disclose before he authored a report on the subject....
468 2013-03-20 Legislation to finance this fiscal year’s federal spending also softens the sting of budget cuts for some programs....
469 2013-03-20 Intertrust, which received a huge patent infringement settlement from Microsoft nearly a decade ago, has turned its focus to Apple with a lawsuit filed on Wednesday....
470 2013-03-20 The Cyprus crisis shows that, for all the faults with the financial crisis rescues in the United States, the European Union still finds ways to show us how poorly a bailout could be handled....
471 2013-03-20 Sandy Yu’s fingers were fused together when she was a child. Still, she operates a portable watch-repair shop....
472 2013-03-20 Lawmakers love to talk about cutting spending. They just don’t like to do it....
473 2013-03-20 Derek Jeter received a cortisone shot after complaining of ankle stiffness, and General Manager Brian Cashman acknowledged that he could begin the season on the disabled list....
474 2013-03-20 Unlike other plaintiffs, Freddie Mac looks to have a strong case because it dealt directly with many of the banks accused of manipulating the London interbank offered rate....
475 2013-03-20 The Times’s Isabel Kershner on what Israelis expect from a visit by President Obama.
476 2013-03-20 The S.E.C. and the Justice Department are said to be investigating Microsoft’s involvement with companies accused of paying bribes overseas, Nick Wingfield reports in Wednesday’s New York Times....
477 2013-03-20 Would you pay $2.2 million for this business?...
478 2013-03-20 Emissions of CO2 into the

One of the main reasons has

been the replacement of
479 2013-03-20 PARIS — Just hours after an announcement that he would be investigated on charges of tax fraud and money laundering, Budget Minister Jérôme Cahuzac resigned from the French government on Tuesday evening, though he insisted he had done nothing wrong.

In control of a crucial portfolio at a time of heightened budgetary discipline and rising taxes in France, as well as the European debt crisis and stagnant growth, Mr. Cahuzac was a highly visible public figure.

But reports that he had once held an undeclared Swiss bank account were widely considered damaging to President François Hollande, whose approval ratings are low and who won election last year in part on a pledge to be ethically blameless.

Mr. Cahuzac has angrily denied ever holding such an account, an accusation first made in December by Mediapart, an investigative Web site. Based largely on an audio recording said to be of Mr. Cahuzac in 2000, those reports suggested that he held an account with the Swiss bank UBS until 2010.

Mr. Cahuzac will be replaced as budget minister by Bernard Cazeneuve, the minister of European Affairs, Mr. Hollande said.

Mr. Cahuzac, who was trained as a plastic surgeon, announced that he would sue Mediapart for defamation, but a preliminary judicial inquiry was opened into the case in January. The Paris prosecutor’s office said Tuesday that the inquiry had established with moderate certainty — based on witness testimony and voice analysis — that the recording was indeed of Mr. Cahuzac, and that a formal investigation would be opened.
480 2013-03-20 “I think we have different perspectives,” Bishop Hubbard said after emerging from a 45-minute discussion in the governor’s office. “He’s looking at it from the perspective of the man who has to look at the law of the land, and we’re looking at it from a moral perspective. And whether these two can come together remains to be seen.”

The governor’s proposal, which he has said would be called the Reproductive Health Act, has not been introduced yet. But even without the details, it is clear that the governor’s continued advocacy for abortion rights has put him squarely at odds with the church that he belongs to, as has his ardent support for same-sex marriage, which he signed into law in 2011.

That tense relationship sometimes extends beyond social issues: the Catholic bishops, for instance, recently criticized the new gun control law, championed by the governor, for including funds for school safety only at the state’s public schools, and not at its 550 Catholic schools. The bishops hope that Catholic schools will be included in the next state budget, which is still being negotiated. Bishop Nicholas A. DiMarzio of Brooklyn said the bishops supported the gun law more broadly, however, especially for its ban on the sale of assault-style weapons that, he said, “don’t belong in anyone’s hands except the Army.”

Mr. Cuomo, the father of three daughters, has made women’s issues a priority in 2013, announcing in his State of the State address in January that “it is not a man’s world in New York — not anymore.” As for the meeting Tuesday, Matthew Wing, a spokesman for the governor, said Mr. Cuomo “always enjoys meeting with the bishops,” though their agendas differ. “They agree on some issues, ” he said. “And disagree on others.”

Mr. Cuomo made news in religious circles last week as well, when he praised Pope Francis, whom he called “inspirational in many ways,” even as his father, Mario, and sister Madeline offered criticisms of the new pontiff.

The bishops said that they agreed with most of the governor’s 10-point Women’s Equality Act, just not with the implications of its final bullet point: “Protect a woman’s freedom of choice.” Bishop William Murphy, of Rockville Centre, said the bishops’ position on abortion is one that they will maintain “in this session or any other session.”
481 2013-03-20 “It’s difficult to see how Germany comes out of this one strengthened,” said Jacques Cailloux, chief European economist at Nomura, the global investment bank, in London. “There is a point at which the conditionality they impose is so stretched that the other countries are not going to sign up for it anymore.”

Even after the Cypriot president, Nicos Anastasiades, revised the terms on Tuesday morning to exempt depositors with less than $26,000 in their accounts, Parliament rejected the bailout deal on Tuesday night, as Cypriot protesters demonstrated in the streets with anti-German banners. But German officials have not backed down, saying essentially that Cyprus has no choice but to come up with billions to cover its side of the deal.

“As long as there is no program, the liquidity assistance for the Cypriot banks is endangered,” said a German government official, speaking on condition of anonymity on Tuesday because the negotiations had not been completed. “That’s difficult,” the official added, “but that’s the situation.”

Many in Germany still advocate the hard line on bailouts that the government has taken, with the support of allies like the Netherlands, Finland and Slovakia. “We can’t go on the way we have been,” said Tilman Mayer, a professor of political science at the University of Bonn. “We have to set an example or this could know no bounds.”

The cynical reading is that Ms. Merkel has stayed tough out of concern for her re-election chances in September’s parliamentary elections. “The rescue package for Cyprus is written in the handwriting of German domestic politics,” said Thomas Poguntke, professor of comparative politics at the Heinrich Heine University in Düsseldorf. “But taking the savings breaks a taboo.”

Along with the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, the Germans are sticking to the principle that countries that mismanage their banks and government finances must endure pain as the price of financial help — even if ordinary citizens are the ones who suffer.

Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund and one of the officials who worked out the Cyprus plan in Brussels last week, said Tuesday in Frankfurt that she was in favor of changing the plan to burden ordinary depositors less. But she quickly added that Cyprus would still need to contribute $7.5 billion to the bank rescue, as promised.

“Now is the time for the authorities to deliver on what they have committed,” Ms. Lagarde said.

Oxford Economics, a consulting firm based in England, calculated that the uncertainty created by Cyprus could create a credit crunch that could cost the euro zone about 3 percent of gross domestic product, or about $386 billion. It could get worse if the economic dislocation inflamed political unrest in Greece and Italy.

But even if the math seems to speak for granting Cyprus more slack, German leaders will resist abandoning their position in an election year. The European Central Bank is also in a tough spot. Mario Draghi, the bank’s president, took the heat out of the euro zone crisis last year with his promise to buy bonds of troubled euro zone countries as needed to control their borrowing costs.

That guarantee is predicated on the troubled countries’ agreeing to economic restructuring and other conditions. Cyprus shows how hard it could be to enforce such demands, and that could undermine the credibility of the European Central Bank’s promise. Mr. Draghi spoke Tuesday at a conference in Frankfurt, but did not mention Cyprus.

Mr. Draghi has generally been pragmatic rather than doctrinaire in handling the crisis, and has sometimes displeased the Germans. But in this case his bank played a role in pressuring Cypriot leaders to accept a deal. Jörg Asmussen, a German member of the bank’s executive board who took part in the talks in Brussels, told the Cypriots that the country’s banks would no longer be eligible for emergency cash if they did not make a deal.

Under European Central Bank rules, so-called emergency liquidity assistance is available only to solvent banks. In the absence of a rescue plan, the Cyprus banks would be insolvent. However, the central bank indicated Tuesday that it would grant Cyprus a grace period and not immediately cut off the emergency cash.

The Cyprus debacle could weaken Germany in debates about how to remodel the currency union so it is less prone to crisis. For example, German leaders like the conservative president of the Bundesbank, Jens Weidmann, have argued that Europe should go slowly in ceding responsibility for bank supervision to the European Central Bank.

On Tuesday, proponents of a centralized bank regulator were already citing Cyprus as a reason to move faster. Representatives from European Union governments and from the European Parliament reached a preliminary deal granting the European Central Bank the power to supervise banks. Government ministers and the full Parliament still need to vote on the measure before it becomes law.

Martin Schulz, the president of the European Parliament, said that more joint banking oversight was needed, including measures that some Germans have resisted, like creating a common pot of money as a way to help shut down failing banks. Countries like Germany and Finland are wary of pooling resources with countries like Spain and Cyprus, with weaker economies and more vulnerable banking systems.

Despite growing signs that the Cyprus deal has reawakened the euro crisis, Germany and the E.C.B. may remain unbending out of fear that compromise would weaken them in future negotiations.

“The whole world has told them in the last 24 hours this is a mistake,” said Mr. Cailloux, the Nomura economist. “They responded by convening an emergency meeting and the conclusion was that they haven’t budged.”

“It’s such an important test case they are going to be slow to let go,” he said.
482 2013-03-20 The writer, assistant provost at the University of California, Riverside, has published several articles about mismatch.

We as a society have decided that college degrees from certain institutions are more valuable than others, and that the holders are best equipped to run the nation’s economic, political and social life. Unless we decide that all college degrees confer the same access to power and influence, affirmative action is necessary.

As for affirmative action conferring a stigma on minority students: The stigma would not exist if we held all students to the same academic requirements from primary school on, and if we financed the public schools equally, engaged all parents consistently and stopped assuming that racial heritage has a correlation with intellectual capacity.

It is disingenuous and offensive to call for an end to affirmative action when we underfinance schools, fail to engage parents, establish two-track academic standards and traffic in racial stereotypes under the guise of education system analysis.

Racism is America’s original sin. Until we put as many young blacks in colleges as we do in jail, we should be expanding affirmative action.

Even if affirmative action has flaws, the criteria for abolishing it should be that we first find a better solution to the problem of persistent racism, and implement it to the fullest extent possible. Only then, when we know that solution is working, do we consider abolishing affirmative action.

Mismatch theory begins with a set of assumptions based largely on test scores. Researchers have shown that test scores have more to do with the size of one’s parents’ checking account than intellectual capabilities.

Researchers also know that the institutional climate makes a considerable difference in students’ ability to achieve — for example, a welcoming environment, the willingness of students to work collaboratively across racial and ethnic lines, transparent grading rubrics and the expectation that faculty members view every student as worthy.

So it is not surprising that historically black colleges have had great success with black students in producing physicians, lawyers and scientists of international fame, more so than historically elite and majority white schools.

The writer is an associate professor of American studies and African and African-American studies at the University of Kansas.
483 2013-03-20 Mr. Marder did not believe any of it; his legwork turned up evidence that McCarthy had inflated minor security cases that the Army had investigated and that no espionage was involved in any of them. Attending a news conference after his articles appeared, Mr. Marder relentlessly questioned the secretary of the Army, Robert Stevens, forcing him to admit that McCarthy’s spying allegations were bogus and that the Army had known it.

“There was nothing flashy about a Marder story, no one ever accused him of deft or imaginative prose, but he was above all else careful and fair,” David Halberstam wrote in his 1979 book about the news media, “The Powers That Be.” He added:

“Doggedly, he worked out a means of covering McCarthy. Hold him to the record. Not just what he said yesterday, but the day before and the week before. Explain not just this charge, but what happened to the previous charges. Give the people on the other side, the accused or the semi-accused, a chance to answer. Always explain the meaning of the charges. Try above all not to be a megaphone for McCarthy. Expose him to maximum scrutiny.”

The Fort Monmouth episode set the stage for the Army-McCarthy hearings of 1954, called to investigate a set of charges leveled by McCarthy against the Army and vice versa. The hearings were televised, McCarthy came across as a loudmouthed dissembler and bully, and his popularity plummeted. In December 1954 the Senate censured him.

Murrey Marder was born on Aug. 8, 1919, in Philadelphia, where his father ran a grocery. After graduating from high school he took a job as a copy boy at The Evening Public Ledger, and he became a reporter at 21. During World War II he served in the Marines as a combat correspondent and worked on the corps’ news desk in Washington.

He joined The Post in 1946. In 1957 he opened the paper’s first foreign bureau, in London, and became the chief diplomatic correspondent. In 1964 he wrote about the Gulf of Tonkin incident, which precipitated the escalation of American involvement in Vietnam, and in 1971 he wrote articles based on the Pentagon Papers.

He retired from The Post in 1985. He died of a hemorrhagic stroke in Washington, leaving no survivors from his immediate family, his nephew Steve Marder said.

After his wife, the former Frances Sokoloski, died in 1996, Mr. Marder used his retirement savings — $1.3 million in Washington Post stock — to help start the Nieman Foundation’s Watchdog Project, which is devoted to examining and supporting public-interest journalism.

Bill Kovach, a former Nieman curator who was a Washington bureau chief for The New York Times and editor of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, said Mr. Marder had been an unsung hero of journalism.

“The pop historians have filled pages of praise for Edward R. Murrow and Fred Friendly, his fellow creator of ‘See It Now,’ as the ones who exposed Wisconsin senator Joseph McCarthy as the malicious liar that he was,” Mr. Kovach wrote after Mr. Marder’s death. “But the pop historians were and are wrong — dead wrong. Murrey Marder was the pathfinder.”
484 2013-03-20 Deaths and the risk of dying from Alzheimer’s disease have risen significantly in the United States in the last decade, according to two reports released on Tuesday. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that the risk of death from the degenerative brain disease rose 39 percent from 2000 to 2010, even as mortality rates for other conditions like cancer, heart disease and stroke fell significantly. Separate findings from the Alzheimer’s Association based on C.D.C. data but looking at actual deaths found that mortality was up 68 percent over the same decade.
485 2013-03-20 The Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Tuesday announced that it would release documents related to the case against Aaron Swartz, the Internet activist who committed suicide in January, about a month before he was to go to trial on charges that he illegally downloaded academic articles from the university’s computer network. In a letter to the M.I.T. community, the university president, L. Rafael Reif, said lawyers for Mr. Swartz had requested in federal court that the institution make evidence related to the case public. Mr. Reif said M.I.T. planned to release those documents, with some information redacted, when it completed an investigation led by a computer science professor, Hal Abelson, into the university’s role in the case. Professor Abelson said in late January that he hoped to complete the investigation within a few weeks.
486 2013-03-20 What stands out most in this shift, however, is not environmental regulation or public concern about global warming but the price of energy and market-driven technological advancements. “It wasn’t so much a policy shift that brought carbon emissions down,” said James Hamilton, an energy economist at the University of California, San Diego. “It was irresistible market forces.”

The United States consumes 9 percent less energy for each $1 of G.D.P. than it did five years ago. Total energy use has fallen about 5 percent in the last five years.

To be sure, regulations have contributed to the process; tighter fuel economy standards are expected to lead automakers to double the fuel efficiency of new cars and light trucks by 2025. Tax breaks are encouraging companies to invest in renewable energy sources and retrofit buildings to increase energy efficiency.

But the main reasons are economic. The great recession and the world’s sluggish recovery have depressed energy use. As in the 1970s, high oil prices have encouraged drivers to drive less, and switch to cars and trucks with better fuel economy.

There is a new force as well: high prices underpinned the widely trumpeted investment in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of shale rock rich in oil and natural gas, which pushed the price of gas to some $2 per thousand cubic feet last April, down from $9 four years ago. Cheap gas, in turn, has encouraged power companies to switch to the cleaner fuel, replacing the most heavily polluting source of energy that we know, coal.

Since 2007 the share of the nation’s electricity produced by gas-powered generators has jumped to 30 percent from 21 percent; CO2 emissions from electricity generation have tumbled more than 15 percent. This new fuel brings potential problems of its own. Environmental groups have sounded the alarm about chemicals and methane leaking from wells, potentially contaminating local water supplies and releasing additional carbon into the air.

But fracking also appears, against all odds, to have brought Mr. Obama’s early, hopeful promise to cut CO2 emissions by 17 percent between 2005 and 2020 within reach.

Will our carbon footprint continue to shrink? The Energy Department forecasts that CO2 emissions will tick up nearly 2 percent this year and 0.7 percent in 2014, as the economy recovers. Coal use in power plants is also expected to rebound as gas prices rise from their 2012 trough.

Historical precedent is not promising. The drive for energy efficiency that started in the 1970s did not continue once oil prices fell in the 1980s; among other things, American drivers fell in love with S.U.V.’s and trucks. In 1981, the Ford F-series pickup truck became the nation’s best-selling light vehicle. In 1986, Ronald Reagan had the White House solar panels taken down.

Nonetheless, there are some encouraging signs that this time may be different. The shift from coal to gas-fired power plants should be sped up by new rules requiring old coal generators to install expensive environmental equipment. Oil prices are supported by fast rising demand from the developing world and are unlikely to plunge despite new sources found in Canadian tar sands and American shale.

The United States’ experience with new fuels also offers some options for countries intent on pursuing economic growth while restraining carbon emissions.

China is rushing to develop its large fields of shale gas. Europe — where natural gas, most of it imported from Russia, is expensive and power plants rely heavily on coal — may follow suit. Several European governments have banned fracking or imposed sharp restrictions on it, but some — like Britain — are moving ahead.

Still, the United States’ serendipitous success in reducing greenhouse gas emissions suggests how much more needs to be done than switching from a particularly dirty source of carbon to a cleaner one.

Even if every American coal-fired power plant were to close, that would not make up for the coal-based generators being built in developing countries like India and China. “Since 2000, the growth in coal has been 10 times that of renewables,” said Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

Fatih Birol, chief economist of the International Energy Agency in Paris, points out that if civilization is to avoid catastrophic climate change, only about one third of the 3,000 gigatons of CO2 contained in the world’s known reserves of oil, gas and coal can be released into the atmosphere.

But the world economy does not work as if this were the case — not governments, nor businesses, nor consumers.

“In all my experience as an oil company manager, not a single oil company took into the picture the problem of CO2,” said Leonardo Maugeri, an energy expert at Harvard who until 2010 was head of strategy and development for Italy’s state-owned oil company, Eni. “They are all totally devoted to replacing the reserves they consume every year.”

Perhaps the most important lesson from the American natural gas boom is how prices drive both demand and supply. Putting a price on emissions of CO2 that reflects the burden they impose on the environment and the threat excessive amounts pose to future generations would almost certainly be the most effective strategy to persuade energy companies, power generators — and you and me — to spew less of it.
487 2013-03-20 In the more than four months since Hurricane Sandy struck, the reopening of the Fairway market has brought people back and even helped other businesses....
488 2013-03-20 The foundation has supported the Guggenheim before. It was the lead sponsor of the museum’s 2008 exhibition “Cai Guo-Qiang: I Want to Believe.” A year later it supported another show, “The Third Mind: American Artists Contemplate Asia, 1860-1989.”

“One of my father’s objectives is to support Chinese arts and culture, whether it be contemporary or traditional,” said Mr. Ho, whose father established the foundation bearing his name. “We don’t want to just help the Guggenheim buy art, but to also have the world benefit from a greater understanding of Chinese culture.”

As part of the initiative, the Guggenheim will commission works from at least three artists or groups of artists that will enter the Guggenheim’s permanent collection. These commissions will be shown at the Guggenheim Museum in New York in three exhibitions from 2014 through 2017.

Thomas J. Berghuis, a lecturer from the University of Sydney and the deputy director of the Australian Center for Asian Art and Archaeology, has been chosen to be the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation curator of Chinese art. He will start at the Guggenheim in the next few months, working with other curators there to identify artists, oversee commissions and develop exhibitions and related education programs.

This latest project follows the Guggenheim UBS Map Global Art Initiative, a $40 million program that was announced last year, in which the museum invites curators from South and Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa to New York for overlapping two-year residencies. They will work with the Guggenheim curators to spot new and recent artworks for the institution to acquire and show at the museum in New York and at other institutions.

Going one step further in its mission to move away from what Mr. Armstrong has called “our Western-centric view of art history,” the Guggenheim, in its program with the Ho Foundation, will present material at many of the Guggenheim museums worldwide and possibly at other institutions. It currently runs the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice and the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in Spain, and it has broken ground for a museum in Abu Dhabi, which, according to officials in the United Arab Emirates, is slated for completion in 2017.
489 2013-03-20 The Wall Street Journal first reported news of the investigations on its Web site on Tuesday.

Michael Passman, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said the department had a policy of not confirming or denying the existence of investigations. A spokesman for the S.E.C. declined to comment.

Microsoft joins a list of about 100 other companies under investigation at present related to violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according to Mike Koehler, a professor at the Southern Illinois University School of Law and the author of a blog, FCPA Professor, about the anticorruption law. Because companies have such a strong incentive to settle cases of this sort, they rarely end up going to trial.

Fines in these corruption cases can run into the tens of millions of dollars. In 2008, Siemens, the German engineering conglomerate, signed an $800 million settlement with the Justice Department and the S.E.C. to end an investigation into accusations related to the law.

The claims in China were first shared with United States officials last year by an unnamed whistle-blower who had worked with Microsoft in the country, according to the person briefed on the inquiry. The whistle-blower said that a Microsoft official in China directed the whistle-blower to pay bribes to government officials to win business deals. After this episode, the whistle-blower had a business conflict with Microsoft, the person added.

In 2010, Microsoft conducted an internal investigation of the China accusations, with the help of an outside law firm, that found no evidence of improper behavior, according to the person briefed on the inquiry.

Such an investigation can help a company when it faces scrutiny from government agencies, provided that the internal inquiries were conducted with integrity.

“It depends on how thoroughly Microsoft did their internal investigation and how good their compliance program is and how many other issues there might be,” said Eric Sussman, a former Justice Department prosecutor who is now a lawyer with Kaye Scholer, a firm that is not involved in the Microsoft case. “The problem for any large company dealing in a high-risk environment like China or Romania is there is a high risk of being solicited for bribes.”

The Obama administration has placed a renewed focus on corporate bribery overseas, taking an increasingly aggressive approach as problems mounted.

Since 2011, the Justice Department has taken aim at big names in technology and retailing, including Tyco International, Tyson Foods, Comverse Technology and Deutsche Telekom.

The authorities are also investigating Wal-Mart, which was the subject of a New York Times investigation last year that showed how bribery played a persistent and significant role in the retailer’s rapid growth in Mexico.

In addition to the publicly announced cases, the Justice Department is believed to be pursuing a deep pipeline of other potential investigations related to the anticorruption law. The Justice Department and the S.E.C. last year also wrote a guide to enforcing the cases, and the S.E.C. has even built a unit dedicated to such cases.

While many investigations fizzle out after months of review, the Justice Department has signaled a more forceful approach to the cases.

“We are in a new era of F.C.P.A. enforcement,” Lanny A. Breuer, who until recently was the assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s criminal division, said in 2010. He added, “We are here to stay.”
490 2013-03-20 You know Greek yogurt is having its moment when an artisan in Brooklyn is making it from an old family recipe, downtown mixologists are using it in a cocktail and chefs are pairing it with fried brussels sprouts and green cauliflower.

In 1988, when the Likitsakos family opened their busy Greek market on the Upper East Side, they sold their own house-made yogurt. “We strained it overnight, like in Greece,” said Vicki Likitsakos, one of the owners. “People went crazy for it. It had a cult following.” Though they did not call it “Greek yogurt,” it was, undeniably, traditionally Greek.

They still sell it, with honey or laced with garlic, as the classic Greek dip, tzatziki.

Then came the national brands like Chobani and Fage, made in upstate New York. Specialty stores stocked designer brands like Brown Cow and Straus Family Creamery, and small local dairies started selling their Greek yogurts in farmers’ markets, sometimes made from goat or sheep milk.

Last fall, Trader Joe’s organic house brand came in a seasonal pumpkin flavor, like instant guilt-free pie filling. And Norman’s, a new kosher brand from New Jersey designed for the ultra-Orthodox, has six flavors, four of which are also kosher for Passover.

Thickness is the defining factor of Greek yogurt, which is strained to remove excess whey, giving it a higher protein content (and price) than regular yogurt. Some companies shortcut the process by adding powdered milk protein, starches and gums. Look for plain yogurt with a label that lists only milk and active cultures as ingredients.

Several marketing analysts, including Todd Hale, the senior vice president for consumer and shopper insights at Nielsen, a global research company, say Greek yogurt represents more than $2 billion of the $6 billion yogurt market, with sales of the Greek style having increased 53 percent for the year ending in early February.
491 2013-03-20 Another rebel commander, Abdul Jabbar al-Okaidi, head of the rebel military council in Aleppo, said in a telephone interview that he had witnessed the attack, describing it as an errant strike on a government-controlled neighborhood by Syrian warplanes flying at high altitude. He said the explosions from the attack emitted what he described as a gas that appeared to cause suffocation, and that some victims had been treated in a rebel field hospital.

The commander ridiculed government assertions that the rebels had chemical weapons. “We don’t even have ammunition for our Kalashnikovs,” he said.

Each side in Syria’s conflict has an incentive to accuse the other of using chemical weapons. President Obama has said that a chemical attack by President Bashar al-Assad’s government would cross a “red line” that could prompt military intervention by the United States.

The Syrian government seeks to portray its opponents as extremists who are a threat to regional stability. Israel has said it would intervene to prevent chemical weapons from falling into the hands of either the rebels or Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group allied with the Syrian government. Use or seizure of chemical weapons by rebel forces would embarrass the United States, particularly now, as President Obama has declared he will not oppose allied efforts to provide them with military aid.

Rebel factions have accused the government of using chemical weapons many times, with no confirmed cases. The term “chemical weapons” has sometimes appeared to be used loosely to include not just deadly nerve agents like sarin gas but also tear gas and other nonlethal irritants used for crowd control.

The Foreign Ministry of Russia, Mr. Assad’s most powerful international backer, indicated that it was taking the government’s claim seriously, calling the supposed use of chemical weapons by the opposition an “extremely dangerous development” and a new reason to refocus energy on finding a political solution to the conflict.

A Syrian official told state television that the Aleppo attack would be reported to human rights organizations and to countries that support the rebels.

A Reuters photographer was quoted in a report by the news agency as saying that he had visited victims in Aleppo hospitals and that they had breathing problems.

“I saw mostly women and children,” said the photographer, who Reuters said it could not identify out of concern for his safety. “They said that people were suffocating in the streets and the air smelled strongly of chlorine.”

Rebels have long tried, without success, to overrun a weapons plant near Safira, in Aleppo Province, where chemical weapons are believed to be stored. The Syrian government said in December that rebels had plundered supplies of chlorine gas, but the government’s stores are believed by American officials to consist of other types of chemical weapons.

An Obama administration official said the White House had “no information suggesting opposition groups have chemical weapons capability.”

Some American officials worried aloud about whether the Syrian government was accusing rebels of using the weapons to prepare cover for its own future use of them. Anti-government activists suggested that the government might have concocted the chemical attack story to cover up an episode in which it accidentally fired a Scud missile on a government-held area.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an anti-Assad group based in Britain that has a network of contacts in Syria, said that 16 government soldiers and 10 civilians had been killed after a rocket landed on Khan al-Assal. Activists said that the government had tried to hit the police academy there, which had recently been taken by rebel forces, with a Scud missile, but that it accidentally fell on a government-controlled area instead.

In Washington, the White House cast doubt on claims that the opposition had used chemical weapons and said it was evaluating the possibility that the government had used them.

“We’re looking carefully at allegations of C. W. use, chemical weapons use,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary. He said the administration was “deeply skeptical” of the assertions by President Assad’s government that the opposition had mounted a chemical attack.

At the State Department, a spokeswoman also dismissed the Syrian government’s claim as an effort to distract from its use of long-range Scud missiles against civilians. The spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said the United States was looking into rebel claims that the government had used chemical weapons and tried to blame its opponents.

Another American official said that officials do not believe a chemical attack took place, but that they are “nervous” about what the Syrian government may be thinking. The officials spoke anonymously because of the delicacy of talking about chemical weapons intelligence.

At the United Nations, diplomats reacted to the unverified reports with caution, although they did not totally discount the possibility. Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the British ambassador, told reporters that “clearly if chemical weapons were used then that would be abhorrent and it would require a serious response from the international community.”
492 2013-03-20 BANGKOK — The American ambassador to Laos said on Tuesday that the Laotian authorities had blocked a United States investigation into the disappearance of two citizens and a resident of the United States.

The three men, all of Laotian origin, were last seen in the southern province of Savannakhet in January.

Karen B. Stewart, the ambassador to Laos, said in a telephone interview that officials in Savannakhet had refused to give access to a team of American investigators sent this month to gather details in the case.

“The police were there, and they said we could not go any further,” she said.

Ms. Stewart described the lack of cooperation by the Laotian authorities as “very frustrating.”

“We have been and continue to press the Lao government vigorously,” she said.

The disappearance of the three men, who were reportedly in the country to attend a funeral, followed the disappearance in December of an American-trained agriculture specialist, Sombath Somphone, in the capital, Vientiane.
493 2013-03-20 Boeing said on Tuesday that it had signed an order for 175 single-aisle 737s, its biggest deal so far this year, from the European low-cost carrier Ryanair.

The agreement is valued at $15.6 billion at current list prices, although Ryanair, like most large customers, received a significant discount. The final sale price remained confidential, but analysts estimated that Ryanair probably paid around 50 percent of the $89.1 million listed price per jet.

The big order offers some better news for Boeing, which has been struggling with battery problems that have grounded its innovative 787 jets since mid-January. Boeing has been testing a new steel enclosure for the batteries and is planning a test flight this week to certify the system with federal authorities.

The deal with Ryanair provides Boeing with a smooth transition in the production and sale of its 737s before it builds a new version of its single-aisle plane with a more fuel-efficient engine. That plane, known as the 737 Max, is scheduled to come into service in 2017.

“This is a huge deal for the Boeing Company,” Raymond L. Conner, the president and chief executive of Boeing’s commercial airplane division, said at a news conference in New York. “We’ve been talking about this for quite some time.”

In recent weeks, Airbus has secured big orders for its A320, a rival to the 737, selling 400 planes to Lufthansa, Turkish Airlines and the Indonesian carrier Lion Mentari Airlines. That last order, for 234 planes, announced on Monday, has a list-price value of $24 billion — the largest single order of Airbus jets, both by value and number of planes.
494 2013-03-20 “The combination of the various appropriations bills, funding transfers and reprogramming authority takes the doom and gloom out of sequestration,” said Chris Krueger, a senior policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities’ Washington Research Group. “You’ve still got $85 billion coming out. You’re still going to get the hit to the economy.”

That means lower employment levels and slower growth this year, public and private forecasters have said. Rather than rearranging the cuts across the budget, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has recommended holding them back until the still-sluggish recovery takes stronger hold. “Besides having adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower recovery would lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short run,” Mr. Bernanke said last month.

Republican senators, some of whom have cheered on the “sequestration” cuts, spent Tuesday jostling for last-minute votes on their priorities. The new package of cuts cleared its biggest procedural hurdle Monday night, with a 63-to-35 vote to end debate, but failed to win approval Tuesday.

It still appears likely to pass the Senate this week, given Monday’s vote, and to clear the House shortly after its final Senate vote. The legislation would replace the current stopgap spending law with a more detailed plan.

On Tuesday, Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, shut down repeated efforts to get a final vote because he wanted the Federal Aviation Administration to protect control towers at rural airports. Senators Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, and Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, pressed for a vote to ensure meat inspectors would not be furloughed.

Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, pleaded to kill what she called a missile to nowhere — a European-based missile defense system that both the Senate and House armed services committees have repeatedly tried to zero out — and to shift the money to military operations and maintenance.

“There’s not going to be another funding bill for the government until the end of this federal fiscal year,” she said. “This is our only opportunity.”

The primary goal of the bill is to allow lawmakers to make distinctions among programs.

The bill “includes some very limited changes to fix pressing problems,” said Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. But, she said, there was only so much she and her Republican counterpart, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, could do under the constraints of assembling a measure that could pass the House.

If, for instance, Congress maintained current levels of spending through September, $500 million would have gone to a space shuttle program that no longer exists, Ms. Mikulski said. The Pentagon would get too much money for wars winding down and not enough for retraining and rebuilding a force depleted by more than a decade of fighting.

With the changes, the Agriculture Department’s nutrition program for woman, infants and children would receive an additional $250 million under the Senate bill, enough to serve 300,000 more people. That sum would help offset a $333 million sequester cut that the program must absorb over the next six months.

The remaining cuts could still hurt, but officials involved in the program are holding off final decisions until Congress acts.

Under sequestration, programs would first try to reduce the cost of the basket of goods provided to participants, by finding lower prices on goods like baby food and peanut butter, said Douglas A. Greenaway, the president of the National WIC Association — an umbrella group for state programs.

But he added that the program was already lean and would most likely have to make more significant cuts, too. Pregnant women and newborns would be the first priority; postpartum women and 3- and 4-year-olds would be the lowest priority, he said.

The State Department’s embassy security, construction and maintenance account had been girding for a $79 million hit. Instead, an additional $90 million for the rest of 2013 will leave the account slightly ahead of where it was last year.

The federal child care and development block grant, slated for a $115 million cut, would lose $65 million instead. The Energy Department’s nuclear weapons programs, promised large budget increases to win Republican votes for a 2010 nuclear arms accord, will still take a hit under sequestration. But the cut would be $237 million instead of $600 million.

In exchange, other programs would experience larger cuts. Military construction for barracks, schools and hospitals worldwide would lose billions of dollars. Energy research, already taking a 5 percent cut under the sequester, or more than $150 million, would absorb another $44 million loss.

Other programs like Head Start, for early education, would have roughly the same cut as previously planned. The program is expected to lose about 70,000 slots for children out of one million over all.
495 2013-03-20 Analysts raised the possibility of a bank run in Cyprus and a cutoff of financing to Cypriot banks from the if the measure did not pass. It is still possible banks might not be able to open on Thursday, when a bank holiday is scheduled to end.

Michael Olympios, chairman of the Cyprus Investor Association, said Parliament’s rejection of the bailout deal “will buy us some time to see if we can come up with a better agreement.”

At issue was a plan for a one-time of 6.75 percent on deposits of less than 100,000 euros, or about $129,000 — even though deposits are guaranteed up to that amount in Cyprus and in most other European countries. President Nicos Anastasiades proposed an exemption for depositors with less than 20,000 euros, but that did not calm fears.

A 9.9 percent tax would be levied on Cyprus bank accounts with more than 100,000 euros — many of which contain Russian money that Germany has contended may be of questionable origin. The taxes were meant to raise 5.8 billion euros of the total bailout cost of 10 billion euros, or $13 billion.

Marios Karoyian, the head of the in Mr. Anastasiades’s coalition government, called the bailout terms an “attack” against Cyprus.

“The decision for a haircut is unethical and erodes the foundation of the E.U.,” he said, referring to the . “We’re dealing with raw blackmail that could lead to the collapse of the euro zone.”

Averoff Neofytou, head of the governing Democratic Rally party, added: “We must admit that this will create an economic suicide. We are sending a message to , , and : Don’t force us out of the euro.”

The failed vote intensified a showdown between the Cypriot government and its European partners. Mr. Anastasiades has accused them of pressing him to accept an unpalatable deal that hits ordinary savers and pensioners. Officials in Germany and at the say they did not tell Cyprus to tax insured deposits but that one way or another, the country must come up with the 5.8 billion euros to secure the bailout.

The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, , said earlier Tuesday that she was in favor of modifying the agreement to lower the burden on ordinary depositors.

“We are extremely supportive of the Cypriot intentions to introduce more progressive rates,” she said in Frankfurt.

She had urged leaders in Cyprus to quickly approve the plan reached by European leaders in Brussels last weekend, and complained that critics had not recognized the value of the agreement, in that it would force banks in Cyprus to restructure and become healthier.

Cypriot officials immediately reached for an alternative plan, which included testing whether would be willing to help with a rescue.

Russian officials had reacted furiously to the proposed bank deposit tax, which they said had caught them by surprise, and they were hardly disappointed to see it shot down by the Cypriot Parliament. But it remained unclear on Tuesday night the extent to which Russia might be willing to provide assistance, which some analysts said might be the island’s last hope.

Cyprus officials made clear that they wanted the lines of communication with open. Soon after the vote in Parliament, Mr. Anastasiades called President of Russia to inform him of the results.

Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said that the Russian president had expressed concern about the possibility of any measures being adopted that could harm the interests of Russian citizens or businesses, according to the Interfax news agency. The two leaders agreed to stay in contact, and Mr. Putin invited Mr. Anastasiades to visit Moscow at any time.

Russian officials were preparing for talks in Moscow on Wednesday with the Cypriot finance minister, Michalis Sarris, who was expected to request that Russia postpone the maturity date on a 2.5 billion euro loan that it extended to Cyprus in 2011.

After the parliamentary vote, the European Central Bank indicated that it would not immediately cut off emergency cash — without which Cypriot banks probably could not survive. In a terse statement, the central bank said it was consulting with the International Monetary Fund and the , its partners in the so-called troika of international lenders.

But in a tacit warning that it would not provide assistance forever, the central bank said it would stick to rules that allow lending only to solvent banks. The Cyprus banks, while wobbly, are not yet insolvent.

“The E.C.B. reaffirms its commitment to provide liquidity as needed within the existing rules,” the central bank said.
496 2013-03-20 People have learned their lesson.&#xa;   &#xa;We&#x2019;ve been told that so many times since the near-death experiences of the financial crisis. Bankers and regulators have flipped roles: now it&#x2019;s the bankers who are cautious and their ove...
497 2013-03-20 Mary Jo White  cleared an important hurdle on her path to becoming a top Wall Street regulator when a panel of lawmakers overwhelmingly backed her nomination on Tuesday.&#xa;   &#xa;Dismissing concerns about Ms. White&#x2019;s close ties to Wall S...
498 2013-03-20 Updated, 4:52 p.m. |  The Statue of Liberty, which has been closed to visitors since Hurricane Sandy struck and open for only one day since the fall of 2011, will reopen by the Fourth of July holiday, federal officials said Tuesday.&#xa;   &#xa;In...
499 2013-03-20 GURFEIN--Stuart "Jim", Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, and loyal friend to many passed away at age 65 on March 17th surrounded by immediate family. Born in Scarsdale, NY, Jim graduated from Cornell University where he received a foo...
500 2013-03-21 Jon Niese will fill in for Johan Santana, whose shoulder fatigue has kept him from pitching in spring training....
501 2013-03-21 The Ventura Farms Concours, held on the estate of the billionaire David Murdock, is envisioned as an annual fund-raiser....
502 2013-03-21 Apple on Thursday rolled out a tool that strengthens password security: two-step verification....
503 2013-03-21 Mets pitcher Shaun Marcum says he has dealt with shoulder inflammation for the past three years....
504 2013-03-21 This season’s take on the seasonal white shoe adds subtle flair to summer dressing....
505 2013-03-21 A bipartisan group of eight senators is considering a plan that would double the number of visas currently available to highly skilled foreign workers and dramatically increase the number of green cards available to foreign students who graduate f...
506 2013-03-21 Plays written and directed by women make up a significant share of the Off Broadway company’s 2013-14 season....
507 2013-03-21 The role of a general manager evolves dramatically in the first few years; unfortunately, only about half of our G.M.’s survive the transition....
508 2013-03-21 Many workers essentially guess about how much money they’ll need in retirement, a survey finds....
509 2013-03-21 Times editors and reporters cover the opening round of the men’s college basketball tournament....
510 2013-03-21 Federal prosecutors said Rengan Rajaratnam was part of his brother Raj’s insider trading ring, announcing criminal charges two years after Raj was sentenced to 11 years in prison....
511 2013-03-21 As tension grows between China and the United States over cyberhacking, I talked to a prominent Chinese-American about whether he worries it will lead to problems for the Chinese-American community....
512 2013-03-21 Behind that skepticism lie the messy realities of combat, as well as a half-century of global antimissile failures. “No military system is 90 percent effective,” said Philip E. Coyle III, who once ran the Pentagon’s weapons-testing program and recently left a White House security post.

For Iron Dome, the performance issue is important, in part, because defense bears strongly on offense. Israel’s decision on whether to bomb Iran’s nuclear sites — as it has repeatedly threatened to do — could hinge on its estimate of the retaliatory costs, including damage inflicted by rockets fired from southern Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.

Iron Dome is the newest and smallest of Israel’s antimissile systems. Its interceptors — just 6 inches wide and 10 feet long — rely on miniature sensors and computerized brains to zero in on its specialty, short-range rockets. Israel’s larger interceptors — the Patriot and Arrow systems — can fly longer distances to go after bigger threats. All have employed explosive warheads to shatter enemy targets, and all have faced doubts about their performance and military value.

Critics say explosions in the sky are hailed as evidence of success when the blasts in most cases simply represent interceptor warheads blowing up.

In an interview, a senior Israeli official denied that explanation, insisting that Iron Dome excelled. Last week, as news of the skeptical analyses spread in Israel, the Defense Ministry issued a statement deploring “baseless claims” that relied on “amateur YouTube videos.” It called the security establishment “more than content with the system’s impressive results.”

The United States contributed an initial $275 million, and deployments began two years ago. Amid rising anxiety over Iran, the Israeli public saw Iron Dome’s early successes against intermittent fire from Gaza as “a proof that the country could endure” retaliatory strikes, according to Uzi Rubin, founder of Israel’s antimissile program.

The big test came over eight days in November, when Gaza militants fired some 1,500 rockets. As sirens wailed and Israelis ran for cover, the interceptors shot up in waves, exploding in fire and thunder.

Iron Dome commanders fire only when radar systems and computer projections of rocket trajectories show threats to populated areas. Israeli officials say Iron Dome missed 58 incoming rockets while destroying 421. They now put Iron Dome’s overall success rate at 84 percent rather than the 90 percent figure.

By all accounts, the interceptor’s warhead fires when its sensors indicate an enemy rocket nearby — an encounter zone said to be up to several feet wide. The ensuing blast emits speeding metal fragments that in theory penetrate the rocket’s warhead and prompt it to explode.

The system’s maker, an Israeli company called Rafael, says in a promotional video that the interceptor is designed “to ensure destruction” of the enemy warhead.

That is precisely the claim critics have challenged.

After the Gaza cease-fire last year, Mr. Lloyd began scrutinizing hundreds of online videos of Iron Dome in action. He was looking for unambiguous signs of success: pairs of fireballs (at night) or smoke clouds (during the day) that formed as speeding fragments blew up a warhead. He found very few, he said.

His method of video analysis won scientific backing long ago. During the 1991 Persian Gulf war, the American military boasted that Patriot interceptors, built in the United States, had succeeded 96 percent of the time. But M.I.T. scientists analyzed broadcast videos and found only misses. Slowly, the Army retreated.

Mr. Lloyd also has the credentials for a critique, having written two books on antimissile warhead design during two decades at Raytheon, a top antimissile contractor. He now works for Tesla Laboratories, a defense contractor that has no projects competing with Iron Dome.

Mr. Lloyd says his doubts about Iron Dome deepened as he saw images of interceptors racing helter-skelter in the sky and found photographs of fallen rockets and even intact warheads.

From such evidence, as well as from rocket and warhead basics, Mr. Lloyd estimates that the system succeeded 30 percent to 40 percent of the time in detonating enemy warheads. For the remaining targets, he judges that the interceptor was either badly aligned or too far away, at best leaving the rockets wounded or thrown off course.

Mr. Lloyd and other critics acknowledge that, in some cases, deflections may indeed lessen damage on the ground, though they lack specific information.

In Israel, Mr. Lloyd won support from Reuven Pedatzur, a military analyst and former fighter pilot long skeptical of his country’s antimissile claims. Dr. Pedatzur found an Israeli police report saying that 109 rockets launched from Gaza — roughly twice the military’s figure — hit urban areas.

He also found evidence of wide destruction. A Finance Ministry report registered 3,165 claims of property damage, including to cars and buildings in cities like Ashdod and Beersheba, both protected by Iron Dome battalions.

Theodore A. Postol, a physicist at M.I.T. who helped reveal the Patriot antimissile failures of 1991, analyzed the new videos and found that Iron Dome repeatedly failed to hit its targets head-on. He concluded that the many dives, loops and curls of the interceptors resulted in diverse angles of attack that made it nearly impossible to destroy enemy warheads.

“It’s very hard to see how it could be more than 5 or 10 percent,” Dr. Postol said.

Mordechai Shefer, an Israeli rocket scientist formerly with Rafael, Iron Dome’s maker, studied nearly two dozen videos and, in a paper last month, concluded that the kill rate was zero.

American supporters of Iron Dome see the declarations of Israeli officials as credible, in part because the weapon’s targets are relatively slow, small and unsophisticated. “They have no guidance system,” noted Riki Ellison, chairman of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, a private group in Alexandria, Va. “They’re not as accurate as missiles, so Israel doesn’t have to hit them all.”

The senior Israeli official who defended Iron Dome said he understood the skepticism because the world’s first antimissile war — which erupted over Israel in 1991 during the gulf war — did produce exaggerated claims of success. But he rejected the idea that Iron Dome was missing or deflecting most of its targets. The images of online videos, he suggested, lacked the sharpness to reliably see kills within the glowing fireballs.

Enemy warheads, the official stressed, were “destroyed — not engaged — destroyed.” But as the interview unfolded, he offered examples of partial rocket destruction that seemed to contradict the portrayals of total annihilation. Falling debris, he conceded, could sometimes destroy a car or damage a house. But he dismissed reports of wide damage on the ground as rumors.

The Obama administration has cited the videos as testimonials to the system’s importance. “Everybody gets it,” Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. recently told the annual meeting of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, prompting thousands to break into applause. “Everybody saw.”
513 2013-03-21 Israel last fall hailed the Iron Dome system as destroying hundreds of rockets fired from the Gaza Strip. When an interceptor’s sensor detects the incoming rocket, it detonates its own warhead, sending out metal fragments. If the timing is right, fragments will hit the rocket’s warhead, detonating it. Skeptics say the Israelis exaggerated the success rate and that the odds of destruction depend critically on how the interceptor approaches the rocket.
514 2013-03-21 The developments in Torrington prompted people to draw online comparisons to the case in Steubenville, in which two teenage football players were found guilty on Sunday of raping a 16-year-old girl last summer.

Officials said that the Torrington cases involved two 13-year-old girls, and that Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Toribio, who have both been suspended from school, each face three felony charges, among other charges. Terri L. Sonnemann, a senior assistant state’s attorney, declined to provide details.

The police said on Wednesday that a third suspect, a 17-year-old Torrington resident, was arrested on March 4 in connection with one of the cases and that more arrests were expected.

A lawyer for Mr. Gonzalez, J. Patten Brown III, said that his client had pleaded not guilty, and that “he is charged with his relation with one girl, and the other co-defendant is charged with his relation with a separate girl.”

Charles F. Brower, a lawyer for Mr. Toribio, did not return calls for comment.

Debrah Pollutro, an assistant to the schools superintendent, said her office had been “bombarded” with calls on Wednesday.

“Parents are asking us, ‘What are we going to do about online bullying?’ ” Ms. Pollutro said. “And I tell them, ‘There’s nothing we can do; there’s no police, no protection whatsoever governing the World Wide Web.’ ”

In Connecticut, and also in New York, school officials are empowered to take steps to stop bullying, including online bullying, when “such bullying behavior is expressed in the form of threatening speech,” said Jay Worona, the general counsel of the New York State School Boards Association, an advocacy group.

As a practical matter, though, schools would be hard-pressed to act as pre-emptory watchdogs of the Internet by searching for threatening or nasty messages. Children can use various handles to post messages anonymously. Unlike law enforcement officials, school officials are not trained in tracing correspondences on the Internet, Mr. Worona said.

“On the question of whether schools have the ability, or should exercise the authority, to supervise the Internet, globally, the general thought is no, because they are not really in a position to know what is going on at every point in time,” he said.

The Ohio case gained national attention via social media and revealed bullying toward the victim from students and others who displayed concern for the town’s football program.

After it came to light, the hacker group Anonymous published private information about people who were believed to have had information about the events and claimed responsibility for publicly disclosing videos and images captured the night of the rape.
515 2013-03-21 In their opening arguments, lawyers for the city dismissed all talk of quotas as a sideshow, saying that the average officer stops only a handful of people a month. But the plaintiffs have insisted that quotas put officers under pressure to make unconstitutional stops as they seek people to arrest or issue tickets to.

“We were handcuffing kids for no reason,” Officer Polanco said.

He described how he once wrote a summons to a man for not having a dog license, after being directed to do so by his commander. “I did not see the dog,” Officer Polanco said. He later told Internal Affairs Bureau investigators about that episode and others.

After a confrontation with a lieutenant, he was stripped of his gun and badge and faced disciplinary proceedings.

Mr. Polanco is among a handful of officers who have taken to covertly tape-recording station house conversations, and he came to court prepared to discuss recordings that he made nearly three years ago.

In one speech played at the trial, a voice that Officer Polanco said was that of Donald McHugh, the precinct commander at the time, spoke about writing summonses. The commander warned that some people were not “chipping in” and said that those officers were going to be paired with supervisors “to make sure it happens.”

But he also complimented his officers, saying that “the overwhelming majority of people did an outstanding, great job, and I’m saying I appreciate it.”

Much of the discussion about “20 and 1” came from remarks by delegates from the police union who spoke at roll calls that the recordings captured. Those remarks showed how some delegates occupy a back channel between officers and commanders; some officers say that delegates have become too cozy with management. In one recording, a man identified by Officer Polanco as Angel Herran, who was a delegate in the 41st Precinct at the time, could be heard trying to convince officers that it was not unreasonable to be expected to write tickets.

“You have to show something,” he said. “You’re a police officer.”

“You mean to tell me,” he asked, that during a month of work “you haven’t seen any violations on parking, any violation, and any kind of arrest?”

But the tapes also offered a sampling of the tradition of oratory that has developed alongside roll calls. While commanders and precinct delegates occasionally start off by delivering a pep talk, the speeches occasionally fall short of encouraging.

In one speech, Sgt. Mervin Bennett said that even officers disillusioned with the work were expected to “do your 8 hours and 35 minutes a day and go home, and just do your job.”

“You could be disgruntled, fine,” he said. “Welcome to the N.Y.P.D. That’s part of the nature of the job.”
516 2013-03-21 Such long-range marksmanship has also made Belmont a trendy upset pick in this N.C.A.A. tournament, where the Bruins, a No. 11 seed, will face sixth-seeded Arizona on Thursday in the West region. Belmont is the 18th-most-accurate 3-point shooting team in the country; Arizona is tied for 273rd in opponent 3-point percentage. The math again appears simple — except that it is not.

These Bruins have almost come full circle. They still attempt many 3-pointers and still make a high percentage, but they do not rely on the long ball as much as past teams did. They have been mischaracterized as simply a 3-point factory.

“That’s what’s scary about them,” said Sean Miller, the Arizona coach. “They’re a great offensive team, period.”

So continues the Belmont offensive evolution. For years, Byrd said, his offense fit the school’s profile — small, scrappy, creative. The aha moment came early on, back when Belmont played N.A.I.A. hoops. Its rival, Lipscomb, surrounded one adept post player with four perimeter shooters.

What Byrd could not defend, he adopted. It helped that he inherited a recruit named Joe Behling, the exact kind of post player for the four-out, one-in offense. Behling became an all-American and the national player of the year.

Over the years, Belmont became known for its 3-point prowess, but its offense, Byrd’s offense, revolved around that player in the post. The Bruins rarely ran set plays for their shooters. Instead, they threw the ball inside and reacted to the defense, which either guarded the inside player with one defender or helped with another body, opening up driving lanes and 3-point looks.

“Offense, as much as anything, is about the value of the shot,” Byrd said. “We shoot very few shots between the five feet from the basket and the 3-point line. Probably less than almost anybody out there. I want quality shots. I don’t care if we win 88-46 or 48-46.”

That philosophy remained intact this season, even if the implementation shifted. No player taller than the 6-foot-7 forward Trevor Noack played regular minutes. That forced Belmont to change its offense (even Noack took 91 3-pointers) to more resemble other college offenses. That meant the Bruins needed to shoot well, from anywhere, consistently, which is what they did.

Belmont made nearly half its shots over the course of the season. Its 49.4 shooting percentage ranked fourth nationally. That started with guard Ian Clark, who came to Belmont for the four-out, one-in offense yet flourished when it shifted to ball screens and heavy motion. This season, Clark recorded a 54.1 shooting percentage and made 46.3 percent of his shots from behind the arc — astounding figures.

Every day, Clark practices shooting before and after practice. His range extends just beyond halfcourt. His release, Byrd said, is “a tad lower than most guys’,” but Clark compensates with a quick trigger. The few teams that stopped Clark face-guarded him on defense. But that only increased his value, because defenses had then committed to stop him, which helped everyone else.

Clark, explaining his mind-set, said: “We had to get on the bus to go to the airport. I wanted to stay and shoot some more.”

The value of the 3-pointer is most evident at schools like Belmont, or at even smaller schools, at smaller levels. At Oregon Tech, in N.A.I.A. Division II, Coach Danny Miles studied the effectiveness of 3-pointers in particular. He found his team was most successful when it shot about 20 a game. He won nearly 1,000 contests. He said it also helped him in recruiting.

“A midmajor will have a better chance playing that way,” Miles wrote in an e-mail. “They usually cannot get quality bigs. Teams are afraid to shoot too many threes because so few teams do. It works.”

Belmont, for all its history with the 3-pointer, has yet to win a game in the N.C.A.A. tournament. This is its sixth appearance in the past eight seasons.

Byrd was aware of the discrepancy in 3-point statistics that would appear to give the Bruins an edge over Arizona. He said value could be found in statistics, but he cautioned against overanalyzing. There is, Byrd noted, a category for free-throw percentage defense in some places.

A team with less talent than Belmont would sit back and let the Bruins attempt 3-pointers and hope they miss, Byrd said. A team with more talent, like Arizona, is likely to challenge Belmont on the perimeter instead.

“One year, we went 4 for 40 in a postseason game,” Byrd said. “Yeah, that’s great coaching. But if you get hot, if you go 17 for 30, you can beat almost anybody. You can lose to almost anybody, too, because you don’t have the consistency of the power game. That’s like a great running game in football. It’s something you can bank on.”

Just like quality shots. Not necessarily 3-point ones.
517 2013-03-21 Eli Manning compiled roughly a quarter of his 3,948 passing yards last season on completions to Victor Cruz. Manning tossed 10 of his 26 touchdown passes to the salsa-dancing Cruz, too. Now, as Cruz’s status with the Giants remains at a contractual impasse, Manning has said he would be willing to sacrifice to keep Cruz as one of his top targets.

Speaking at a corporate event in Manhattan on Wednesday, Manning told reporters that he would be open to discussing restructuring his contract to help the team make room for a new deal with Cruz.

“That’s kind of up to the Giants and what they want to do," Manning said. “I’m always up for listening and doing what’s best for the team.”

Cruz, who was an undrafted free agent but broke out as a star receiver in 2011, is from New Jersey and has indicated he would like to remain with the Giants. But he is also interested in a significant raise after scoring 26 touchdowns and totaling more than 2,500 receiving yards over the last two seasons.

Cruz is a restricted free agent, meaning the Giants have the right to match any offer made to him. The team also offered him a first-round tender, which carries a $2.87 million salary for one season and guarantees the Giants a first-round pick if Cruz signs elsewhere.

Manning, of course, hopes the Giants avoid that situation. Cruz recently switched agents and is now represented by Tom Condon, who also represents Manning, and that has led Manning to text Condon often, he joked. Manning added, though, that waiting to see what happens with Cruz has been “nerve-racking.”
518 2013-03-21 HARARE, Zimbabwe – A magistrate judge denied bail to the human rights lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa on Wednesday, ordering her held on a charge of obstruction of justice until April 3.

Ms. Mtetwa was arrested Sunday after she went to help a client who is a senior official of the main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change.

The official, Thabani Mpofu, was arrested with two other members of the party’s staff.

A high court judge issued an order late Sunday for Ms. Mtetwa’s release, but the police ignored it.

Government officials have cracked down on opposition politicians and civic groups as the country heads toward presidential elections this year.
519 2013-03-21 In response to players’ complaints about prize money and the tournament schedule, United States Open officials announced a huge increase in the overall payout to players and will permanently give the men’s players a Sunday final and a day of rest after the semifinals, starting in 2015.

The news came after a series of meetings between the United States Tennis Association, which runs the Open, and many of the top players, who for the past year have been pressuring the Grand Slam tournaments over prize money. The tournament had announced in December its biggest one-year increase in prize money, a $4 million jump to $29.5 million for 2013, and in this announcement added another $4.1 million to raise the 2013 total to $33.6 million. By 2017, the U.S.T.A. said, the prize money pool will nearly double, reaching $50 million.

“The players mean everything to the Open,” Dave Haggerty, the U.S.T.A.’s chief executive, said in a conference call Wednesday. “They bring value to the sport. They bring value to the Open. And we wanted to recognize their value accordingly.”

Haggerty said that the allocation of the prize money had not yet been determined, but that the players had asked for, and were granted, input into that decision. Haggerty said the players were concerned about the lower-ranked players, who can face a financial burden from the costs of a trip to New York and an extended stay in the city.

The other long-running area of complaint stems from the traditional Open format in which the men’s semifinals are played on Saturday and the final on Sunday. That was part of the Open’s so-called Super Saturday, in which the men’s semifinals and the women’s final were played on the same day. The Open was the only one of the four Grand Slam tournaments that did not give the men’s finalists a day of rest.

That format was scrapped in December, when the U.S.T.A. announced that in 2013 the men’s final would be played on Monday, where it has landed for five years running anyway because of rain delays. At the time, U.S.T.A. officials said they had not made a decision on the permanent schedule change, and some top men’s players complained about a planned Monday final. The women’s semifinals will be moved to Thursday from Friday, giving the players a day off before their final as well.
520 2013-03-21 That is far from the way most museums operate. Although there are no reliable industry statistics on the subject, Dan L. Monroe, executive director of the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., and a former president of the Association of Art Museum Directors, said that the highest earned income he had ever seen was about 40 percent. Museums cover the rest of their expenses with donations, endowments and, sometimes, government support.

Nor would many museums want to depend so heavily on earned income. It’s too unpredictable, too dependent on attendance. Museums employ highly educated staffs that, years in advance, organize special exhibitions (with high attendant costs like insurance, scholarly catalogs and so on), acquire expensive art and conserve objects in their collections, among other things. “The financial dynamics of the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum are dramatically different than the financial dynamics at art museums,” Mr. Monroe said.

David Gordon, a former director of the Milwaukee Art Museum and the Royal Academy in London, says the hall’s model is applicable only “to something like country music that already has more popular appeal than fine arts.”

Mr. Young, who started at the hall as a ticket-taker more than 30 years ago and never left to get the law degree he had planned, agrees to some extent with Mr. Gordon. “We are dealing with rich, rich subject matter — this is art from the working man, and it gives the material broad appeal,” he said.

Still, he added, “museums could be a lot more creative about the way they do earn money.” The hall is not just a shrine to its members, each of whom has a bronze plaque engraved with his or her likeness, arrayed in a soaring rotunda, or a place to hear music. “People always forget the other half of our name, ‘and Museum,’ ” said Steve Turner, the board chairman. Accredited by the American Alliance of Museums (unlike the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the Experience Music Project and the Grammy Museum), it has a curatorial staff of 14, out of a full-time staff of 75.

While the hall does hold many performances in a 213-seat theater, people also come to see the collection, which has more than two million items and grows every year, largely through donations. Among them are Maybelle Carter’s 1928 guitar, Bill Monroe’s 1923 mandolin, and dozens of other historic instruments; Dolly Parton’s handwritten lyrics to “Jolene”; documentary footage of Marty Robbins, Jimmie Rodgers and Carl Smith, among others; clothes worn by the likes of Roy Rogers, Minnie Pearl and Faron Young; and Thomas Hart Benton’s final painting, “The Sources of Country Music,” commissioned by the museum in 1973.

The museum also mounts changing exhibitions, on subjects like Patsy Cline and the Bakersfield Sound. And it operates RCA Studio B, where stars recorded hit after hit, including Roy Orbison (“Only the Lonely”), the Everly Brothers (“All I Have to Do Is Dream”) and Don Gibson (“Oh Lonesome Me”). Elvis Presley alone recorded 150 tracks there.

Last year, attendance hit 564,777, the largest in its 45-year history. That is what drives revenue. Admission, $24 for adults, plus $11 for those touring Studio B, is the source of about 40 percent of the hall’s revenue, compared with 10 percent at best for most art museums.

“We started looking at a diverse revenue base in the ’80s, as a way to build equity in the brand and earn revenue,” Mr. Young said. The hall rents space to a couple of hundred events every year, which last year brought in 7 percent of the budget, and operates its own museum store and restaurants, which together accounted for 31 percent.

“We need to own whatever we can,” Mr. Young said — in contrast to museums that rent their space to restaurateurs, for example. “Part of our guiding philosophy is having a great staff and great management. We operate in the black because we keep a keen eye on expenses.”

The Hatch Show Print shop, which has been making letterpress posters for entertainment acts for decades, is a management case in point. When the Gaylord Entertainment Company gave it to the hall in 1992, it was losing money. Last year, it made nearly $1 million in profit. It’s being expanded — not just to increase sales, but to accommodate more school groups and add fellowships for young artists who want to experiment with a printing process that is more than a century old.

When it opens next year, the bigger hall will have more room for exhibitions, classrooms, archives and just about everything else, including an 800-seat theater. Mr. Young expects his budget to grow to $40 million. If all goes as planned — “They are going to double attendance,” Mayor Dean said — the hall will continue to use the same business model, perhaps with a few tweaks. Mr. Young is courting the local audience, now just 8 percent of the total, in part to gain a donor base. And he wants to build an endowment.
521 2013-03-21 She always thought she was too good to be a waitress

Ms. Musgraves has a sweet character to her sound, which allows her to deliver a cynic’s wisdom in the voice of an inquisitive child. The logical result of that is “Follow Your Arrow,” a song about embracing self-determination in the face of social disapproval — and also offering a tacit endorsement of same-sex relationships — which could be played on “Sesame Street,” it’s so cheerfully guileless.

While Ms. Musgraves uses humor and brightness to sweeten her bitter pills, Ms. Monroe serves hers raw. Two songs — “Monroe Suede” and the title track — begin with a dead father, a distracted mother and a narrator who’ll do anything to reinvent herself. In “Monroe Suede” she sings:

A third grade education won’t bring you no luck

When you’re looking for a way to get paid

Like Ms. Musgraves, Ms. Monroe sees small towns as sets of prying eyes. (Both singers have writing credits on every song on their respective albums.) “I bet I’m the talk of this town/‘If you don’t have a ring, then he won’t settle down,’ ” she sings at the beginning of “Two Weeks Late,” adding, “And I hate to admit it, they were right/‘Cause I’m sleeping alone tonight.” On “Weed Instead of Roses” she gamely fights against behavioral claustrophobia in a relationship, and on “Used” she argues that the thing others will judge her harshly for is actually her greatest asset:

I know I’m not some brand new dress

That never has been worn

I’ve got some buttons missing and there’s a couple stains

In places where the fabric has been torn

But in the end I’ll be worth a whole lot more

On the whole Ms. Monroe’s album is more skeptical than Ms. Musgraves’s, even if Ms. Musgraves is the meaner of the two, her red flags far redder. But she also makes the most compromises.

More than half of Ms. Musgraves’s album, including several great songs, features status quo subject matter. “Back on the Map” is all sultry tragedy: “Does anybody wanna/Put me back, put me back on the map?/I’d be all about it, I’d do anything, anything that you asked.” And “It Is What It Is” will almost certainly be one of the year’s great love songs. True to its day it’s about emotionally fraught casual sex: “We’ve tried being apart/But the truth is, we are who we are”; “ ’Til something better comes along/’Til whatever we have is gone.” (The irksome “My House,” about a mobile home, has no place on this album and smacks of pandering, and even the optimistic arrangement of “Step Off” can’t cloak its flimsiness.)

When Ms. Monroe veers from her dark script, she toys with style as much as theme. The heart-rending lament “She’s Driving Me Out of Your Mind” is done in the creamy throwback style perfected several years back by Lee Ann Womack, and the high-stepping “You Ain’t Dolly (And You Ain’t Porter),” sung with Blake Shelton, is a throwback to glitzy country of several decades ago.

On both of these albums the musical cues are used as comfort points. Ms. Musgraves — she produced the album with Luke Laird and Shane McAnally — touches on rockabilly, blues-rock, country-folk and harmonica jamming. At times nothing is louder than the banjo, in case anyone had a litmus test prepared.

For Ms. Monroe working with the unimpeachable traditionalist Vince Gill (who produced the album with Justin Niebank) lets her move under the cover of stealth. There’s not likely to be a more earthy feeling and backward-sounding country album released on a major label this year. That complements Ms. Monroe’s voice, which can slip into a semiyodel with ease.

It’s notable, the degree to which both women play ball, or at least believe in country music enough to want to adhere to its core musical principles, even while rewiring the words. That this movement is happening as the genre continues to suffer from its masculinity crisis is no coincidence: as male singers have left the genre’s increasingly dull assumptions unchecked, they’ve given women room and reason to innovate.

Loretta Lynn, Dolly Parton, Reba McEntire, Ms. Lambert, Ms. Wilson: the legacy they’re channeling is strong. There’s also a new Pistol Annies album due in May. (Ms. Monroe is a member of this group, along with Ms. Lambert and Angaleena Presley.) Even the rigid-backboned Carrie Underwood has gotten in on the action; “Two Black Cadillacs,” a dark stunner about revenge from her most recent album, just became her 17th No. 1 country hit.

All storms peter out, though. Ms. Wilson and, to a degree, Ms. Lambert both presented as rebels but quickly evolved into preservers of the realm. Even Ms. Swift, as she leans more pop, becomes even more important to country. Ms. Musgraves and Ms. Monroe could easily shelve their concerns and live comfortably at the genre’s center, but continuing to be the change that they sing about will be the bigger accomplishment.
522 2013-03-21 Following is the text of the Federal Reserve’s statement on Wednesday announcing it was holding its base federal funds target rate at a record low between zero and 0.25 percent:

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January suggests a return to moderate economic growth following a pause late last year. Labor market conditions have shown signs of improvement in recent months but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive. Inflation has been running somewhat below the committee’s longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook. The committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective.

To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative.

The committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the committee decided to keep the target range for the federal rate at 0 to ¼ percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6 ½ percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored.

In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent.
523 2013-03-21 In recent weeks, the Obama administration has shifted its public statements on Syria in an effort to persuade Mr. Assad that he must give up power and agree to a political transition. It has stated that it supports efforts by Arab states like Saudi Arabia and Qatar to provide arms to moderate elements of the resistance. It has also indicated that it backs British and French efforts to persuade the European Union to lift its embargo on the shipment of arms to Syria.

“President Obama has made it clear that the United States does not stand in the way of other countries that have made a decision to provide arms, whether it’s France or Britain or others,” Secretary of State John Kerry said this week. “He believes that we need to change President Assad’s calculation.

While the Obama administration has declined to send arms itself, it has pledged food rations and medical supplies to the Free Syrian Army, as the opposition’s main military force is known. The Central Intelligence Agency has also been training rebels in Jordan.

But Iran’s aid to Mr. Assad has stiffened his resolve, Mr. Ford said.

The Iranian involvement is so substantial, Mr. Ford said, that Iran’s paramilitary Quds Force had “lost a general” in the recent fighting in Syria, among other personnel. Iraqi Shiite extremists have also crossed into Syria to fight on behalf of the government, he noted.

Another major problem is Iraq, which has resisted American demands for inspections of Iranian flights that have been ferrying arms to Damascus, the Syrian capital. The United States has raised its concerns with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and Mr. Maliki’s national security adviser, Faleh al-Fayad, who met last month with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser, Tony Blinken.

“We have had very direct conversations with the Iraqis,” Mr. Ford said.

Mr. Ford said that the United States had told the Iraqis that the Iranian shipments were prolonging the two-year-old conflict, hampering the prospects for a negotiated political transition and increasing the odds that Sunni extremists will grab a share of the power in Syria.

“We want the Iraqi government to understand that it has no interest in having an extremist government in Syria,” Mr. Ford said.

“We need all the pressure we can get on the Iraqis.”

Addressing reports that chemical weapons might have been used in Syria on Tuesday, Mr. Ford said the United States still did not have proof that they had been employed.

But he emphasized that the United States was still investigating the reports. The Obama administration has said the rebels did not use chemical weapons, but it left open the possibility that Mr. Assad’s government used such weapons in a limited way and then sought to blame the resistance.

“We take these reports and these possibilities very seriously, and we are using all of our available means to determine what happened,” Mr. Ford said. “There are reports about them being used both in the north and in the Damascus suburbs, the eastern suburbs of Damascus.”

He reinforced the Obama administration’s position that the use of chemical weapons was a “red line” for the White House and that it would have serious consequences, but he declined to say what those would be.
524 2013-03-21 But this cell-therapy approach had not been tried before in adults with the disease that Emma had, acute lymphoblastic leukemia. This type of blood cancer is worse in adults than in children, with a cure rate in adults of only about 40 percent, compared with 80 percent to 90 percent in children. The disease is not common. Each year in the United States, it affects about 2,400 people older than 20, and 3,600 younger. Though there are fewer cases in adults, there are more deaths: about 1,170 adults die each year compared with 270 deaths in people under 20.

In adults, this type of leukemia is a “devastating, galloping disease,” said Dr. Michel Sadelain, the senior author of the new study and director of the Center for Engineering and the Gene Transfer and Gene Expression Laboratory at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in .

Patients like the ones in the study, who relapse after chemotherapy, usually have only a few months left, Dr. Sadelain said. But now, three of the five have been in remission for 5 to 24 months. Two others died: one was in remission but died from a blood clot, and the other relapsed. The survivors have gone on to have bone-marrow transplants. Their prognosis is good, but relapse is still possible, and only time will tell.

Experts not connected with the study said it was an important advance in an emerging field. Dr. Carl June of the University of Pennsylvania, who led the team that treated Emma and the other patients, said, “This is the first report showing some real, clinically beneficial activity in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia.” He said his team was also starting to test its version of the cell therapy on patients with the disease.

Dr. Richard M. Stone, the program director for adult leukemia at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in , called the research exciting and said he hoped to begin collaborating with the team at Sloan-Kettering. He has already sent them a patient.

The treatment uses patients’ own T-cells, a type of white blood cell that normally fights viruses and cancer. The patient’s blood is run through a machine that extracts T-cells and returns the rest of the blood to the body. Researchers then do some genetic engineering: they use a disabled virus as a “vector” to carry new genetic material into the T cells, which reprograms them to recognize and kill any cell that carries a particular protein on its surface.

The protein, called CD19, is found on B-cells, which are part of the immune system. This target was chosen because the patients had a type of leukemia that affects B-cells, so the goal was to train the patients’ T-cells to destroy B-cells. Healthy B-cells — which make to fight infection — would be killed along with cancerous ones, but that side effect was treatable.

“We’re creating living drugs,” Dr. Sadelain said. “It’s an exciting story that’s just beginning.”

One of the sickest patients in the study was David Aponte, 58, who works on a sound crew for ABC News. In November 2011, what he thought was a bad case of turned out to be leukemia. He braced himself for a long, grueling regimen of chemotherapy.

His oncologist, Dr. Brentjens, suggested that before starting the drugs, Mr. Aponte might want to have some of his T-cells removed and stored (chemotherapy would deplete them). That way, if he relapsed, he might be able to enter a study using the cells. Mr. Aponte agreed.

At first, the chemotherapy worked, but by the summer of 2012, while he was still being treated, tests showed that the disease was back. “After everything I had gone through, the chemo, losing hair, the sickness, it was absolutely devastating,” Mr. Aponte recalled.

He joined the T-cell study. For a few days, nothing seemed to be happening. Then, his temperature began to rise. He has no memory of what took place during the next week or so, but the journal article — where he is Patient 5 — reports that his spiked to 105 degrees. He was in the throes of a “cytokine storm,” meaning that the T-cells, in a furious battle with the cancer, were churning out enormous amounts of hormones called cytokines. Besides fever, the hormonal rush can make a patient’s plummet and his heart rate shoot up. Mr. Aponte was taken to intensive care and treated with to quell the reaction.

Eight days later, his leukemia was gone. Even the doctors were shocked, Dr. Brentjens said. They repeated the lab tests just to make sure there was no mistake.

Once he was in remission, Mr. Aponte had a bone-marrow transplant, as did three of the other patients in the study. Another had medical problems that made a transplant impossible, and it was he who relapsed and died. The researchers think he may have relapsed because the steroids he needed to treat the cytokine storm may have wiped out the T-cells before they could do their job.

For the other patients, it is not known whether the transplants were really needed; in theory, the T-cells alone might have produced a long-term remission or even a cure. Patients treated at the University of Pennsylvania were not given transplants, and most have stayed in remission. But the technique used there involves a different viral vector and different genetic programming from the one at Sloan-Kettering.

In any case, Dr. Brentjens said, the T-cells are still experimental, whereas transplants are the standard of care in acute leukemia because they have been shown to give many patients the best odds of survival. So the transplants were done for ethical reasons. The study is continuing, and as more patients are treated, answers may emerge as to whether the T-cells alone will be enough for some patients.

Mr. Aponte, who had the transplant in December, is still recovering, and trying to gain back some of the 40 pounds he lost while he was ill. But he hopes to return to work soon.
525 2013-03-21 Again and again during his visit, Mr. Obama signaled that the United States and Israel were partners on a broad range of issues, reinforcing their historic alliance and America’s stated commitment to protect Israeli security. Mr. Obama pointedly emphasized his administration’s pledge to prevent a nuclear-armed , one of Mr. Netanyahu’s greatest fears.

But concern about chemical weapons in Syria were a major focus of the day.

Two senior ministers in Israel’s new cabinet said publicly on Wednesday that chemical weapons had been used, and several government officials said in interviews that Israel had credible evidence of an attack. The ministers, and Yuval Steinetz, were among those who met with Mr. Obama here on the first day of his trip.

A senior American official, however, said Mr. Netanyahu had not presented conclusive evidence of an attack in his closed-door discussions with Mr. Obama. The president’s words might have been intended to reassure Mr. Netanyahu, who has long feared that Mr. Assad’s stockpiles of chemical weapons could be used against Israelis.

In Washington, the American ambassador to Syria, , testified before Congress that the United States still did not have proof that the weapons had been used. But he added, “We take these reports and these possibilities very seriously.”

Mr. Obama’s remarks were his first public reaction to the reports on Tuesday that chemical weapons had been used. They seemed calculated, in part, to counter claims by both the Syrian government and its major supporter, , that opposition forces had mounted a chemical attack against the government.

“We intend to investigate thoroughly exactly what happened,” Mr. Obama said. “I’ve instructed my teams to find out precisely what happened, what we can document, what we can prove.”

While Mr. Obama cautioned that he did not have all the facts, he said, “We know the Syrian government has the capacity to carry out chemical attacks” and that he was “deeply skeptical of any claim that it was the opposition that used chemical weapons.”

Israeli officials provided no proof of their assertions but appeared more confident that chemical weapons had been used.

Ms. Livni, the new Israeli justice minister, said in an interview with CNN, “It’s clear for us here in Israel that it’s being used,” adding, “This, I believe, should be on the table in the discussions.”

Mr. Steinetz, the minister for strategic affairs, said on Israel’s Army Radio, “It’s apparently clear that chemical weapons have been used against civilians by the rebels or the government.”

Two senior Israeli officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak, said that Israel was sure that chemicals were used, but did not have details about what type of weapons were used, where they came from, when they were deployed, or by whom.

A third senior official, also refusing to be identified, said, “It is possible that chemical weapons were used, or some concoction of chemical substances,” but he said he had not “seen clear confirmation.”

Mr. Obama spoke after both the Syrian opposition and the government escalated accusations of chemical weapons use, with both sides demanding an international investigation.

The National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, the umbrella political group that wants to topple Mr. Assad, said in a statement that it “condemns these attacks and holds the Assad regime fully responsible for shedding Syrian blood.” The group said the attacks killed at least 19 civilians and left 69 others short of breath, with some in critical condition.

The coalition accused government forces of carrying out two chemical weapons attacks on Tuesday — one in the Khan al-Assal area of northern Aleppo Province, as originally asserted, and a second strike in the Ataybah area of suburban Damascus.

Ambassador Ford, in his testimony, also said that the United States was investigating reports of attacks in the north, and in the suburbs of Damascus.

Fears about Syria’s growing instability are shadowing Mr. Obama on each stop of this trip. On Thursday, he is to visit the president of the , , who is expected to raise worries about the plight of in Syria. On Friday, he is scheduled to meet King Abdullah in , which has been flooded with Syrian refugees.

At the , the Syrian ambassador, Bashar Jaafari, told reporters that his government had also requested an official inquiry to corroborate its claims that insurgents — not government forces — had used the weapons. Mr. Jaafari said he had delivered a letter to Secretary General ’s office seeking a “specialized, independent and neutral technical mission to investigate the use by the terrorist groups operating in Syria of chemical weapons yesterday against civilians.”

Mr. Ban’s spokesman, Martin Nesirky, said the request was under study.

Mr. Nesirky also repeated Mr. Ban’s reaction to the first allegations of chemical weapons use on Tuesday, saying, “The secretary general remains convinced that the use of chemical weapons by any party under any circumstances would constitute an outrageous crime.”

The chemical weapons issue quickly became entangled in the longstanding, sharp divisions on Syria in the , between Russia and those Western states opposed to the Damascus government.

In a Security Council debate, said the United Nations should investigate the opposition’s accusations that chemical weapons were used by the government not just in the Aleppo area but also at the second site, in the Damascus suburbs. Russia accused the West of trying to create a diversion, an accusation echoed by the Syrian envoy.

The Russian envoy, Vitaly I. Churkin, said the United States, France and others were engaged in “delaying tactics,” for raising the allegation of a second site and for demands like humanitarian access to treat any victims.

“Instead of launching those propaganda balloons it is better to get our focus right,” Mr. Churkin said.

The Western demands, he said, echoed inspections instituted against more than a decade ago, which failed to find any chemical weapons. Mr. Churkin also said he would not put it past the opposition to fake a chemical weapons attack by the Syrian government because it knows their use might well prompt international intervention. The Syrian ambassador seconded that possibility.

The French envoy, Gerard Araud, sarcastically referring to Mr. Churkin’s summary of the council debate as “fascinating,” said France and its allies wanted the United Nations to investigate all possible incidents.
526 2013-03-21 PARIS — The French police on Wednesday searched the Paris apartment of Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, in connection with an investigation into her handling of a financial scandal when she was the French finance minister.

The investigation concerns Ms. Lagarde’s decision in 2007 to refer to an arbitration panel a dispute between Bernard Tapie, a French billionaire and supporter of former President Nicolas Sarkozy, and the state-owned bank Crédit Lyonnais. The panel ultimately brokered a settlement that awarded Mr. Tapie about $580 million, including interest.

A panel of investigating magistrates is looking into whether she was complicit in the embezzlement of public money in what critics say was an overly generous award to a presidential friend.

Ms. Lagarde has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing and has expressed her willingness to cooperate with any investigation.

Gerry Rice, the director of the External Department of the monetary fund in Washington, declined to comment on the case on Wednesday, but he said the fund’s board had discussed the possibility of French legal proceedings against Ms. Lagarde before its decision to appoint her as managing director in 2011. The board at the time “expressed its confidence that Madame Lagarde would be able to effectively carry out her duties,” Mr. Rice said in a statement.
527 2013-03-21 To some, that departure feels like an abandonment, of both the United States team and the Los Angeles Galaxy, Donovan’s Major League Soccer club, which has begun its season without him. To others, it is a reasonable and necessary break for a player who was a part of the first full-time residential academy for American players in 1999 and has essentially helped the sport grow in this country ever since, in the process becoming the national team’s career leading scorer.

Whatever the spin, the reality is this: Donovan, 31, was determined to step back. He began seriously entertaining the notion of a break from soccer early in 2012, and Galaxy Coach Bruce Arena said his initial conversations with Donovan in May or June led him to wonder if Donovan would remain with the team for the entire season.

“He was really searching then,” Arena said. “I thought he might go. But he got through the year and, at that point, it was clear he was spent.”

Todd Dunivant, a teammate of Donovan’s with the Galaxy, said Donovan’s fatigue was obvious. “If he didn’t take the break, it would have been unhealthy,” Dunivant said. “It wasn’t just that his legs were tired. It was everything.”

After the season ended — with Donovan helping to lead the Galaxy to a second consecutive league title — Arena hoped Donovan would reconsider. But at dinner in January at Mangiamo, an Italian restaurant in Manhattan Beach, Calif., Donovan and his agent, Richard Motzkin, told Arena that an extended break was necessary.

Arena, who is a former national team coach and has known Donovan since he was a teenager, did not hide his feelings. “I told him it was a bad plan,” Arena said in a recent interview. “I thought it was a bad idea. These are the challenges that professional athletes have. None of us get any breaks — coaches don’t get any. So I told him that. I respected his decision, but that’s how I felt.”

Nonetheless, Donovan, who declined a request to be interviewed for this article, slipped away from the public eye after that dinner, allowing himself what Motzkin described as a “decompression.” In addition to the physical and mental pressures of soccer, Donovan also divorced his wife, Bianca, in 2010. With soccer temporarily out of the picture, Donovan did things that “he hadn’t been able to do for the past 15 years,” Motzkin said.

He reconnected with family. He went to Maui for Dunivant’s bachelor party. He attended the weddings of several friends. He spoke to students at the University of Southern California. He took part in an event in Newtown, Conn., after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School.

He also walked his dogs, often, on the Strand in Manhattan Beach, simply enjoying the freedom that comes with not having another game or another practice or another tactical session in front of him. On one of those walks he saw Alexi Lalas, a former defender for the United States national team, who also lives in the beach area and who also took a break from the sport when he was 30.

Lalas could sympathize. Looking back at his decision, he said he took a year off “because I was fried.”

“If I was going to be any use to anyone, I needed to do it,” he added. He said he spent his time away driving across the country and, most important, “chasing a girl,” which, he added, “was great because she’s now my wife and we have two kids.”

Given his own experiences, Lalas was of two minds on Donovan’s break, he said. On one hand, he empathized, noting that Donovan was “one of the first young players to come through and skip out on the college experience completely — that makes a difference.”

On the other hand, though, Lalas noted that Donovan’s absence from the national team could not come at a worse time. With a new coach in Jurgen Klinsmann, a lot of injuries and a difficult qualifying schedule, “I cannot think of a time when more is unsettled and undecided when it comes to the personnel and how the team wants to play; Landon is a part of that.”

Lalas added: “His teammates there can still be his friend — they know him so well. But from a soccer perspective, they can also say he let us down. There’s no question it does creep into the way you view him.”

Klinsmann has been reticent to elaborate on his thoughts on Donovan’s situation. As expected, he maintains that Donovan will be considered for the team if and when he returns to top playing form. But until then, he said Monday, Donovan “is not part of the plans because simply he is not playing and not training.” Asked if he would ever consider a personal appeal for Donovan to come back earlier, Klinsmann said no.

Donovan initially planned to extend his break until the middle of 2013. After discussions with Arena and Motzkin, among others, though, he revised his schedule. Barring a last-minute change, he is expected to make his first public appearance with the Galaxy early next week at the White House, when the team meets President Obama. He will then train with the Galaxy in the Washington area the next day.

Will he be ready for the Galaxy’s Concacaf Champions League semifinal in early April? Will Klinsmann call him in for the three World Cup qualifiers in June? To those close to Donovan, specific issues like those are less important than the larger concern of whether the time away makes an impact on his mental state.

Donovan’s fierce introspection, which can be a burden, is well known. Lalas, who played with Donovan and later was his general manager in Los Angeles and San Jose, said Donovan’s cerebral nature was a part of his talent. But Lalas also conceded, “There is an element, when it comes to Landon, where you just want to slap him in the face and say, hey, snap out of it.”

Arena, too, praised Donovan’s sense of responsibility, but added: “He’s constantly searching for utopia. And we all know you can’t find that.”

Motzkin said Donovan has every intention of earning his way back to the national team, and he reiterated that Donovan, despite being the face of American soccer for years, does not expect special treatment. Like everyone who takes a sabbatical, Donovan will surely face fallout from teammates and others affected by his absence, but all the years and effort he has given the national team should help smooth his return.

Kyle Martino, a former teammate who is now an analyst for NBC Sports, recalled the 2003 Confederations Cup in France, when a bomb threat forced the United States team to stay locked in its hotel. Donovan, Martino said, worked with the hotel staff and somehow arranged for the team to occupy a series of connecting rooms. He then opened all of the connecting doors and organized an Xbox video game tournament — Halo was the game of choice — which “turned the mood from us psyching ourselves out because of the scare to just relaxing,” Martino said.

“That was what he did, he’s an optimist and a pragmatist,” Martino added. “To be honest, I think he did life a little bit in reverse. He hadn’t switched off since he was 16, where most other guys didn’t start that life until their mid-20s. So now he needed this.”

In many ways, Donovan’s professional happiness may have come during his two loan spells in England’s Premier League, where he played with Everton in 2010 and 2012. Tim Cahill, a teammate at Everton who now plays with the Red Bulls in M.L.S., said he recalled Donovan being “free as a bird” in England and reveling in a situation that allowed him not to be the captain, not to be the team’s best player and not to be the perpetual focus.

One night, at the behest of Cahill and Phil Neville, Donovan and Edson Buddle, another American who was training with Everton, even broke into song for their Everton teammates at a restaurant. “I just remember his smile,” Cahill said. “He was happy. Whatever happens with this break, I hope he finds that happiness again.”

Dunivant, who has spoken with Donovan frequently, believes Donovan has done just that. “I’ve never seen him happier,” he said. “He’s in a better place, there’s no doubt. He’s relaxed.”

What that means from a soccer sensibility, of course, remains to be seen. When Jordan returned to basketball from his baseball break in 1995, it was as if he had never left. Ten years later, though, when the N.F.L. running back Ricky Williams returned from his walkabout in 2005, his career was never quite the same.

“I’m the first to say that when I first heard about it, my thought wasn’t, yes, that’s a wonderful idea,” Arena said. “But I have made peace with it, and in this case, with this player, it makes sense.

“Do I think, ultimately, that it will help Landon?” Arena added. “Yes, I do.”

He paused. “At least I certainly hope so.”
528 2013-03-21 The European Union is completing its own trade investigation of Chinese solar panel shipments that could lead to steep tariffs there as well.

After Suntech grew spectacularly, with production that soared year after year on heavy investment, and after Western investors bought up its New York-traded shares and its international debt issues, the company was battered by plummeting prices as the overall manufacturing industry sank.

Ocean Yuan, the president of Grape Solar, an importer of solar panels based in Eugene, Ore., said he foresaw a series of bankruptcies by big Chinese solar panel manufacturers, some of which, like Suntech, have very high debt. Chinese manufacturers lost as much as $1 for every $3 of sales last year as they struggled to keep factories open despite falling prices.

“They are bleeding every day,” Mr. Yuan wrote in an e-mail. “The more they sell, the more they lose money.”

He predicted that solar panel manufacturers in Europe and the United States would also face crippling financial pressures and that the long-term survivors in the industry would be manufacturers in Taiwan, who have low costs and are not subject to the American import tariffs or the likely European tariffs.

Chinese banks quietly asked a court in Wuxi on Monday to declare the operating subsidiary, Wuxi Suntech, insolvent and begin reorganizing it. The subsidiary notified the court on Wednesday that it did not object to the insolvency petition.

Suntech Power, the parent, said that it was not filing for bankruptcy and would continue to honor warranties on the company’s solar panels.

The bankruptcy filing is widely expected to lead to a takeover of the Wuxi operations by Wuxi Guolian Development Group, a financial conglomerate controlled by the city government of Wuxi.

A woman who answered the phone at Wuxi Guolian’s headquarters on March 13 said that her company was involved in a Suntech acquisition but declined to provide details or her name.

On Tuesday, Suntech Power announced the appointment of a new president, Weiping Zhou, a longtime Wuxi Guolian executive who had been the chairman of that company’s futures trading subsidiary.

In its statement announcing the bankruptcy of Wuxi Suntech, Suntech Power did not mention any immediate role for Wuxi Guolian. David W. King, the chief executive of Suntech Power, said the company would “continue to work closely with all of our stakeholders and take the necessary steps to put Suntech back on track for growth.”

Suntech Power is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and had a market capitalization of $16 billion at its peak. Its stock, which was already taking a beating, closed at just under 59 cents a share on Tuesday before trading was halted in response to the bankruptcy. The stock had reached $88.35 at its peak five years ago. Several competitors, including Trina, JA Solar and Yingli, posted increases in a generally robust market.

“There’s some feeling out there among investors that this will take some of the capacity offline,” said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital Investments, adding that Suntech was likely to continue production at some level with government support aimed at preserving jobs. There may also be renewed enthusiasm for solar stocks among investors, Mr. Krop said, as the prices of panel components like polysilicon, wafers and cells have been edging up since the beginning of the year.

The company failed to make payments last Friday on $541 million of convertible debt.

The fact that Suntech Power’s Chinese subsidiary filed for bankruptcy protection without the parent also filing may cause acrimony over whether foreign creditors are being treated unfairly compared with domestic creditors in China.

It is rare for Chinese companies to file for bankruptcy, as the government sometimes steps in to avoid damaging the broader reputation of Chinese companies’ creditworthiness.

The insolvency filing by Wuxi Suntech sets off a potentially complex legal fight that could damage international investors’ faith in Chinese bonds, after many months of scandals that have already hurt enthusiasm for the overseas-listed shares of Chinese companies.

Wuxi Suntech holds virtually all of the factories and other physical assets of Suntech Power, and these assets are in China, which makes it easier for the Chinese banks to take ownership of them. Foreign lenders to Suntech Power, like the investors who bought its convertible bonds, are “structurally subordinate” to the Chinese lenders in trying to recover their money from these assets, according to legal experts.

But most of the Suntech group’s sales were in the United States and Europe, because China’s renewable energy policies tended to emphasize manufacturing subsidies that would allow Chinese companies to capitalize on foreign governments’ subsidies for consumers. Foreign lenders could have an advantage in seizing dollars and euros in overseas accounts, as well as the money that overseas buyers still owe Suntech, which allowed many creditors to delay paying for panels until months after they were delivered.

Another complexity is that Suntech Power is incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The bankruptcy laws there do not usually allow reorganization, and companies tend to be liquidated instead. But the convertible bonds issued by Suntech Power specified that any dispute involving the bonds would have to be resolved under New York State law.

Last week, Suntech closed its factory in Goodyear, Ariz. It was an operation of just 43 people who put aluminum frames and electrical junction boxes on solar cells from China so that the products could qualify for “Buy American” programs.

In announcing the bankruptcy of Wuxi Suntech, the corporate parent did not specify the debts of its subsidiary. Xinhua, the Chinese state-run news agency, said Wuxi Suntech owed 7.1 billion renminbi, or $1.1 billion, to nine Chinese banks. It did not explain why only eight banks joined the insolvency petition, or the extent of the loans to Wuxi Suntech by the unidentified ninth bank.

The bankruptcy comes after a dozen solar panel manufacturers in the United States and a dozen in Europe have either failed or cut back production after finding that they were unable to cover their costs at the current low prices for solar panels.

The industry’s problem is that most of the cost of a solar panel lies in building the factory, not in operating the equipment. So when the industry has severe overcapacity, as it does now, each company continues running its factories to cover its tiny operating costs, and at least a small part of the interest on the loans it took out to buy the costly factory equipment.

But when every company pursues that strategy, the whole industry loses money and virtually no business is able to cover its full interest costs.
529 2013-03-21 Banks have been closed since Saturday, and the authorities have ordered banks to keep automated bank machines filled with cash as long as their doors remain shut. But that has been of little help to the thousands of international companies who do banking in Cyprus, which cannot transfer money in and out of those accounts to conduct business.

The extended bank holiday is designed to buy time for the Cypriot authorities to reach an agreement with the so-called troika of rescuers — the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission — whose representatives were in Nicosia on Wednesday but were not certain to sign off on Cyprus’s latest plan.

Three banks dominate the economy, and each is edging close to collapse. The government was also making tentative plans to merge at least two of them — Cyprus Popular Bank and Bank of Cyprus — and place the healthy assets into a one entity, while moving troubled assets into a so-called bad bank.

With all sides fearing that a crisis is imminent, even the Church of Cyprus, one of this Mediterranean island’s biggest investors, was offering to throw its considerable wealth behind the rescue effort.

European officials, and especially the European Central Bank, are watching the situation with alarm, said a person close to the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly. Right now, Cypriot banks, crippled by their heavy exposure to Greece’s collapsed economy, are heavily dependent on low-interest financing from the E.C.B., which could be cut off if the banks do not remain solvent.

If Cyprus does not soon receive a financial lifeline, European officials fear that “the damage would be enormous, and the country itself would be at risk of collapse,” the person close to the discussions said. Officials are concerned about the risk that Cyprus might need to leave the euro currency union, creating “a painful situation that would spur chaos,” this person said.

On Wednesday morning, the finance minister of Cyprus, Michalis Sarris, met with his Russian counterpart, Anton G. Siluanov, at the Russian Finance Ministry. In the afternoon Mr. Sarris met for about 90 minutes with a deputy prime minister, Igor I. Shuvalov, at the main government offices in the Russian White House.

Cypriot banks racked up huge losses in the past several years by issuing loans to businesses in Greece that are now virtually worthless as that country grapples with the fourth year of a severe recession. The banks also took huge financial losses on large holdings of Greek government debt, which they bought when times were good in order to profit from attractive interest rates. The bailout crisis has outraged average Cypriots, many of whom oppose the government’s skimming their accounts to pay for the banks’ mistakes.

Russia has a significant stake in the outcome because its citizens, including many of the country’s wealthiest people, have a total of about $30 billion on deposit in the failing Cypriot banking system. Russia has already given Cyprus a €2.5 billion loan, and talks have been under way for months about additional aid.

Emerging from Wednesday morning’s session, Mr. Sarris reported no progress. “We underscored how difficult the situation is,” he said, “and we will now continue our discussions to find a solution by which we hope we will be getting some support from Russia.”

Russian officials would not comment on the afternoon session but said the meetings were done for the day. A news conference planned at the Cypriot Embassy was canceled on Wednesday afternoon.

Russian leaders, including President Vladimir V. Putin, had reacted furiously to the inclusion of a bank deposit tax in the original bailout proposal, which they said caught them by surprise. Because it is not a member of the euro currency union, Russia was not a party to the bailout deal reached early last Saturday in Brussels by euro zone finance ministers.

Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia warned Wednesday that the European proposal of a tax on bank deposits could itself precipitate “a new series of local financial crises.”

Mr. Medvedev, speaking to Russian and European journalists at his Gorky residence outside of Moscow, seemed to struggle for words in describing his reaction to the proposed tax on deposits. “I cannot compare it to anything but some decisions made at a certain period of time by the Soviet authorities that did not care much about people’s savings,” he said, according to Russian news agencies.

Mr. Medvedev said the ultimate resolution of the situation in Cyprus could affect relations between Russia and the European Union, which have been in competition to some degree over who will hold more sway over Cyprus’s financial future.

Russia is said to be proposing its own Cypriot bailout deal, on the condition that Nicosia agrees to grant Russia’s energy industry rights to Cyprus’s potentially rich offshore reserves of natural gas. Although Moscow has not acknowledged such a proposal, in a further sign that gas rights might be part of the discussions, the Cypriot energy minister, Georgios Lakkotrypis, was also in Moscow on Wednesday.

In his comments outside the Russian Finance Ministry, Mr. Sarris denied that there had been a specific proposal of help from Gazprom, the giant Russian natural gas producer. “There were no offers — nothing concrete,” he said.

In Nicosia, the troika of lenders is still insisting that Cyprus somehow come up with €5.8 billion of the €10 billion bailout negotiated last weekend. The bank deposits tax, which Parliament voted down overwhelmingly Tuesday along with the bailout plan, was supposed to be the source of the country’s contribution to the bailout package.

The original deal called for a tax of 6.75 percent on deposits of less than €100,000 and 9.9 percent on deposits above that threshold. Even after the Cypriot president, Nicos Anastasiades, revised the terms to exempt depositors with less than €20,000 in their accounts, Parliament rejected the plan.

The proposal that Mr. Anastasiades’s cabinet announced early Wednesday evening calls for coming up with a portion of the €5.8 billion in part by taking over the pension funds of state-run companies, while also issuing additional government bonds. It was unclear late Wednesday how politically viable the pension seizure might be, or how the idea of taking on more debt might fly with the troika representatives.

In a separate and surprising twist on Wednesday, the head of the Church of Cyprus, Archbishop Chrysostomos II, went on television to propose putting all of its properties up as collateral so that the state could issue a new round of government bonds to raise money. The church is one of the largest and most influential investors in Cyprus, with extensive holdings in banks, real estate and other interests.

The archbishop suggested that all of the Church’s dioceses, parishes and monasteries — which are also big investors — could then buy a portion of the bonds to help the country at a time of need.

Describing the church’s holdings as “huge,” without specifying a number, the archbishop said it would “put all its property is in the country’s disposal in order to support the people, avoid the banking collapse and help the country stand on its own feet.”

He said Parliament had made the right decision in rejecting the original bailout terms “and sent a clear message to Europeans that they should learn to respect smaller countries.”

The church is the biggest stakeholder in Hellenic Bank, Cyprus’s third-biggest bank, and one of the biggest shareholders in the largest, the Bank of Cyprus. It owns hotels, extensive swaths of land and a lucrative beverage company, Keo, that produces wines, beers and bottled water and is the biggest importer of Heineken beer.

It was unclear whether the troika would find such a proposal to be part of a viable solution for Cyprus. The moves, however, are a clear sign that Cypriot institutions are trying to figure out ways to reduce the country’s dependence on international lenders and avoid the harsh terms that would be attached to a bailout from them.
530 2013-03-21 Neither Hess nor Castle has come under scrutiny in the criminal inquiry, law enforcement and company officials have said. Both companies have denied any wrongdoing. They have contended that their oil met rigorous legal specifications and have called the lawsuits baseless, saying they would fight them in court.

Court papers filed by Castle in the lawsuit say that it has an in-house laboratory that conducts daily testing to ensure its products meet the required standards, and that city inspectors are on site five days a week to test every truck leaving its terminal bound for city agencies.

Last year alone, Castle sold more than 20 million gallons of No. 4 and No. 6 fuel oil — the grades burned in older furnaces — to New York City agencies, an official said. The lawsuit claims it was mixed with waste oil, like motor oil that has been used and discarded, sludge residue from commercial boilers and other used oil and lubricants.

The lawsuits were filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The presiding justice, Shirley Werner Kornreich, signed a temporary order last week barring Hess and Castle from providing fuel that contained waste oil or that was not up to legal specifications, saying she had concerns about possible environmental hazards.

At a hearing on Wednesday, lawyers for Hess told the judge that they agreed to extending the order for a month while they prepare a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. Castle’s lawyers said they were negotiating with the plaintiffs to reach a similar agreement.

The businesses that were raided last week as part of the criminal investigation included Statewide Oil and Heating in Brooklyn — a company that is among several that deliver oil for Hess and that until 2011 delivered for Castle — and four interrelated companies that deal in waste oil: County Oil Company and J. B. Waste Oil Company in Astoria, Queens; New York Oil Recovery Corporation in Brooklyn; and Paradise Heating Oil in Ossining, N.Y.

During the raids, investigators from several state, city and federal agencies — some wearing bright yellow head-to-toe protective suits — tested oil and seized computers, reams of records and other materials, carting away more than 100 boxes of documents from one company alone, according to officials and people briefed on the matter. They will examine transactions involving hundreds of millions of gallons of oil, some dating as far back as 10 years. The inquiry is in its early stages, one official said.

The investigation, which grew out of a 2007 federal case in which two defendants pleaded guilty and cooperated with prosecutors, will examine a number of aspects of the businesses, including how transactions were recorded, how shipments were logged and how oil was tested, one official said.

Robert F. Kennedy Jr. — a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, the president of Waterkeeper Alliance and one of the lawyers who brought the lawsuit against Castle — said the environmental impact of the company’s actions were stark.

“Basically, that company has turned every boiler or furnace that it services into a toxic-waste incinerator,” Mr. Kennedy said in an interview. “When you burn waste oil, there is a tremendous amount of not only benzene, toluene and xylene, which are known carcinogens, but in addition, there is an inventory of heavy metals that are extremely toxic, including mercury, lead, arsenic, cadmium, antimony and zinc.”

But Castle, in its court papers, argued that the lawsuit’s contention that it mixed its fuel with waste oil was based on a single test of one delivery that it made last year out of 108,000, and that the suit provides no details on who conducted the test or how it was performed.

Lawyers for Statewide and for County Oil and its three related companies also denied wrongdoing and said they were cooperating with the inquiry, which is being conducted by the office of the Manhattan district attorney, the Internal Revenue Service, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, the city’s Department of Investigation, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn and other agencies, officials said.

In a statement, Statewide, which delivered oil from County, said that it “has always believed that County’s oil has met” city and state specifications and that it had no knowledge of County’s oil failing to meet specifications during random tests.

Scott N. Fein, a lawyer for the four interrelated companies, said, “We are hopeful that a resolution can be achieved reasonably quickly.”

Castle, in its court papers, said it blended oil to the city’s specifications for No. 4 and No. 6 fuel oil, which are different from applicable standards in New Jersey and New England; it also said it used some “lawfully processed” recycled oil. It argues that both practices are legal, and Mr. Fein said state and federal regulations allowed the blending of so-called virgin fuel oil with reprocessed or re-refined oil.

But the lawsuits contended that city and state contracts barred their vendors from blending.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been a proponent of helping buildings meet cleaner fuel requirements and instituted the NYC Clean Heat program in 2011, when the city adopted new regulations to phase out the use of Nos. 4 and 6 heating oils, which he has said emit soot, reduce air quality and can contribute to asthma.

The city has coordinated with banks and energy companies, including Hess, and environmental groups to establish financing to help building owners pay the cost of conversion to cleaner fuels, like natural gas, ultralow sulfur No. 2 heating oil and biodiesel. The mayor has said the conversions were expected to reduce soot pollution by 50 percent by the end of this year and prevent 300 asthma-related hospital visits.
531 2013-03-21 HONG KONG — Suntech Power, a Chinese manufacturer that became the world’s largest producer of solar panels by 2011 only to be battered by plummeting prices, announced on Wednesday evening that its main operating subsidiary had been pushed into bankruptcy by eight Chinese banks.

Suntech was the Icarus of the solar panel industry, with production that soared year after year on heavy investment, as Western investors bought up its New York-traded shares and its international debt issues. Part of a massive Chinese government effort to dominate renewable energy industries, Suntech grew to 10,000 employees in its hometown of Wuxi and even set up a small factory in Arizona to do further assembly of panels there.

But a 10-fold expansion of overall Chinese solar panel manufacturing capacity from 2008 to 2012 produced a three-quarters drop in solar panel prices, undermining the economics of the business. Rapid expansion of natural gas production in the United States and a curtailment of subsidies in the European Union also hurt solar panel prices, as did an American imposition last year of import tariffs totaling about 40 percent after an anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigation.

The European Union is also completing its own trade investigation of Chinese solar panel shipments that could lead to steep tariffs there as well.

The Chinese banks quietly asked a court on Monday in Wuxi to declare the operating subsidiary, Wuxi Suntech, to be insolvent and begin restructuring it. The operating subsidiary notified the court on Wednesday that it did not object to the insolvency petition.
532 2013-03-21 TAMPA, Fla. &#x2014; It&#x2019;s Derek Jeter, so people automatically assume he will exceed normal standards. But it is possible that not even Jeter will be able to make the Yankees&#x2019; opening day lineup less than sixth months after fracturin...
533 2013-03-21 On a recent Saturday, Sandy Yu, protected by a red parka, was one of the few sidewalk vendors who showed up along a normally jammed Fifth Avenue commercial strip in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. &#xa;   &#xa;&#x201C;Battery change &#x2014; how much?&#x20...
534 2013-03-21 McCORMACK--Sandra Danenberg, Died at home on March 20, 2013, after more than eighteen years of living with - and dying with - Alzheimer's Disease. She attended the Birch Wathen School in Manhattan, and then went on to Sarah Lawrence College, gradu...
535 2013-03-22 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Friday, selections include making Web sites accessible to people with disabilities, why Eric Schmidt uses a BlackBerry instead of an And...
536 2013-03-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
537 2013-03-22 Blogger and activist Yoani Sánchez regularly condemns the Cuban regime from her home in Havana. On her first trip abroad in nearly a decade, she also called for an end to the American embargo.
538 2013-03-22 Whether the natural gas boom could reduce the threat of climate change by fostering a switch from coal depends in part on how much gas leaks out in the course of hydraulic fracturing....
539 2013-03-22 Up Next in Movies
540 2013-03-22 The N.F.L. usually stages its season opener at the home of the Super Bowl champion, but a Ravens-Orioles scheduling conflict will keep that from happening....
541 2013-03-22 Bucks readers talk about the financial and legal implications for them if the Supreme Court overturns a ban on gay marriage....
542 2013-03-22 Gonzaga fans can take heart: Close victories by No. 1 seeds over No. 16s are not a good sign for a team’s chances to win the N.C.A.A. tournament, but there isn’t enough data to make it truly predictive....
543 2013-03-22 Business and labor communities failed to reach an agreement on the future flow of legal immigrants into a low-skilled, year-round, temporary worker visa program....
544 2013-03-22 Government officials from the British territory of Gibraltar visited Rio de Janeiro this week to promote its financial stability as well as its access to the European Union and low taxes....
545 2013-03-22 Some distressed debt investors are about to find out what exactly it is you buy when you buy American-issued debt in a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and doing business in China....
546 2013-03-22 Jon Caramanica speaks with chief pop music critic Jon Pareles, newly returned from the SXSW trenches, about his favorite music of the festival, and about the sins of capitalist intrusion into culture....
547 2013-03-22 For this stay-at home dad, advice on minimalist parenting is preaching to the choir....
548 2013-03-22 Byco, a new microfinancing site, combines old-fashioned capitalism with crowd-funding principles....
549 2013-03-22 Mr. Dougan received 7.8 million Swiss francs, or $8.2 million, for 2012, compared with 5.8 million francs for the previous year, the bank said in its annual report published on Friday....
550 2013-03-22 In nonbinding amendments tucked into the budget plan, Senate Republicans hope to erect potential new obstacles to financial rule-writing at agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation....
551 2013-03-22 Times editors and reporters supply updates from every game on the second full day of the men’s N.C.A.A. tournament....
552 2013-03-22 The Delhi High Court ruled on Friday that reporters can now start attending the trial of the Dec. 16 fatal gang rape case that has sparked widespread outrage in India....
553 2013-03-22 The British insurance firm Esure raised $917 million in one of the largest initial public offerings this year in Europe, while Santander and KBC pocketed a combined $1.5 billion through a share sale in a Polish subsidiary....
554 2013-03-22 Responding to a reader’s question: Are there things everyday businesses like contractors and plumbers should be doing with social media?...
555 2013-03-22 Serena Williams, playing in her first tournament since she regained the No. 1 ranking, routed Flavia Pennetta, 6-1, 6-1, in the second round of the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla. Sloane Stephens beat Olga Govortsova, 0-6, 6-4, 6-4. Stephens, at No. 16, is the highest-ranked American after Williams.

¶ The former tennis star Jennifer Capriati is facing stalking and battery charges after the police said she punched her ex-boyfriend on Valentine’s Day at a gym in North Palm Beach, Fla.
556 2013-03-22 She came back to Texas, where she grew up and went to college, from South Carolina, where she was insurance director and — after losing a race for lieutenant governor — a member of that state’s budget and control board. She has experience in the insurance industry, which makes her suspect to adversaries but which is required by Texas law. And she has made headlines, more or less in proportion to the number of toes she has stepped on. Critics point to her attendance at a political event for her former patron, Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, held by an insurance company in Irving. She said in public that the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association should hire a consultant to consider rate hikes based on storm experiences in various parts of the state, saying the current rates were “inadequate for the risk” and a reason that private companies blanch at writing those policies.

One of the loudest critics, Alex Winslow of the consumer advocacy group Texas Watch, said that home insurance rates had “skyrocketed” during Ms. Kitzman’s term and that she had rolled back rules created to inform doctors and patients about high out-of-network expenses before those charges were incurred. Mr. Winslow can and does go on about what he sees as her shortcomings, but the important thing is that few in the Capitol or the insurance industry — which was initially full of praise for her — are leaping to her defense.

The back and forth on Ms. Kitzman’s qualifications is a little stale, newswise. Republicans and Democrats and consumer and industry types have been talking about her since Mr. Perry brought her back to the state. What’s new is that nobody on her side has done the political and legislative spadework — the sales job — to get her the support she needs to stay in the job.

In the little civics bubble around the State Capitol, people have been talking for weeks about the current session’s slow, low-key start. The freshman class is huge. Lawmakers are mindful of how much their voters hate Congress right now and how much those lawmakers want to stay out of that boat. It has been a perfect time to lay the foundation for things that will happen — and happen quickly — during the remainder of the session. That biennial 20-week legislative extravaganza has just passed its halfway point. If Mr. Perry’s aides can assemble the votes to approve an insurance commissioner, things can move quickly from appointment to Senate Nominations Committee to the full Senate. If he would rather not haggle with senators, the governor could wait until after the session has ended and appoint an insurance commissioner then. That person would serve until the next regular legislative session in 2015. One person would be ineligible: Ms. Kitzman. Her only shot is to win reappointment and confirmation while lawmakers are in town.

To do that, she will need a majority of the 31 senators on her side. She is not there yet.
557 2013-03-22 This, remember, comes from someone who last week tagged Southeastern Conference coaches as losers for not voting him first team all-SEC even though he led the conference in scoring, 3-pointers and free-throw shooting. A 6-foot-2 junior, Henderson relishes his role as the SEC house villain.

Last Sunday, after Henderson hit a 3-pointer against Florida late in Mississippi’s 66-63 victory in the SEC championship game, he taunted Florida fans by mimicking their trademark Gator chomp. And Thursday he took one more shot at the Gators, who blew a 12-point halftime lead.

“We knew Florida was about to fold,” he said. “They were up by 12. We knew Kenny Boynton was probably going to come out and try to go get M.V.P., but we knew they had their own little seed locked up. We knew we needed it more than they needed it.”

This, now, is Bruesewitz’s biggest fan. “I don’t care about what anybody said about my swag,” Bruesewitz said. “I’ve heard about it all year. I might be the ugliest player in the Big Ten, I might be the best-looking player in the Big Ten, I have crazy red hair, you should cut your hair. I’ve heard it all, and I really don’t care, because we’ve won a lot of games and hopefully will continue to do that.”

The 6-6 Bruesewitz already took enough ribbing from teammates this week when Cosmopolitan magazine named him one of the 26 Hottest Guys of March Madness. The photo caption: “Aside from his impressive moves on the court, there’s just something about Mike’s ginger fro that makes us swoon.”

“I expected that,” Bruesewitz said, deadpan. “I don’t know what you guys are all thinking about. My teammates didn’t expect that, either. I’m not shocked. I’m a good-looking guy. I work really hard at it.”

His teammate Ryan Evans said: “That’s a good thing for him. I thought I should have been in there, but it’s good for Mike.”

Bruesewitz, who averages 6.5 points and 5.3 rebounds, may be the closest thing the Badgers have in spirit to Henderson, though his eccentricities barely compare.

Bruesewitz keeps his right arm straight and wrist flexed after shooting 3-pointers, maintaining the pose a little longer if it goes in. He reacts to good plays by slapping a palm or extending one. When Wisconsin eliminated top-seeded Indiana from the Big Ten tournament, 68-56, an excited Bruesewitz cradled the basketball and carried it to the handshake line.

The curly hairstyle salutes his older brother Robert, a 6-8 former offensive tackle at Princeton who works for the Department of Defense. One Christmas, Robert came home with a huge Afro because he refused to pay for a haircut. Mike thought it looked cool and grew out his hair his sophomore year.

“It’s not for everybody, man,” he said with a smile.

How long 12th-seeded Mississippi remains in its first N.C.A.A. tournament since 2002 depends on whether Henderson can exploit a Wisconsin team known for its defense.

The fifth-seeded Badgers led the rugged Big Ten in scoring defense (55.9 points a game) and 3-point defense (28.1 percent) and allowed 133 3-pointers, the sixth-fewest in Division 1. Henderson, in his first season at Ole Miss, set university records for 3-point baskets (131) and attempts (367) while averaging 20.1 points a game. Mississippi has not scored fewer than 62 points in a game all season; Wisconsin is 5-6 when allowing 60 or more.

“Henderson flies off screen,” Bruesewitz said. “Any glimmer of daylight, he’s pulling. He’s going to get shots and he’s probably going to get his, but we have to make him as inefficient as possible.”
558 2013-03-22 For marijuana smokers in the right neighborhoods, there is no need to go out for supplies. A dealer-businessman will come right to the door, sit at the dining room table and open a box that looks as if it could be used to display herbal tea choices in restaurants. This particular case, however, is used to show varieties of cannabis — weed — and the businessman will annotate the flavor and potency of his offerings. Bought and smoked behind closed doors, the pot in such transactions has almost no risk of attracting attention from law enforcement.

That was not the system used by Joseph Griffin, then 18, one summer night in the East New York section of Brooklyn. He walked a few blocks down Herkimer Street, made a purchase and headed back to smoke it at home.

“The plainclothes officers pulled up, and they asked me where I was going,” Mr. Griffin said. “I said, ‘Home.’ They jumped out. They was patting me down. He went into my pocket and found it. Then they put the handcuffs on.”

Mr. Griffin spent the night in one jail or another, taken from the precinct station to central booking and then to the courthouse in Brooklyn. Up to that point, his case had absorbed the energy of two police officers, a desk sergeant, a clerk who processed his paperwork and fingerprints, a driver who transported him to booking, other officers to secure him in the pen awaiting his appearance, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, an assistant district attorney, a court clerk and a court reporter to transcribe the proceedings.

Also, a judge, who instantly dismissed the case.

How much pot did Mr. Griffin have in his pocket that night?

“I had a blunt,” he said.

How much did it cost?
559 2013-03-22 Both Oregon and Cal won with strong guard play and substandard games by the opposing team’s N.B.A.-quality stars.

Oklahoma State’s Marcus Smart, a muscular, do-everything guard considered among the best freshmen in the country, had 14 points, 9 rebounds and 4 assists. But he and his teammates struggled to combat the speed and shooting touch of Oregon’s own dynamic freshman guards.

Damyean Dotson led Oregon with 17 points, while his backcourt partner, Dominic Artis, had 13. Arsalan Kazemi, a 6-7 senior, had 11 points and a game-high 17 rebounds, including a buzzer-beating putback that gave Oregon a 37-26 halftime lead. Oklahoma State never climbed within single digits again.

Cal had a tougher time shaking U.N.L.V., who beat the Bears by 1 in Berkeley in December. U.N.L.V.’s Anthony Bennett, a brawny 6-8 freshman who averaged 19 points during the season and had 25 against Cal in December, was held to 3 first-half points and 15 for the game.

Cal’s Allen Crabbe, a 6-6 junior, led the Bears with 19 points. Missed free throws by Cal allowed U.N.L.V. to narrow the deficit to 2 in the final 10 seconds, but the Bears made just enough to pull the upset.

ARIZONA 81, BELMONT 64 In this uneven college basketball season filled with upsets and defined by inconsistency, perennially scrappy Belmont seemed primed for its first N.C.A.A. tournament victory, primed to bust a bracket, as many have long predicted.

But not Thursday. Not against Arizona, a sixth seed in the West Region, a team near the end of its own uneven season. The Wildcats (26-7) dominated the Bruins (26-7) wire to wire in their tournament opener in Salt Lake City.

It was the sixth N.C.A.A. appearance for Belmont, the No. 11 seed, without a victory. For Arizona, a team that won its first 14 games but lost four conference games in February alone, it was a step in the right direction, into the round of 32.

The Wildcats will play Harvard, the 14th seed. The Belmont game seemed like a warm-up. Mark Lyons led Arizona with 23 points.

Belmont entered this game ranked fourth in the country in shooting percentage, at 49.4 percent. But the Bruins did not shoot well in the first half, making 7 of 27 shots from the field and only 2 of 13 attempts from 3-point range. Of those field goals, the sharpshooter Ian Clark made five.

For a team that made the third-most 3-pointers in Division I since 2006, it was a disaster, the worst-case scenario. The Wildcats, though, had something to do with that.

It was a matter of distance. Belmont took jump shots. Arizona pounded the ball inside. It scored more points in the paint (8-6) and more second-chance points (8-0) in the first half. It also outrebounded the Bruins by what looked like a misprint: 27-9. Those totals only increased as the game went on, as did Arizona’s lead.

Belmont mounted a short-lived comeback in the second half. Lyons drove the middle and threw down a thunderous dunk, and then it was onward for the Wildcats. GREG BISHOP

MEMPHIS 54, ST. MARY’S 52 Memphis would not stop going, just going, up and down the court, it seemed, until each possession ended in some spectacular crash. There were big blocks and bad turnovers, missed shots and huge dunks. The chaos did not stop, not until St. Mary’s had one last chance to end it.

The Gaels banked in a 3-pointer with 3.1 seconds left to close the gap to 2 points. Then the ensuing inbounds pass was tipped off the face of Memphis’s Joe Jackson and out of bounds. St. Mary’s had possession, on the Memphis baseline, with 1.9 seconds left.

Matthew Dellavedova, the star guard at St. Mary’s, set a screen and then made a break for the corner. He caught the inbounds pass behind the arc, turned, leapt, hung for a moment with the defender there and heaved a shot toward the basket. It missed, and he covered his face with his hands and then his jersey. His teammates consoled him.

“I had a good look,” Dellavedova said while slouched in the locker room afterward. He shook his head. His eyes were red. “It was just too long.”

Just barely did Memphis, the No. 6 seed in the Midwest Region, survive 11th-seeded St. Mary’s in Auburn Hills, Mich. Memphis Coach Josh Pastner smiled as he walked off the court and yelled to friends. He was grateful for every win, he said. This was his first N.C.A.A. tournament win in the four seasons since he took over for John Calipari.

When Dellavedova made one of two free throws with 24.2 seconds left, St. Mary’s trailed by 5. Dellavedova, in particular, had been harassed by the Tigers’ defense. He was bumped, bullied and double-teamed. He played for all 40 minutes and finished with 7 assists, 6 turnovers and 10 points, on 3-of-13 shooting.

“It was hard for him to get a good look, the way they were playing him,” St. Mary’s Coach Randy Bennett said. He added: “For him to do what he did is remarkable. Wish he hit would have hit that last shot. And so does he.” TIM ROHAN

COLORADO ST. 84, MISSOURI 72 Colorado State outmuscled and outhustled Missouri, riding 26 points from Dorian Green and a 36-18 rebounding advantage to a Midwest Region victory in Lexington, Ky. The eighth-seeded Rams led for the final 38 minutes, but they pulled away with a 17-4 second-half run to secure the program’s first N.C.A.A. tournament triumph since 1989. BEN SHPIGEL

ST. LOUIS 64, NEW MEXICO ST. 44 Dwayne Evans had 24 points, and fourth-seeded St. Louis overwhelmed 13th-seeded New Mexico State (24-11) in San Jose behind a dominating defense.

Playing with a heavy heart since Coach Rick Majerus died in December, the Billikens (28-6) eclipsed the 1988-89 team’s program record of 27 victories and are back where they were a year ago, in the round of 32.

“It was like Rick was up on top of the backboard slapping the ball out,” Aggies Coach Marvin Menzies said. (AP)

MICHIGAN 71, S. DAKOTA ST. 56 Glenn Robinson III scored 21 points and, helping fourth-seeded Michigan overcome a rough night for Trey Burke in a win over 13th-seeded South Dakota State in Auburn Hills.

Burke, the Wolverines’ star point guard, made only two field goals and left the game briefly in the second half after a hard fall under the basket. He came back after that, but he finished with 6 points and was held in single digits for the first time all season.

South Dakota State (25-10) trailed by only 4 at halftime but could not keep up. The high-scoring guard Nate Wolters was held to 10 points. (AP)

LOUISVILLE 79, N.C. A&T 48 Russ Smith scored 23 points and set a Louisville N.C.A.A. tournament record with a career-high eight steals, and the top-seeded Cardinals demolished North Carolina A&T in Lexington.

Louisville finished with a season-high 20 steals as it forced the Aggies (20-17) into 27 turnovers. It was the 11th straight win for the Cardinals (30-5), who will play Colorado State on Saturday. (AP)

MICHIGAN ST. 65, VALPARAISO 54 Derrick Nix had 23 points and a career-high 15 rebounds to help power third-seeded Michigan State past 14th-seeded Valparaiso (26-8) in Auburn Hills.

The Spartans (26-8) took control with a 26-5 run in the first half and will play Memphis on Saturday. (AP)

Tray Woodall, Pitt’s leading scorer this season, who went into the game averaging 11.8 points, was held to 2 points while going 1 of 12 from the field.

The Shockers (27-8) will face No. 1-ranked Gonzaga on Saturday. (AP)

V.C.U. 88, AKRON 42 Troy Daniels had 23 points, and V.C.U. (27-8) beat Akron in Auburn Hills in the most lopsided victory by a fifth-seeded team over a No. 12 in N.C.A.A. tournament history.

The previous mark was set by Wyoming in a 35-point win over Howard in 1981 and was matched by Tennessee against Long Beach State in 2007, according to Stats.

Akron (26-7) played without the suspended point guard Alex Abreul. In addition, the starting guard Brian Walsh and the reserve center Pat Forsythe were limited by the flu, and the reserve guard Deji Ibitayo was not even in uniform because of back spasms. (AP)

SYRACUSE 81, MONTANA 34 Brandon Triche scored 20 points, C. J. Fair added 13, and fourth-seeded Syracuse shut down 13th-seeded Montana with its zone defense in San Jose.

Michael Carter-Williams chipped in 4 points, 8 rebounds and 9 assists as the Orange (27-9) raced out to an early lead that grew as high as 50 points. Syracuse coasted past the Grizzlies (25-7) to its most lopsided tournament win since it beat Brown, 101-52, in the first round in 1986. (AP)
560 2013-03-22 Poland’s first openly gay and transgender members of Parliament were elected in 2011. But their reception, even from the most prominent members of society, has been anything but a universal embrace. Lech Walesa, the former president, revered anti-Communist opposition leader and Nobel Peace Prize winner, surprised many here when he declared that gay lawmakers should be sitting in the back rows of the Polish Parliament, “or even behind a wall.”

Dorota Chojna, 39, a volunteer who has helped repair the burned rainbow, said in a telephone interview that she felt uneasy. “As a homosexual person, I don’t feel safe in Warsaw,” she said. “I became involved in the rebuilding to oppose pervasive homophobia, among other reasons.”

Poland’s economy has thrived in recent years, avoiding the deep recessions that have plagued its neighbors in Eastern Europe as well as the stagnation that has set in among countries to the west. But like many societies in the former Soviet bloc, Poland is divided between those who have benefited from the dynamic economy and those who feel left behind by rapid change, social as well as economic.

The rainbow was not the first work of public art to receive criticism here in Poland’s capital. While the city has long featured statues of kings, saints and the beloved composer Chopin, a 50-foot artificial palm tree by the artist Joanna Rajkowska caused confusion and no small amount of consternation when it was erected in 2002. A work about the city’s lost Jewish population — referring to the warmer climate in Israel — the palm tree has slowly been accepted as part of the city’s skyline.

“If the city is to develop, it needs new symbols,” said Ms. Rajkowska, who supports the rainbow.

Known as Plac Zbawiciela in Polish, Savior Square takes its name from the 19th-century Church of the Holiest Savior, whose twin spires tower over it. But the square is also known as Plac Hipstera, or hipster square. While older residents in overcoats and berets go to Mass at the church, minor celebrities and affluent teenagers sip lattes, all within sight of the damaged arch.

The structure was first installed in front of the European Parliament in Brussels in September 2011, to honor Poland’s turn at the rotating presidency of the European Union. Ms. Wojcik, its creator, said in an interview at the Zacheta National Gallery of Art in Warsaw that the rainbow was intended as a symbol of tolerance.

“In 2011, Poland was seen as a homophobic country,” she said. “I wanted to show that we’re not closed, but open-minded.”

Ms. Wojcik brought the rainbow back to Poland last June, in time for the European soccer championships that Poland hosted with neighboring Ukraine. Then the trouble began.

Originally covered with some 16,000 artificial flowers, the rainbow quickly turned into a giant Rorschach test for residents. To some, the rainbow is just a rainbow. “I think about the happiness in life,” said Jadwiga Wilczynska, 78, smiling as she looked at the sculpture.

To Wlodzimierz Paszynski, the deputy mayor of Warsaw, “It’s a sign of unity; it evokes warm feelings.”

Ms. Wojcik, 42, said: “The rainbow is not a pro- or anti-gay declaration. It’s about tolerance, diversity, openness.” She said her goal was to strip the rainbow of all its political meaning, leaving the interpretation open and making it a bridge of mutual tolerance. She apparently did not succeed in that goal, since the one reading of the sculpture has overshadowed any others.

At least one of the four fires has been deemed an accident from New Year’s fireworks. In another fire, the perpetrator was inebriated and, according to the Warsaw police, he did not disclose his motives. The other two fires remain unsolved.

Some insist that there is no larger goal behind the attacks. “It’s just vandalism,” said Maria Klosinska, whose sister owns Charlotte, a bistro on the square.

But the critic Roman Pawlowski wrote on the Polish online news site gazeta.pl that calling the arson “vandalism” was a euphemism. “Actually, we’re dealing with an act of terror,” he wrote.

The Rev. Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Jesuit priest, reminded readers of the Roman Catholic weekly Idziemy that rainbows have other connotations. “When we see a rainbow in the sky, we shouldn’t think about gay activists, but about Noah’s covenant with God,” he wrote.

The rainbow was meant to be a temporary fixture, but city authorities agreed to push back the date of its dismantling several times, and in February they decided to leave it there for another year. At night it becomes a jungle gym for adults, many of whom have been enjoying time in a nearby bar, who climb on top and even crawl inside the steel frame.

For a planned refurbishing, the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, a publicly financed organization that sponsored the rainbow, is looking for flame-resistant materials. But some feel that for a city scarred by war and Communism, the tattered, slightly charred version of the rainbow is fitting.

“It’s a testimony of sorts,” said Marcin Malenczyk, the owner of Karma Coffee, one of the cafes on the square. “It’s good that it’s had its adventures.”
561 2013-03-22 BEAVERTON, Ore. (AP) — Nike, the athletic clothing and equipment maker, said on Thursday that its income rose 55 percent in its most recent quarter as a resurgence in North America and easing material costs helped offset continued weakness in China.

Nike beat expectations, and its shares rose 8 percent in after-hours trading.

Nike has been dealing with Europe’s fluctuating economy and a slowdown in growth in China. The company has been reducing its inventory in China and reworking its offerings there to adapt to the changing tastes of Chinese consumers.

It also has been focusing on growth in North America, selling off less profitable brands like Umbro to focus on core brands like Nike.

The company’s quarterly results show Nike’s strategy is paying off in North America, but it still faces weakness in China. North American revenue, which accounts for 40 percent of all revenue, rose 18 percent to $2.55 billion. Revenue in China, which accounts for 10 percent of revenue, was down 9 percent to $635 million.

“The U.S. business continues to be just phenomenal,” said Paul Swinand, a Morningstar analyst. But he added that “for real long-term growth to be solid, it has got to come from China and emerging markets.”
562 2013-03-22 “It’s like moving a small town from city to city, and then you put on a show,” said Mike Stuart, the 42-year-old director of operations.

While Brooklyn may now be the It borough for cuisine and the arts, its circus tradition extends back more than a century. Barnum first staged his circus in Brooklyn — then an independent city — in 1871, because he had leased the use of his name in New York City to a museum operator, according to Matthew Wittmann, a historian who organized the recent “Circus and the City” exhibition at the Bard Graduate Center.

Barnum’s Brooklyn circus — an ancestor of the Barclays Ringling Brothers show — then went on tour, and soon the impresario bought back the right to use his name in New York. In 1884 he paraded 21 elephants across the Brooklyn Bridge from Manhattan, an immense sensation, and for many decades Brooklyn was a circus fixture, Dr. Wittmann said. A typical pattern, he added, was to open at Madison Square Garden for four to six weeks, “and then go to Brooklyn to play under canvas before heading out on a larger national tour.”

This made the debut at Barclays, which opened last year, something of a homecoming — the first time the full Ringling Brothers circus performed in Brooklyn since May 14, 1938, Dr. Wittmann said, although it briefly established a feisty one-ring tent show in Coney Island in 2009 and ’10.

It is coincidence that the new show’s theme is about the building of a circus — the elephants wear hard hats, clowns wield gargantuan wrenches. As if in a nod to its new arena, it is titled “Built to Amaze!”

Mr. Ratner said it was “appropriate” for a show about the building of the circus to inhabit Barclays, which for much of a decade was a contentious neighborhood construction saga that involved, in addition to discord over the arena itself, yearslong reconstructions of a subway entrance and the underground Atlantic Avenue railroad tracks. Mr. Ratner also said that the circus and “Disney on Ice,” both owned by Feld Entertainment, were important enough bookings “for us to customize the arena for them.”

Mr. Stuart of Ringling Brothers dissected the Barclays blueprints and visited the construction site three years ago to offer some requirements. As a result the performance-level corridors were made wider and higher to accommodate the elephants, the arena floor was redesigned to provide moorings for the show’s 70,000-pound steel aerial lighting truss, the power system was reconfigured for the circus grid, and the spotlight platforms were relocated.

As it is for arenas around the country, Ringling Brothers is important to the Barclays balance sheet, its image and its rate of occupancy. Barclays has agreed to an expensive five-year contract with Feld because the company’s shows are arena ornaments.

“Our arena has been very much about basketball,” Mr. Ratner said, “but only 30 percent of those in Brooklyn have a keen interest in the sport.”

Nicole Feld, who, with her sister Alana, produces the Ringling Brothers show, said that circus customers are “a rich mix,” with potential to expand Barclays’ marketing efforts beyond the arena’s base of sports and concert fans.

Ringling executives said they hoped the Garden’s construction schedule would permit a return to Manhattan next year, something Mr. Ratner did not seem concerned about.

“There is a huge circus audience for both arenas,” Mr. Ratner said. “Brooklyn’s population is larger than Manhattan’s, and a lot of people who come here ordinarily wouldn’t travel to the circus in Manhattan.”

As for the circus performers and crew, Nicole Feld acknowledged that doing the show in Brooklyn came with logistical challenges. For one thing, the mile-long circus train cannot park next to Barclays, so everything must be trucked in from a railroad siding in Secaucus, N.J. And instead of rolling out of their circus-train bunks and strolling into the arena — a transportation proximity that many arenas make possible — the performers are being bused to Brooklyn from the train in Secaucus.

“We got stuck in traffic, but hopefully that’s unusual in New York,” said Flavia Alves, a Brazilian dancer and solo aerialist in the show, who said she is new to the city.

And the show’s eight elephants? For them it was an excellent adventure just to arrive at the new arena, although they did not walk across the Brooklyn Bridge, Barnum style. They were driven in three trucks, accompanied by their handlers, from the Nassau Coliseum, where they had finished their previous run. Once at Barclays the elephants traveled down to the performance level not by plodding on ramps, as is their custom, but by riding in the building’s mammoth 80-foot-long elevators — a first for the show’s elephants, according to Mr. Stuart.

Emerging from the elevators the elephants crossed a huge turntable — akin to a locomotive roundhouse — on the way to their new stalls. “They were very cautious,” said Brian French, a seventh-generation circus man who is the show’s elephant manager.

Mr. French said that some of the eight — all females (circus folk call them “girls”) — are in their late 50s and have been in more than 100 arenas, some of which no longer exist.

“Their memories are so phenomenal that they remember the layouts of every one of them,” he said. “But Barclays is all new, and they were nervous.”

So they sniffed everything with their trunks. They stepped cautiously. They adjusted to new sights, sounds and activity. And after a few minutes, ruminantly munching hay, they became settled new Brooklyn residents.
563 2013-03-22 PARIS — The United Nations Human Rights Council voted on Thursday in Geneva to create a three-person commission to look into allegations of human rights violations in North Korea, including food deprivation, labor camps for political prisoners and torture.

The 47-member council was unanimous in adopting a resolution sponsored by the European Union and Japan and backed by the United States. With no Chinese or Russian vote on the current council, North Korea lacked an ally willing to oppose the inquiry.

The commission, to run for a year, will include Marzuki Darusman, an Indonesian lawyer and special rapporteur for the council who wrote a report identifying various human rights violations, including the kidnapping of foreigners and a system of labor camps that hold an estimated 200,000 prisoners. He said the situation had worsened since Kim Jong-un took over after his father’s death in December 2011.

The North Korean ambassador to the United Nations, So Se Pyong, rejected the commission as “an instrument that serves the political purposes of the hostile forces in their attempt to discredit the image” of North Korea, and denied that any human rights abuses existed in his country. A week ago, he told the council that the proposed commission was a United Nations plot and denounced the report as “fake material.”

North Korea is being watched especially closely these days for saber rattling and threats of warfare.
564 2013-03-22 Visitors to the New Museum’s recent exhibition “Ghosts in the Machine” may remember an eerie installation of a black-lighted moving grid. Chances are they had never heard of the artist, Gianni Colombo, even if they knew of his contemporary Lucio Fontana.

Now a Chelsea gallery is giving Mr. Colombo his first solo show in the United States (a posthumous one; he died in 1993). It’s transporting and, with postwar abstraction the focus of several current museum surveys, well timed. It includes kinetic, interactive paintings and small models of participatory environments, or ambienti, as well as early ceramics with movable parts.

At the center is a full-scale example from the ambienti series, “Baristesia” (1974-5), which consists of sloped and tilted staircases that force you to adjust your posture as you ascend and descend. Though not challenging, they can be mildly disorienting, especially with the pulsing, wobbling wall-based works in view.

Those pieces toy with the modernist grid in ways that are sometimes gimmicky but almost always have unsettling bodily associations. The polystyrene blocks of “Struzzurazione Pulsante” (1959) heave like an expanding rib cage; the dots on the synthetic-fur monochrome of “Supercicie in Varazione” (1959) become puckering orifices when manipulated by wooden levers at the bottom of the panel. (Gallery staffers will operate the works on request.)

Bridging the paintings and the ambienti are two motorized mobile sculptures of open cubes, perfectly installed in front of a wall of widows with open views. As they stretch and twist they suggest tesseracts and other difficult-to-imagine math concepts and at the same time seem to reconfigure the skyline. It’s hard to find a more beautiful, or concise, articulation of postwar art’s cognitive and spatial flexibility.
565 2013-03-22 That presentation was made to a JPMorgan group called the International Senior Management Group of the Chief Investment Office, which seems to have approved it.

If the proposal does not make sense to you, don’t despair. It is largely gibberish.

“This proposal,” the Senate report states, “encompassed multiple, complex credit trading strategies, using jargon that even the relevant actors and regulators could not understand.” The subcommittee asked officials of both JPMorgan’s Chief Investment Office, or C.I.O., and its regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, just what that meant. Nobody seemed to know. (Mr. Iksil, safely overseas, chose not to talk to the subcommittee staff.)

Ina Drew, the bank’s chief investment officer at the time, who supervised the group, said she did not know. One risk officer at the bank said he thought Mr. Iksil was simply proposing a strategy of buying low and selling high. Of course, that is a fine strategy if markets cooperate. But anyone who simply proposed that would have been seen to be blowing smoke. Use all that jargon, and some people will assume you are actually saying something.

The comptroller’s office was able to explain some of what was said, but no one seemed to be sure just what a “belly tranch” might be. The subcommittee speculated it might refer to a security with more credit risk than the safest ones, but less risk than the riskiest ones.

In any case, after the meeting Mr. Iksil embarked on a disastrous strategy that led to larger and larger losses. The portfolio he was running — which the bank initially said was a hedge to reduce its exposure to a general deterioration of credit conditions — became one that would benefit from credit conditions improving.

Over the next two months, as the losses grew, neither senior bank officials nor regulators seem to have had a good understanding of what was happening.

The bank officials were preoccupied with making the mess seem less messy. That involved what they called defensive trading — buying what they already owned to keep market values from falling further — and, when that did not work, fudging the valuations. It involved changing risk models to make what was going on seem to be less risky than it was, and coming up with creative ways to calculate how much capital was really needed.

The regulators seem to have been in their own “see no evil, hear no evil” world. When they eventually had to pay attention, the comptroller’s officials were not bothered by the bank’s withholding of information from them. Instead, one top official dismissed the entire problem as little more than “an embarrassing incident.” Comptroller’s officials immediately said the trades were perfectly proper hedges, something that turned out to be untrue.

“The ability of C.I.O. personnel to hide hundreds of millions of dollars of additional losses over the span of three months, and yet survive internal valuation reviews, shows how imprecise, undisciplined and open to manipulation the current process is for valuing credit derivatives,” the subcommittee reports states. “This weak valuation process is all the more troubling given the high-risk nature of synthetic credit derivatives, the lack of any underlying tangible assets to stem losses, and the speed with which substantial losses can accumulate and threaten a bank’s profitability.”

Eventually, Ms. Drew became furious and ordered the trading halted in late March. That came after she concluded she had been deceived about how much trading was going on and became upset by wildly varying estimates of just how much “risk-weighted capital” was needed to back the trading positions. It was, she explained to the subcommittee staff, making her appear “incompetent.”

Risk-weighted capital, by the way, is a tale unto itself. Banks calculate how much capital they need based not on total assets, but on how risky the assets are. Gaming those calculations seems to have been a preoccupation at the bank.

One way to respond to this is to say the regulators need to do a better job, and to be less willing to believe what they are told. The so-called Volcker Rule, which is supposed to stop banks from engaging in proprietary trading but allow them to hedge or engage in market-making activities, should be completed and strictly enforced.

It is hard to disagree with that prescription, but perhaps even harder to believe that it can be effectively administered.

What evidence is there that playing in these opaque and complicated derivatives markets has helped banks do the job that justifies giving them the benefit of deposit insurance? That job involves the allocation of capital, the maintenance of payment systems and the protection of depositors. Why let banks play in these markets at all?

If we are going to allow that, then there is a case for smaller banks. If one of them turns out to be as incompetent and dishonest as this one was, at least the bank would not be critical to the system, and the losses presumably would be much less than the $6.2 billion JPMorgan eventually owned up to.

I called Anat Admati, a Stanford professor and co-author of an insightful new book, “The Bankers’ New Clothes,” which advocates forcing banks to be far better capitalized than they are now, with less debt and more equity, as they were before deposit insurance was created. I asked what she thought of the Senate report. “We discover these risks when it is too late,” she said. “Next time it could be $10 billion.”

Back in 2008, when the financial system was starting to teeter, regulators assured us the banks were well capitalized. They were wrong then, and this report does not reassure us that the regulators have a much better handle on the situation now.

“My first stress test,” Ms. Admati told me, “is the test of prosecution.” She noted a recent comment by Eric H. Holder Jr., the attorney general, that some banks were so large that he feared it would “have a negative impact on the national economy, perhaps even the world economy,” if criminal charges were filed against the bank.

“If the economy cannot stand them being prosecuted,” she said, “they fail the stress test.”

Nearly two decades ago, one of the great names in international banking, Barings, disappeared. It was destroyed by a fraud committed by Nick Leeson, a trader based in Singapore, who became a star by reporting huge profits from a trading strategy involving derivatives that, by today’s standards, were remarkably simple.

In reality, there were no profits, just big losses that he managed to conceal until the firm collapsed.

When auditors and bosses asked how he was making all that money, Mr. Leeson later explained, he responded with meaningless but impressive-sounding jargon.

“Luckily for my fraud, there were too many chiefs who would chat about it at arm’s length but never go further,” Mr. Leeson wrote in his memoir. “And they never dared ask me any basic questions, since they were afraid of looking stupid about not understanding futures and options.”

Not much has changed.
566 2013-03-22 The marriage was arranged by the families, and socially advantageous. Was it a love match? Hard to say. Dürer ended up writing snide things about Agnes to friends; there were no children. Still, a quick ink sketch he did of her just before the wedding feels affectionate. He depicted her as plain, a gawkily pensive girl with flyaway hair; under her figure he wrote the simple phrase, “Mein Agnes.”

Yet soon after his marriage, Dürer was traveling again, alone. This time he headed to Italy via the Alps, sketching plein-air landscapes as he went. Venice was his goal; he stayed about two years. When he returned again to Nuremberg, in 1496, he brought Italy, or the experience of Italian art, with him, and settled down to deal with it, make it his own.

He had already started copying Italian prints; now he began a process of adapting Classical motifs to the Gothic conventions. The results, with their twisted, strenuous grace, aren’t easy to love, but they are invariably interesting. Like postmodern hybrids, their power lies exactly in the fact that they seem unsettled, disruptive, on edge.

In an engraving called “The Sea Monster,” from around 1498, a nude woman, looking distressed, reclines on the back of a Triton who appears to be carrying her away. The story’s not clear; Dürer may have cooked it up just to do a nude. In any case, his attention seems drawn equally, if not more, by the background, a tree-garnished northern landscape of mountains and fortress-towns, realistically detailed down to each leaf and stone. Once our eyes go there, they tend to stay there, absorbed in nature, leaving the lady and her monster behind, odd Mediterranean strays in an alpensee.

Over all, the first third or so of the show feels disjunctive in this way. It’s a tour through the mechanics of an ambitious career in formation, as Dürer unsmoothly cuts and pastes images, shakes up mediums and illustrates theories about perspective and portion. Sometimes the pedagogue wins out, as in dry diagrams of body types. Sometimes, fabulously, the sensualist-realist prevails.

In the 1503 watercolor “Virgin and Child With a Multitude of Animals and Plants,” he turns the world into a vast petting zoo. In the “Great Piece of Turf,” from the same year, he gives an insect’s-eye view of a clump of grass that is also a mini-Eden, atremble with succulent life.

After his second stay in Venice, from 1505 to 1507, the hard-to-mesh parts in his art came together, particularly in his studies for paintings: images of heads, draped cloth and expressive hands — as often as not his own — drawn in dark ink and light wash on colored paper. Forms he might once have treated as cranky, Germanic grotesques — an aged apostle’s head, for example — now have a highly polished, sculptural sheen. He was at the peak of his powers, riding the crest of his fame, when, in 1512, he landed a powerful patron in Emperor Maximilian I, who asked Dürer to paint his portrait. A superb bust-length chalk drawing in the show is a souvenir of the commission.

What Dürer was angling for was a lifetime imperial pension, and he got one, though at the price of taking on hackwork. Along with other court artists, he was ordered to design an array of ceremonial stage props to enhance the emperor’s status visually. Most of this stuff — chariots, arches, froufrou armor — was just shiny, expensive junk, and a waste of creative energy. Dürer probably came to think so when, in 1519, Maximilian died, and to the artist’s shock, the pension was revoked. But by then Dürer had already been going through something, a psychological or spiritual crisis, or a series of them. Traces are there in the art.

In 1513 his mother, to whom he was deeply attached, sickened and died a painful death, and Dürer produced three of his most densely detailed and symbolically fraught images, the engravings titled “Knight, Death and the Devil,” “St. Jerome in His Study” and “Melancolia I.” Seen side by side on a gallery wall, they’re the optical equivalent of stages of mourning, from stoicism, to denial to nightmarish despair.

Existentially unnerved, the artist also began to dwell on the figure of Martin Luther, expressing an interest in painting him. Dürer ultimately may not have left Roman Catholicism behind, but his faith was shaken. He kept producing religious images, though some of the latest pieces in the exhibition, which has been organized by Andrew Robison, senior curator of prints and drawings at the National Gallery, are of secular or quasi-secular subjects.

In 1520, feeling financially stretched, Dürer traveled to the Netherlands and Cologne to hawk his prints, sketching, as always, as he went. He drew a view of Antwerp harbor with a few faultless pen strokes in otherwise empty space. In a zoo in Ghent, he saw his first live lions and drew them too, swiftly, softly, in silverpoint, the medium of his youth.

On this trip, for a change, Agnes, by now a stout matron, came with him. He sketched her in casual half-length. Wearing a bulky bonnet with a scarflike chin strap, she is shown glancing off to one side, as if appraising everything around her, heavy-featured, cool-eyed, unromantic, skeptical, a Nuremberg hausfrau. Yet he had depicted her a few years earlier in a very different way, in a study for a painting called “The Virgin and Child With Saint Anne,” now in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

In that drawing, she is Anne, mother of Mary, grandmother of Jesus. She wears the same bulging headpiece, but now it tightly encloses her face, coming down to her eyebrows, covering her chin, so that just her mouth, slightly smiling, and her eyes, one focused forward, the other drifting off, are visible. Set against a black ground, she’s a monument, marble-carved, and a spiritual force; and she’s Agnes, his Agnes, the grounded, stay-at-home spouse of a brilliant international star and, you suspect, a source of the realness behind his shine.
567 2013-03-22 Mr. Ban called the reports of chemical weapons use “disturbing,” and said he had sent two letters to Mr. Assad since the conflict began two years ago, reminding him that any chemical weapons stockpiles his country has should be secured.

“I have repeatedly stated that use of chemical weapons by any side under any circumstance would constitute an outrageous crime,” Mr. Ban said, adding that anyone who used them “must be held responsible.”

Mr. Ban said the inquiry would investigate the reports about Aleppo and “contribute to the safety and security of chemical weapons stockpiles in Syria.” He said the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the World Health Organization would take the lead in organizing the investigation.

Susan E. Rice, the American envoy to the United Nations, issued a statement saying that the United States welcomed the United Nations investigation, stressing that “any and all credible allegations” should be pursued.

The Syrian government should provide unfettered access to “all relevant individuals and locations,” it said. Humanitarian workers should be allowed in to treat the injured, the statement also said. It repeated previous American warnings that there would be “consequences” if the Assad government used or failed to secure chemical weapons.

The chemical weapons claims on Wednesday were immediately entangled in the longstanding sharp divisions between Russia, Syria’s most powerful remaining ally, and Western states that oppose the Damascus government. The accusations and demands for an outside investigation ignited a tense discussion in the Security Council about how to respond.

The Syrian ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari, told reporters that his government had requested an official inquiry to corroborate its claims that insurgents, not government forces, were behind the attack. Mr. Jaafari said he had delivered a letter to Mr. Ban’s office seeking a “specialized, independent and neutral technical mission” to investigate the use of chemical weapons by the opposition.

The opposition has denied possessing or using chemical weapons. In the Security Council debate, France said the United Nations should investigate the opposition’s accusations against the government, in Aleppo Province and in the Damascus suburbs. Russia responded by accusing the West of trying to create a diversion.

The Russian envoy, Vitaly I. Churkin, said the United States, France and others were engaged in “delaying tactics.” “Instead of launching those propaganda balloons, it is better to get our focus right,” said Mr. Churkin, adding that the Western demands echoed the demands more than a decade ago for inspections in Iraq, which failed to find any chemical weapons.

Mr. Churkin and Mr. Jaafari each suggested that the opposition faked a chemical attack by the government to provoke international intervention. The Syrian ambassador said it would not be surprising for the opposition to try to manufacture a crisis while President Obama was visiting the region.

The French envoy, Gerard Araud, sarcastically referring to Mr. Churkin’s summary of the council debate as “fascinating,” said France and its allies wanted the United Nations to investigate all possible incidents. “It is not a question of delay; it is a question of looking at all the allegations which have been tabled,” Mr. Araud said.

That position was echoed by Britain and the United States. “The facts are not clear at the moment, and this is the whole point,” said Philip Parham, Britain’s deputy permanent representative.

France and Britain sent their own letter to Mr. Ban later Thursday demanding that all chemical weapons accusations emerging from Syria be thoroughly documented, including the latest two and one from Homs in December. The United Nations can claim a mandate to investigate matters beyond those requested by the Syrian government, Security Council diplomats said.
568 2013-03-22 BEIJING — Three Tibetans from Qinghai Province have been given prison sentences for “inciting state secession,” according to a statement on an official provincial Web site. On Monday, a court in Haidong Prefecture sentenced the Tibetans — Kalsang Dhondup, Jigme Thabkey and Lobsang — to terms of six, five and four years, respectively. The online announcement said that the men used self-immolations by Tibetans for publicity purposes and circulated texts and photographs related to Tibetan independence, spreading “bad influence locally and internationally.” Since 2009, at least 109 Tibetans have set fire to themselves to protest Chinese rule, and most have died. To deter the act, Chinese officials are trying to prosecute people associated with those who commit self-immolation. Tibetans opposed to Chinese rule say those who self-immolated did it out of frustration with Chinese policies.
569 2013-03-22 “Government requests for online data are like the dark matter of the Internet,” said Eva Galperin, a global policy analyst at the Electronic Frontier Foundation in San Francisco, which has campaigned for greater disclosure.

Ms. Galperin said that even with Microsoft’s disclosures, fewer than 10 companies published the extent of their cooperation with law enforcement agencies.

“Only a few companies report this, but they are only a very small percent of the online universe,” she said. “So any one company that joins the disclosure effort is good news. The faster this becomes a standard for all Web businesses, the better.”

The law enforcement requests concerned users of Microsoft services including Hotmail, Outlook.com, SkyDrive, Skype and Xbox Live, where people are typically asked to enter their personal details to obtain service.

Google was the first major Web business, in 2010, to report the number of legal requests it had received for information. Since then, Twitter, LinkedIn and some smaller companies have also begun reporting, but big businesses like Apple and Yahoo have not.

Microsoft also resisted at first. In January, a group of more than 100 Internet activists and digital rights groups signed a petition asking the company to disclose its data-handling practices for Skype, the Internet voice and video service it bought in 2011.

But Microsoft did provide two types of detail in its transparency report that rivals have not addressed in similar fashion.

It described the reasons it had rejected some requests, and it listed separately by country how it had responded to requests for the content of communications and for noncontent data.

It also published separate information for Skype, which is based in Luxembourg and is subject to national and European Union laws.

In 4,713 cases last year, Microsoft disclosed administrative details of Skype accounts — like a user’s Skype ID, name, e-mail address and billing information, as well as call detail records if a person subscribed to a Skype service that connects to a telephone number.

But Microsoft said it had released no content from Skype transmissions last year. It has said that the peer-to-peer nature of Skype’s Internet conversations means the company does not store and has no access to past conversations.

The countries that made the most requests and received information from Microsoft for Skype noncontent information last year, in descending order, were Britain, the United States, Germany, France and Taiwan, which together accounted for about 80 percent of the requests.

Microsoft did not disclose the total number of requests it had received for Skype information, but said it aimed to do so in its next report later this year.

Brad Smith, an executive vice president at Microsoft and the company’s general counsel, said that the number of requests Microsoft received last year covered only a tiny fraction of its huge customer base, which the company estimates is in the hundreds of millions.

Mr. Smith said in a blog post that the requests in 2012 had affected less than 0.02 percent of Microsoft account holders. He wrote that Microsoft, like all global businesses, must comply with requests from law enforcement, but that the company had set high standards for doing so.

Law enforcement agencies must present a subpoena or its foreign equivalent to obtain noncontent data about Microsoft users, Mr. Smith wrote. To obtain the contents of e-mails and other communications, the company requires agencies to submit a warrant, which is issued in the United States by a court judge and in Britain by the home secretary.

Microsoft rejected requests for data in 18 percent of cases last year, mostly because it could not find any information on the individuals named or because law enforcement officials had not demonstrated the proper legal justification for the requests, the company said.

It also said it had received a minuscule number of requests for data on businesses.

In 2012, Microsoft said, it received only 11 requests for information on business clients and complied in four instances, either after it had obtained consent from the business or when it already had in effect a contract permitting it to disclose the information.

“Like every company, we are obligated to comply with legally binding requests from law enforcement, and we respect and appreciate the role that law enforcement personnel play in so many countries to protect the public’s safety,” Mr. Smith wrote in his blog post. “As we continue to move forward, Microsoft is committed to respecting human rights, free expression and individual privacy.”
570 2013-03-22 Sales of existing homes reached a three-year high in February and their prices rose, the National Association of Realtors said on Thursday, adding to signs of an acceleration in the housing recovery even though the supply of properties on the market increased.

The association said sales increased 0.8 percent to an annual rate of 4.98 million units last month, the highest level since November 2009. The January sales rate was revised up to 4.94 million units from the previously reported 4.92 million units.

Economists polled by Reuters had expected sales to rise to a five-million-unit rate. Homes took about 74 days to sell in February, according to the median estimate, down from 97 days a year ago.

In another report, the Labor Department said the number of Americans seeking unemployment aid barely changed last week, while the average over the last month fell to a five-year low. The decline in layoffs is helping to strengthen the job market.

Weekly unemployment benefit applications rose just 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 336,000, the department said.

Over the last four weeks, the average number of applications has dropped by 7,500, to 339,750. That is the lowest level since February 2008, just three months into the recession.
571 2013-03-22 Experts warned, however, that the deposit-tax plan might need to be revisited unless the government found other means to reach the goal of 5.8 billion euros, or $7.5 billion, needed to satisfy international negotiators.

The central bank said the new package included “consolidation measures” to enable Cyprus Popular Bank, also known as Laiki Bank, to continue operating.

As the country’s most troubled lender, it would be reorganized by placing underperforming loans and questionable assets into a so-called bad bank and transferring healthy assets to the Bank of Cyprus, the nation’s largest financial institution. By effectively shutting down one of the banks needing support, the government would lower the large tab for supporting the banking system.

But the central bank warned that if Parliament failed to pass the measure, “Laiki will default immediately, causing major consequences to its employees and its clients.”

Lawmakers will also vote on restrictions on taking cash out of banks and out of the country, known as capital controls, when the banks reopen. The bill would limit cash withdrawals, prohibit or restrict check cashing and bar “premature” account closings and any other transaction that authorities deemed unwarranted.

The central bank said on Thursday that Cyprus had until Monday to reach an agreement with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund if the government wanted its banks to continue to receive the low-interest loans essential to keeping them afloat.

After a hastily convened evening meeting to assess the situation, the group of 17 finance ministers whose countries use the euro issued a statement declaring themselves “conditionally satisfied” with most of the new proposal, which the so-called troika of lenders — the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission — is to assess on Friday after the Parliament vote.

“We now need to move into top gear and work intensively with the Cypriot government and our troika partners to design a viable alternative solution that can be acceptable to all euro-area member states,” Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, Olli Rehn, said in a statement.

The plan sent to Parliament on Thursday would nationalize pension funds from state-run companies and conduct an emergency bond sale to help raise the 5.8 billion euros Cyprus needs to secure a 10 billion euro bailout. Gone was any reference to a deposit tax, which Parliament had roundly rejected in a vote two nights earlier.

At branches of Laiki Bank and the Bank of Cyprus in the Cypriot capital, Nicosia, where lines had virtually disappeared over the last three days, there was an air of exasperation, anger and anxiety on Thursday as people hoped that money would still be in the machines by the time it was their turn to make a withdrawal. Only one of two cash machines at each bank branch was working.

“Time is up — we want our cash,” said Maria Melitou, an accountant.

“Our friends in Europe brought us to this point,” she added. “We expected more.”

Irena Margilou, the 13th person in an 18-person line at a Laiki Bank cash machine, said bitterly, “We don’t know what the future holds.”

Ms. Margilou criticized what she said was German insistence that the Cypriot government skim money from people’s bank accounts to secure the bailout. “It’s like you’re telling us to just leave our money in our mattress,” she said. “What is happening to European solidarity?”

In Limassol, a coastal city about an hour’s drive southwest of Nicosia that is crowded with Russian residents, lines of 25 to 30 people snaked in front of every A.T.M. that still had cash. Many of the wealthiest citizens of Russia, which is not in the euro currency union, have bank accounts in Cyprus — one reason that euro zone finance ministers have taken such a hard line.

In Moscow, President Vladimir V. Putin discussed the Cyprus situation on Thursday in a one-on-one meeting with the European Commission president, José Manuel Barroso, who was in Russia for an annual meeting of senior officials.

A delegation of Cypriot officials led by the finance minister, Michalis Sarris, also remained in Moscow to press their case for additional aid, but there were no reports of progress, and the officials stayed out of sight.

For months, Cyprus had been discussing the possibility of changing the terms of a loan of 2.5 billion euros that Russia provided in late 2011, to lower the interest rate and defer the repayment deadline.

The Russian prime minister, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said in a meeting with European journalists that a number of Russian state-owned companies had bank accounts in Cyprus, and he expressed annoyance that those accounts had been frozen, presumably interfering with some business operations.

Russian citizens and other entities are estimated to have 23 billion euros or more in Cyprus banks. But the Russian government is also concerned about an even larger amount of money that typically flows through Cyprus, where many companies that operate in Russia maintain offshore affiliates.

The authorities have ordered Cypriot banks to keep A.T.M.’s filled with cash as long as the banks themselves are closed. But that has been of little help to the thousands of international companies that do banking in Cyprus, which cannot transfer money in and out of those accounts to conduct business.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, chairman of the euro zone finance ministers, said on Thursday that there were few signs that Russia would come forward with an alternative plan or loans enabling European lenders and the Cypriots to reduce their contribution to a bailout package.

He added that Russian loans to Cyprus would only swell the country’s already unmanageable debt, and that this made it inevitable that Cyprus would have to impose a one-time tax on “investors” rather than on “savers.”
572 2013-03-22 Jon Niese will start the Mets&#x2019; season opener against the San Diego Padres on April 1. The role was handed to Johan Santana at the start of camp, but Santana has not pitched a single game during spring training because of shoulder fatigue.&#...
573 2013-03-22 Playwrights Horizons  is once again putting women front and center in the company&#x2019;s 2013-2014 season, staging four plays by women, including two world premieres. Three of the first five plays the Off Broadway company announced on Thursday w...
574 2013-03-22 6:41 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;After earning degrees from the  University of Pennsylvania  and the  Stanford University  business school, Rengan Rajaratnam pursued a career on Wall Street, seeking to emulate the stupendous success of his ol...
575 2013-03-22 BEIJING — Three Tibetans from Qinghai Province have been given prison sentences for “inciting state secession,” according to a statement on an official provincial Web site. On Monday, a court in Haidong Prefecture sentenced the Tibetans — Kalsang Dhondup, Jigme Thabkey and Lobsang — to terms of six, five and four years, respectively. The online announcement said that the men used self-immolations by Tibetans for publicity purposes and circulated texts and photographs related to Tibetan independence, spreading “bad influence locally and internationally.” Since 2009, at least 109 Tibetans have set fire to themselves to protest Chinese rule, and most have died. To deter the act, Chinese officials are trying to prosecute people associated with those who commit self-immolation. Tibetans opposed to Chinese rule say those who self-immolated did it out of frustration with Chinese policies.
576 2013-03-22 WASHINGTON &#x2014; Albrecht D&#xFC;rer had it all: the eye of a Raphael, the brains of a Leonardo, the looks of a cleaned-up Kurt Cobain. He produced the earliest known self-portrait drawing in European art when he was 13, and some of the first s...
577 2013-03-22 McCORMACK--Sandra Danenberg, Died at home on March 20, 2013, after more than eighteen years of living with - and dying with - Alzheimer's Disease. She attended the Birch Wathen School in Manhattan, and then went on to Sarah Lawrence College, gradu...
578 2013-03-23 Apple has fixed a security hole that made it easy for someone to seize another person’s Apple account, which controls access to iCloud, iTunes and other Apple services. The company made the password reset page for Apple ID accounts available aga...
579 2013-03-23 Michigan and Michigan State won easily while some of the tournament’s favorite bracket busters — Harvard and Oregon — are in action later today....
580 2013-03-23 A special prosecutor in Iceland issued indictments this week against the chief executives and 14 other employees of two banks whose spectacular collapse during the financial crisis of 2008 sent the Icelandic economy into a tailspin. In one of the world’s most ambitious prosecutions stemming from the crisis, the 16 people are being charged with manipulating the financial markets and with putting their institutions in jeopardy by flouting internal rules. Among other things, the indictment says they issued loans to friendly companies that in turn used the loans to buy shares in the banks, elevating their stock prices. The people charged could face up to six years in prison if convicted.
581 2013-03-23 The impasse over the police chief further reflects the fragility of Lebanese institutions. With power vested in political parties and individuals, having a police chief perceived as sympathetic to them is crucial for Sunnis, who view the army and General Security forces as pro-Hezbollah.

Fares Gemayel, the prime minister’s media adviser, said the dispute was one of many signs that Mr. Mikati could no longer hold the middle ground between Hezbollah and its Sunni rivals.

Mr. Mikati was named prime minister with Hezbollah’s support to bridge the gap, “but this situation no longer exists,” Mr. Gemayel said, adding, “If the government continues like this, the division will continue.”

Mr. Mikati is a Sunni billionaire from the northern city of Tripoli, where violence has flared between supporters and opponents of the Syrian government. Under Lebanon’s confessional system of government, which apportions political posts by sect, the prime minister must be Sunni.

Mr. Mikati had threatened twice before to resign. The first time was in November 2011 when the government dragged its feet on financing the tribunal investigating the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, in which the Syrian government and Hezbollah have been suspected. The second was last fall, after a car bomb killed Wissam al-Hassan, the police intelligence chief and a foe of the Syrian government.

Both times Mr. Mikati stayed, saying that he had received assurances that the interests of all factions would be protected.

This week, the cabinet refused to extend the tenure of the police chief, Maj. Gen. Ashraf al-Rifi, who is due to retire. General Rifi was a main figure in the Internal Security Forces and whose clout and expertise will be difficult to replace.

Losing General Rifi will leave Sunnis feeling vulnerable, said Imad Salamey, a political-science professor at the Lebanese American University in Beirut. And it makes Mr. Mikati “look like nothing but a part of Hezbollah’s and the Syrian regime’s conspiracy to undermine Sunnis and extend Iranian influence in Lebanon,” Mr. Salamey added. “So he decided to emerge out of this crisis as a hero and regain some of his credibility.”

Many Lebanese will be happy to see a new government, analysts said, at a time of economic instability and growing national debt.

With Mr. Mikati seen as too close to Hezbollah and his main Sunni rival, Saad Hariri, the son of the assassinated former prime minister, largely absent from the political scene, Sunni extremists have been filling the leadership vacuum, fueling sectarian statements and encouraging Lebanese Sunnis to join the fight in Syria.

Syria retaliated last week using warplanes to strike a border area where Sunni fighters cross, increasing fears that Lebanon will be dragged into the war.

If the president accepts his resignation, Mr. Mikati will head a caretaker government until a new one is formed, which could take months. Analysts said there was a chance of establishing a technocratic government with representation from all factions.

Pressing to increase its influence would not necessarily help Hezbollah now because it would play into Sunni fears and bring protesters into the street, said Elias Muhanna, a professor at Brown University who analyzes Lebanese politics on his blog, Qifa Nabki.

Mr. Muhanna said all sides might have decided it was time to “reboot” a government that was increasingly deadlocked. “We’ve got the blue screen,” he said, extending the computer analogy. “There’s nothing we can do except hit restart.”
582 2013-03-23 Henderson also gained at least one prominent fan. LeBron James, referring to his eagerness to shoot, wrote on Twitter after the game: “Man that dude Henderson from Ol Miss got the greenest light in basketball history!! Hahaha.”

Low-scoring games usually favor Wisconsin, but not this one. The Badgers shot 22.2 percent from the field, including three air balls, in the second half. Ryan Evans, Jared Berggren, Ben Brust and Traevon Jackson, four of Wisconsin’s top five scorers this season, combined to shoot 8 for 37 from the field.

“They just outworked us in the last eight or nine minutes, really took it to us, and we didn’t know how to handle it,” said the reserve forward Sam Dekker, the only Badger in double figures, with 14 points.

Henderson’s ability to contain his usual histrionics may have been as big a surprise as the final score. After scattered boos during introductions, the Wisconsin fans left him alone, and Henderson kept things low-key.

“You can’t go a little crazy when you went 1 for your first 17,” Henderson said, exaggerating his cold streak only slightly.

Henderson gave in once the game had been decided. With 39.6 seconds left, he pumped his right arm toward the Ole Miss fan section as he headed to the foul line. He hopped and waved his arms at those fans after the game, running past the television sideline reporter Craig Sager to the locker room.

For much of the game, Henderson did not feel like celebrating. Wisconsin’s defensive prowess is well known, but Mississippi matched the Badgers with an aggressive 2-3 zone before switching to man-to-man late. Reggie Buckner, Mississippi’s rugged 6-foot-9-inch forward, outmuscled Evans and Berggren inside, finishing with 5 blocks and 12 rebounds. He helped keep the game close until Henderson started making shots.

“Listen, we’ve seen this show before,” Mississippi Coach Andy Kennedy said. “It doesn’t matter. A lot of guys, you go 0 for 5, it’s going to be a long night. You go 5 for 5, it’s going to be a great night. As long as he’s taking shots within our offense, our guys understand that. We were getting him looks, and he made some big ones. Once he makes one or two, feed Henderson.”

Until his shot started falling, Henderson said, he thought about Tray Woodall of Pittsburgh, the fifth-year senior who shot 1 for 12 on Thursday in his final college game, a loss to Wichita State.

“I felt so bad for him after everything that he had done,” Henderson said. “That was going through my head. Man, I’m a fluke.”

Not quite. When Henderson hit his first 3-pointer, Kennedy called a timeout. Kennedy later joked that he did it to allow everyone to celebrate. Mississippi likes running Henderson through screens for catch-and-shoot jumpers, and Henderson proved especially deft and elusive the rest of the way.

His second 3-pointer tied the score, 36-36. Berggren hit a 3-pointer for Wisconsin, but Holloway converted a tip-in and a layup to put Mississippi ahead, 40-39. Wisconsin never led again, and Henderson helped seal the outcome with another 3-pointer, a layup and two foul shots in the last 2:49. He made 5 of his last 8 shots to finish 6 for 21.

“Everything he was missing earlier was on point and long,” Kennedy said. “He just had to settle down. I knew once he made one, two, three, then we had something.”

Yes. One more game.
583 2013-03-23 Pictures From the Week in Business
584 2013-03-23 PARIS — PPR is on the way out. The Paris luxury group, whose stable of brands includes Gucci, Balenciaga and Puma, said on Friday that it was changing its name to Kering.

Kering is pronounced “caring,” according to François-Henri Pinault, the chairman and chief executive of the family-controlled company. “Ker” is a Breton word meaning “home,” making the new name also “a proud reminder of our origins in the Brittany region of France,” Mr. Pinault said in a statement.

The rebranding comes as the house is completing its transformation into a “pure” apparel and accessories group, shedding some of the broader collection of businesses on which it once depended. Mr. Pinault said in February that PPR planned a public stock offering this year of its Fnac entertainment retailing chain, which, like Virgin Megastores and HMV, has struggled as much of its core business has moved online.

The company also plans to divest itself of the Redcats online clothing and furniture business. That will allow it to focus exclusively on its luxury and sports-lifestyle brands, which also include Saint Laurent and Bottega Veneta.

The new name “expresses the group’s new identity and our corporate culture,” said Mr. Pinault, 50, the son of PPR’s founder, François Pinault, 76. A marketing campaign, to be carried out largely though print advertisements and social media, is planned to help get the word out before the name change takes effect in June.

PPR reported revenue of 9.7 billion euros, or $12.5 billion, for last year.

Manfredi Ricca, the managing director at Interbrand in Milan, said the name change reflected an awareness that companies needed “a strong angle on what they stand for,” both for consumers and for employees, to demonstrate their “overarching vision” and values.

“I think it’s a case where the name needs to tell the story of the business,” Mr. Ricca said of PPR. “The former name contained things that are no longer relevant to the group.”

Kering will actually be the company’s fifth name.

It began in 1963 as a timber-trading business run by François Pinault, who called it simply Pinault. After expanding into distribution, the company took control of the venerable Printemps department store in 1992 and changed its name to Pinault-Printemps. With the acquisition of La Redoute, a mail-order shopping business, it changed its name to Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, before eventually opting for the simpler PPR.
585 2013-03-23 The second issue being presented before the Supreme Court addresses a more expansive question, about who has the right to marry. It challenges Proposition 8, a California ballot initiative banning same-sex marriage. “The Prop 8 case is a broader case than the DOMA case because the remedy in the Prop 8 case would be, at a minimum, to allow same-sex couples in California to marry,” said James D. Esseks, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s project dealing with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues, “and it might also be that every state in the country has to allow same-sex couples to marry.”

The court, of course, could keep the laws as they are now, or go in any of several other directions. But let’s look at how life would change for same-sex couples if they woke up one June morning to learn that, at the very least, the Defense of Marriage Act had been dismantled.

I turned to a same-sex couple I interviewed more than four years ago, Jeff Friedman and Andrew Zwerin, of Rockville Centre, N.Y., to see how they would fare. Back then, they told me about a slightly torn manila folder stuffed with documents — their marriage license, their son’s adoption decree, among other things — that proved they were a family. They didn’t travel far without it.

The couple, both 44, still have the folder, which is now showing even more signs of wear. Mr. Friedman said they would continue to carry it around even if DOMA were overturned because they wanted to be sure their family was recognized wherever they may go. That’s especially important, they said, because they have had to prove their family status to hospital staff members on more than one occasion. And unfortunately, they’ve had to make more than a dozen trips to the emergency room because their 9-year-old son, Joshua, battles allergies and asthma. On one occasion, when Josh was barely breathing because of a severe asthma attack, a nurse wouldn’t admit the family to the pediatric unit even after the couple provided a birth certificate that named them as the parents. The nurse was waiting for a mother.

Then there was the time, about six years ago, when Mr. Friedman was hospitalized after a heart attack. A staff member told Mr. Zwerin, in front of their son, that he couldn’t sign his husband’s medical papers because they weren’t family. “Josh came to me each morning as I lay in cardiac intensive care asking if we are a family now,” Mr. Friedman said. Josh was 3 at the time.

“Unless they completely get rid of DOMA and mandate all states to treat people equally, I am going to have that issue again sometime, somewhere,” Mr. Friedman added. (In 2011, the Obama administration asked the Department of Health and Human Services to enforce rules that allow gay partners to visit and to be sure that medical decision-making rights were respected, too.)

The eradication of DOMA would, however, help the couple financially. If their union were recognized by the federal government — they’re one of the 18,000 or so couples who married in California before the state stopped issuing marriage licenses there — they would also save about $7,000 a year in federal income taxes. Couples with a stay-at-home parent like Mr. Friedman, or where one member earns significantly less, typically owe less in federal taxes when they can file jointly — though other couples, including those who earn about the same amount, would probably end up paying more.

Living in New York, where gay marriage is legal, further complicates their tax situation. They need to file multiple sets of returns — they are single filers for federal purposes, but joint filers for state purposes, which means they need to fill out a dummy federal form, as if they were filing a joint federal return, so they can properly fill out the state return.

Until recently, the couple also had to pay extra taxes on health insurance: gay employees who add their partners to their health benefits are often taxed on the value of that coverage (if they are lucky enough to be offered domestic partner insurance) because their unions are not federally recognized. Opposite-sex married couples are not subject to the tax, so some employers — including Time Warner, where Mr. Zwerin is manager of information technology at HBO — have tried to level the playing field by covering the extra costs for employees in same-sex relationships.

Federal recognition would allow Mr. Friedman, who used to practice law, to collect Social Security benefits on Mr. Zwerin’s record should Mr. Zwerin die first. He would also be entitled to collect a small death benefit, as well as spousal benefits while they were both alive.

Same-sex married couples would also avoid the estate tax, an issue at the center of the DOMA case: Edith Windsor of New York, who had married her partner in Canada in 2007, inherited all of her wife’s property after her death in 2009. But because their marriage wasn’t recognized, Ms. Windsor had a federal estate tax bill of $363,000. She sued, challenging DOMA, and a federal appeals court found the law unconstitutional.

Even if the highest court agrees, same-sex couples’ marriages would still not be quite as equal as their opposite-sex counterparts. “It’s not automatically the case that gay couples in hostile states could travel to another state to get married and then have their marriage recognized for federal purposes, even if DOMA is struck down,” said Tobias Barrington Wolff, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. “The federal courts would have more work to do in deciding how such cases would be handled for federal purposes.”

And even if that were resolved, certain challenges would remain. Getting a divorce would be difficult, for instance, if the couple lived in or moved to a state that didn’t recognize their union. “There are a bunch of people who got married and now live in another state and don’t have a legal way to dissolve their relationship,” said Professor Wolff. Complicating matters, “states typically have a residency requirement for access to their divorce courts.”

Overturning the federal marriage ban also wouldn’t help same-sex couples who have trouble establishing legal ties to children. Twenty-nine states do not have laws that allow both same-sex parents to adopt, including seven states that restrict them or impose outright bans, according to research by the Movement Advancement Project.

So if something were to happen to a parent who was unable to adopt or otherwise establish a legal relationship, the child might be denied certain federal benefits (say, Social Security benefits paid to the child of a deceased parent) — something children of most heterosexual parents would receive automatically.

“Striking down DOMA does virtually nothing for parenting rights for same-sex couples,” Ms. Hecht-McGowan said. “Those are all governed by state law, and traditionally, the federal government has looked to state law to determine who is and who isn’t a parent.”

Indeed, most states have laws on the books that say a child is presumed to be the child of both partners in a marriage. That typically applies to same-sex couples, even a nonbiological parent, but only if the state recognizes their union (with the exception of Iowa).

All of which means that even if DOMA is struck from the books but nothing changes to protect families headed by same-sex couples in all states, gay couples will continue to be less than equal in many places. (Nine states and the District of Columbia now issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, and another eight states and the District have laws that provide couples with the same rights as marriage though it goes by another name, like civil union or domestic partnership. Colorado will soon bring this number to nine, according to the Human Rights Campaign.)

And families like the Friedman-Zwerins will still travel a little less freely than their heterosexual counterparts. Instead of flying to Florida during spring break, the easy choice for many New Yorkers, they will continue to choose more hospitable locales. “I’d rather fly out to California,” Mr. Friedman said, because there, “I still am who I am.”
586 2013-03-23 What it’s not, she said, is only about reducing stress. Or about emptying our minds of all thoughts. Or about religion.

“People have the sense that mindfulness is something they can do by focusing on a raisin for five minutes,” said Michael Baime, director of the Penn Program for Mindfulness at the University of Pennsylvania Health System. “That is mindful practice, but it takes more than that.”

So here’s what I learned about the basic techniques. First, find a quiet place to focus your attention — on your breath or perhaps on an object. It’s not deep breathing, but rather experiencing “when the breath enters and leaves,” Ms. Marturano said. “Feel the stretch in the rib cage, without me doing anything. Can I notice when the mind takes a hike and redirect it? That redirection is the exercise.”

Perhaps you start at 10 minutes and work your way up to half an hour or 40 minutes a day. But that’s only part of the whole practice.

There’s also what Ms. Marturano calls “purposeful pauses.” Deciding that instead of thinking of a coming meeting while brushing your teeth you really focus on the taste of the toothpaste and the bristles and the water.

“Take yourself out of autopilot,” she said. And eventually expand that “being in the moment” to other parts of your life.

The idea is that over time you’ll feel more focused and more connected to yourself and others.

It sounds simple, but it’s not, because it so goes against the grain of how most of us think and operate. We want to get things done, to identify and fix problems. And that’s the opposite of what mindfulness is all about.

“The way it’s presented in the media, people begin to believe it’s a magic pill,” said Christy Matta, author of the book “The Stress Response” (2012, New Harbinger Publications). “I’ll clear my mind and I’ll be peaceful and stress-free. If that’s what people think, they’ll be disappointed.”

Rather, she said, “it takes time and sustained practice to experience the benefits.”

And, she said, if you go into it with the idea of reducing stress, you’re working against the very thing you’re trying to attain, because you’re aiming toward a goal.

Mindfulness, “is about being present,” she said. “You have to do it just to do it. You can’t strive for things.”

While being aware of your feelings may be nice when drinking a lovely cup of tea or relaxing in a garden, Ms. Matta said, part of mindfulness is also uncomfortable feelings — not trying to change or judge them, but being aware of them. And that may not feel so pleasant.

Dr. Baime said another common misconception is that mindfulness is about learning to be happy. It’s not. Nor is it about eliminating stress.

“Stress doesn’t go away, ever. That’s why we call it stress management rather than stress elimination,” he said. Rather, he said, mindfulness can “create a world where you experience depth, meaning and connectedness. You see joy and sadness more fully and settle more deeply into an authentic way of being.”

If that’s a bit tough to wrap one’s mind around, that’s O.K. Just go with it.

Eventually, mindfulness is supposed to help us spend less time worrying about the future or fretting about the past. We’ll gain perspective, listen better and step back to consider more choices and make decisions more clearly and intentionally, rather than reactively, Ms. Marturano said.

But you shouldn’t assume that mindfulness is the one answer to everything.

For instance, while it has been used to good effect in classrooms, it shouldn’t be used in isolation, said Linda Lantieri, director of the nonprofit group the Inner Resilience Program.

She and others have found that practicing mindfulness can increase attention and focus, and help children respond to stress in a calmer manner, but it also “needs to be part of learning concrete emotional and social skills,” she said.

And although it can help with anxiety and depression, you may need to augment it with other therapies or medication, Ms. Matta said.

Is mindfulness something you can learn by yourself? There are some good books that offer guidance. Ms. Matta mentioned her own, of course, and “Full Catastrophe Living,” (Delacorte Press, 1990) by Jon Kabat-Zinn. Professor Kabat-Zinn, founder of the Stress Reduction Clinic and the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, is considered one of the foremost experts on the subject.

But everyone I spoke to said that you need to take a course and perhaps go on a retreat to fully experience and gain value from mindfulness. I realize that the people I talked to tended to teach courses, so maybe they’re a little biased. But it also makes sense to me.

Ms. Marturano, who delivered a presentation on mindfulness at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, compared it to exercise. You can watch a video of how to play tennis or read a book and perhaps even learn to play at a basic level that way. But to get better, you need a teacher.

“You’re on a journey of self-discovery and you need a guide,” she said.

Dr. Baime’s institute offers eight-week courses, which cost $549, in which participants attend class for two and half hours a week and one full-day session, and are provided with textbooks and recordings to help meditation at home. The class members are asked to meditate for 40 minutes daily, although Dr. Baime acknowledged that wasn’t an easy goal.

Professor Kabat-Zinn’s center has a useful list to search for centers and teachers by state.

Now that I know more about the potential and limits of mindfulness, I can see it as an option. And I can see why other people are drawn to it, given that we’re living in a such a fractured, information-overloaded world. We’re looking so far ahead to the next thing, we miss what’s going on in the present.

Mindfulness may not be the answer to every ill. But it may be the answer to some. And I’ll settle for that.
587 2013-03-23 Mr. Genachowski announced no immediate plans, although people close to him said it was more likely he would move to a Washington research institute rather than to a telecommunications company or an industry trade group.

Thanking Mr. Genachowski for his service, Mr. Obama said he “has brought to the Federal Communications Commission a clear focus on spurring innovation, helping our businesses compete in a global economy and helping our country attract the industries and jobs of tomorrow.”

“Because of his leadership,” Mr. Obama added, “we have expanded high-speed Internet access, fueled growth in the mobile sector, and continued to protect the open Internet as a platform for entrepreneurship and free speech.”

No one has emerged as a favorite for the chairmanship, although people in the industry have been talking about Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former head of the wireless and cable industry trade groups, as a possible successor. Other possibilities include two previous Obama appointees: Karen Kornbluh, a former Senate aide to Mr. Obama who is now ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Lawrence E. Strickling, an assistant Commerce Department secretary who oversees the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.

The F.C.C. has never had a female at its head; that has led some people to expect that Mr. Obama will name Mignon Clyburn, the Democratic commissioner with the most seniority, as interim chairwoman. A White House spokeswoman declined to comment on a possible successor.

Mr. Genachowski oversaw the commission during a period of rapid change in technology, characterized by the explosion of smartphones and an increase in the speed of wireless and broadband Internet connections.

He also leaves a number of his highest priorities unfinished, if well under way, at the F.C.C. The agency is in the process of drawing up an ambitious plan to make additional high-value airwaves, or spectrum, available for sale to mobile phone companies for use in wireless broadband Internet service.

The plan hinges on the F.C.C.'s ability to get television broadcasters to voluntarily give up some of their airwaves in exchange for receiving some portion of the sale proceeds, a process known as an incentive auction.

Most broadcasters have strongly resisted that plan and an associated proposal to move stations that do not give up their airways to other frequencies on the electromagnetic spectrum. That process, known as repacking, would also vacate bands of airwaves by allowing television broadcast signals to be packed closer together.

The F.C.C. is currently reviewing public and industry comments on its plans for the incentive auction, which it hopes to conduct in 2014. Finalization of those plans will almost certainly await a new chairman, however.

The Internet has thrived over the last four years; technology and telecommunications is one sector of the economy that the recession that began in 2007 left unscathed.

The next chairman of the F.C.C., however, will face an uphill battle convincing members of Congress, backed by the strength of the telecommunications lobby, that more rules and regulations are needed for that rapidly changing part of the economy.

Consumer advocates have pushed particularly hard for net neutrality rules, which would guarantee that Internet service providers cannot give a faster channel through their pipes to their own content or products or those of a company that pays them for it. Senator Obama embraced net neutrality during his 2008 campaign.

The agency’s initial rules for net neutrality, adopted before Mr. Genachowski took over, were successfully challenged in court; a second set of guidelines, known as the Open Internet Order, was put in place during his tenure but is also now the subject of a lawsuit in federal appeals court.

At the heart of the matter is a philosophical debate over whether Internet service is a utility akin to telephone service, and should be governed by the same type of open access rules, or whether Internet service is an information service subject to little or no federal regulation.

Mr. Genachowski also oversaw the conversion of an $8 billion federal program to provide telephone service to rural and low-income Americans, known as the Universal Service Fund, into one that used the same money to expand broadband Internet service. The fund has now been renamed the Connect America Fund.

As chairman, Mr. Genachowski drew criticism from both industry and consumer groups, although each also supported some of his actions.

Public Knowledge, a consumer group, said in a statement that the chairmanship was best characterized as “one of missed opportunities.”

Gigi Sohn, president of Public Knowledge, said that the chairman deserved credit for defending the rules on data roaming, which allow smartphone users to use their phones outside their provider’s service area, and for promoting unlicensed spectrum, which allows functions like Wi-Fi, television remotes and keyless automobile entry systems to function.

“But it remains to be seen whether those positive steps will mitigate the enormous consolidation that has taken place in the broadband marketplace under his watch,” read a statement from Public Knowledge.

Several members of Congress, including Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who has been active in telecommunications legislation, praised Mr. Genachowski’s tenure.

Michael Powell, a Republican who served as F.C.C. chairman under PresidentGeorge W. Bushand who now leads the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, a cable industry trade group, also praised Mr. Genachowski. “Chairman Genachowski wisely believed that ubiquitous Internet connectivity would be the defining technology of our day,” Mr. Powell said, “and his leadership has ensured that America’s robust wired and wireless broadband networks are world class.”
588 2013-03-23 Strong company earnings lifted stocks on Wall Street on Friday, and investors saw a chance to add to their holdings after declines earlier in the week.

Nike reported a surge in quarterly profit, sending its stock price up 11 percent. Tiffany topped earnings predictions, helped by demand from customers in Asia.

Investors were also drawn by a pause in the market’s big run-up. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index logged its second weekly decline of the year, despite Friday’s gains.

The damper stemmed partly from the struggles of Cyprus to devise a plan to avoid financial collapse. Stocks were also weighed down by weak sales from Oracle.

FedEx ended the week 10 percent lower after it reported a decline in quarterly profit and cut its annual earnings forecast on Wednesday. The company can be a gauge of the economy because many shoppers and businesses use its shipping services.
589 2013-03-23 The contemporary museum has also built an exemplary collection of art of the postwar period. No other institution has achieved quite this combination; the city’s artists and other progressive museums in Los Angeles would not be where they are today without it. The international art world is also in its debt. The sad truth, however, is that the museum has achieved all of this by habitually living beyond its means, drawing down its endowment to meet operating expenses.

Mr. Broad is vehemently opposed to the merger offer, which was first made in 2008 and renewed last month. That year the proposal prompted him to “rescue” the contemporary museum with just enough money — now around $16 million — to keep it from closing, but not nearly enough to stabilize it. With this relative pittance, the billionaire philanthropist gained control of the museum’s increasingly dysfunctional board of trustees.

The board began losing valuable members as soon as Mr. Broad, who had been a trustee at the institution’s founding in 1979, returned in 2008. Then, in 2010, the board chose the New York art dealer Jeffrey Deitch as the museum’s new director. Mr. Deitch was given little choice but to strip the museum of staff and infrastructure, including entire departments.

From the start, the Los Angeles art world and news media have heaped abuse on Mr. Deitch, who has certainly made some missteps. But his main mistake was to be the only person optimistic or naïve enough to take the job in the first place.

This combination of achievement and vulnerability has made the contemporary museum an attractive takeover target for other institutions, primarily the Los Angeles County Museum. There have also been reports of discussions of an alliance with the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, which has ties to Mr. Broad, although nothing concrete has emerged so far.

Then, last week, the circus that the trustees have allowed to unfold took a bizarre turn that seemed almost intended to divert attention from the county museum’s offer. It emerged that the board was discussing a potential five-year accord under which the National Gallery of Art in Washington would collaborate with the museum on joint programming and exhibitions but would not put up any money.

“The goal at this point is stabilizing them and get them standing as an independent institution,” John Wilmerding, the president of the National Gallery’s board, said. He seemed to ignore the reality that stability cannot happen without money, that the two institutions are on opposite coasts and, even more to the point, that they have little in common. The Los Angeles museum, a privately financed institution, focuses exclusively on postwar and contemporary art. The strengths of the National Gallery, which is partly financed by the federal government, are its vast collections of art predating 1900; postwar art is its glaring weakness.

Both institutions should distance themselves from this farcical pas de deux as quickly as possible.

Who knows exactly what has moved the contemporary museum’s board to rededicate itself to ensuring “its strong financial standing”? The incredulity stirred by the National Gallery charade? The possibility of the merger? Perhaps Mr. Broad has grasped that the diminution of the contemporary museum, over which he and the board have presided, could undercut the museum for his own collection that he is building on the opposite side of Grand Avenue.

The new Broad museum will thrive only if there is a healthy, truly autonomous institution across the street; yet this health can be achieved only if Mr. Broad disengages from the contemporary museum.

The notion of the contemporary museum in a Broad-free vacuum is difficult and scary to imagine, but it is only then that a clear view of possible solutions will emerge. The trustees who really care about the place will have to face the responsibilities they have shirked for so many years. They will have to commit enormous energy, will and money to turning the museum around and rebuilding it while attracting like-minded trustees to their board and their cause. And the institution will definitely have to make do for a while with a slimmed-down exhibition program, relying on creative uses of its vaunted collection.

But the trustees, the city and its art world have no choice. The contemporary museum’s exhibitions and collection are surely among the top reasons that Los Angeles is home to several generations of important artists. Any Los Angeles museum that is currently thriving — and that would include the Hammer and the Los Angeles County Museum — is to some extent standing on the contemporary museum’s shoulders.

Since it opened its home on Grand Avenue 27 years ago, it has achieved greatness without ever quite figuring out how to pay for it. That must now be faced.

For a comparable situation, try to imagine what New York would be like if the Museum of Modern Art, hobbled by timid trustees, had been brought to the brink of death by 1956, less than three decades after its founding.

It is unthinkable, as is a Los Angeles without its Museum of Contemporary Art.
590 2013-03-23 On Friday, Cypriots jammed into supermarkets after lining up all day Thursday at automated teller machines to withdraw as much cash as possible. Gas stations were taking cash only, and some retailers reported that they would no longer accept .

One of the provisions Parliament approved Friday would impose new restrictions on withdrawing cash or moving money out of the country when the banks reopen. These new capital controls would prohibit or restrict check-cashing and bar “premature” account closings or any other transaction the authorities deemed unwarranted.

Lawmakers also voted to restructure the nation’s largest and most troubled bank, Laiki Bank, by splitting off its troubled assets into a so-called bad bank. Accounts with no problem would be transferred to the nation’s largest financial institution, the Bank of Cyprus. Lawmakers also voted to require that any bank on the verge of bankruptcy be split apart in the same way.

By effectively shutting down one of the banks needing support, the government could lower the 5.8-billion-euro sum that international lenders are demanding in exchange for a bailout. The consolidation of Laiki, also known as Cyprus Popular Bank, effectively relieves the government of a large expense of supporting the banking system, which is on the verge of collapsing under a mountain of souring loans to Greek businesses and individuals.

Still to be voted on is the measure to impose a tax of 22 to 25 percent on uninsured deposits at the Bank of Cyprus. That proposal was made after lawmakers rejected a plan earlier in the week to tax insured deposits to help raise the amount needed to secure the bailout. The Parliament appears to be trying to make up the difference in part by shifting the burden to large account holders.

When finance ministers negotiated the original bailout terms last weekend, Cypriot officials had resisted limiting the tax to large accounts, evidently to avoid damaging the country’s reputation as a haven for wealthy banking clients. Many of the wealthiest citizens of have euro-denominated bank accounts in Cyprus, which is one reason that euro zone finance ministers have taken such a hard line.

The decision to tax uninsured deposits came after Cyprus proposed nationalizing the pension funds of state-owned Cypriot companies.

Lawmakers approved the pension takeover on Friday, but the move was denounced in , whose political and financial influence in the euro zone tends to dictate policy.

“When you consider that there was massive resistance against involving the savings, then it is not easy to see how tapping the pension funds, which we view as socially a much more drastic step, is a very good idea,” Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for the German chancellor, , told reporters.

The suggestion of tapping pension funds touches off a visceral response in Germany, where history has proved the dangers of such ideas. German pensions were tapped to finance both world wars, and the idea remains anathema to German leaders today.

“The German reaction to such suggestions quickly becomes emotional,” said Bernd Raffelhüschen, a professor of economics at the Albert-Ludwig University in Freiburg. “But looking at it rationally, it must be said that the German reaction is not stupid.”

Mr. Seibert, the Merkel spokesman, urged Cyprus to return to the bailout plan negotiated last weekend, including the deposit tax on ordinary investors, even though Parliament roundly rejected that measure on Tuesday.

The Cypriot government has ordered banks to keep A.T.M.’s filled with cash so long as the banks themselves remain closed. But that has been of little help to the thousands of international companies that bank in Cyprus, which cannot transfer money in and out of those accounts to conduct business.

The European authorities said Friday that members of the troika were focused mainly on the laws being drafted by the Cypriots to deal with failing banks and restrict flows of money out of the country.

“The law on bank resolution that is adopted needs to be a law applicable in a generic fashion, so not a law that would be applicable in only one particular case,” Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said at a news conference in Brussels.

Those comments seemed to suggest that troika officials want the Cypriots to be ready to shut down troubled lenders in addition to Laiki Bank, like the Bank of Cyprus, with the option of imposing significant losses on large depositors.

Other officials gave assurances Friday that Cyprus could impose capital controls, like strict curbs on daily withdrawals and withdrawals of savings deposits, without violating European Union rules that are meant to foster flows of capital between member states.

“It’s a unilateral decision by the member state and it does not require prior approval from the commission,” Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for , the European commissioner for financial services, said at the same news conference. A country like Cyprus “can impose those restrictions as long as the criteria laid out in the treaties are met,” she said.

But she underlined that imposing capital controls was “not meant to be a never-ending situation” and that reaching an overall deal was vital.

On Friday, also struck a deal to have one of its biggest lenders, Piraeus Bank, take over the Greek-based units of Cyprus’s two main banks Bank of Cyprus and Laiki Bank. That move was meant to relieve Cyprus of the cost of supporting those units, while ensuring that Greek savers in those banks would be insulated from whatever new bailout terms might be struck.

A delegation of Cypriot officials led by the finance minister, Michalis Sarris, remained in until Friday morning to press the case for additional aid, but there were no reports of progress, and the officials stayed out of sight.

The Russian prime minister, , said on Friday at a joint news conference in Moscow with , the president of the European Commission, that his country was not walking away from Cyprus.

Instead, Mr. Medvedev said, Russia will wait until a broader bailout deal is done before extending additional help.

“Regarding our participation in this process, we haven’t shut the doors,” Mr. Medvedev said. “Of course we’ve got our own economic interests at stake.”

Additional efforts to help Cyprus will come “only after a final settlement scheme” involving the European Union, he said.

The situation in Cyprus “is very dramatic and should be addressed as soon as possible,” Mr. Medvedev added.
591 2013-03-23 On Twitter, François Fillon, Mr. Sarkozy’s former prime minister, declared himself “stupefied” by a decision as “unjust as it is extravagant.” And Mr. Sarkozy’s lawyer, Thierry Herzog, said he would appeal the judge’s decision to open the investigation.

Mr. Sarkozy has vehemently denied reports that he any accepted campaign money from Liliane Bettencourt, 90, the heiress to the L’Oréal fortune and France’s richest woman, either personally or through his political party, let alone in large amounts, which would be illegal under French law. Ms. Bettencourt’s former butler has accused Mr. Sarkozy, a friend of the Bettencourt family, of being passed envelopes of cash either directly or through his party treasurer, Éric Woerth, who is also under investigation.

Ms. Bettencourt was declared to be in a state of dementia in 2006 and was placed under the guardianship of her family in 2011.

The judge did not charge Mr. Sarzoky with illegal campaign financing, which has a narrower statute of limitations. Instead, Judge Gentil charged Mr. Sarkozy with “abus de faiblesse,” or exploitation of frailty. If the case goes to trial and he is convicted, Mr. Sarkozy could face up to three years in prison and a fine of as much as 375,000 euros, or about $500,000.

The investigation into the charges will continue — at least a dozen other people have also been put under formal investigation in the case, meaning that the judge believes there is reasonable evidence of a crime. The judge will eventually make a recommendation to prosecutors, who will decide whether to seek an indictment against Mr. Sarkozy and bring him to trial.

Judge Gentil, as an investigative magistrate, is supposed to be neutral, neither on the side of the police nor the defendant. He operates in a hierarchy that is meant to shield him from politics and guarantee his independence, but he was nonetheless the target of much partisan vitriol on Friday.

“I contest the way in which he does his work,” Henri Guaino, a parliamentarian and former top aide to Mr. Sarkozy, told Europe 1 radio. “I find it disgraceful. I find that he has dishonored a man, state institutions, the justice system.” (In response to Mr. Guaino’s comments, a magistrates’ union announced that it would consider legal action against him for trying to discredit a judicial ruling.)

Other politicians suggested a conspiracy to keep Mr. Sarkozy from returning to challenge a weakened Mr. Hollande, while others suggested that investigative magistrates, an instrument of Napoleonic code whom Mr. Sarkozy wanted to abolish, are getting their revenge.

“Certain magistrates have grudges to settle with the former president of the republic,” one lawmaker, Thierry Mariani, told Le Monde. On Twitter, a parliamentary colleague, Lionnel Luca, even wondered if Mr. Hollande had not in some mysterious way influenced the decision.

“The only chance for François Hollande in 2017 is to eliminate by all means the possibility of a candidacy of the only adversary who can defeat him!” Mr. Luca wrote.

Politicians on the left, despite the anger that Mr. Sarkozy inspired while president, sounded carefully uncelebratory on Friday, contenting themselves with professions of shock at the behavior on the right.

“The shrieks from Mr. Guéant, from Mr. Guaino this morning worry me a bit about the conception they have of the justice system,” the housing minister, Cécile Duflot, told French media. “Why would Mr. Sarkozy be the object, now that he’s become a citizen like any other, of different treatment?”

The investigation of Mr. Sarkozy proves that “the justice system does its work freely,” Ms. Duflot said.

David Assouline, a senator and spokesman for Mr. Hollande’s Socialist Party, called the criticisms a violent spectacle. “I find particularly deleterious this manner of hunting in a pack, as a clan, to impress and pressure,” Mr. Assouline told Agence France-Presse. “The justice system works in complete independence. It must be able to continue to do so serenely. And Nicolas Sarkozy is presumed innocent, one must recall.”

There were some suggestions that the relatively guarded reactions on the left were perhaps a result of the resignation earlier iof Mr. Hollande’s budget minister, Jérôme Cahuzac, earlier in the week. Mr. Cahuzac, who is reported to have once maintained an undeclared bank account in Switzerland, stepped down just hours after the announcement that he would be formally investigated on suspicion of tax fraud and money laundering. He maintained his innocence, but Mr. Hollande reportedly demanded his immediate resignation.

In an e-mail Friday to supporters of the Union for a Popular Movement, the party’s president, Jean-François Copé, said Mr. Sarkozy, who called him Thursday night, had expressed a “strong sentiment of incomprehension before this unbelievable decision.” Mr. Sarkozy remains nonetheless “extremely combative and confident,” wrote Mr. Copé. “He is resolved to see the whole truth exposed in this affair.”
592 2013-03-23 LONDON — BP, the British oil company, announced on Friday that it intended to buy back as much as $8 billion worth of its stock to return cash to shareholders after closing the sale of its 50 percent stake in a Russian joint venture.

The company completed the sale of its stake in the venture, TNK-BP, to Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, on Thursday for $12.48 billion in cash as well a 19.75 percent stake in Rosneft.

The $8 billion is roughly the equivalent of what BP originally paid for its 50 percent of TNK-BP in 2003. Over the last 10 years BP also received $19 billion in dividends from the venture, the company said.

BP said the remaining $4.48 billion from the stake sale would be used to reduce debt.

The buyback is about twice as large as analysts were expecting, said Andrew Whittock, an analyst at Liberum Capital in London, in a research note.

BP shares closed up 1.85 percent in London trading on Friday but remain about 30 percent below their level before the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill as investors worry about the company’s potential liabilities in the United States.
593 2013-03-23 SYDNEY, Australia — A day after a failed effort by his supporters to reinstall him, former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia announced Friday that he would never again seek to lead the governing Labor Party.

“Mr. Rudd wishes to make 100 percent clear to all members of the parliamentary Labor Party, including his own supporters, that there are no circumstances under which he will return to the Labor Party leadership in the future,” a statement posted Friday on Mr. Rudd’s Web site said.

On Thursday, Mr. Rudd unexpectedly declined to challenge Prime Minister Julia Gillard in a leadership vote that one of his chief supporters had demanded. The statement said he wanted to end the speculation over potential challenges to Ms. Gillard that has shaken Australia’s governing party for months.

The party has been struggling in the polls, and Simon Crean, a cabinet minister and former party leader who demanded the leadership vote, said Labor would have had its best chance in September elections if it had brought back Mr. Rudd. The infighting has raised new questions about the party’s chances.

Repercussions from Thursday’s attempted ouster continued Friday as several Rudd supporters resigned from their posts over the affair, including Chris Bowen, a senior minister, and the Labor Party whip, Joel Fitzgibbon.
594 2013-03-23 The Baltimore Ravens, the defending Super Bowl champions, will open the season on the road because the N.F.L. and Major League Baseball could not work out a scheduling conflict with the Baltimore Orioles.&#xa;   &#xa;Since 2004, the N.F.L. has sta...
595 2013-03-23 The  Mariinsky Theater  in Russia announced on Tuesday plans for a three-day celebration to mark the opening of the new Mariinsky II opera house in St. Petersburg in May.&#xA0; An opening-night gala conducted by the theater&#x2019;s artistic and g...
596 2013-03-23 So we called Dick Cavett to ask what &#x201C;The Tonight Show&#x201D; had meant to New York when it originated from Midtown Manhattan. Our idea was to follow up on reports that NBC planned to  bring &#x201C;Tonight&#x201D; back to New York  after ...
597 2013-03-24 The film school at Chapman University in California is experimenting with moviemaking for a profit, with films directed by Chapman alumni....
598 2013-03-24 Times editors and reporters detailed Sunday’s action from the N.C.A.A. tournament as the field was cut to 16 teams....
599 2013-03-24 As Xi Jinping, China’s new leader, headed to Africa after Russia, on his first overseas trip, there was talk back home of a “China dream” to be shared by the world. And of business....
600 2013-03-24 Emily Anne Whitfield and Robert Innes Fader are to be married Sunday at Liberty Warehouse, an event space in Brooklyn. The Rev. Harold Zernike, a Universal Life minister, is to officiate.

Ms. Whitfield, 48, will be keeping her name. She is an independent communications consultant based in Brooklyn to nonprofit organizations that specialize in social justice issues. She is on the board of the National Coalition Against Censorship in New York. She graduated from New York University.

She is a daughter of Marilyn A. Katz of New Haven and Kevin Whitfield of Cambridge, Mass. The bride is a stepdaughter of Patricia Hills and of the late Jay Katz.

Mr. Fader, 55, is the vice president and the buyer for Posman Books, which has three locations in Manhattan.

He is the son of Sheila Innes Fader of Kingston upon Thames, England, and John R. Fader of Bagshot, England.

The groom’s first marriage ended in divorce.
601 2013-03-24 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Just minutes before she was supposed to take the court Saturday against Sloane Stephens, Venus Williams withdrew from the Sony Open with a lower back injury.

Williams, 32, is the second big name on the women’s side to pull out of the event, joining the two-time champion Victoria Azarenka. Her match against the up-and-coming Stephens was expected to draw a big crowd, especially with Serena Williams set to play Ayumi Morita of Japan in the first match of the night session.

“It’s really disappointing because this is the kind of tournament you want to play well at,” said Venus Williams, who first felt some pain Friday and then felt more uncomfortable during warm-ups. “But I’ve faced disappointments in my life and my career. It’s not the first and probably not the last, and I just have to get through it and stay positive. I just realized that I wasn’t going to be able to be competitive at all today.”

Stephens, who turned 20 on Wednesday, advances to the fourth round, where she will face the defending champion, Agnieszka Radwanska, on Monday. The fourth-seeded Radwanska needed three sets to get past Magdalena Rybarikova, 7-6 (5), 2-6, 6-3.

Two of the top men’s players in the world — Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer — are also absent this week, taking a little of the buzz away from what has often been considered the best nonmajor tournament. Crowds have been smaller over the first six days, and traffic coming onto the island over Biscayne Bay has been lighter than in previous years.

The top-ranked Novak Djokovic and the second-seeded Andy Murray are the main attractions still alive in the men’s draw, with Murray making quick work of Bernard Tomic of Australia on the stadium court, 6-3, 6-1. Tournament officials will be rooting for a showdown between Djokovic and Murray in next Sunday’s championship match, considering what has happened to the draws on both sides.
602 2013-03-24 But the latest leaps in data collection are raising new concern about infringements on privacy — an issue so crucial that it could trump all others and upset the Big Data bandwagon. Dr. Pentland is a champion of the Big Data vision and believes the future will be a data-driven society. Yet the surveillance possibilities of the technology, he acknowledges, could leave George Orwell in the dust.

The World Economic Forum published a report late last month that offered one path — one that leans heavily on technology to protect privacy. The report grew out of a series of workshops on privacy held over the last year, sponsored by the forum and attended by government officials and privacy advocates, as well as business executives. The corporate members, more than others, shaped the final document.

The report, “Unlocking the Value of Personal Data: From Collection to Usage,” recommends a major shift in the focus of regulation toward restricting the use of data. Curbs on the use of personal data, combined with new technological options, can give individuals control of their own information, according to the report, while permitting important data assets to flow relatively freely.

“There’s no bad data, only bad uses of data,” says Craig Mundie, a senior adviser at Microsoft, who worked on the position paper.

The report contains echoes of earlier times. The Fair Credit Reporting Act, passed in 1970, was the main response to the mainframe privacy challenge. The law permitted the collection of personal financial information by the credit bureaus, but restricted its use mainly to three areas: credit, insurance and employment.

The forum report suggests a future in which all collected data would be tagged with software code that included an individual’s preferences for how his or her data is used. All uses of data would have to be registered, and there would be penalties for violators. For example, one violation might be a smartphone application that stored more data than is necessary for a registered service like a smartphone game or a restaurant finder.

The corporate members of the forum say they recognize the need to address privacy concerns if useful data is going to keep flowing. George C. Halvorson, chief executive of Kaiser Permanente, the large health care provider, extols the benefits of its growing database on nine million patients, tracking treatments and outcomes to improve care, especially in managing costly chronic and debilitating conditions like heart disease, diabetes and depression. New smartphone applications, he says, promise further gains — for example, a person with a history of depression whose movement patterns slowed sharply would get a check-in call.

“We’re on the cusp of a golden age of medical science and care delivery,” Mr. Halvorson says. “But a privacy backlash could cripple progress.”

Corporate executives and privacy experts agree that the best way forward combines new rules and technology tools. But some privacy professionals say the approach in the recent forum report puts way too much faith in the tools and too little emphasis on strong rules, particularly in moving away from curbs on data collection.

“We do need use restrictions, but there is a real problem with getting rid of data collection restrictions,” says David C. Vladeck, a professor of law at Georgetown University. “And that’s where they are headed.”

“I don’t buy the argument that all data is innocuous until it’s used improperly,” adds Mr. Vladeck, former director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission.

HE offers this example: Imagine spending a few hours looking online for information on deep fat fryers. You could be looking for a gift for a friend or researching a report for cooking school. But to a data miner, tracking your click stream, this hunt could be read as a telltale signal of an unhealthy habit — a data-based prediction that could make its way to a health insurer or potential employer.

Dr. Pentland, an academic adviser to the World Economic Forum’s initiatives on Big Data and personal data, agrees that limitations on data collection still make sense, as long as they are flexible and not a “sledgehammer that risks damaging the public good.”

He is leading a group at the M.I.T. Media Lab that is at the forefront of a number of personal data and privacy programs and real-world experiments. He espouses what he calls “a new deal on data” with three basic tenets: you have the right to possess your data, to control how it is used, and to destroy or distribute it as you see fit.

Personal data, Dr. Pentland says, is like modern money — digital packets that move around the planet, traveling rapidly but needing to be controlled. “You give it to a bank, but there’s only so many things the bank can do with it,” he says.

His M.I.T. group is developing tools for controlling, storing and auditing flows of personal data. Its data store is an open-source version, called openPDS. In theory, this kind of technology would undermine the role of data brokers and, perhaps, mitigate privacy risks. In the search for a deep fat fryer, for example, an audit trail should detect unauthorized use.

Dr. Pentland’s group is also collaborating with law experts, like Scott L. David of the University of Washington, to develop innovative contract rules for handling and exchanging data that insures privacy and security and minimizes risk.

The M.I.T. team is also working on living lab projects. One that began recently is in the region around Trento, Italy, in cooperation with Telecom Italia and Telefónica, the Spanish mobile carrier. About 100 young families with young children are participating. The goal is to study how much and what kind of information they share on smartphones with one another, and with social and medical services — and their privacy concerns.

“Like anything new,” Dr. Pentland says, “people make up just-so stories about Big Data, privacy and data sharing,” often based on their existing beliefs and personal bias. “We’re trying to test and learn,” he says.
603 2013-03-24 Another big factor is the nation’s changing demographics: more than half of the population is 25 years or younger. This group appears to be more socially aware and liberal and is starting to find its voice. College students, for instance, organized many of the protests after the New Delhi rape.

Young people and an increasingly activist news media helped force politicians to respond to the Delhi rape case by quickly bringing suspects to trial and setting up a commission led by a former Supreme Court chief justice. The commission issued a thorough and scathing report on violence against women and last week Parliament passed a law adopting some of its recommendations. The new law is incomplete. It does not, for instance, allow a married woman to file rape charges against her husband. But it did break new ground by defining stalking, a big problem, as a crime for the first time.

India has a notoriously poor record in enforcing laws and this statute is very likely to suffer from that deficiency because it will be enforced by corrupt, poorly trained police officers. But the fact that it was adopted at all is a small step forward.

Another development that some find hope in is that women are reporting more rapes. Experts say this suggests that women are more willing to speak out and are having more success in getting police officers to register their complaints, which they are very reluctant to do.

The number of reported rapes per 100,000 people increased by 28 percent from 2001 to 2011 even as the incidence of other violent crimes like murder and rioting fell. The absolute numbers of rape cases, however, remain tiny for a country of 1.2 billion people: the government recorded just 24,206 rape cases in 2011, or about 2 per 100,000 citizens. By contrast, American authorities recorded 26.8 rape cases per 100,000 people that year (not including statutory rape cases).

“To the extent that reporting has increased because women feel more empowered and willing to come forward rather than suffer in silence, the increased reporting could represent good rather than bad news,” Rupa Subramanya, a Mumbai-based author and columnist, wrote recently. She and Vivek Dehejia, an economist, highlighted the increased reporting of rapes in their recent book, “Indianomix: Making Sense of Modern India.”

Real change will happen when norms and mores evolve. Most Indian families, like most Chinese or Vietnamese families, are still patriarchal and strongly prefer boys to girls, a preference they often exercise by aborting female fetuses. That historical preference has left large parts of India with many more young men than women, which partly explains the phenomenon of gang rapes.

Yet, traditional views about women’s place in society and the home are changing. The fact that the parents of the Delhi student knew that she was out watching a movie with a male friend the night she was raped is striking. Until about 15 years ago most unmarried couples would rarely venture out alone in public and would certainly not tell their parents about it.

Indian women are not as marginalized as they once were, and the reaction to this senseless death provides hope that bigger changes are coming.
604 2013-03-24 “It speaks to the extraordinary explosion and interest in barbecue over the last five to eight years,” said Jim Shahin, a freelance journalist and associate professor of magazine journalism at Syracuse University who also writes about barbecue and grilling for The Washington Post. “Even in Texas, where you already had a major barbecue culture, it has only grown. It’s surprising that Texas Monthly hadn’t done something like this years ago.”

Mr. Shahin and other barbecue writers said Mr. Vaughn — a native of Ohio, resident of Dallas, husband of a woman who does not particularly care for barbecue and father of two toddlers — was the right man for the job. Mr. Vaughn estimates that, since he began keeping track in 2007, he has eaten at more than 600 barbecue joints in the country, with more than 500 of those being in Texas. In five days last week, he had eaten barbecue at six locations.

Barbecue experts, in Texas and outside, said the state was experiencing a kind of “golden age” of barbecue, as evidenced by Mr. Vaughn’s new position. Some of the best places used to be out-of-the-way rural outposts, but now their artistry and time-consuming techniques can be found in Dallas, Austin and other cities. Restaurants in New York City and Washington have imported the Texas style to the East Coast, and national accolades are pouring in. In 2011, the magazine Bon Appétit declared Franklin Barbecue in Austin the best barbecue restaurant in America.

Mr. Vaughn had a kind of epiphany in 2006, five years after moving to the state, while on a three-day, 16-joint barbecue trip through Central Texas with a friend. One Saturday morning, they headed to Louie Mueller Barbecue in Taylor.

“We got there right as they opened,” Mr. Vaughn recalled. “We had this pile of meat in front of us. I took a bite of the brisket. We were sitting across the picnic table from one another and we just looked at each other like, ‘Oh wow, this is what they’ve been talking about.’ ”

That meal, and others after it, led him to start his barbecue blog in 2008. The blog led to assignments for D Magazine in Dallas and other publications, including Texas Monthly.

Mr. Vaughn’s last day as an associate at Good Fulton & Farrell is Tuesday, and he starts his new job in April, a few weeks before the release of his book, “The Prophets of Smoked Meat: A Journey Through Texas Barbecue.” He spent six months exploring the state’s barbecue spots and collecting pitmasters’ recipes, eating at up to 10 restaurants a day and logging 10,000 miles.

Standing at a table at Lockhart, with his dinner scattered about the oily butcher paper and not a plate in sight, he pulled apart the brisket, which had been smoked for 14 to 16 hours. Lockhart opened in 2010 seeking to replicate Central Texas barbecue, using the same techniques, wood — post oak — and down-home style that is both anti-fork and anti-sauce.

“They leave some fat on,” Mr. Vaughn said, brisket in hand. “If you go to East Texas, you’re going to get basically just gray slices of brisket. The saddest thing you can see is for them to pull out a fresh new brisket, slap it down and it’s got this nice jiggle to it. Then they’ll take the back of the knife and scrape the fat off in one fell swoop and throw it away. They love the fat in Central Texas.”

Both Mr. Vaughn and Jake Silverstein, the editor in chief of Texas Monthly, said they did not discuss any sort of fitness program as part of his new job. “We have not discussed the health implications of being the Texas Monthly barbecue editor,” Mr. Silverstein said. “He’s figured out how to make the barbecue lifestyle compatible with staying above ground.”

One of Mr. Vaughn’s co-workers at the architecture firm wanted to plan a goodbye lunch for him and asked him where he wanted it. His answer: Kalachandji’s, an Indian vegetarian restaurant. “I gotta eat my veggies,” he said.
605 2013-03-24 A conventional news conference would hardly suffice for the debut of the 2014 Range Rover Sport, Land Rover executives thought, so on March 26, the night before the New York auto show opens for two days of press previews, the new S.U.V. is to be revealed in a Hollywood-caliber video.

The video’s story line seems straightforward enough: a red Range Rover Sport is packed into a shipping container, which ultimately arrives in New York for the hero to take delivery. A frenetic crosstown dash amazingly leads to the vehicle’s destination, the official unveiling in Midtown.

The video will be broadcast on the Internet, and the live press event in Manhattan is expected to include an appearance by Daniel Craig, the reigning Agent 007 of the James Bond film franchise. The choice of location was no flight of a director’s fancy, given that New York is the world’s biggest market for the Range Rover Sport, according to the company.

While Land Rover representatives remained more secretive than the Spectre crime syndicate regarding Mr. Craig’s participation, behind-the-scenes access to the filming was offered to a reporter. Over several days — and weeks ahead of the auto show’s opening — carefully selected locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn served as backdrops for the video that would lead to the Sport’s cinematic entrance.

Somewhere between standing in a flooded traffic tunnel and being strapped tightly into a helicopter, its side door wide open despite near-freezing temperatures, it became clear that in the film world, reality doesn’t interfere with a good story.
606 2013-03-24 “I was worried something was wrong with him,” she said. That’s when she met Mr. Scheinert, who had also run to the car — with a different motive. “He wanted to make sure the guy didn’t get away.”

The teenage driver was frightened but fine, and, fortunately, no one was harmed. But Ms. Speisman was shaken when she saw that the metal chair she’d been sitting in had been crushed.

“That’s when I started crying,” she said. It was also right about then that she noticed that Mr. Scheinert was “very cute.”

Mascara ran down her face as they conversed, but he found it endearing. “She had very bright green eyes,” he said, “which were accentuated when she started tearing up.”

Emergency responders arrived, so Ms. Speisman, a biological engineering major, collected her scattered study materials. But before departing, she wrote her name and number on a napkin and handed it to Mr. Scheinert, saying, “If you ever want to get coffee or dodge cars, give me a call.”

He was impressed by her boldness. As was she.

“I was on an adrenaline high,” said Ms. Speisman, who had never given a guy her phone number, let alone come on so strongly to one. “I felt invincible. If I could survive a car crash, I could survive rejection.”

He texted her later and they had their first date the following week. But that gave her enough time for second thoughts.

“It felt like a blind date,” she said, “because I knew nothing about him.”

It turned out they had much more than proximity (they’re native Floridians) and religion (both are Jewish) in common. Each was quick to note the other’s intelligence and easygoing personality.

“I didn’t feel like I was on a date,” Mr. Scheinert said. “I felt like I was hanging out with a friend.”

Still, when Valentine’s Day came around he dawdled until the last day to ask her out, by which time he couldn’t get a restaurant reservation. So he invited her to his apartment to cook with him.

Ms. Speisman was surprised by the intimate gesture.

“He was inviting me into his space,” she marveled. But that didn’t stop her from gently teasing him about buying boil-in-bag rice. “He didn’t know there was any other kind.”

He was willing to laugh at himself, and more important, he made her laugh. A lot. She became enamored with his wry sense of humor, partly honed from his devotion to “Seinfeld” reruns.

But there was nothing glib about his admiration for her kindhearted spirit.

“She deeply cares about other people, and not in a hokey way,” he said.

Neither can recall having a conversation about their burgeoning relationship. It was more a growing sense of comfort. After graduating in 2008, they backpacked for two weeks in Costa Rica, at one point hiking through a field of ankle-deep cow manure to reach a trio of secluded waterfalls.

“We were dirty and smelly, and it was beautiful,” Ms. Speisman said, reveling in what they learned about their feelings for each other during a challenging trip.

Mr. Scheinert tried to express the evolution of those feelings.

“It’s a series of moments,” he said. “It’s little recognitions along the way of the small things that make you smile. You don’t call attention to them. But you make a mental note: I kind of love her.”

But upon their return he moved to Miami, where he had accepted a position with an office of the New York law firm White & Case. Ms. Speisman remained in Gainesville for a doctoral program in biomedical engineering, studying age-related cognitive decline.

It was a five-hour drive between the two cities, but that was better than the distance between them when Mr. Scheinert relocated again to Washington in 2010, first to get his Master of Laws degree at Georgetown and then to work at the Treasury Department, having earned a position as a policy adviser in the Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes.

Ms. Speisman took pride in his achievements and never considered the geographic separation a threat to their relationship.

“Worrying that something bad is going to happen is living scared,” said Ms. Speisman, a grandchild of four Holocaust survivors (three of them still living).

According to her maternal grandfather, Nathan Weinberger, “Every day is a gift.” He and his wife of 63 years, Elisabeth, live in Lawrence, N.Y., and can recall their first meal together in 1947: blintzes at Ratner’s in New York. They still hold hands, and their relationship has been a role model for Ms. Speisman.

“Their love is so natural and comfortable,” she said. “That’s what I always wanted.” And that’s what she said she found with Mr. Scheinert.

“He’s my best friend and my confidante,” she said. “But he’s also somebody who will keep me on my toes and surprise me.”

Mr. Scheinert said, “We want the same things, not just in big ways but in small ways.”

After five years, he decided last February it was time to propose. An engagement wasn’t exactly a surprise. In fact, Mr. Weinberger had offered on more than one occasion to give Mr. Scheinert a ring if it would speed up the process.

On March 10, Ms. Speisman and Mr. Scheinert stood beneath Mr. Weinberger’s prayer shawl outside the River House, an event space in St. Augustine, on the banks of the Matanzas River. Rabbi David Kaiman performed the ceremony before 170 guests and several pelicans.

There were five wedding cakes, celebrating not only the newlyweds but also both sets of parents, the Weinbergers, and the groom’s maternal grandparents, who have been married 60 years.

The bride is to receive her Ph.D. next month and begin a postdoctoral fellowship in May at the National Institute of Mental Health in Washington, where she will be living in the same city as her new spouse for the first time in almost five years.

“Love isn’t always convenient,” said Mr. Scheinert, who is counting the days until they share a ZIP code. “I find that whatever I’m doing, I’d much prefer to be doing it with Rachel.”

As they danced a jubilant hora, her grandfather struggled to contain his emotions.

“When I met my wife, that was the best thing that happened to me,” said Mr. Weinberger, who was born in Czechoslovakia 90 years ago. “And now, today, this is the second best.”
607 2013-03-24 I was a real allergy skeptic until my own daughter experienced a life-threatening reaction to a cashew bar. More than a year later, a combination of care and luck has kept her anaphylaxis free. Of course, I was excited to read about a possible treatment for her in your magazine. But I am frustrated that researchers aren’t doing more to try to determine what is causing this epidemic rise in severe allergic reactions. I worry that the focus on a cure dooms us to have more allergic kids rather than stopping the problem where it starts. AMANDA COOPER, Alameda, Calif.

Melanie Thernstrom wrote, “While food allergies cost an estimated $500 million a year, Congress recently appropriated only $28 million a year for research (compared with, say, $1 billion for diabetes and $5 billion for cancer).” Congress appropriated a research budget for allergies, however, that is 5.6 percent of the total economic cost. The budgets for diabetes and cancer only amount to 0.4 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively. BRIAN HUNT, Wheaton, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

THE PROFESSOR, THE MODEL AND THE SUITCASE FULL OF TROUBLE



You meet bikini model online and she asks you to fly an empty suitcase from Bolivia to Europe. What can go wrong? @ThankUAndGnite, via Twitter

Did the professor go through with the scheme because he believed his online lover was real and that this was a task to prove his worth? Maybe he thought he could use his appearance as an aloof nerd to make the case that he “accidentally” smuggled drugs. He’s retelling this story even after it has failed in court, which seems to indicate that he actually was bamboozled. And yet what about those text messages? What about those days in the airport, waiting for the e-ticket to Brussels? He was never suspicious about the bag? Even the idiots in “Dumb and Dumber” knew the bag was cursed. DAN NGUYEN, on news.ycombinator.com

I’ve known Paul Frampton for more than 30 years. He’s decent and hard-working. I never thought he had an exaggerated opinion of himself. I have a great deal of respect for him, far more respect than I have for the D.E.A. KEVIN CAHILL, PH.D., Professor of physics and astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque

Contrary to the implication in the article written about me, the behavior exhibited by both the lawyers and judges in my case was thoroughly professional and exemplary in all respects. The lawyers were able to prove my health was deteriorating in prison and probably saved my life by their work. While I admit that I showed bad judgment by checking in a bag belonging to someone else, I had no suspicion or knowledge that it contained illegal substances. PAUL FRAMPTON, Buenos Aires
608 2013-03-24 The other day a headline, “Female Prison Guard Pregnant by Cop Killer Inmate,” came pulsing across the electronic ticker of a morning news show. Paging T. Coraghessan Boyle! I thought. The outsize combination of tragedy and brinkmanship, of hope and human folly, was straight out of a Boyle story. Several books in, we know exactly what we mean by a T. C. Boyle story — or a William Trevor story or an Antonya Nelson story. Indeed our pleasure is heightened by knowing the lay of the land because we can read for the new: how this particular Alice Munro story differs from what we’ve come to expect from an Alice Munro story.

Coming to a writer’s collected short fiction for the first time, we instinctively seek a road map of some kind to guide us through the titles in the table of contents. Geography is always a help, whether real or invented: Joyce’s Dublin; Cheever’s Shady Hill, N.Y.; Elizabeth Strout’s Crosby, Me. So is a unifying ethnicity: Philip Roth’s Jewish Americans; Junot Díaz’s Dominican-Americans. (Better still is a combination of ethnicity and geography: Jhumpa Lahiri’s Indian-Americans living near Cambridge, Mass.) A distinct style can also enlighten us to the nature of the writer’s endeavor: the arresting brevity of a Lydia Davis story, say. As readers we want to know, what is this book about? And with stories we may find we have to work harder at the answer, fitting together a puzzle of a dozen-odd pieces, than we do in a novel’s benignly numbered chapters.

On the surface Amber Dermont’s debut collection, “Damage Control,” provides us with few signposts. If pop-up fiction becomes a thing, Dermont will excel at it. She seems able to throw down a convincing story set anywhere, spun from any premise. We zoom from an etiquette school in Houston to a German military base to a Scandinavian cruise ship. We dwell among Russian and Korean immigrants; West Coast screenwriters; Massachusetts Catholics. This is not, however, one of those books whose authors appear to be casting around, trying a bit of this and a bit of that in search of a collection. Dermont, whose first novel, “The Starboard Sea,” was published last year, is a deft writer, bullish on her characters, assertive in her descriptions of these specific worlds. You don’t question the cross-country or trans-Atlantic leaps; if anything, the geographical and ethnological swings make you more determined to understand what Dermont is up to.

One hint may be that of 14 stories, fully a dozen are told in the first person. (An exception is the affecting “Assembling the Troops,” which uses that first-person foil: the second person.) Male, female, gay, straight or somewhere on the continuum — it sounds overdramatic to say that these “I”s are all one person, but that is the way the narrators emerge: as a forceful, unified voice. Dermont’s “I” is smart, uncowed, unapologetic, tough — comfortable using subversion to get what he or she wants.

“He or she” is a convention, of course, but the “I” of this collection is so vigorous a presence that I occasionally lost track of the narrator’s gender or sexual orientation, viscerally if not literally. The seemingly effete Martin Foster of the title story, who teaches manners to moneyed teenagers and is given to prissy pronouncements (“Etiquette is nothing less than the grammar of living”), is next seen stripping his sexy girlfriend, then deciding to “watch her as she writhes against the mattress.” But while I had trouble associating this scene with the heretofore buttoned-up Mr. Foster, I had no trouble associating it with the overarching “I” of the collection — an eminently sexual being. This is a book in which sex matters, a book, indeed, founded on sex; the recklessness that sexual attraction can trigger is such a given that Dermont’s ultimate point lies beyond the transgressions of the behavior.

A white woman oversteps when she throws the Korean boyfriend she longs to have a child with up against a wall, demanding intercourse. A cleaning woman who is sleeping with her boss bares her breasts before his girlfriend in a challenge to her. Abuse is not absent: in “Afternoons in the Museum of Childhood,” Dermont writes illuminatingly from the risky point of view of a girl kidnapped and held by a psychopath. Even characters’ parents — those disposable two-dimensional plot requisites — in Dermont’s hands are reborn as sexual beings: the hot mom is one of her staples.
609 2013-03-24 Barbara Nessim is honored with a London retrospective....
610 2013-03-24 STAMBOULI--Nathan. Died suddenly on March 19. Loving son of Selly and Raymond (1980). Survived by his two adoring sisters, Chantal and Nicole and his nieces and nephews. His family and friends will sorely miss him. Private funeral services were he...
611 2013-03-24 The other day you may have read about Patrick Robinson, the former Gap creative director, who is producing a new line, Paskho, with money he hopes to raise on Kickstarter. Among crowd-funding sites, Kickstarter is the largest, with more 30,000 pro...
612 2013-03-25 Apple has acquired WiFiSlam, a start-up company that helps improve the accuracy of indoor maps and other services. Indoor maps look poised to become a new battleground between big tech companies....
613 2013-03-25 Rengan Rajaratnam pleaded not guilty on Monday to insider trading charges, coming nearly two years after the conviction of his older brother, the fallen hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam....
614 2013-03-25 Shares in Bankia, the giant Spanish mortgage lender whose collapse last year led to a banking crisis in Spain, slumped 41 percent on Monday after regulators wiped out most of the stock’s value....
615 2013-03-25 The artistic director of Playwrights Horizons sent an e-mail to subscribers explaining the company’s decision to produce Annie Baker’s play “The Flick,” which has been embraced by critics but has prompted threats of subscriber cancellation...
616 2013-03-25 Zovig Garboushian joined Veria Living, New York, in a new post, director for business development. She had been director for integrated marketing at Health magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner.

William Gasperoni and Hillary Koota Krevlin joined Town & Country magazine, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation, in new posts. Mr. Gasperoni becomes executive director for print and digital marketing; he had most recently been an integrated marketing director at The Wall Street Journal, part of the Dow Jones & Company division of News Corporation. Ms. Krevlin becomes executive director for partnerships and brand development; she had most recently been corporate creative services director at the Condé Nast Media Group, New York, part of the Condé Nast Publications division of Advance Publications.

Dan Hodges joined the New York office of ChaCha as president, a new post. He had been chief revenue officer at Verve Mobile.

HyperTV is opening a United States office, in New York. Peter Sung will be based there, with the title of co-founder of HyperTV; Claudio Vaccarella, the founder, is also chief executive and based in Italy. Also based in New York is Vincent Grosso, with the title of senior board adviser.

International Yacht Restoration School, Newport, R.I., chose Forge Worldwide, Boston, as its agency of record. The account had been inactive. Billings were not disclosed.

IPG Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, acquired Interactive Avenues, which was described as India’s largest independent full-service digital agency. Financial terms were not disclosed. Interactive Avenues, which was opened in 2006, has offices in Bangalore, Delhi and Mumbai.

John Kelly joined Univision Communications, New York, as executive vice president for digital sales. He succeeds Charlie Echeverry, who left, the company said. Mr. Kelly had most recently been executive vice president for media sales and marketing at NBC News, part of the NBCUniversal division of the Comcast Corporation.

Elise Mitchell, chief executive at the Mitchell Communications Group, Fayetteville, Ark., was named 2013 PR Professional of the Year by PR Week, part of the Haymarket Media Group. Ms. Mitchell is also chief executive at the Dentsu Public Relations Network unit of Dentsu, which acquired her agency this year. Cohn & Wolfe, New York, part of WPP, was named 2013 PR Agency of the Year as well as Large PR Agency of the Year.

Dave Muller joined Brokaw, Cleveland, as associate creative director. He had been a senior art director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group.

Joe O’Neill, a copywriter at Manifest Communications, Toronto, won the 15th annual Dead Radio contest sponsored by Oink Ink Radio, New York and Santa Monica, Calif. The contest is intended to give a second chance to scripts for radio commercials that were overlooked by clients for various reasons. Mr. O’Neill’s script, for the Canadian Hearing Society, uses the setting of a rock concert to make a point about noise-induced hearing loss. Among Mr. O’Neill’s prizes was the production of his script by Oink Ink at its New York studio.

Colin Padden joined Embark Digital, Farmington Hills, Mich., in a new post, senior vice president for client engagement. He had been vice president and account director on the Ford account at Team Detroit, part of WPP.

Preferred Mutual Insurance Company, New Berlin, N.Y., named Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, as its first agency of record. Spending was not disclosed.

Re:fuel, New York, opened a unit, Hustle Promotions, that will specialize in events, sample and other promotional activities. Hustle, to be led by John Weipz, president, is based in Cranbury, N.J., and has regional sales offices in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Santa Barbara, Calif.

Chris Robertson joined David & Goliath, El Segundo, Calif., in a new post, digital creative director. He had most recently been creative director at JWT Dubai, part of the JWT unit of WPP.

Jesse Soleil joined Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, senior vice president for digital. He had been chief executive at Massiverse, his own boutique media entertainment company.

Thermafuse, Kannapolis, N.C., selected BooneOakley, Charlotte, N.C., as its advertising agency of record. The previous agency, Glint Advertising and Design, Hurst, Tex., did not take part in a review for the account. Spending was estimated at $1 million.

Debbie White joined Crosby Marketing Communications, Annapolis, Md., as a digital program manager. She had been a digital marketing strategist at R2integrated.

Rachel Wintner joined TotallyHer, part of the Evolve Media Corporation, in a new post, vice president for sales, leading sales teams that are based in Los Angeles and San Francisco. She had been vice president for sales at Glam Media.

The Wolverine footwear and apparel brand, sold by Wolverine World Wide, Rockford, Mich., named Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, part of the Martin/Williams division of the Omnicom Group, as agency of record. The account had previously been handled by Hanson Dodge Creative, Milwaukee. Billings were not disclosed.

Jonathan Zaback joined SpecOps Communications, New York, in a new post, chief communications officer. He had most recently been partner, senior vice president and global media director at Finn Partners, New York, part of the Ruder Finn Group.
617 2013-03-25 This year, the San Diego hotel celebrates its 125th anniversary with a series of events and a new commemorative book....
618 2013-03-25 The major competitors in digital music services are spending large sums on advertising campaigns that are meant to generate awareness, consideration and trial. The newest entrant in the ad club is Spotify, which plans on Monday to start its first ...
619 2013-03-25 Gerard Way, the singer of My Chemical Romance, tried to explain the band’s split in a 2,200-word letter posted online....
620 2013-03-25 It would also be possible, Nissan said, for the driver to think the transmission was in Park when it was in a position that could allow the van to roll away....
621 2013-03-25 Tracking a single number — whether it’s how much you save each month or how much your investments are worth — may be a subtle nudge to improving your finances....
622 2013-03-25 March Madness will cost businesses. The economy may be turning a corner. The Affordable Care Act has its third anniversary. And do you think Yelp helps?...
623 2013-03-25 It is a myth that Indian society is male-dominated, and a recent anti-rape law is discriminating against men, a group in Pune says....
624 2013-03-25 The college admissions process might seem random, impersonal and elite, but what actually happens behind the closed doors of the admission committee might be surprising....
625 2013-03-25 No. 3-seeded Maria Sharapova moved into the fourth round of the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., with a 6-4, 6-2 win over a fellow Russian, Elena Vesnina. Sharapova, who completed a career Grand Slam last year, is looking for her first title at Key Biscayne, where she lost in the 2005, 2006, 2011 and 2012 finals.

In men’s play, top-ranked Novak Djokovic, seeking his fourth Key Biscayne title and third in a row, defeated No. 254-ranked Somdev Devvarman, 6-2, 6-4. Djokovic next faces No. 15-seeded Tommy Haas, who beat No. 19 Alexandr Dolgopolov, 6-3, 6-2. No. 3 David Ferrer defeated Fabio Fognini, 6-1, 7-5, and next faces No. 13 Kei Nishikori.
626 2013-03-25 This time last year, Murphy’s appointment as the Mets’ full-time second baseman was one the team’s bigger story lines, and questions about his competency at the position, about how smoothly he could learn to turn a double play, reverberated throughout spring training.

Then the season began, and for the most part, the murmurs subsided. Murphy was not immune to struggles — he went through a particularly uneven spell in June, when he openly criticized his defense — but he came to be seen as a source of consistency for the team. He played 156 games, finishing the season with a .291 batting average, a .332 on-base percentage and a .403 slugging percentage.

Manager Terry Collins would love to have Murphy’s bat for the first game, but he will be cautious.

Collins likes to tell a story about how, one year, one of his players took 18 at-bats in one day during spring training. But Collins said he would be more careful with Murphy, because of the nature of his injury and the fact that he normally follows a strict routine of drills.

“He’s a guy who takes endless swings to make sure his swing is just how he wants it, and he hasn’t been able to do that,” Collins said. “We will make a decision at the end of the week which will benefit not only Dan but the organization.”

The possibility remains that Murphy, who received a cortisone shot on his right side Feb. 19, will be overtaken by Wright, who was injured later but had the advantage of playing several games, including four in the World Baseball Classic.

Wright seemed upbeat Sunday. He took batting practice on the field for the first time since March 14, when he was a late scratch for the United States’ game against the Dominican Republic in the W.B.C. The next day, he flew to New York for a cortisone shot.

Wright reported no discomfort after his brief session Sunday morning. He reiterated his hope that he would be ready for April 1, but he said he was happy the Mets were staying cautious, too.

“They’ve done a nice job getting the reins on me and making me take my time and really slowing it down,” Wright said. “It’s a good day, and hopefully tomorrow we’ll have a good day as well.”

Strong winds came through the Mets’ spring training facility Sunday, sweeping dirt into the air and bending palm trees sideways. Murphy, his jersey fluttering like a sail, played five innings at second base and had three plate appearances, poking a single through the left side of the infield, drawing a walk and grounding out to second.

The last time Murphy tried to play a minor league game, on March 15, he experienced stiffness of the right side of his rib cage, setting back his recovery a number of days. He seemed positive this time, though he said his timing at the plate was off.

“It was like trying to hit an aspirin,” Murphy said. “I haven’t had an at-bat since October. So it was just O.K.”

Murphy said he felt the way he always does at the start of spring training. But of course, he made sure to add, spring training began a month and a half ago. So the race to get ready continues.
627 2013-03-25 A Tibetan mother of four was reported to have set herself afire Sunday in protest over Chinese rule, as an article by a respected writer calling on his fellow Tibetans to stop the self-immolations remained available on the domestic Internet; unusu...
628 2013-03-25 Mr. Fallon “has a real chance to be great,” said one veteran executive in the late-night business, who like others interviewed for this article asked not to identified because of continuing business with different networks and relationships with late-night hosts.

Among the viewers who determine financial success in late night, those ages 18 to 49, Mr. Leno still leads the network late-night shows, but with an average rating of just 0.8 (about 996,000 viewers) for the season. Jon Stewart does better on cable, with an average rating of 1.1. But the true leader in late-night ratings is a machine, not a comic. The best rating in the time period from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m., according to Brad Adgate, senior vice president for research at Horizon Media, is “recorded playback on the DVR.”

DVR playback of recorded shows is averaging a 3.1 rating — or almost four million viewers. The late-night comics are threatened by cartoon characters, too: shows in those hours on the Cartoon Network are averaging about a 1 rating, or about 1.3 million viewers. (Mr. Fallon is averaging a 0.5 rating for his NBC show in the 12:35 hour — that’s just 632,000 viewers.)

With diminished numbers come diminished profits. Mr. Leno once made about $150 million a year for NBC. Now the number is probably between $25 million and $40 million, a senior network executive said.

Part of the reason is cost. One executive who has worked on late-night budgets estimated that the bigger network shows like “Tonight” still cost $50 million to $70 million a year. (This is after NBC forced budget cuts this season and won a reduction in salary from Mr. Leno.) That number has to be tightened further for the shows to continue to make money, the executive said.

Another reason is competition. Mr. Leno now faces not only his longtime rival, David Letterman, on CBS, but also Jimmy Kimmel on ABC. Despite initial expectations, though, Mr. Kimmel, 45, has not overrun Mr. Leno, 62, whose resilience (critics call it obstinacy) is something of a television legend. But Mr. Kimmel does edge out Mr. Leno among viewers ages 18 to 34.

Still, youth has always been served in late night. What matters increasingly is how much additional exposure the comedy generated by these hosts enjoys on sites like YouTube and Hulu.

Those areas have been strengths for Mr. Fallon and Mr. Kimmel, both of whom have created widely viewed videos. Mr. Fallon’s dance video with Michelle Obama, for example, has now exceeded 15 million views on YouTube. A version of “Call Me Maybe” with the host and his band, the Roots, accompanying Carly Rae Jepsen on classroom instruments (like kazoos) has surpassed 13 million views. And Mr. Kimmel has churned out hit after hit on video.

Mr. Adgate said an increasing number of younger viewers do not even watch television anymore. He cited a recent Nielsen study that estimated five million households do not have TV sets, adding that “50 percent of those homes have heads of households under 35.”

“That audience hardly knows who Jay Leno is,” he said.

But if “Tonight” is going to sustain its position as a cultural icon, NBC still needs late night’s older, more consistent viewers. “The vast majority of revenue still comes from the television show,” said a veteran late-night producer, who went on to say that even the shows that have significant Internet followings cannot count on much more than $3 million to $5 million a year in revenue from those sources. That will not put a dent in a $50 million-plus budget.

NBC is walking a fine line between retaining the old and embracing the new. One senior executive who has been involved in the planning for Mr. Fallon’s future show suggested that some kind of fresh approach to the format is inevitable, both because the traditional format (monologue, comedy piece, desk, couch, guests, music act, good night) is so old and tired by now and because Mr. Fallon’s talents (impressions, sketch comedy) open up the show to new ideas.

But NBC has looked to reinvent “Tonight” before, and wound up unhappy with the results. The network pushed Mr. Leno out three years ago in favor of the younger, more creatively adventurous Conan O’Brien, then panicked when a horde of mostly older Leno viewers abandoned the show. Mr. Leno was reinstated and NBC lost Mr. O’Brien, a star it had built for 14 years.

NBC’s executives say they are warmed by evidence that Mr. Fallon does not skew too young. They note that the median age for Mr. Fallon’s audience is a surprising 53.3. That is considerably younger than Mr. Leno’s 58.1, but it is not a vast generational difference. Mr. O’Brien dropped the show’s median age precipitously — by a decade — when he hosted “Tonight” in 2009. But he began to lose the contest for total viewers to Mr. Letterman.

One of Johnny Carson’s consistent mantras about success in late night was that a show had to fare well in the middle of the country, where viewers are able to see “Tonight” an hour earlier than on the coasts. Mr. Leno has always demonstrated strength in those areas. Among Mr. Leno’s top 15 cities for viewers age 18 to 49, six are where the show can be seen at 10:35 p.m. rather than 11:35. The number is the same for Mr. Fallon.

“I do think it will be a challenge to keep the Leno ratings,” said a longtime executive who has worked with several of the big late-night hosts. “I always wonder how the younger hosts will handle being in the heat of a presidential election where they have to be accountable and ask tough questions.”
629 2013-03-25 Two days after Mr. Sombath failed to arrive home on that Saturday in December, his wife, Ng Shui Mong, accompanied by several friends, went to the municipal police station and viewed the video from the surveillance camera near the police checkpoint where her husband was stopped.

As the video played, Ms. Ng and her friends made copies with their cellphones. Those images have been posted on You Tube and on a Web site, sombath.org, as part of an international campaign to get to the bottom of Mr. Sombath’s disappearance.

The video, at times to hard decipher, shows Mr. Sombath being stopped, getting out of his jeep and walking in the direction of the police checkpoint. A motorcyclist then drives up and stops, and then gets in Mr. Sombath’s jeep and drives away. A few minutes later, a white pickup truck arrives at the scene, two men get out and Mr. Sombath then gets into the truck with them. It drives away.

The United States Embassy in Vientiane offered technical assistance to the Laotian government to enhance the quality of the surveillance video so that the license plates on the motorcycle and the truck could become clear, American officials said. The government declined the offer, the officials said.

Much of the American aid to Laos is devoted to public health services and to clearing unexploded ordnance left over from the bombing campaign the United States conducted in an effort to prevent North Vietnam from using Laos as a supply and troop corridor during the Vietnam War.

Neither the United States nor European countries have threatened to cut off aid to Laos over the Sombath case, but instead have tried to emphasize the damage it could cause to the reputation of the Laotian government, diplomats said.

In many respects, Mr. Sombath has special meaning for the United States. He first visited America as a high school exchange student on the American Field Service program in 1969. When he arrived in Wisconsin to stay with a family for a year, he spoke only basic English he had learned from an American Fulbright scholar in Laos.

Later he studied at the University of Hawaii, earning a master’s degree in agriculture, a field that became the focus of his career as promoter of sustainable farming. He founded the Participatory Development Training Center in Vientiane to teach young Laotians the skills needed for community development projects, and he was embraced in Asia and Africa for his pioneering work.

Mr. Sombath gave the keynote address at the Asia-Europe People’s Forum in October 2012 in Vientiane, a gathering of Laotian community leaders and foreign aid workers. The confiscation of land by government authorities was a major topic at the forum, and some of Mr. Sombath’s supporters believe that he was abducted as a warning to silence government critics on that subject.

Mr. Sombath’s wife, Ms. Ng, a former senior official with Unicef, has helped organize a campaign to encourage the government to tell what it knows about Mr. Sombath. A month after Mr. Sombath’s disappearance, Mr. Kerry’s predecessor as secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, appealed to the Laotian government to come forward with information.

“The Lao government has done this before,” Ms. Ng, said, referring to other unexplained disappearances of Laotian citizens. “But they have never faced this international interest.”

The United States has also expressed concern about the refusal of the Laotian government to help in the investigation of two missing American citizens and a resident, all of Laotian origin, who disappeared this year.

This month, Laotian officials in Savannakhet, a southern province, prevented a team of American investigators from reaching the site where the three men — Souli Kongmalavong, Bounthie Insixiengmai and Bounma Phannhotha — were last seen in January, officials at the American Embassy said.
630 2013-03-25 Arriving at 8:30 the night before the ride was supposed to reopen for the season, Mr. Cyclone — otherwise known as Eric Knapp, 47 — had claimed the first spot in line to ride the Cyclone, Coney Island’s famed wooden roller coaster, and more than 15 hours later, he was still excited. Very excited.

“Woooo!” he roared on Sunday, leaping atop the Cyclone’s first car and flexing his arms, one of which bore a Cyclone tattoo, for the benefit of the crowd. (The letters “C Y C L O N E” were shaved onto his head, his black sleeveless T-shirt said “Cyclone,” and he claimed to have ridden the roller coaster nearly 2,000 times.) A few minutes later, he became the first to zoom down the tracks.

Just like that, Coney Island was back.

The opening of the Cyclone is always an occasion: with a christening of Brooklyn egg cream and blessings from local dignitaries, its first go-round in late March means spring is here, and summer is coming.

While it is debatable whether spring has arrived in New York — the temperature refused to top the mid-40s on Sunday, and yet another snowstorm threatened to cast gloom over the city on Monday — the grand opening this year nearly had to be delayed. Awash in almost five feet of seawater after Hurricane Sandy struck in October, Coney Island’s colorful rides had only just emerged from an extensive rehabilitation. Workers were still finishing the repairs when families began to crowd the entrances on Sunday morning.

“Our commitment after the hurricane, from Day 1, was to be ready on time for this event,” said Alberto Zamperla, the chief executive of the international company that operates Luna Park, one of two privately owned amusement parks that opened in Coney Island on Sunday. Though Mr. Zamperla declined to say how much the renovations had cost, he described seemingly endless rounds of repair, from replacing electrical systems to dumping go-carts brined in seawater.
631 2013-03-25 ¶Viggle, a company founded by Robert F.X. Sillerman that offers an app in the realm of social television — using social media like Facebook and Twitter to connect with friends while watching television — named Maude, New York, part of Media Storm, as its first agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. Maude created a commercial for Viggle that began appearing last week.

¶Fred Hawrysh was named president and chief executive at PPR North America, a new division of PPR, an Australian public relations agency that is part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP. He had most recently been global head for corporate communications at Accenture. PPR North America will have its headquarters in New York and offices in San Francisco and Washington.

¶Andrew Varga joined Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group, as president. He had been chief marketing officer at Papa John’s International, Louisville, Ky.; Zimmerman is agency of record for Papa John’s.

¶Laura Maness joined the Chicago office of Havas Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas, as United States chief growth officer, a new post. She had most recently been senior vice president and director for business development at Propane Studio, San Francisco.

¶Jane Wladar, group associate publisher at Popular Mechanics, Car and Driver and Road & Track magazines, part of the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation, New York, was named publisher and chief revenue officer at another Hearst magazine, Country Living. She succeeds Kassie Means, who recently became publisher and chief revenue officer at Woman’s Day, which is also part of Hearst Magazines.
632 2013-03-25 LOS ANGELES — Hollywood finally lured moviegoers out of their caves.

For the first time this year two movies arrived to $30 million or more in ticket sales in North America, giving studios hope that a dismal box-office stretch was behind them. “The Croods,” about a prehistoric family’s road trip, took in an estimated $44.7 million over the weekend, easily enough for No. 1, while “Olympus Has Fallen” took in a stronger-than-expected $30.5 million, for second place.

Even “Spring Breakers,” Harmony Korine’s lurid art-house tale of bikini-clad killers, lived up to its hype, taking in about $5 million in relatively limited national release.

Still, moviegoing in the United States and Canada remains deeply troubled. Ticket sales for the year to date total $2.06 billion, a 13 percent decline from the same period a year ago, according to Paul Dergarabedian, a box-office analyst for Hollywood.com. Attendance has fallen 14 percent.

Star-packed movies like “Gangster Squad” and “The Incredible Burt Wonderstone” have arrived to virtual shrugs. An expensive fantasy, “Jack the Giant Slayer,” flopped outright. Movies aimed at men (“The Last Stand,” “Broken City” and “21 & Over”) have disappointed in assembly-line fashion.

One of the few exceptions, “Oz the Great and Powerful” from Walt Disney Studios, sold an additional $22 million in tickets over the weekend, placing third. “Oz” has now taken in $177.6 million in North America over three weeks. (Crucial overseas sales, however, have been soft.)

“The Call” (Sony) was fourth, selling about $8.7 million in tickets, for a two-week total of $30.9 million. “Admission,” a new comedy starring Tina Fey and Paul Rudd, was an underwhelming fifth, taking in about $6.4 million. But it cost Focus Features only an estimated $13 million to make.
633 2013-03-25 As haggling over the bailout terms continued since, the company’s bank accounts — and all others on the island — have been frozen, making it nearly impossible to do business. Hundreds of other foreign-owned companies in Cyprus are in similar straits, whether new arrivals like Avid Life Media or long-timers like KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Lukoil.

As soon as Mr. Lalonde got the call, he punched the speed dial to Avid Life Media’s chief executive in Toronto, Noel Biderman, to relay the news.

“We jumped into panic mode,” Mr. Biderman recalled the other day in a telephone interview.

Although Avid Life Media’s business model has stoked controversy, and the occasional lawsuit, for Web sites like CougarLife.com and AshleyMadison.com that critics say promote promiscuity, the company has seen its European and global traffic grow rapidly. About a quarter of the sites’ 18 million members are outside North America, almost 4 million of them in Europe, according to the company. Mr. Biderman says he chose Cyprus for the same business-friendly, tax-attractive reasons that have drawn so many other foreign companies.

Now, Mr. Biderman and Mr. Lalonde are wondering whether to pull up stakes. If that happened on a large scale, Cyprus, which has evolved into one of Europe’s most important financial centers in the past decade, would face a blow to the cornerstone of its economy. Other than mom-and-pop shops, most businesses in Cyprus have foreign owners.

“Most of the money here comes from foreign investors and companies like us,” Mr. Lalonde said. But given the enormous uncertainty churned up, “Why would anyone come here?” he asked. “They have put the nails in their own coffin.”

On Sunday, President Anastasiades and finance ministers from the 17-member euro zone were meeting in Brussels, hoping to find a resolution to the Cypriot financial crisis. Whatever they come up with, it may not be nearly enough to contain the damage.

Much of what has made Cyprus so alluring to businesses has blown up in the past week. Cyprus’s 10 percent corporate tax rate would rise to 12 percent under the tentative terms of the bailout. That would still be the lowest in the euro zone, still below Ireland’s 12.5 percent and well under the 29.5 percent rate in Germany and 33.3 percent in France. But to be a tax haven requires a stability that Cyprus has lost.

The worst damage, however, came when policy makers opened a Pandora’s box by proposing to alter a once-inviolable precept by skimming money from bank deposits to help make up the government’s shortfall. On Sunday, the government continued to press for seizing a portion of savers’ deposits above €100,000, even though it abandoned the previous proposal of hitting smaller deposits, too.

Avid Life Media, which began doing business in Cyprus shortly before Mr. Lalonde set up the international headquarters here, does not typically keep a lot of cash in its Cyprus accounts, although executives were attracted by the outsized interest rates, averaging around 5 percent, that banks have paid to lure customers worldwide — including an estimated $31 billion held by Russians in Cypriot banks, according to a report by Moody’s, the rating agency.

But Avid Life transfers a pile of euros in at the beginning and the middle of each month in order to pay its affiliate partners in Europe, as well as other expenses.

It was in the wee hours of March 16, shortly after some €2 million had just been sent to Avid Life’s corporate account at the Cypriot branch of the Greek bank Piraeus, that President Anastasiades agreed to take the unprecedented step of placing a one-time tax on private deposits in Cyprus. Although the president would later claim that Germany and Cyprus’s other European Union partners “blackmailed” him into the deal, European officials said the president himself chose to reach into bank accounts in a time of need.

Whatever the truth, Mr. Biderman said, “when I heard that, my reaction was, ‘Wow, the government sees this as their money and they’ll do what they please.”’

Back in Limassol, Mr. Lalonde jumped into a car with one of his colleagues and headed straight to an automated teller machine to withdraw the €500 daily limit from their personal accounts.

“When you hear about a bailout, you think about the government and other countries helping,” said that colleague, Yanka Clementi, 28, a manager of operations. Like Mr. Lalonde, he moved to Cyprus from Toronto only three weeks ago.

“You don’t think the government’s going to take your money,” Mr. Clementi said. “But here, they’re pretty much stealing from people.”

Now, Mr. Biderman is trying to stanch the bleeding. Having invested a half-million euros to set up shop in Cyprus, he stands to lose tens or even hundreds of thousands of euros, depending on the final bailout deal. “We weren’t a party to their bubble or to any of the high interest rates yet,” he said.

“I’m really concerned because I think I’m on the cusp of building a billion-dollar business,” Mr. Biderman said, referring to Avid Life Media’s global operations.

As for Cyprus, he said, “Now I’m just trying to figure out whether to cut my loss.”

Nor is he convinced it will be safer to bank in any other euro zone country. “They have created a domino effect of uncertainty,” Mr. Biderman said. “I don’t see why this wouldn’t happen in Malta, Ireland, Spain,” or anywhere else where a government decides it needs money for an emergency.

“These one-time measures can be very addictive to governments,” he added. “And this doesn’t solve any of the euro zone’s deeper problems.”

Late last week, as crowds of anxious Cypriots lined up at automated teller machines around Limassol, Mr. Lalonde swept his eyes around Avid Life Media’s cavernous new wood-paneled offices. There were only two computers — he had planned to order others before the company’s accounts were frozen. He gestured to a clump of empty desks meant to accommodate 12 new employees by next year.

Three new staff members, including Ms. Clementi, were just hired. Whether more will come aboard is now an open question. When things settle, the company is likely to stay, Mr. Lalonde said. But just in case, he is signing only six-month contracts for cable, Internet and all other services.

If banks do reopen on Tuesday, under the latest plan, he will move all the company’s accounts to London or to North America — as well as his personal funds. But now that the government has imposed capital controls to prevent a run on banks, how long those transfers might take is hard to say.

“Will we be able to continue in Cyprus? We think we can,” Mr. Lalonde said. “But we’re worried about the stability of everything. They have really undermined their own foundations. And there’s no way of turning it back.”
634 2013-03-25 Arriving at the meeting, Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, was blunt in his assessment of what the Cypriots would need to do to reach a deal after the previous deal, hammered out eight days earlier, fell through.

“The numbers have not changed. If anything, they have worsened,” said Mr. Schäuble, who was apparently referring to plummeting confidence in the Cypriot banking system as the bailout talks have dragged on and as banks in Cyprus have remained closed for more than a week.“I hope we will achieve a result today,” Mr. Schäuble said. “But that, of course, depends on the people in Cyprus having a somewhat realistic view of the situation.”

Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister, took a more conciliatory tone, emphasizing the need for a “fair” deal for Cyprus and the need for lenders to make a “shared effort” to help Cyprus.

“The outlines of a solution exist, but the devil is often in the details,” Mr. Moscovici told reporters before the meeting of the finance ministers from the 17 countries in the euro zone.

Earlier Sunday, Mr. Anastasiades met with the top officials of the so-called troika of organizations that would supervise a bailout: Mario Draghi, the president of the E.C.B.; Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F.; and José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission. Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the group of finance ministers, also participated.

Because their meeting ran longer than planned, the session of finance ministers was delayed well past its scheduled starting time of 6 p.m. local time.

Before leaving Nicosia, Mr. Anastasiades briefed Cypriot political leaders on the outlines of his proposal, which was said to call for imposing a one-time tax of 20 percent on amounts above 100,000 euros in deposits at the Bank of Cyprus.

Because the Bank of Cyprus, which has the largest number of savings accounts on the island, suffered huge losses on bets it took on Greek bonds, the government appears inclined to make that bank’s wealthy depositors bear the biggest burden.

The 20 percent tax would also hit those with large accounts at Laiki Bank. Parliament voted Friday to fold its accounts into the Bank of Cyprus, effectively closing down Laiki. A demand by international lenders to make the Bank of Cyprus absorb some of the liabilities associated with Laiki was one sticking point in the talks Sunday night.

A smaller tax, of 4 percent, would be assessed on deposits exceeding 100,000 euros at all other banks, including the 26 foreign banks that operate in Cyprus.

Whether any deal reached in Brussels would be approved by the Cypriot Parliament, whose signoff is needed, remained uncertain.

The late negotiations are the culmination of months of wrangling over how to address the financial troubles of the tiny island nation, which has a population of about 1 million.

Cyprus’s banks took steep losses on their large holdings of Greek bonds last June when that nation was given its own bailout and bondholders were forced to take losses. Coupled with a decline in real estate values, the banking troubles forced Cypriot leaders to formally ask for a bailout last summer.

The previously agreed bailout deal unraveled in spectacular fashion after it was greeted with revulsion not only by Cypriot lawmakers but by depositors in financially shaky countries like Italy and Spain, fearing similar measures might be imposed on them in the future.

Under the original agreement, the money would have been raised by a one-time tax on all depositors with money in Cypriot banks, including savers with less than 100,000 euros in their accounts. But that plan seemed to violate the trust implicit in the deposit guarantee system used throughout the euro zone, in which accounts of less than 100,000 euros are supposed to be government-insured.

Cypriot banks have since remained closed for fear of a run on deposits, although they are scheduled to reopen Tuesday. The only money available to depositors has been what they can take from automatic teller machines before reaching their daily withdrawal limits. Those limits were greatly reduced Sunday at the two large banks: to 100 euros for Laiki Bank and 120 euros for the Bank of Cyprus. Other banks on Cyprus were not affected by the limits.

Mr. Moscovici, the French finance minister, said the terms of new plan did not pose a threat to European financial stability.

“We always pleaded for a zero tax for those who are under 100,000 euros,” Mr. Moscovici said. “I am not worried at all about the risk of contagion because the economy of Cyprus, the banking sector of Cyprus, always is very specific.”

Cypriot officials also backed off from a proposal that would have sought to raise billions of additional euros by nationalizing state-owned pension funds. Germany, whose political and financial clout dominates euro zone policy, had indicated that it opposed the move.

Mr. Anastasiades, a lawyer by profession and a center-right politician of the same side of E.U. politics as the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, was voted into office in February on the promise of reaching an effective bailout agreement with his euro zone peers.

According to those involved in the first round of negotiations a week ago, Mr. Anastasiades was the one who pushed for the largest accounts to be subject to a tax of less than 10 percent — a formula that meant the tax would have to hit all depositors in order to raise enough money.

The thinking was that he did not want to seem to be making a target of the wealthy foreigners who have long considered Cyprus a bank-friendly tax haven. That many of those foreign depositors are Russian was not lost on those involved.

In the ensuing week, Cyprus sought to work out a side deal with Moscow, but those talks went nowhere. Russia was said to be trying to make any new support contingent on access to Cyprus’s potentially rich offshore natural gas deposits.

The natural gas discussions provoked another geopolitically fraught aspect of the Cyprus crisis: the fact that the northern part of the island has been controlled by Turkey ever since an Athens- backed coup in Cyprus in 1974. On Sunday, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement warning Cyprus not to use the natural gas as collateral. Doing so, it said, would ignore “the inherent rights of the Turkish Cypriots who are co-owners of the island.”

And so with Turkey bristling and Russia seemingly not a fallback option, and with the Cypriot and European parliaments intent on protecting small-account holders, Mr. Anastasiades headed to Brussels, sharpened pencil in hand.
635 2013-03-25 Apple on Thursday rolled out a tool that strengthens password security for Apple accounts: two-step verification, a feature widely available for many Web services.&#xa;   &#xa;The security feature, which has to be turned on manually at  Apple&#x20...
636 2013-03-25 Venture philanthropy? Social entrepreneurship? Robert L. Bassett, dean of the Dodge College of Film and Media Arts at Chapman University in Orange County, Calif., said he still wasn&#x2019;t sure how to label it.&#xa;   &#xa;But Mr. Bassett is fin...
637 2013-03-25 6:48 p.m. | Updated  PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. &#x2014; Matt den Dekker&#x2019;s audacious outfield play has earned him many plaudits during this spring training, and his spectacular catches have kept many wondering whether the Mets would start him at ...
638 2013-03-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
639 2013-03-26 The issues being investigated range from prior knowledge of the Bernard L. Madoff scam to inadequate prevention of money-laundering....
640 2013-03-26 Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood, reacts to new laws that nearly eradicate abortion rights in North Dakota.
641 2013-03-26 Nike’s new Tiger Woods ad with the quotation “Winning Takes Care of Everything” sounds too much like hero worship without context....
642 2013-03-26 FIFA on Tuesday dismissed Costa Rica’s protest of last Friday’s match against the United States, which was played in a snowstorm....
643 2013-03-26 The players remaining in free agency have their flaws, but there are still a lot of good buys on the market....
644 2013-03-26 Issue Project Room, an experimental music collective that is now in its fourth location, is searching for stability in its current home in Downtown Brooklyn....
645 2013-03-26 Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital Advisors, is paying $155 million for Picasso’s “Le Rêve,” a report said....
646 2013-03-26 Is support for gay marriage growing faster than in the past? How much of the shift is because of generational turnover?...
647 2013-03-26 The inquiry, which has already ensnared Barclays, JPMorgan Chase and Deutsche Bank, has been broadened to include the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade organization for market participants....
648 2013-03-26 With equity tied up in homes and facing the switch to defined-contribution pension plans, many Americans have been left short of funds needed for a comfortable retirement....
649 2013-03-26 One of the pleasures and privileges of theatergoing in London — in addition to those little wooden spoonlets that come with the interval ice cream – is the beauty of the printed theater program. Granted, they’re not free....
650 2013-03-26 Monsanto, the chemical company that brought Agent Orange to Vietnam during the war, is now offering to bring it genetically engineered crops. Be wary....
651 2013-03-26 Jack and Max aren’t just dogs. They’re regarded as beloved family members. And when a beloved family member needs life-saving surgery, you don’t sit back and “let nature take its course.” You take him to a hospital.

My son and his wife had taken Max to their local Baltimore veterinarian. An X-ray revealed that his gallbladder needed to come out before it ruptured, endangering Max’s life. The best place for this difficult surgery was the University of Pennsylvania Veterinary Hospital. So they got in the car and drove to my house in the Philadelphia suburbs. They planned to take Max to the emergency room the next day.

A risky operation and an elderly dog. Not a promising combination. Even if the surgery was a success, there was a 30 percent chance of life-threatening post-op complications.

“How much will this cost?” I asked. “And who’s going to pay for it?“

“Six thousand dollars,” Tom said. “Maybe more, if there are complications. We’re splitting the cost with Amy’s parents.”

“I’m in for a third,” I found myself saying.

I’m not a wealthy woman. I work, part time, at a public library. But I loved that dog. And expensive dog repair is less expensive if you split it three ways.

“Are you nuts?” one friend asked when I told her about it.

“We’re hoping to buy Max two more good years,” I said.

“He’s an old dog,” she chided. “You’re missing an opportunity to teach your son a valuable life lesson. There comes a time when you have to let go.”

We didn’t want to let Max go. We wanted to try to save his life.

Was this crazy? “Would you pay $6,000 for a 70 percent chance of buying two extra years of life for an elderly dog?” I asked my dog-owning friends.

“No way,” another said. “When it’s time to go, it’s time to go. You grieve. Then you get another dog. Preferably from a shelter.”

Another friend admitted that when the vet told her a couple of years ago that her ailing Shih Tzu needed an expensive procedure to save his life, she had blurted: “Do whatever you have to do! I love this dog even more than I love my husband!”

“And I really do love my husband,” she told me sheepishly.

I grew up in the 1960s. My sister and I loved Lady Gweneviere of Shrewsbury, our scrappy Sealyham terrier, but she was never our “canine sister.” She was “the dog.” Gwen slept in the laundry room. She wasn’t allowed on the furniture. And when her health began to fail, Dad took her to the vet and had her “put to sleep.”

But times change. Even though it still remains in his nature (unlike a human sibling) to take a dump occasionally on the living room rug or chew up a library book, the 21st-century dog has received an upgrade, from pet to family. And pricey life-prolonging surgery is definitely an option.

We took Max to the vet hospital the next day, so weak that we carried him in, wrapped in a blanket. They took him into surgery. After the three-hour procedure, the vet called to tell us things were worse than we had thought.

“Max came through the operation beautifully,” she said. “But his gall bladder had already ruptured.” She had removed it and repaired the damage as best she could. But a full, uncomplicated recovery was even less likely.

Max would spend the next 24 hours in the canine intensive-care unit. With his own round-the-clock I.C.U. nurse.

When we were finally able to visit Max, we expected to find him helpless and weak. But he trotted briskly into the waiting room, accompanied by the vet who had performed the surgery. “He’s doing great,” she said. “He’s our favorite patient. Everyone loves him.”

We were as high at the sight of our dog, tail wagging and on his feet again, as Max was on the methadone they had given him for post-op pain.

A mere six grand for bringing our guy back from death’s door? A bargain!

Max continued to beat the odds, going through the three perilous post-op days without a hitch. He is now out of the hospital, recuperating with Amy’s parents, who are spoiling him rotten.

We paid the whopping hospital bill with no regrets. Max, alive and well, is worth every penny. Even if he hadn’t made it through, knowing that we had done all we could for him would have been worth that price. More important, the whole experience has made me very hopeful about how Tom and Amy are likely to treat me when I’m old and frail.

And the peace of mind I get from that?
652 2013-03-26 ALBANY — In another critical assessment of New York’s multibillion-dollar Medicaid program, a federal audit says the state improperly claimed $27.5 million in reimbursements for services to mentally ill and emotionally disturbed children and teenagers.

The report by the Department of Health and Human Services, which will be released Tuesday, outlines many deficiencies in a program of family-based rehabilitation, similar to foster homes, that offers help with a variety of life skills, counseling and other emotional support for young people 5 to 19 years old.

But in a random sampling of 100 claims from January 2005 to December 2009, the department’s inspector general found dozens of administrative errors or other oversights, including staff members’ not maintaining the requisite number of face-to-face visits, unreviewed logs by so-called professional parents in the homes, and recipients who were either too old for the program or not living in their assigned homes.

“Rehabilitation providers,” the audit says, “did not fully comply with state regulations” and did not “adequately monitor the program.”

As a result, the department has asked for a refund of $27.5 million from the state, or nearly 80 percent of the $35.2 million it paid to New York during the five-year period it sampled.
653 2013-03-26 “I have no idea how that happened,” said Pedro Nogueira, an owner.

Appreciation of some commercial property values in Newark outpaced that of office space in Midtown Manhattan, which doubled over the last decade, said Robert Von Ancken, chairman of Landauer Valuation and Advisory.

Manny Guerra, an owner of Leslie Furniture, was one of hundreds of commercial property owners who went to meetings this month to discuss how to appeal their new valuations. “I’m assuming it was a mistake,” he said.

The outcry is so strong that Mayor Cory A. Booker described the situation last Tuesday as “a crisis” after an event at the Andros Diner, down the block from the meeting Mr. Guerra attended.

“Some of the numbers I’ve heard make this seem like it should be New York,” said Mr. Booker, who for years has worked to entice businesses to move to Newark because of its affordability and infrastructure.

“It’s unacceptable to me,” he added. “Within the bounds of the law, I want to find out what our recourse is.”

Recourse has so far taken the form of Appraisal Systems representatives’ setting up shop at folding tables in a basement room at City Hall to meet with worried property owners. On Tuesday, a stream of frightened and fuming residents, including Jose Breda, trudged in and out.

“They are robbing the people,” said Mr. Breda, 58, a landlord whose six-unit apartment building’s assessment more than doubled from its valuation in 2003, the last time properties were assessed in Newark. “This is ridiculous; they make numbers out of space.”

The city will not announce its new tax rates until the summer, but many like Mr. Breda say they fear that rates will not drop in proportion to the amount their properties were judged to have appreciated.

Some of the revaluations may be wrong because property owners did not provide enough information, said Rick DelGuercio, president of Appraisal Systems. In 2011 and 2012, the company sent certified letters to about 7,500 owners asking for information on rents, expenses and utility costs. Only about half of the questionnaires were returned, Mr. DelGuercio said, so appraisers made many estimates. In other places, including Hackensack, Fair Lawn and Gloucester County, the survey return rate was between 75 percent and 80 percent, he said.

“We were doing the best we could with the lack of information; 50 percent is low,” Mr. DelGuercio said, adding that company representatives stationed in City Hall through the end of the month can help fix errors.

After the real estate market crashed in 2008, commercial properties lost less value than residential properties did, Mr. DelGuercio said. He estimated that about 10 percent more of Newark’s tax revenue would have to come from commercial properties than residential.

In 2003, after the city’s first revaluation in decades, scores of residential property owners filed lawsuits claiming their assessments were too high, a parallel to what some business owners are threatening now, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.

Other cities, including New York, conduct revaluations more frequently than once a decade, which mitigates the seesawing of higher values being assessed first to residential properties and then later to commercial properties.

“This has the potential to throw the city on its head,” Mr. Hughes said. “It’s a political minefield.”
654 2013-03-26 Afterward, Mr. Morsi sought to blame his political opponents for the attack and vowed action against those who had incited the violence. In a message on Twitter on Sunday, he castigated opposition leaders, accusing them of “providing a political cover for violence.”

“Whoever is found to be involved in promoting violence through the media will not escape punishment,” Mr. Morsi said in a short speech later on Sunday. He also said he was prepared “to impose exceptional measures to restore domestic order.”

Mr. Morsi’s political opponents have already denounced him since last fall for picking his own public prosecutor, Talaat Ibrahim, by using a presidential decree to circumvent Egyptian law under which a president cannot normally replace a public prosecutor. The appointment immediately raised questions about the potential political use of the post.

On Monday, Mr. Morsi’s critics said Mr. Ibrahim appeared to be following through on precisely the threat Mr. Morsi made just a day earlier. In a statement, the public prosecutor said the five defendants singled out for arrest had used Facebook and Twitter to urge others to “burn down the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood and to murder some of its members.”

A search Monday night of the defendants’ Facebook and Twitter accounts, however, found no such statements in the period leading up to the clashes on Friday night. Before the disturbance, one defendant, Alaa Abdel Fattah, argued against violence, but he suggested in an online commentary on Saturday that what he considered Mr. Morsi’s authoritarianism might make a violent response legitimate. But Mr. Abdel Fatah, a prominent activist previously imprisoned for months for challenging military rule, was writing as part of an abstract, intellectual discussion, after the fact.

The others named in the arrest warrant are the activists Ahmed Douma, Kareem al-Shaer, Hazem Abdel Azeem and Ahmed al-Sahafy.

In television interviews on Monday night, several defendants accused the public prosecutor of selectively targeting Mr. Morsi’s critics while ignoring testimony, videos and other evidence that Islamists had also used violence on their opponents that night as well as in street clashes over the last four months. One video posted on the Internet, in fact, captured footage of one of Mr. Morsi’s Islamist opponents beating Mr. Douma outside the headquarters earlier last week.

The prosecutor is either “literally blind” or “complicit,” Mr. Douma said in a television interview, contending that the prosecutor was “only following orders.”

In response, Mr. Morsi’s supporters argued that earlier in the week the prosecutor arrested three bodyguards of a Brotherhood leader, Khairat el-Shater, on charges of using violence against the opposition protesters.

Pakinam el-Sharkawy, a political adviser to Mr. Morsi, complained that the president’s critics had applied a “double standard.” The president did not prejudge this case and expected a fair trial, she said, but at the same time the law must distinguish between political expression and criminal violence. “Here,” Ms. Sharkawy said, “the law must have a just sword capable of protecting rights, freedoms and social peace.”
655 2013-03-26 On the advice of a Finnish company called Snow Secure, the goal this season is to stockpile 500,000 cubic meters of snow into 10 shady pockets above the venues. The massive piles will be covered by insulated blankets, not unlike giant yoga mats, to protect them from the heat of summer.

Up to half of the saved snow may melt by next winter, but the site managers said they could conduct the Olympics even in the unlikely event that no natural snow falls next winter. The stockpiled snow can be shoved down the mountain with Sno-Cats or guided onto steep slides — pipes, a meter in diameter, cut in half — aimed at where the snow is most needed.

“Each venue in the mountains has its own peculiarities,” said Valeriy Lukjanov, whose job is to forecast the weather at the Sochi Games, perhaps the least appreciated task of them all. He sat in his office recently in the mountain valley where more than half of the events will take place.

“Last year, there was a meter of snow outside this window,” Lukjanov said.

One year from the start of the Sochi Games, there was none.

The places hosting the mountain competitions — not only the five Olympic sites, but also the ski resorts surrounding them — are mostly new, constructed since Russia was awarded the Games six years ago. Sochi has little experience in hosting world-class sports events, and little historical climate data is available to fully appreciate the weather possibilities.

With few exceptions, the weather stations have been in place only since 2010. What the Russians have learned since then is that the weather in the mountains above Sochi can be wildly unpredictable.

In February, World Cup snowboard cross and ski cross events were canceled because of a lack of snow, and other competitions at the Extreme Park were held amid criticism of slushy conditions.

Two years earlier, part of the European Cup Alpine skiing championships was canceled because of too much snow. Low clouds rearranged the schedule for last month’s Russian Alpine ski championships, an official test event. During the World Cup luge event in late February, it rained.

At the Olympics, unlike at test events, competitions cannot be canceled.

“During the Games, we will have more snow and we will have all the events,” Dmitry Chernyshenko, the president of the Sochi 2014 organizing committee, said in an interview last month. “We didn’t expect that the amount of snow we collected was not enough. So now we learned this lesson and paid the price.”

Chernyshenko and other Russian leaders boast of the compactness of the Sochi Games. The venues are divided into two clusters: “coastal” and “mountain.” The Coastal Cluster, next to the sea, is a ring of five arenas for indoor events, like figure skating, speedskating, hockey and curling. A sixth site is an outdoor stadium, intended for the opening and closing ceremonies.

The average high temperature in Sochi in February is about 50 degrees. An overcast sky is likely, and snow falls only occasionally. As if to demonstrate how unwintery Sochi is, in February the city hosted a national racewalking event — a rare sport from the docket of the Summer Olympics, contested at the time and place of next year’s Winter Olympics.

The weather in the city of Sochi is not the major concern of Lukjanov, the deputy director of the Russian meteorological service, who was assigned last year to be the chief meteorologist of the Olympics. He oversees a team of 50 dedicated to analyzing and predicting weather in the region through next February. The team includes 37 meteorologists. Most others are data technicians, helping assess the 50 remote weather stations that have been installed across the valley in the past three years.

Their primary job is to explore and forecast all possibilities, particularly in the sites that hang on high plateaus and dot the mountains above the valley floor, which is at an elevation of roughly 1,800 feet, or 500 meters. Although the new sites are so close as to look like a constellation on a map — getting from the valley floor to any of them takes no more than about 15 minutes — they sit at widely varying altitudes. Each has its own climate vagaries.

In February, whether one stood at the valley floor or took a gondola up to the highest reaches of the jagged, frosted peaks, the quandary was thrust into sharp relief: the mountains looked striped, horizontally, as if with giant paintbrushes. There was a white ribbon sweeping across the upper regions above timberline, a brown swatch closer to the valley floor, and an earthy mix between, where rain and snow and fog mingled daily in a climatic tug of war.

The RusSki Gorki Jumping Center, easily spotted near the valley road, sits at about 2,000 feet (610 meters), between two ridges that protect the two jumps from wind. But last month, no snow had accumulated there, and some training was canceled by heavy rain. Part of the surrounding slopes was being reinforced because of problems with mudslides.

Nearby, the Sanki Sliding Center, the home of luge, bobsled and skeleton, rests on a plateau at about 2,300 feet (700 meters). Most of the track is covered, so weather may not hamper competition. But it seems to sit in a transition zone. Last month’s World Cup events took place amid mostly fog and rain. A year earlier, the track was smothered in deep snow.

The Extreme Park, for snowboarding and free skiing events like the halfpipe, moguls and slopestyle, is an intimate place snuggled into a hillside at 3,280 feet, or 1,000 meters. Above-freezing temperatures can play havoc with the halfpipe, and a lack of snow can hamper the long, winding courses for snowboard cross and ski cross.

Across the valley is the Laura Cross-Country Ski and Biathlon Center, two stadiums on a shelf at 1,500 meters, about 4,920 feet.

“Starting from 1,500 meters, there is always snow,” Lukjanov said. “Always.”

The most vexing site, as usual, will be for Alpine skiing at the new Rosa Khutor resort. The men’s downhill will begin above timberline, at roughly 2,000 meters (6,560 feet), and end at the common finish area, at 940 meters (3,084 feet). The worry, as with most courses on the World Cup circuit, is that there will be too much snow at the top, low visibility because of clouds along the way, maybe some rain and too little snow at the bottom.

“Vancouver had problems with snow,” said Sergei Estrin, the venue manager for Alpine skiing. “We try to analyze the experience of the previous Games. That’s why we have the backup plan with snow in storage. That’s why we give a lot of attention to the possible problems and we try to solve it in advance.”

A few miles and about 1,800 feet below, on the second floor of a small house in the valley, the Olympic forecasters are monitoring the weather with a series of computers.

Asked if he has been told that he better supply good weather to the Games, Lukjanov smiled.

“Sometimes, they don’t like the weather, so they blame the forecaster,” he said, describing a universal problem for meteorologists. “For us, the most important thing is to give the right forecast.”
656 2013-03-26 Serena Williams overcame a big deficit in her fourth-round match at the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., to beat Dominika Cibulkova, 2-6, 6-4, 6-2. The top-ranked Williams, seeking her sixth Key Biscayne title and her first since 2008, was down a service break trailing by 4-1 in the second set before she won five straight games. She swept the final three games and served out the match at love with three aces. Williams’s opponent in the quarterfinals will be No. 5-seeded Li Na, who beat a wild card, Garbine Muguruza, 7-6 (6), 6-2.
657 2013-03-26 Lisa Sobieri of Greenwich, Conn., knows the choices all too well. The 49-year-old married mother of two lost two dogs to kidney disease in the last three years. The first, Kiefer, an American Eskimo, died just before turning 15, only after the family had spent several thousand dollars on for and then other drugs to keep him comfortable as his kidneys failed.

“I guess when you go into it you don’t really know how much you’re going to spend,” she said. “So it keeps kind of adding up, and you don’t really know. We were thinking, O.K., there is a limit, but when it’s $500 here or $1,000 there, you don’t really see it adding up that fast.”

After Kiefer died, the family got Perry, a 6-month-old golden retriever. When Ms. Sobieri took the dog to the vet to have him neutered, a routine blood test showed Perry had a genetic kidney disease. “I actually didn’t believe them,” she recalled. “I said, ‘No, you’re looking at my other dog’s file by mistake.’ ” Unfortunately, they weren’t. The vet sent Ms. Sobieri to a veterinary oncologist who said Perry probably would not live more than three years.

“I was thinking, Well, we’re such great dog owners that we’re going to defy that, give him all the medications and diet, experimental treatments, and he’s going to live longer,” Ms. Sobieri said. The family decided against a , which would have cost a minimum of $25,000 just for the operation, an amount she said would have taken money away from the children’s college fund. There was also no guarantee it would work. But they still spent, by Ms. Sobieri’s estimates, tens of thousands of dollars to keep Perry comfortable for the duration of his life, with pet picking up the rest.

Many pet owners struggle with whether to buy pet insurance, because it has a mixed track record. Consumer Reports, in its August 2011 issue, said the insurance was “rarely worth the price.” Pre-existing conditions are usually excluded from coverage; routine care, like annual checkups, is sometimes not included in plans; and premiums can rise significantly as the pet ages.

The Sobieris, though, said their insurance, provided by Embrace, was invaluable and made their decision-making just a little easier. Still, Ms. Sobieri said, “We did some pretty good damage on the credit card toward the end.”

The puppy lived only an additional 18 months. And Ms. Sobieri said she now wondered if the money would have been better spent as a contribution to research to find a cure for the disease, even though they cherished the extra year and a half they had with Perry.

She and her husband have not drawn a bright line on a dollar amount they’re willing to spend on their new dog and any future pets, in part because their family income is enough that they don’t have to, but also because they, like so many pet owners, consider their dog part of the family. Paying to extend that pet’s life is no different from doing the same for a human family member, though the decision about the transplant would clearly have gone another way.

Dr. Philip Nelson, dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine at Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona, Calif., said pets were indeed family members, but that their presence in the home forced owners to make relative value decisions when it came to the sanctity of life. “We have to start comparing the value of our dog to our child or wife or anyone else who may require those resources,” he said. And he contended that an even deeper debate was at play.

“Our own life-value issues have evolved and not necessarily in a good way,” he said. “I believe that, and this is a personal belief, that many of us are loath to have to face the end-of-life issues. And some of us have been mesmerized by the advances of medicine.”

The agonizing questions around human end-of-life medical intervention have now made their way to the pet kingdom, he said, and owners often feel guilty if they don’t do everything possible, no matter the cost, to save or extend their animals’ lives.

“Death is part of the cycle of life, and we have to accept that,” Dr. Nelson said. “The real question here is, How much of your resources do you invest in the extension of that life?”

For Kathy Bowler, a political consultant in , if there’s a line to draw, “I haven’t seen it yet.”

Ms. Bowler, 57, and her husband, Steve Coony, lost their 6-year-old Irish wolfhound, Brogan, this month. He had been undergoing treatment for , a fatal bone — treatment that included chemotherapy and radiation — and it seemed to be working. But then, she says, he suddenly stopped eating, and his tail stopped wagging. “I knew that was it,” she said.

“I have no regrets about everything I did for him. I’m so grateful we have so many advances in veterinary care that we could get six more months of absolutely normal behavior. He didn’t know he was sick. So I owed him that much. I would’ve liked to get seven months, or more, but it was meant to happen the way it did.”

Ms. Bowler and Mr. Cooney own four dogs, four cats, a parrot and several fish. They recently lost a duck to . “The way I think about it with pets is they’re like children,” she said. “They get everything from you, and you have to be there and do everything for them. And when they’re sick it’s the same situation. They’re your dependents.”

She says it is impossible to estimate how much money they’ve spent to treat illnesses and extend their pets’ lives. In 2008, their Great Dane Eamonn spent eight months in chemotherapy for lymphoma, which cost at least $7,000 and gave them an extra year with him. Costs tend to be higher for large breeds because they weigh more and require higher doses of medication.

“I’m lucky that I want to do this and I can do this,” Ms. Bowler said. “A lot of other people, I don’t know what they would do. People in this case say, ‘Look, at the end of the day, whatever happens, I can spend a ton of money but he’s still going to die.’ I just always want to beat the odds if I can.”

Alana Yañez of Highland Park, Calif., faced a similar decision in October, when her 11-year-old yellow Labrador retriever, Max, started limping. Ms. Yañez, 34, works with the Humane Society of the United States’ Pets for Life program, which provides free training and veterinary care to low-income communities. She counsels clients almost daily about end-of-life care for their pets and did the same in college while working as a veterinary technician. But she still faced wrenching decisions when it came to her own animals.

Max was found to have a tumor that was pinching his colon and compressing his spine. Chemotherapy could keep the tumor from growing, at least for a while, but would cost a minimum of $10,000. “It would have been a really long and hard process,” she said. “And when we’re in this situation, excuse me, you get so caught up in the emotion that at one point I just stopped” and said to her veterinarian, “Tell me what to do.”

The vet told her that unless she had about $40,000 available for all the medicines and follow-up care Max would need, she should think about . Ms. Yañez and her mother decided not to put Max through any more pain. They went to a craft store and got supplies to immortalize the dog’s pawprints in clay, then had a service come to her apartment to put Max to sleep.

Ms. Yañez is in a unique position to understand how lucky she was even to have a decision to make. The clients she works with in low-income neighborhoods often have no choice but to euthanize their sick pets; they cannot afford even basic treatments, much less the expensive lifesaving options other pet owners must choose from.

Ms. Yañez and her mother spent days deciding what to do about Max. Her clients do not take as much time. “The reality of not having money to take your own child to the doctor, not have enough money to buy groceries,” she said, “the conversation is not very long.”

But having resources doesn’t blunt the agony. “I still sometimes struggle with whether or not we made the right decision,” she said. “Putting $10,000 on a credit card — I could afford it. But what stopped me was thinking about my auntie who had .” Recalling that as “horrible, the most brutal treatment,” she said she decided not to make Max go through chemotherapy. “And the chances of him living weren’t guaranteed, either,” she added.

Ms. Yañez said she also had to think of her remaining pet and the resources that saving Max could take from him. But a week after putting Max to sleep, she lost her 14-year-old cat, Jimmy, to .

A few miles away, in Burbank, Calif., Tom and Jeanne Herrman, both 64 and retired, face the impending death of 11-year-old , one of their two golden retrievers. They rescued both dogs less than a year ago, and in December discovered a fast-growing tumor in his leg that Dr. Walker, also their vet, said could be treated with amputation and chemotherapy. But Dr. Walker also told them the treatment would not prolong his life significantly or lead to a life that Bentley would enjoy. And the treatment would cost at least $6,000 to $8,000.

They could afford it, Mr. Herrman said, and money wasn’t the primary concern. But Bentley’s happiness was.

“We’ve been through it with both of our parents,” Mr. Herrman said. “We had to make the quality-of-life decision. They’re not easy. But you’d rather make it than have them suffer a lot.”

So instead, they are managing the illness with , which are also expensive. Bentley will often sidle up to Mr. or Ms. Herrman and place the paw of his cancerous leg on one of their legs, and they’ll stroke and massage it for him. They say he has four to 12 weeks to live.

Dr. Walker said the decision whether to spend tens of thousands of dollars to extend an animal’s life was a highly personal one. Some of his clients from more rural areas, with agricultural backgrounds, do not embrace the notion of the animal as a family member and allow nature to take its course. On the other hand, one client paid for a 13-year-old cat to have a kidney transplant, and the cat lived another four years. Another paid for 20 radiation treatments for a dog that wasn’t able to walk because of a tumor, and afterward, the dog walked again.

Most people can’t afford to do that, Dr. Walker said, and such treatments are palliative care, not a cure. You’re adding a few weeks, months or, if you’re lucky, a couple of years, to that pet’s life. “But 20, 30 years ago,” he said, “it would have been ‘I think your dog has a tumor, there’s nothing we can do for it.’ ” No longer. But, he hastened to add, that doesn’t mean you have to or should.

Some people are more rational about the decision and can do a cost-benefit analysis. Others operate purely on emotion, and he’s seen clients hurt themselves financially to prolong a pet’s life. His advice is to always go back to the suffering of the animal. He’s struggled over euthanizing his own pets. (He has three dogs, a cat, nine chickens, a tortoise, a horse and a few fish.)

“I feel selfish sometimes, like, O.K., I’m letting you live even though you’re uncomfortable, but that’s for my benefit,” Dr. Walker said. “It’s a very personal thing, and everybody has their own threshold.”

But it’s almost impossible to figure out what that threshold is before the decision is upon you. Can you really say that you would spend $2,000, but not $3,000? If you’re really good at budgeting, and at setting emotions aside, maybe you can. But placing a financial value on pets is, these days, nearly as difficult as doing so for any other family member.

“I think in some ways, it does prepare you for dealing with, and better sensing, the quality-of-life issue for a parent, in our case, when you know that things just aren’t right,” Mr. Herrman said. “Thing is, I can’t spend 20 years harping on Bentley about advance directives and living wills. He’s not going to pay much attention to me. But then, neither did my dad.”
658 2013-03-26 Few topics are as emotionally charged as money.

We all have some history that has shaped the way we relate to it, and those feelings travel with us through life. Our views on money can influence everything from the partner we choose — both in love and in business — to how much we decide to spend (or overspend) on a home. Our likes, dislikes, wishes and protective urges affect how we save and spend.

Part of our behavior is simply human nature. How many of you wanted to bail out of the market when it came tumbling down in 2008-9? How many wish now you had invested more before the current market upswing?

Whether the source is our own financial experiences or something more primal, it’s hard to shake those little voices that influence our financial decisions on both a conscious and a subconscious level.

In this special section, prepared in collaboration with American Public Media’s “Marketplace Money” radio program, a series of stories illustrate where money and emotions collide.

Many of these tales touch on how we are constantly forced to put dollar values on the tangibles and intangibles in our lives, and how those decisions are shaped by our feelings. Will I insult my fiancé if I ask him about his savings or his debts? How much should I spend on my child’s education? Do I truly believe I will live long enough to spend my retirement money? What am I prepared to spend on a suffering pet, and should I? If my adult son, or even my mother, is in financial trouble, is it my responsibility to help? Is it the smart thing to do?

The answers to all of these questions go far beyond dollars and cents and hit at the heart of what truly makes us feel secure or exposed, happy or unhappy, fulfilled or unsuccessful.
659 2013-03-26 Real estate agents keep an eye on their clients for unspoken signals and use psychology to help guide them to decisions....
660 2013-03-26 I asked for reader comment about this, and received a lot — more than 300 e-mail responses. A majority were in favor of the T.S.A. move, but there were also strong and articulate opinions against, saying that kind of knife posed an unacceptable risk to the flight crew and passengers. What surprised me most was the number of female business travelers who carry pen knives. Here are excerpts from just a few sample comments:

“I think the flight attendants are getting riled up for nothing,” said Susan Klinger. “When I get to my destination, I like to have my little knife, which also has a toothpick, a tweezers, a scissors, screwdriver and nail file. It comes in very handy. The knife blade is so small that it doesn’t really amount to a hill of beans. Many times I have forgotten that it is in my handbag, and I have had several confiscated — and other times, no one notices.”

Holly Smith wrote: “People who don’t understand why anyone would want a small knife on a plane are missing the point. Many people like to carry around a pen knife in their pocket or purse for the small tasks of everyday living for which such a knife is so useful. And these people don’t want to have to remember to take the knife out of their pocket or purse every time they fly.

“In the meantime,” she added, “the flight attendants might remember that people carried pen knives on planes for decades before 9/11.”

Nancy Pobanz said: “I like to carry a 2 x 3.25-inch Victorinox SwissCard that includes a 1.5-inch knife blade, a 3-inch scissors (scissor blades are 0.75 inches long), along with short nail file, toothpick, tweezers, a straight pin and skinny, short ballpoint pen. I do not carry this to use onboard, but to use during my travels. It is very handy for miscellaneous small tasks. Sure, we could check our bags in order to travel with this tiny but useful tool set, but the hassle and time involved for checking and retrieving bags is a complete and unnecessary nuisance.”

Irene Bagby said of the new policy: “As an individual who has had two pocketknives taken away, I can say, hooray. When you travel extensively, a small pocketknife is a great thing to have in case of problems. It can be used as a screwdriver to tighten the screws on sunglasses, remove hang-tags from suitcases and a myriad number of other tasks. Running down to the hotel check-in desk to borrow a pair of scissors is a poor way to solve a problem that can be easily done by a pocketknife.”

Janice Adair said: “It’s plain silliness that a small knife like a Swiss Army knife poses a risk. Their ban undermines T.S.A. credibility, especially given that knitting needles and small scissors — which can be sharper than a Swiss Army knife — are allowed.”

And in one of my favorite responses, Mary Lane Scherer said: “I would like to go on record that I have been eagerly waiting for the T.S.A. to allow small knives since they banned them. I use the knife almost daily in my regular course of the day. It has scissors and a flashlight, a pen, and tweezers.”

She added, “If someone thinks that a seven-inch screwdriver is safer than my little pen knife, I will tell them about the murder trial I served on where the victim was stabbed to death by a small screwdriver.”

A spokesman for the T.S.A. said on Monday that the changes allowing small pen knives would go into effect as scheduled on April 25.
661 2013-03-26 In recent decades, such measures, known as capital controls, have typically been confined to emerging countries, like , or authoritarian states like . Now Cyprus, a longtime haven for rich people from around the world, is struggling to figure out how to prevent them from going elsewhere.

“For the first time, we have capital controls in the euro zone,” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a policy research group in , and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in . “The next time there is a crisis somewhere else in the world, people will think of what happened in Cyprus and will try to get their money out much faster. These are the new rules of the game.”

Even many ordinary savers like Ms. Charalambous will have to wait a little longer for their cash. Despite promises since last week that the country’s banks would reopen on Tuesday, the government late on Monday ordered all of them, including the Bank of Cyprus and Laiki Bank — the nation’s largest financial institutions, with most of the accounts on the island — to stay shut through at least Thursday. And automated cash withdrawals will be limited to 100 euros a day.

Under the terms of the bailout, Laiki will be restructured, with its guaranteed deposits transferred to the Bank of Cyprus.

Local bankers conceded that the country was ill-prepared to deal with carrying out capital controls. It had not, for example, determined what types of controls to put in place — whether restricting local transfers, or forcibly extending the maturity of term deposits, or even in extreme cases closing bank accounts.

Bankers and lawyers still working on the bailout deal on Monday said a decision had not been reached on whether Cypriots with deposits under 100,000 euros would be able to walk into their local branches and transfer their deposits to another, safer bank on the island.

“They definitely will not be able to send their money overseas,” said a person involved in the discussions who spoke anonymously because the person was not authorized to speak publicly. “But with regard to transferring them to another local bank, that has not been decided.”

No wonder Ms. Charalambous is edgy. “You just get the sense that they don’t know what they are doing,” she said.

Banking experts say trust, once lost, is not easily regained. In the case of Cyprus, the deep desire by and the to make those who took advantage of the system pay a share of Europe’s latest bailout may have long-term consequences not just for Cyprus but across the euro area.

“Burden sharing is fine,” said Adrian Blundell-Wignall, the top financial economist at the and a member of the Financial Stability Board. “But if you make people nervous about their deposits, you are playing with fire.”

While analysts hailed Europe’s decision to wind up Laiki Bank by transferring its poorly performing assets to a so-called bad bank and the better-performing ones to the Bank of Cyprus, it was far from clear how Cypriots would regard their largest bank when it did reopen its doors.

The Bank of Cyprus reflected the ambition of this small island — like before it — to become a global financial player by attracting deposits from all over the world.

But at its root, wealthy Russians and other foreigners aside, this century-old institution is a local one — handling the short-term deposits, credit cards and working capital needs of Cyprus’s 850,000 citizens with branches on practically every street corner in Nicosia and even in the most remote fishing village. If the concerns voiced by Ms. Charalambous and many other Cypriots over the last 10 days are an indication, the bond of trust between the bank and its clients may already be irreparably damaged.

The uncertainty has also wreaked havoc with thousands of businesses of all sizes that had kept large accounts at the Bank of Cyprus and Laiki Bank.

“We’re talking about the two biggest banks that supply the financing in this country,” said Vasilis Zertalis, chief executive of Prospectacy, a financial services consulting firm that helps companies set up shop in Cyprus. With the banks’ prolonged closure, Mr. Zertalis said, “many of those companies are going to go out of business right away.”

Since last weekend, when President Nicos Anastasiades first floated the idea of confiscating a portion of bank deposits, Mr. Zertalis’s phone has been ringing nonstop with clients looking for a way out. “We’re just trying to keep our clients operational,” he said.

On Monday, he was frantically searching for a solution for one of his clients with a half-million-euro overdraft at Laiki — which, like the Bank of Cyprus and other financial institutions here, took large losses on its holdings of Greek debt and lost piles of money lending to businesses, now bankrupt, in .

The client, a midsize electronics retailer that imports PlayStations, Xboxes and video games, must pay its suppliers by the end of the month — this Friday — for products it already imported to Cyprus. But the importer will not be able to collect payments from customers until the end of April. Mr. Zertalis has sought financing from abroad, and he has been working to get an extension from his client’s suppliers.

“If you deal with a multinational in New York and you are a small player, they don’t care” that Cyprus banks are having a problem, he said. “You’re just an account that’s now become a for them.”

As the banking sector shrinks, Cyprus’s service-oriented economy will shrink with it.

Mr. Zertalis says his e-mail account has been flooded with offers from banks in , Germany, and the saying he can open accounts there within an hour should he choose another location to guard his clients’ money.

“They are targeting Cyprus,” he said. “We are going to see hard times coming here. This is only the beginning.”
662 2013-03-26 One portfolio in particular, a compilation of maps, globe patterns (known as gores), star charts, and fragments of his geographical and celestial labors, now called the Schöner Sammelband, or gathering, contained what might arguably be called the most important collection of maps and geographical information to survive from the Renaissance. Into this book, now part of the Kislak Collection of the Library of Congress, Schöner bound two masterpieces of cartography by Martin Waldseemüller, celestial and terrestrial globe patterns of his own design and the earliest printed star chart, by none other than Albrecht Dürer. It is a book whose contents has spurred some of the most hotly contested debates in contemporary historical geography and the history of exploration, containing as it does the only surviving copy of the famous 1507 World Map by Martin Waldseemüller, the earliest map to show a Pacific Ocean, dated years before its accepted discovery by Vasco Núñez de Balboa in 1513.

The Sammelband, thought lost for centuries, was rediscovered in a small German castle by a Jesuit priest, Father Joseph Fischer (1877–1947), in 1901, and is one of a number of compilations of this type that have survived, most of which are part of Schöner’s library in the Österreichische Nationalbibliothek (ÖNB) in Vienna. Fischer was a professor of history at a Jesuit boarding school in Feldkirch, Austria and had spent much his free time traveling around to European libraries looking for information on the voyages and discoveries of the Norse. His trips often took him to small villages and monastery libraries in search of manuscripts, maps, and whatever else he could find in these un-inventoried and out of the way collections.

The story of the re-emergence of Schöner’s Sammelband begins in 1901, when Fischer received a letter from Father Hermann Hafner, who was the archivist in charge of the collection of books and maps at Wolfegg Castle, ironically located just a few miles from Feldkirch. Fischer arrived at the castle in the summer of that year and began systematically looking through the collection. It was then that, although primarily looking for information on the Norse, he came across a volume that excited his curiosity.

The volume that Fischer paused on contained two of the most mysterious and sought-after maps in the history of cartography, maps whose possible existence had been mythologized by scholars almost since their creation in the village of Saint-Dié in the early sixteenth century. How this volume, which Fischer quickly concluded contained the only surviving copies of Waldseemüller’s 1507 World Map (Universalis cosmographiae secundum Ptholomaei traditionem et Americi Vespucii aliorumque Iustrationes) and his 1516 Carta marina (Carta marina navigatoria Portugallen navigationes atque tocius cogniti orbis terre …), came to be in the castle owned by Prince Franz zu Waldburg-Wolfegg und Waldsee is a mystery that still excites scholars today and is just one of the many questions about Schöner and his compilations that we will consider in this book.

Compilations like the one discovered by Fischer formed the archives and the raw data for Schöner’s work as an astronomer, astrologer, and globemaker, and the collections provided him with a kind of toolbox from which he would pull the information necessary for whatever scientific task was at hand. Few archives of this kind survive and the materials his gatherings contain, and which Schöner annotated, provide us today with windows into the mind of one of the most well-informed polymaths of the German Renaissance.

More generally, however, by looking closely at what Schöner thought important enough to preserve in these collections of mathematical, geographical, astrological, and astronomical information, and how he might have utilized it in his work, we will gain deep insights into the epistemological revolutions that occurred at the end of the fifteenth century and the beginning of the sixteenth. The years between the amazing discoveries of Columbus and Copernicus saw the beginnings of the birth of modern scientific thought and in the chapters that follow we will see Schöner fully engaged in the intellectual transitions from the science of Aristotle and the geography of Ptolemy, to that of Copernicus and Ferdinand Magellan (1480–1521). The dates of the materials that Schöner compiled are mostly from 1475 to 1540 and represent a cross-section of central scientific materials from pre-Copernican science. Each of these books and manuscripts is interesting in its own right but taken together they provide a case study for the use and transmission of scientific information in the Renaissance through the eyes of a contemporary consumer of these materials. Schöner’s toolboxes are nothing short of encyclopedic and his use of them helps us understand in a unique way how our modern scientific worldview came into being.
663 2013-03-26 Pursuing a passion into a career change may bring the success you dream of. But disaster is also a possibility....
664 2013-03-26 A Tibetan mother of four killed herself by self-immolation on Sunday to protest Chinese rule, according to a report on Monday by Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government. The report said Kalkyi, 30, set fire to herself near a monastery in the county of Dzamthang in Ngaba Prefecture, which has been a focal point of the wave of Tibetan self-immolations that began in 2009. At least 110 people in Tibetan regions of China have set fire to themselves, and the vast majority have died. Ms. Kalkyi’s self-immolation took place around 3:30 p.m. Sunday, and her body was taken by locals to the Jonang monastery, according to Radio Free Asia, which cited sources inside Tibet. Ms. Kalkyi had three sons and one daughter, all under the age of 15. Radio Free Asia said that Ms. Kalkyi was the 16th woman to self-immolate since 2009. On March 13, a woman, Konchog Wangmo, 31, killed herself by self-immolation in Ngaba Prefecture, and her husband, Drolma Kyab, was later detained by the authorities, the news service reported.
665 2013-03-26 In the past century in American politics, the sources of that reticence were no mystery.

Judeo-Christian teachings, interpreted as condemning homosexuality, provided the backdrop for political debate in a nation more religious than others in the industrialized world. In the United States after World War II, the American Psychiatric Association lent medical and scientific credence to those views by labeling homosexuality a mental disorder.

But cultural changes unleashed in the 1960s began to erode those barriers.

Responding to the early stirrings in major cities like New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, George McGovern became the first presidential candidate to identify himself with the movement by permitting openly gay speakers at the 1972 Democratic National Convention.

Four years later, Jimmy Carter, a Southern Baptist from Georgia, opposed discrimination against gay men and lesbians even as he marshaled support from evangelical Christians. During his presidency, Mr. Carter’s public liaison, Midge Costanza, held the first formal White House meeting with gay activists.

But Mr. Carter lost in 1980 to an ascendant Republican Party that, under President Ronald Reagan, melded social and economic conservatism.

Before winning the White House, Mr. Reagan stood with gay activists in helping defeat a California ballot initiative that would have barred gay men and lesbians from teaching in public schools. During his presidency, however, Mr. Reagan kept his distance. Legislation extending civil rights protections to gay men and lesbians, introduced by liberal Democrats beginning in 1974, continued to languish in Congress.

The emergence of AIDS in the 1980s, however, lent the movement new energy and urgency. The epidemic propelled many closeted gay men and lesbians to begin identifying themselves publicly and raised the stakes for elected officials who were suddenly facing votes over the use of tax money to respond to a public health crisis.

Lawmakers aligned with gay activists began making alliances on Capitol Hill that had been impossible on more abstract issues of gay rights.

“When it was purely symbolic, I couldn’t get them,” Mr. Frank recalled of trying to round up supporters for gay rights. “When people’s lives were at stake, I’d get, ‘Oh, all right, I guess I have to vote with you.’ ”

Bill Clinton, the first baby boomer president, pulled the movement further into the political mainstream. He attended a high-profile gay-sponsored fund-raiser, spotlighted AIDS at his 1992 convention and promised an executive order barring discrimination against gay men and lesbians in the military.

“He brought us inside the Democratic Party,” said David Mixner, an old friend of Mr. Clinton’s from the opposition to the Vietnam War who became his adviser and ambassador to the gay rights movement.

But victories remained intermittent. Democrats lost a landslide midterm election in 1994, leading Mr. Clinton to strike a more conservative tone.

In 1996, he infuriated gay supporters by signing the Defense of Marriage Act, whose constitutionality is being considered this week in one of the same-sex marriage cases before the Supreme Court. The law limited the definition of marriage to unions between a man and a woman.

Mr. Clinton’s stance tracked American public opinion, which continued to distinguish gay rights from other civil rights causes. In a 1996 Gallup survey, 68 percent of respondents opposed legal recognition for same-sex marriages. In early 1997, Gallup found a mirror image on interracial marriage, with 64 percent expressing approval.

Public resistance obscured quieter advances elsewhere. Labor unions had long been the movement’s “strongest ally” in seeking protections for gay workers, said Gregory King, a staff member at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. And as increasing numbers of gay employees became open about their sexuality, major corporations extended benefit programs to cover same-sex couples.

“The private sector was always ahead of the politicians,” said Hilary Rosen, a Washington public relations consultant active in gay rights causes. So was popular culture, particularly television, which in recent years has presented an array of gay figures in a positive light.

Now those developments, and a rising generation of socially tolerant younger voters who do not regard same-sex marriage as controversial, have turned public opinion on its head.

In November, Gallup found that 53 percent of respondents favored legal recognition of same-sex marriages. A survey last week showed that 54 percent backed benefits for federal employees married to same-sex partners.

Such attitudes have produced a political recalibration that alters the debate, whatever the Supreme Court rules on same-sex marriage rights.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, 17 years after her husband backed the Defense of Marriage Act, recently posted a video supporting same-sex marriage. No other potential 2016 Democratic presidential rival has staked an opposing view, or is expected to. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, a prospect for the Republican presidential ticket, announced that he supported same-sex marriage after learning that his adult son was gay.

The pace of change continues to surprise gay rights supporters.

In his youth, Mr. Frank said, he realized he was drawn personally to men and professionally to government. He assumed the former would impede the latter.

“At this point,” he concluded, “I think my continued sexual attraction to men is more politically acceptable than my attraction to government.”
666 2013-03-26 In this warm guide, Edward O. Wilson, the evolutionary biologist who has studied social behavior among insects and humans, offers advice to aspiring researchers. “The ideal scientist thinks like a poet,” he maintains, stressing the virtues of passion, introversion and dedication. Dr. Wilson draws on his Alabama youth when he explains how to build butterfly nets, wrangle snakes and extract pheromones from honeybees (just crush their heads). A naturalist at heart, he plays down technology, math, even intelligence, proposing that a good scientist should be “bright enough to see what can be done but not so bright as to become bored doing it.” Though mild in tone, the slim book delivers deep insights into how observation and experiment drive theory.

Upstream Color. Written and directed by Shane Carruth. Opens April 5 in Manhattan and April 12 nationwide.

After the indie time-travel thriller “Primer,” Shane Carruth returns with"Upstream Color,"an open-ended film about a young woman who, after losing her memory to a parasitic worm, meets a similarly afflicted man. The couple’s story is interspersed with shots of living organisms like pigs, flowers and bacteria in cycles of life and death. Some of these natural images are inspired by quirks of animal behavior, like how octopus tentacles keep moving after they are severed and how parasites infect the brains of wasps and ants. Far from a biology lesson, the film investigates the “ways we come up with to explain how we are affected,” the director says, “by things that are too hidden to comprehend.”

Classic and anthropomorphic mouse taxidermy. Acme Studio, 63 N. 3rd St, Brooklyn. March 30 and April 6, 12:30 to 5 p.m. $110.

In these beginners’ classes, part of the Morbid Anatomy Art Academy, each student will mount his or her own rodent. At this week’s class (sold out!), students will learn the basics of mouse preservation, like fleshing and tail-stripping, as well as some anatomy to help them “magically reanimate” a specimen. Next week’s class will cover the same techniques, and the art of outfitting the rodents with miniature props like scooters and velvet chairs. “A common misconception is that it’s bloody or gory,” says the instructor, Divya Anantharaman, who has given sparrows, woodchucks and deer some deviant sparkle and flair. She is also planning a squirrel-stuffing seminar in April, but warns aspiring scavengers: “Please do not bring any dead animals with you to class.”

Affecting Perception: Art and Autism. With Simon Baron-Cohen and Jon Adams. Magdalen Road Studio, Oxford, England. March 26, 6 p.m. Free.

At this lecture, the autism researcher Simon Baron-Cohen, known for his early work on “mindblindness,” will discuss his collaboration with Jon Adams, an artist with Asperger’s syndrome. Their work, which involves electronic music made from fMRI scans, will be presented in June at the Arts Catalyst in London. Mr. Adams, a former geologist, will discuss the syndrome’s artistic advantages (pattern-seeking, a mind for details and, in his case, synesthesia) and its disadvantages (social unease, sensory overload). “Imagine a mind that can’t help spotting patterns,” says Dr. Baron-Cohen. “You could either be overwhelmed, which Jon sometimes is, or you could decide to use that talent to explain to the world, ‘I am different.’ ”
667 2013-03-26 JOHANNESBURG — After more than a week in jail, the human rights lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa was released Monday after a high court judge overruled a lower court’s decision that she be held without bail on a charge of obstruction of justice.

Ms. Mtetwa was arrested on March 16 after going to the home of a senior opposition politician who is one of her clients. The home of the politician, Thabani Mpofu, was being searched and Ms. Mtetwa demanded to see a search warrant. A scuffle ensued and Ms. Mtetwa was arrested along with Mr. Mpofu and other opposition politicians.

The government has cracked down hard on dissidents as the country approaches presidential elections, expected to be held this year. President Robert G. Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe for three decades, hopes to win another term.
668 2013-03-26 William Gottlieb, for whom the company is named, was known for buying properties, including many rental buildings in the Village, and then sitting on them. Mr. McLaughlin said his clients had no intention of putting the building up for sale, either.

The Northern Dispensary — so called because, at the time, it was in the northern part of what was then New York City — was built in 1831 and provided medical services for much of its life, eventually winding up as a dental clinic. That clinic struggled financially, however, and in the 1980s, after refusing to treat a man because he had AIDS, it was sued, fined tens of thousands of dollars and then closed. The building was taken over by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, which sold it in 1998 for $760,000.

The man who bought it, Mr. Gottlieb, was a challenging little mystery all by himself. He started buying property in the 1950s and by the time he died in 1999, he owned about 100 buildings in the city, an empire estimated at one point to be worth $1 billion. But instead of indulging in expensive suits and chauffeured cars, Mr. Gottlieb — a sloppy dresser who frequently skipped his morning meeting with a razor — drove a beat-up old station wagon and carried his papers around in a shopping bag.

“If you saw him on the street, you would say, ‘This man is a bum,’ ” K. Thomas Elghanayan, chairman of TF Cornerstone, a prominent real estate developer, said. “But he was always very straightforward, he stuck to his word, and he was impossible ever to buy anything from.”

No, Mr. Gottlieb was not a flipper. Instead, he tended to buy buildings — generally small parcels concentrated in the West Village, the meatpacking district and Chelsea — and then let them languish.

“Sometimes, arguably, that was a good thing because he kept a lot of old buildings from being destroyed,” said Andrew Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. “Sometimes it was not, because he might just sit there as buildings deteriorated.”

“They don’t necessarily seem to follow a logical or easily explicable path,” Mr. Berman added, referring to Mr. Gottlieb’s family, a group that has continued his tradition of inscrutability. “And to be honest, that’s about as much insight as I can offer.”

The Northern Dispensary was one of the last buildings Mr. Gottlieb bought, and today it falls to Neil Bender, his nephew and principal of the real estate company, to decipher the deed restrictions, which lawyers and title experts describe as a complicated undertaking. The language might be old, and the intentions dusty, but experimenting with their meaning, they say, can still result in a lawsuit.

Stuart Klein, who was inspector general of the city’s Buildings Department from 1978 to 1984, said, “The law of easements and restrictions — you could stand on it and change light bulbs in your house.”

In the early 1990s, Mr. Klein represented a group of the Northern Dispensary’s neighbors who were trying to come up with alternate uses for the building in the face of a proposal to house homeless people with AIDS on the site. At that time, Mr. Klein recalled, he found the deed restriction on serving the poor to be solid.

“My recollection was that the deed restriction couldn’t be removed,” he said. “That significantly devalued the property.”

Deed restrictions have been in use in the United States since Colonial times, said Stuart M. Saft, chairman of the real estate practice at Holland & Knight, and were employed as an early form of zoning. They might ban blacksmithing on a property in a residential area, for example, or perhaps the tanning of hides — two restrictions that survive on many New York City deeds today, said Rafael Castellanos, managing partner at Expert Title Insurance Agency, even though those industries have long since vanished.

But deed restrictions were also frequently used as a method of segregation, barring black or Jewish people from living in a particular building. Those restrictions were declared unconstitutional in the late 1940s.

The durability of a deed restriction depends on a jumble of factors, including how it was written, whom it protects and whether the person who initiated it is still alive. The restrictions may be cleared away in court, but that is not always easy.

New restrictions, meanwhile, are still sometimes added to deeds by owners, like the Archdiocese of New York.

Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese, said in an e-mail from Rome last week that he did not recall the specifics of the Northern Dispensary transactions, but he was not surprised to learn of the deed conditions.

“It is common (if not universal) for there to be language in the sale of church property that prohibits the property from being used for activities contrary to the teachings of the church,” Mr. Zwilling wrote, “and that would include performing abortions, or the sale of pornography. That’s required in church law before property can be sold.”

So at least for now, the deed restrictions at the Northern Dispensary remain in place.

“That dear little building used to be beautiful on the inside,” said Christabel Gough, a preservationist who has lived nearby for 30 years and used to attend block association meetings in the Northern Dispensary’s dignified, paneled boardroom.

“But that building seems to be jinxed,” she added. “I don’t know what they will do.”
669 2013-03-26 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Monday added a new affirmative action case to its docket. It is already considering a major challenge to the University of Texas’ race-conscious admissions program.

The new case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, No. 12-682, concerns a voter initiative in Michigan that banned racial preferences in admissions to the state’s public universities. In November, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, ruled that the initiative, which amended the State Constitution, violated the federal Constitution’s equal protection clause.

The initiative, approved in 2006 by 58 percent of the state’s voters, prohibited discrimination or preferential treatment in public education, government contracting and public employment. Groups favoring affirmative action sued to block the part of the law concerning higher education.

The appeals court majority said the problem with the law was that it restructured the state’s political process by making it harder for disfavored minorities to press for change.

“A student seeking to have her family’s alumni connections considered in her application to one of Michigan’s esteemed public universities could do one of four things to have the school adopt a legacy-conscious admissions policy: she could lobby the admissions committee, she could petition the leadership of the university, she could seek to influence the school’s governing board, or, as a measure of last resort, she could initiate a statewide campaign to alter the state’s Constitution,” Judge R. Guy Cole Jr. wrote for the majority.
670 2013-03-27 Nissan’s seven-passenger family road warrior goes green for a 24 percent fuel economy gain....
671 2013-03-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
672 2013-03-27 The GT, making its North American debut at the show, is a 3 Series hatchback with an eight-inch stretch, based on the platform of a long-wheelbase 3 Series that is sold in China....
673 2013-03-27 Steven A. Cohen is known for moving in and out of stocks with dizzying speed at his hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors. He seems to be taking a similar approach to his real estate....
674 2013-03-27 Got that covered....
675 2013-03-27 The TechPet from Bandai cradles your iPhone or iPod Touch and turns it into a playful, interactive puppy....
676 2013-03-27 Shia LaBeouf attends the first preview performance of “Orphans,” from which he was dismissed last month....
677 2013-03-27 Cyberwar or cyberhype? Britain’s announcement of a new initiative to combat cyberattacks comes at a time when some experts are challenging claims about the magnitude of the threat....
678 2013-03-27 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday limited the ability of the police to use drug-sniffing dogs outside homes.

The case concerned Franky, a chocolate Labrador retriever who detected the smell of marijuana outside a Florida house used by Joelis Jardines. Based on Franky’s signal, the police obtained a warrant to search the house, and they found a marijuana-growing operation inside.

Mr. Jardines moved to suppress the evidence, saying that using Franky to sniff around his residence was an unreasonable search barred by the Fourth Amendment. The Florida Supreme Court agreed, and so did a majority of the United States Supreme Court.

The 5-to-4 decision in the case, Florida v. Jardines, No. 11-564, featured an unusual alignment of justices. Justice Antonin Scalia, a member of the court’s conservative wing, wrote the majority decision. He was joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, a frequent ally, along with three of the court’s more liberal members, Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

Justice Scalia said the Fourth Amendment, which prohibits unreasonable searches, is particularly concerned with the home and its immediate surroundings. Allowing a dog on a six-foot leash to roam outside a residence, he said, was “an unlicensed physical intrusion” that was different in kind from visits from, say, salesmen, Girl Scouts or trick-or-treaters.

“To find a visitor knocking on the door is routine (even if sometimes unwelcome),” Justice Scalia wrote. “To spot that same visitor exploring the front porch with a metal detector, or marching his bloodhound into the garden before saying hello and asking permission, would inspire most of us to — well, call the police.”
679 2013-03-27 Last fall, Mr. Cuomo was quick to draw a connection between climate change and the severity of Hurricane Sandy, complaining that he seemed to spend much of his time as governor responding to extreme weather events. He has frequently spoken about climate change since then, saying in his State of the State address in January that New York needed “to learn to accept the fact — and I believe it is a fact — that climate change is real.”

“There is a 100-year flood every two years now,” Mr. Cuomo said at the time. “It’s inarguable that the sea is warmer and that there is a changing weather pattern, and the time to act is now.”

Experts in public finance said they had not heard of any other state that included an explicit warning about climate change in bond offerings.

But David Hitchcock, a senior director in the public finance practice at Standard & Poor’s, said climate change was not a criterion in evaluating state finances. “I have a hard time finding a direct relationship for climate change on New York State’s economy at this point,” he said, adding, “It’s not something that’s really on our radar screen right now.”

Emily Raimes, a vice president at Moody’s Investors Service, said “more disclosure is always a good thing.” But she added that most of the risk for local and state governments from powerful storms was mitigated by the presence of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which provides disaster aid to assist states and local governments.

“One of the reasons they can get to ratings as high as they do, particularly in storm-prone areas, is because of the existence of FEMA,” Ms. Raimes said. “After Hurricane Sandy, after big natural disaster events, FEMA picks up most of the cost of the immediate cleanup and rebuilding of public infrastructure.”

She noted that Moody’s had downgraded only a small number of local governments that were in areas hit hard by Hurricane Sandy, and that those governments had financial problems even before the storm hit.

The warning about climate change first appeared in the fine print of Mr. Cuomo’s budget proposal in January, and was reported on Tuesday by Bloomberg News. It notes that recent storms “have demonstrated vulnerabilities in the state’s infrastructure, including mass transit systems, power transmission and distribution systems, and other critical lifelines.”

The warning adds, “Significant long-term planning and investment by the federal government, state and municipalities will be needed to adapt existing infrastructure to the risks posed by climate change.”

Mr. Cuomo is taking a number of steps to prepare the state for storms; for example, his administration is developing a program to offer home buyouts to residents in flood-prone areas in a bid to begin reshaping how New York develops its coastline. The state budget that lawmakers are expected to approve this week also includes a provision requiring some gas stations to be wired to accept generators that could be used in the event of a power failure.
680 2013-03-27 Afterward, the entrepreneurs expanded on their concerns. Even with American troops still in the country, Ms. Syed has plenty of challenges, she said, estimating that one-third of her budget is spent on security. Her major worry now, she said, is that many of the new businesses that have opened in Afghanistan, particularly those in construction, transportation and hospitality, will wither without a steady infusion of foreign spending, and may not survive.

“Most especially, construction and other businesses are shutting down slowly,” Ms. Syed said. Getting orders from the Afghan government that might make up for some of the lost international spending will be hard, she said, because those contracts will be steered to companies with friends in high places.

“Only a few people who are really connected with the government, they will just take those things,” she said. “The normal businesspeople, they are not going to get benefit out of the government.”

Many businesspeople who have been successful in recent years, but who are apprehensive about the future, are already looking to move their money to the United States, Britain or the United Arab Emirates, Ms. Syed said.

Nadima Sahar, who sells jewelry, pottery and artwork made by a network of artists and craftsmen, studied in the United States on a scholarship, earning a master’s degree from the University of Massachusetts.

“As a woman and also as an Afghan, I have my concerns,” she said, citing the challenges of maintaining security and women’s rights. “I don’t think that my country mates are really ready to take over the transition process and to handle it as effectively as the U.S. troops have been doing so far.”

“With the international community’s presence, I think they in a way encouraged women to get involved further and further,” she added.

But Ms. Sahar wonders what will happen if Afghan officials negotiate a peace accord with the Taliban, whose leaders are determined to reinstitute restrictions on the role of women. “I have family members who are fleeing the country because they have concern that the situation wouldn’t remain that stable,” she said.

Roya Mallboob, who manages a software company in the western Afghan city of Herat that makes educational programs available to women, noted that she had some measure of insulation from trouble because much of her work was done online. Still, she said, “I am worried about the security and who will be the next president.”

For all their concerns, though, none of the women who met with Mr. Kerry on Tuesday said they planned to rush for the exit. Each insisted she would to try to make a go of it as Afghanistan takes control of its own security and holds national elections next year.

“I will be the last woman who will leave Afghanistan,” Ms. Syed said.
681 2013-03-27 “When we were offered the space on the billboard, we were perplexed about what to do with it,” said Josh Ocean, 27, the band’s lead singer. “Since we started we’ve given away all our music for free, so just telling people to purchase our music somewhere didn’t seem natural for us. So we said, ‘What if we take advantage of this and open up a discussion about the new music industry?’ ”

The band’s manager, Will Suter, has a background in advertising, and approached some agencies. “I said, ‘Our budget is zero, but we have this wonderful canvas,’ ” he recalled.

TBWA\Chiat\Day New York, one of the world’s leading advertising agencies, took the account as a pro bono project and devised a stark, text-heavy design in black, red and white.

So far the #artistsforpiracy hashtag has been used far more than #artistsagainstpiracy: 2,802 versus 93 on Tuesday afternoon. But comments by artists (and others) show it is not so easy for them simply to pick a team. One blog writer, identified as a guitar student in Milwaukee, struggled with the idea and concluded, “So, if anyone wants to support me as a musician, come to my shows, listen to what I have to say, or let me crash on your couch.”

The effect of piracy continues to be intensely debated in the entertainment industry. Many studies have shown that it negatively affects sales, but they have not been unanimous. Last week a European Commission report found that piracy did not hurt digital sales, but music industry groups immediately blasted it as flawed.

The ArtistsVsArtists site offers another choice, ostensibly about piracy: pay $5 to download a Ghost Beach EP from iTunes, or get it free from the band.

David Lowery of the bands Camper Van Beethoven and Cracker, who has been an outspoken advocate for artists’ rights in the digital age, said the site misrepresented piracy. (He was quick to add, though, that he could not blame a struggling band for some clever self-promotion.)

“This conflates piracy and giving music away for free,” Mr. Lowery said. “Piracy is eliminating your rights as artists, whereas if you are for copyright, you have the choice to sell your work or give it away.”

Some music industry bloggers were alarmed at the involvement of TBWA\Chiat\Day, which is part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. The agency’s other clients include the Grammy Awards, and the recording industry’s official stance on piracy has always been strongly negative. A Grammy spokeswoman had no comment on Tuesday.

Ghost Beach’s own position is absent from the campaign. In an interview Mr. Ocean and his band mate, Eric Mendelsohn, 26, said they opposed piracy. But they also expressed a pragmatic view of piracy that is widely shared by musicians of their generation: If you can’t fight it, at least try to use it.

“We are against piracy in the sense that we are for new technologies and using the Internet in a way that wins over it by us giving away our music directly to fans,” Mr. Ocean said. “That way we know where the music is going and can establish that connection directly with fans.”

“We never want to promote blatantly going out and stealing music,” he added. “What we do want to do is offer choices that we think are right.”
682 2013-03-27 When you say “Band X played at Madison Square Garden,” the second half of the sentence is at least as important as the first. A concert there is a moment for Band X to make a statement that is philosophically incontestable, full of territory marking and implied significance: I am here now.

The Icelandic band Sigur Ros played at Madison Square Garden, for the first time in the group’s 19-year history, on Monday night. (It had a concert in 2006 in the Theater at Madison Square Garden. That smaller room, at around 5,000 seats, is less than a third the capacity of the main space, not the same thing.) Of course the band is aware of the rite, the size, the significance. A few weeks ago it sent a message to fans through its mailing list, reminding them to snap up the remaining tickets. “We never thought we’d get to play Madison Square Garden,” it said, in part. “It just seemed so ... iconic? Establishment? Or maybe just big?”

The concert lasted two hours. It introduced some strong new material from the band’s album “Kveikur,” to be released on XL Recordings in June. It included three brass players and three string players, all doubling as choristers, to create curtains of sound moving slowly between chords. There was a curved screen in back, showing abstract visuals of bodies and faces, jellyfish and various kinds of tendrils, and around the stage was a pretty arrangement of single light bulbs on posts; the music grew loud, by increments, in its ambient-symphonic, continuous-crescendo game. At a few points, in “Festival” and “Popplagio,” the band’s vocalist, Jonsi Birgisson, sang long, impressive, dramatic high notes. And yet the whole event felt, somehow, as if it never happened.

The arena filled, gradually, quietly, with an unusual Madison Square Garden crowd: more than 15,000, split fairly equally between men and women, well-dressed, attentive, 30s and early 40s, modish glasses. Most had eaten already, thank you, and therefore left minimal ketchup spills; they didn’t clump around the single shirt-vendor desk near the entrance. Beer lines stayed short. The opening act was the electronic artist Tim Hecker, whose ambient sounds played for 45 minutes or so in the dark as a still crowd formed before the stage. Mr. Hecker himself was largely invisible, behind a scrim.

Sigur Ros, its three longtime members in front, played behind that scrim as well for its first two songs, “Yfirboro” and “Ny Batteri.” You saw the silhouetted, scarecrowlike figure of Mr. Birgisson, with a fringe-sleeve jacket, pumping his right-angled arm as he played his electric guitar with a bow. He briefly thanked the audience, after an hour or so, but otherwise said nothing. At the end he bent down low at the waist and unburdened himself of his guitar in a fluid motion before turning around and sloping off into the darkness of backstage.

All this doesn’t read as self-effacement. It’s more like another definition of “here,” one that almost seeks to erase entrances and exits and create a floating, edgeless presence. Mr. Birgisson’s keening singing, mostly in Icelandic, consists of more vowels than consonants, and because he uses a bow, his guitar notes don’t say dun-dun-dun; they say eeyaaah. Sigur Ros songs appear out of nothing and persist, often with longer and slower bass notes than anything outside of doom metal. They’re airborne. A seated fan near the front of the arena spent much of the concert with his arms spread, tilting his torso, making swooping and banking movements.
683 2013-03-27 The decisions had enormous implications for the media economy. The VCR gave way to the DVD player and the digital video recorder. Videotape gave the kiss of life to the low-budget independent film. From “Rip. Mix. Burn.” to YouTube, every step of the evolution of digital media has been affected by that decision.

Last week, the Supreme Court made another call that could have equally far-reaching implications. The ruling referred only to printed books, another technology that predates the Internet. Yet it, too, is likely to reshape the information economy in unexpected ways.

In a 6-to-3 decision, the court took sides with Supap Kirtsaeng, a Thai math student at Cornell who generated roughly $900,000 in revenue reselling in the United States cheap textbooks that his friends and relatives sent from Thailand.

John Wiley & Sons had argued that Mr. Kirtsaeng was infringing on its copyright by importing the books without permission. The publisher said this short-circuited its ability to segment markets by price — selling the books more expensively to American students than to poorer Thai students who could otherwise not afford them.

But the court held that the publisher’s right to ban imports was trumped by Mr. Kirtsaeng’s right of first sale. He might not be allowed to make unauthorized copies of the books. But as with old library books or secondhand Gucci bags at a flea market, if the books had been bought legally, whether imported or sold originally in the United States, Mr. Kirtsaeng could sell them.

The decision picks at the scab of an argument that has raged since the first copyright law was enacted in 18th-century Britain: how to balance the interest of copyright holders to profit from their creations — giving them an incentive to create more — against the social goal of promoting access to the movies, books and software programs they create.

Like the Betamax decision in 1984, the Supreme Court’s ruling last week underscores the challenges placed by globalization and information technology on the very idea of protecting intellectual property. It adds to a maze of laws, legal decisions and technological barriers governing what companies and people can do with their stuff in the new economy. And it will probably change the way companies deliver media.

Is the decision good or bad?

Probably both. It depends who you are.

“The decision is a major victory for American consumers because it allows them to shop worldwide for their copyrighted content,” wrote Gary Shapiro, the chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association. “If the reasoning extended to pharmaceuticals, for example, Americans would no longer be the chumps who pay the highest prices in the world simply because they’re not allowed to shop overseas where prices are lower.”

Others were not so elated. “Software authors will have little incentive to price their programs for foreign markets if they can simply be resold in the United States, and thereby undercut the price of the domestic version,” said the Business Software Alliance in a brief to the court. “Foreign consumers will be deprived of a product that would be useful to them and authors will have fewer resources to innovate for both domestic and foreign markets.”

Besides cheap textbooks on Craigslist and e-Bay, the decision will probably bring a bunch of imports to the aisles of Target and Costco, said Keith Kupferschmid, vice president for intellectual property policy and enforcement at the Software and Information Industry Association.

More than two years ago, after Justice Elena Kagan’s recusal, the court deadlocked on whether Costco could claim a first-sale right to resell imported Omega watches against Omega’s will. Now we know it can go ahead.

Publishers may abandon segmentation and start selling at the same price everywhere. Or they may find other ways to segment markets — perhaps printing foreign books on cheaper paper.

More profoundly, the decision might even hasten the near-demise of print — spurring publishers into a digital world where they can license their books rather than sell them, adding some bells and whistles while gaining some protection from the first-sale clause.

The decision does not automatically let entrepreneurial Americans import any cheap stuff they find overseas for resale at home. Drugs, for instance, are protected by patents rather than copyright. Re-importation is also barred by other regulations. Yet if the Betamax decision serves as precedent, the repercussions are likely to extend beyond the publishing industry.

Studios use software locks to ensure that a DVD sold in one market won’t play on another’s machine. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act forbids tampering with the locks, in the name of combating piracy. Yet this could be challenged as a violation of the doctrine of first sale.

Items that are provided under license — a list that includes songs on iTunes, e-books for the Kindle and most software packages — could also be vulnerable to the new reasoning as the concept of a license is tested in courts.

In the summer, a German court ruled that first sale did apply to licensed Oracle software. In its brief, the Business Software Alliance said that the argument that software licenses were shielded from first-sale rights “does not provide any meaningful comfort.”

And while digital products today are supposedly not covered by the first-sale provision, a Web site called ReDigi already runs a secondhand market for digital content. Capitol Records has sued ReDigi, a Massachusetts start-up, in a New York court. A decision is pending, but the judge refused to grant an injunction that would have closed down the site. Amazon has gotten a patent for a secondhand digital marketplace. And Apple applied for one earlier this year.

Some potential changes are worrisome. If publishers drop market segmentation by price, revenue will decline and books may become unaffordable in many countries, reducing legal access and encouraging piracy.

“The first potential losers are the students and educators around the world who lose access to American educational materials,” said Tom Allen, head of the Association of American Publishers.

The appearance of secondhand markets for digital goods may encourage creators to create digital products that degrade over time. Technological locks may keep some services out of some markets entirely.

But on the bright side, resales of digital products could expand access to the digital economy for lower-income Americans. And the move toward licensing over sales will lead to more innovative, customized digital products and services that are not easily pirated or resold.

The publishing, media and software companies that are now in so much of a tizzy over the Supreme Court’s decision may even find a way to profit from the new world. Despite Mr. Valenti’s fears, by 2000, half of Hollywood’s revenue came from the sale and rental of prerecorded videos and DVDs.
684 2013-03-27 “Petrobras was once thought indestructible, but that is no longer the case,” said Adriano Pires, a prominent Brazilian energy consultant. “Petrobras is now a tool of short-term economic policy, used to protect domestic industry from competition and fight inflation. This disastrous process will intensify if it is not reversed.”

Ms. Rousseff, like her predecessor and political mentor, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, has relied heavily on state companies like Petrobras to create jobs and spur the economy. As a result, the president and her top advisers argue, unemployment remains near historic lows, an approach in economic management that contrasts sharply with Europe and the United States.

In a recent speech, Ms. Rousseff explained that her government’s priority was lifting millions of Brazilians out of poverty.

“Those betting against us,” she warned, “will suffer serious financial and political losses.”

Bolstering Ms. Rousseff’s approval ratings going into a presidential election in 2014, Petrobras is building new refineries, pursuing offshore oil and buying most of its equipment from Brazilian companies, all of which have created tens of thousands of jobs and delivered some tangible political benefits.

“My life is better,” said Adinael Soares Silva, 38, a welder at a Petrobras refinery under construction in Itaboraí, a city near Rio de Janeiro. He said he was pleased with his salary of about $800 a month. “Where I was, I didn’t have enough to have a savings account,” he said. “Now I do.”

But while Petrobras has helped keep Brazil’s unemployment low, around 5.4 percent, a growing chorus of critics points to the obvious problems at the company, including its backlog of projects and an inability to satisfy the country’s thirst for oil, forcing it to import foreign gasoline and sell it at a loss.

After Brazil made its deep-sea oil discoveries in 2007, the government pushed to put Petrobras firmly in control of the new areas, a move that critics say could strain the company even further. It was a marked departure from the 1990s, when authorities ended Petrobras’s monopoly as part of a radical restructuring of the economy. Petrobras remained under state control but was exposed to market forces, emerging as a hybrid nimbly competing with foreign oil companies.

Today, Petrobras seems far less nimble. In 2012, its production fell 2 percent, the first such decline in years.

The international energy industry is also changing, especially in the United States, as momentum shifts toward extracting oil and natural gas from onshore shale formations. Brazil is thought to have large shale reserves itself, but the government remains focused on its costly deep-sea megaprojects.

“The United States is redrawing the global petroleum map, while in Brazil euphoria has given way to inertia,” Folha de São Paulo, one of Brazil’s most influential newspapers, said in a recent editorial.

Compounding matters, Brazil’s demand for gasoline surged about 20 percent in 2012, reflecting a car-manufacturing industry that has boomed partly as a result of government efforts to lift production.

Petrobras still lacks enough refineries able to process crude oil, forcing it to buy increasing amounts of gasoline from abroad. And it is still losing money on gasoline imports as the government keeps domestic fuel prices relatively low, to keep inflation from accelerating in a slow-growing economy.

Energy analysts contend that the government is using Petrobras to further its own political objectives. Ms. Rousseff’s administration, for instance, has hewed to measures aimed at reviving the country’s shipbuilding industry, by requiring Petrobras to buy many of its ships and oil platforms from Brazilian shipyards.

But these ventures have struggled with large cost overruns of their own, sometimes delivering vessels late or not at all, cutting into Petrobras’s hopes of meeting ambitious production targets.

Then there are the delays at oil refineries under construction. One such complex, in Pernambuco State, was conceived in 2005 as a way for Brazil to forge closer political ties with oil-rich Venezuela. Eight years later, Venezuela has yet to invest in the project, which has faced various delays as Petrobras shoulders the entire cost of building it.

Describing the accumulation of problems at Petrobras, Exame, Brazil’s top business magazine, bluntly accused the government of “destroying Brazil’s largest company,” accompanying the claim with an illustration of a fuel dispenser from a filling station in the shape of a noose.

The sense of dismay reflects, at least in part, Petrobras’s stature. Founded in 1953, it wields clout from its Brutalist-style headquarters here in spheres well beyond the energy industry, sponsoring everything from literary festivals to the Carnival celebration in Salvador, a city in northeast Brazil.

Despite the challenges it faces, Petrobras remains profitable and much less constrained by political ideology than some other large national oil companies. In Mexico, for instance, Pemex has long retained its monopoly status despite production declines, and now the government is considering opening it to greater private investment.

Petrobras is also far more transparent than Petróleos de Venezuela, the national oil company that PresidentHugo Chávez, who died this month, transformed into an extremely politicized pillar of his government, purging it of thousands of employees after a bitter strike and forcing it to focus on new tasks like food distribution.

Maria das Graças Foster, the chief executive of Petrobras, has been exceptionally frank about the company’s problems. In recent conference calls with analysts, she said that oil production should remain steady this year or perhaps even decline slightly again. But she also responded sharply to critics, claiming that output from the new deep-sea fields had reached 300,000 barrels a day. By 2020, the company expects to double overall production to 4.2 million barrels a day.

Other executives at the company have similarly sought to temper expectations that Brazil will enter a robust phase of energy independence.

José Carlos Cosenza, a Petrobras executive, has warned that Brazil may need to import large amounts of fuel for almost another decade. Moreover, gasoline demand is expected to climb even higher as Brazilians buy more cars.
685 2013-03-28 In the domestic, ostensibly dark farce “Family Weekend,” 16-year-old Emily (Olesya Rulin), a driven high school athlete, snaps when her affluent, eccentric family fails to show for her jump-rope competition. Conscripting her siblings — her movie-obsessed younger sister (Joey King); her younger brother (Robbie Tucker), a savant with perfect memory; and her dimmish older brother (Eddie Hassell) — for the crime, she ropes her type-A working mother (Kristin Chenoweth) and burned-out painter father (Matthew Modine) to chairs and teaches them lessons in parenting. She wants them to be “normal,” which among other things apparently means a nonvegetarian diet and trying to talk her brother out of his suspicions that he might be gay.

This belabored comedy, directed by Benjamin Epps, has a slick visual veneer and some capable performances, especially by Ms. Rulin and Ms. King. But the script, by Matt K. Turner, is loaded with contradictions, its hollow flirtation with subversion amount to airplane pablum. Its most ludicrous proposition is that a disciplined statewide school athletic champion would proclaim herself a “freak.” As the story nears its conclusion and the emotional orchestral swells on the soundtrack gather, the conflicts are resolved in orderly succession. Does Emily’s fractured family regroup? Does it show up for her next championship? Should you bother to see this?

“Family Weekend” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for some sexual content and drug use.
686 2013-03-28 Amar’e Stoudemire of the Knicks spoke about his rehabilitation from the surgery he had on his right knee three weeks ago....
687 2013-03-28 Capital flowed into Cyprus from overseas in 2008 and 2009, helping to set up the crisis.
688 2013-03-28 President Obama fulfilled a pledge from his State of the Union address to appoint a panel to reduce voting problems, led by lawyers usually on opposing sides....
689 2013-03-28 A new legislative proposal seeks to streamline tax rules for flow-through entities, including S corporations, but it is unclear how much most small businesses will benefit from the changes....
690 2013-03-28 Judge Victor Marrero said he was troubled that SAC Capital did not have to acknowledge wrongdoing to settle insider-trading accusations by the Securities and Exchange Commission....
691 2013-03-28 For the first time in over a year, median annual income fell by a statistically significant amount from the previous month, according to a report from Sentier Research....
692 2013-03-28 SAS Institute, a traditional leader in data analysis software, has looked vulnerable to challenges that include a host of new rivals and fast-changing technology. But the company has rewritten its software, adopted it for cloud computing and devel...
693 2013-03-28 A teacher in Seoul, South Korea, uses The Times to spark classroom discussion about a range of issues, many of which raise questions of journalistic ethics....
694 2013-03-28 The Times’s Liz Alderman surveys the uneasy scene in Nicosia; and a look at members of the country’s increasingly disgruntled Russian community.
695 2013-03-28 Ta, Financial Services Authority. Next week the regulator’s work will be split between the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulatory Authority....
696 2013-03-28 A financial planning group offers recommendations for avoiding fraud and abuse....
697 2013-03-28 Yes, animus, fear and dislike motivated Congress to pass the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act....
698 2013-03-28 A string of carwashes with a history of labor law violations are paid by the city to clean city-owned cars, according to a new report....
699 2013-03-28 According to this graphic, what is the percentage of people in the United States who favor same-sex marriage? What was the percentage in 1996?...
700 2013-03-28 A new study used genetic sequencing to establish that a strain of antibiotic-resistant bacteria has been transmitted from farm animals to people, a connection that the food industry has long disputed. Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, said the study by researchers in Britain and Denmark, which drew on data from two small farms in Denmark, “ends any debate” about whether giving antibiotics to livestock is a risk to humans. Scientists had shown a connection between animals and people before, but never in as much detail, said Keeve Nachman, a scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future.
701 2013-03-28 For purposes of the law, said the lawyer, Roberta Kaplan, “I would, your honor.”

“Really?” the chief justice asked skeptically. “As far as I can tell, political figures are falling over themselves to endorse your side of the case.”

Indeed, even as the justices heard the case, Senator of on Wednesday became the latest red-state Democrat to announce her support for same-sex marriage. She followed Senators of , of , of and of .

Senator of became the first Senate Republican to endorse marriage between same-sex couples. And former President , who signed the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996, urged the justices to overturn it.

Ms. Kaplan, who moments earlier had been arguing that “there has been a sea change” in the United States in “the understanding of gay people and their relationships,” then pivoted to argue that despite that sea change, gay men and lesbians are still subject to discrimination.

“No other group in recent history has been subjected to popular referenda to take away rights that have already been given or exclude those rights, the way gay people have,” she said.

Even so, the rapidly changing political environment gives the justices a reason — should they want one — to sidestep imposing a national standard and leave the matter to the states.

On the defensive, at least politically, opponents of same-sex marriage were left to ask the justices to leave it up to the political arena. “We would submit to you that that question is properly decided by the people themselves,” Charles J. Cooper, a lawyer representing opponents, said Tuesday.

Justice , widely considered the decisive vote, has historically has been sensitive to the authority of states to set their own policies. During the closely watched arguments, he questioned the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act but expressed skepticism that the court should issue a broad ruling in the separate case heard Tuesday that would be the vehicle for finding a national right to same-sex marriage.

While framing its decisions on law and principle, the court has always been attuned to public opinion and periodically debates how much evolving national mores ought to influence the interpretation of a two-century-old Constitution.

In the case of same-sex marriage, the political currents have shifted so quickly that the justices seem wary of jumping into the rapids. In the 16 years since the Defense of Marriage Act was enacted, polls show that strong public opposition to same-sex marriage has reversed into majority support.

Not only has Mr. Clinton repudiated the law, so has its Republican sponsor, former Representative of . No states allowed same-sex marriage at the time; now nine do, and the . The half-dozen senators who endorsed such unions in recent days bring the number of supporters in the upper chamber to 47 out of 100.

Still, about 40 states do not permit same-sex marriage, and most of them have constitutional bans approved by voters in recent years. Nine Democratic senators and all but one Republican senators oppose the practice. It was only last fall that the first state referendums approving same-sex marriage were passed by voters. As Justice pointed out, nowhere in the world was same-sex marriage legal until the passed a law in 2000.

For the court, the question of political power is important, as it decides what standard to use in deciding whether the laws before it are unconstitutionally discriminatory. Gay rights advocates are seeking a “heightened scrutiny” standard similar to that applied to gender discrimination, meaning that a law must be substantially related to an important government interest.

The test of such scrutiny includes the history of discrimination against a group and its relative political power. Despite a history of discrimination, gay men and lesbians now find their political power on the rise.

“The reason there has been a sea change,” said , a former solicitor general who argued on behalf of the Defense of Marriage Act, “is a combination of political power, as defined by this court’s cases as getting the attention of lawmakers; certainly they have that. But it’s also persuasion. That’s what the democratic process requires. You have to persuade somebody you’re right.”

For Mr. Clement and his adversaries, the question remained whether they had persuaded the justices to follow that process or get out of the way.
702 2013-03-28 She also appealed for Germany’s euro zone partners to help defend the measures intended to aid Cyprus from grousing. “So far, I haven’t heard much of this,” she said.

While Ms. Merkel has not stopped preaching austerity, support for which is widely held in Germany, senior officials have become quick to point out that the Germans were not alone in insisting on reforms from those European partners seeking financial assistance. The Netherlands, Finland and Austria are frequently mentioned as countries that hold a similar position.

Ms. Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, rebutted suggestions from journalists on Wednesday that Germany’s partners were not equally supportive of its position. He insisted that other European countries had used terms similar to Berlin’s in defending the second bailout package for Cyprus, which was announced early Monday after the Cypriots rejected a proposal made eight days earlier.

But it was clear that the images of angry protests in the streets of Cyprus — including placards showing Ms. Merkel’s mustachioed face above the words “Get out of our country” — had entered the discussion in the German capital. Without commenting directly, Mr. Seibert noted that the freedom to demonstrate also included “the freedom to make historical mistakes.”

Influential lawmakers in Ms. Merkel’s center-right party have also begun to grumble about how Germany is portrayed in nations that are receiving help.

“The protests, especially against Germany, are aggravating and inappropriate,” Norbert Barthle, a conservative deputy who specializes in financial issues, told the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.

Last weekend, a Spanish university professor compared Ms. Merkel’s policies to Hitler’s in a column that appeared briefly in the online edition of the Spanish newspaper El País. The column, and an apology from the newspaper’s editorial staff, was later taken down after a flurry of criticism on social media outlets, much of it coming from Germany.

Luxembourg’s foreign minister, Jean Asselborn, has sharply criticized Germany for what he said were Germany’s efforts to dictate a business model for another European country. His criticism was in response to comments from Berlin that Cyprus’s banking sector was no longer sustainable, and to Germany’s insistence that it be restructured as part of any agreement. Some analysts have said that being subjected to strong criticism goes along with having the strongest economy in Europe.

“Germany is experiencing the reality of power,” Frankfurter Allgemeine wrote in a commentary on Wednesday. “Because Germany’s economy is so strong and because the distance between it and its partners is growing, so is the jealousy.”

When Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble was asked about the Cyprus deal and the assessment by some commentators that it was “a total German victory,” Mr. Schäuble, who has helped shape Germany’s European Union policy for decades, replied simply that his Cypriot counterpart, Michael Sarris, had thanked him at the end of the talks.

Mr. Schäuble, 70, would not comment on unflattering media reports about him that had appeared during the Cyprus negotiations. “I sometimes feel that I am described in a particularly absurd way,” he said, “and I am not an infrequent target.”
703 2013-03-28 The younger Mr. Nabrit also worked with Mr. Marshall, who hired him as a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in 1959. Mr. Marshall, who later became the first black Supreme Court justice, founded the fund in 1940.

“When I was hired, he announced to everyone that my job title was ‘low man on the totem pole’ and that I was to be addressed as ‘boy,’ ” Mr. Nabrit recalled in a 2001 interview with the magazine The Washington Lawyer. “He always kept everyone laughing.”

Mr. Nabrit’s first assignment was to help write a Supreme Court brief arguing against an appeal of a decision that Mr. Marshall had won in Louisiana. The lower court ruling was affirmed.

In 1965, Mr. Nabrit helped write a comprehensive plan for a 50-mile march for voting rights from Selma to Montgomery that the Alabama authorities were trying to prevent. It was written to help bolster a claim by Dr. King and his associates that they had a constitutional right to conduct the march.

The plan was so elaborately detailed — noting how many marchers could participate, the route they would take and even in what farm fields they planned to sleep along the way — that The New York Times observed that the march “may take on the appearance of a biblical wandering.”

Mr. Nabrit, who wrote the plan with Jack Greenberg, the fund’s director-counsel for many years, and others, liked to joke later that it “was my only biblical writing.”

An earlier march from Selma, on March 7, 1965, ended violently when Alabama state troopers attacked civil rights supporters on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. A second attempt ended with marchers turning around after crossing the bridge. After a judge approved the plan that Mr. Nabrit had helped write, the march — eventually 25,000 strong — went forward later that month. Congress passed the Voting Rights Act that summer.

One of the most prominent cases Mr. Nabrit worked on involved school segregation in Denver in the early 1970s. Unlike states in the South during the Jim Crow era, Colorado had no school segregation law. Instead, Denver’s school board had created segregated schools by gerrymandering the school district’s attendance zones.

When the case arrived at the Supreme Court, Mr. Nabrit began helping Gordon G. Greiner, a Denver lawyer. “The Denver case presented a different set of complications because we had to prove the cause of school segregation,” Mr. Nabrit recalled.

When the Supreme Court ruled in 1973 that the Denver school board had deliberately segregated part of the school district, it was the first time in nearly 20 years that the court had not ruled unanimously in a school desegregation case. Justices Lewis F. Powell Jr. and William H. Rehnquist dissented.

“We were very fortunate to be presenting arguments attacking the Jim Crow legal system at a time when the majority of the court wanted to do away with Jim Crow,” Mr. Nabrit recalled.

James Madison Nabrit III was born on June 11, 1932, in Houston. He grew up in Washington, where he attended segregated public schools through part of high school. He finished high school at the Mount Hermon School for Boys, now Northfield Mount Hermon, in Massachusetts.

He graduated from Bates College and Yale Law School and then worked briefly for a private law firm. He spent two years in the Army before Mr. Marshall hired him.

Mr. Nabrit’s wife of more than 50 years, Roberta Jacqueline Harlan, died in 2008. No immediate family members survive.
704 2013-03-28 TOKYO — Two lithium-ion car batteries produced by GS Yuasa, the same Japanese company that supplies batteries for the grounded Boeing 787 jetliner fleet, have overheated in recent days.

Mitsubishi Motors said Wednesday that a lithium-ion battery for its i-MiEV electric car caught fire at an assembly plant on March 18. Three days later, a battery in a plug-in hybrid Outlander car overheated and showed signs of melting.

No one was injured in either incident, Mitsubishi Motors said. It did not issue any recalls but said it would halt production and sales of the two models while it investigated the battery troubles. It also advised owners of the Outlander plug-in hybrid to drive only on gasoline mode for the time being.

“First we need to clarify the cause,” Ryugo Nakao, the head of product and strategy development at Mitsubishi Motors, said at a news conference in Tokyo.

Mr. Nakao stressed that the plane and auto batteries were “structurally different.”

And Marc Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, said in a statement that the aircraft maker had been assured “that the battery in question is fundamentally different from the 787 battery both in its construction processes, design, and chemistry.”
705 2013-03-28 American Airlines won bankruptcy court approval on Wednesday to combine with US Airways and form the world’s biggest airline.

“The merger is an excellent result. I don’t think anybody disputes that,” Judge Sean H. Lane said in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan before issuing his decision.

But the judge declined to sign off on a proposed $20 million severance package for Thomas W. Horton, currently the chief executive of American’s parent company, the AMR Corporation.

The court’s approval is an important milestone for American, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November 2011 after having long resisted using the bankruptcy process to cut labor and other costs. The merger still needs approval from Justice Department antitrust regulators and US Airways shareholders. It is expected to close by the fall.

The combined airline will have 6,700 daily flights and annual revenue of roughly $40 billion. The new American Airlines will fly slightly more passengers than United, the current No. 1. It will be run by Doug Parker, the chief executive of the US Airways Group, who began pursuing a merger shortly after American entered bankruptcy protection.

The federal bankruptcy trustee for AMR had objected to the severance package for Mr. Horton. While he didn’t question the amount, Judge Lane agreed that the timing of it seemed to violate prohibitions in the bankruptcy law.
706 2013-03-28 The Vatican described the pope’s visit as a continuation of his practice, as a bishop in Argentina, of visiting prisons, hospitals or hospices for the “poor and marginalized.” Likewise, Cardinal Dolan has long made a practice of visiting prisoners during Holy Week and Advent and at Thanksgiving, said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York.

“I love to say Mass in a prison,” Cardinal Dolan said at Shawangunk. “Nobody ever comes late and nobody ever leaves early.”

Such levity was welcomed by Joseph Cosentino, a gray-haired, bespectacled prisoner — and a Catholic — who was convicted of murder and said he came to Shawangunk in the mid-1990s. He called the cardinal’s visit a “once in a lifetime” opportunity for a long-timer like himself.

“It’s great: are you kidding me?” Mr. Cosentino said. “I would have loved for him to become pope.”

It was Cardinal Dolan’s first visit to Shawangunk, which houses more than 500 men behind rows of razor-wire fences and thick glass doors, and which is guarded by burly correctional officers, many of whom stood guard at either end of the prison chapel during the Mass. Several prisoners assisted with the Mass — which included a wine-free Communion.

But it was Cardinal Dolan’s remarks that were obviously the draw, as the prelate dotted the usual liturgy with more informal remarks, calling the inmates “guys” and “fellas” and likening their hard time with that of Jesus.

“Jesus Christ was a prisoner,” he said, mentioning his arrest before the Crucifixion. “Jesus Christ, God’s only son, felt alone.”

The cardinal was mostly smiles during the visit, hugging prisoners, asking about their hometowns and drawing a lot of laughs. At one moment, he pointed out an inmate seated in the back. “He was the luckiest guy,” the cardinal said. “He said he couldn’t hear the sermon.”

But in a serious moment, he also described his trip as selfish, saying that he believed that, after he died, he would be able to answer in the affirmative if Jesus asked whether he had tended to the imprisoned.

“I’m going to be able to say, ‘Yes, Jesus,’ ” he said. “ ‘You ask the guys at Shawangunk.’ ”
707 2013-03-28 “They were great,” the steady goalkeeper Brad Guzan said of Besler and Gonzalez. “I think they were getting a lot of unfair criticism coming into the game, saying they were too young, they weren’t going to be able to cope. I think they proved a lot of doubters wrong. Especially Matt stepping in at Azteca. You would have thought he had 50 caps under his belt.”

Tuesday’s draw felt like a victory for the United States and a defeat for Mexico. And it was a triumph for Major League Soccer. Besler, with Kansas City, and Gonzalez, with Los Angeles, are the league’s two most recent defensive players of the year. They were unyielding in their vigilant watch on Chicharito, relying on superb anticipation, resolve, positioning and, when necessary, an assertive elbow or shoulder.

The compact American defense disrupted Mexico’s rhythmic passing, cluttered the midfield and lured El Tri into long diagonal passes, believing that the 6-foot-5-inch Gonzalez would provide a clear advantage in the air. At one point, Gonzalez even went to give a consoling pat to Chicharito, who pushed him away and grabbed his ear in pain.

“If you’re able to get a body or shoulder on him to throw him off a bit, that’s just as good as kicking the ball clear,” Guzan said.

At 1-1-1 in the current round, the United States finds itself in a hopeful position to qualify for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. Four of its final seven matches will be played at home. For the Americans, a tough weeklong stretch — including published criticism of Coach Jurgen Klinsmann; a game played in a blizzard outside Denver; and a M.A.S.H. unit worth of injuries — ended encouragingly.

Along the way, the Americans revealed depth and versatility along with the reassurance of familiarity. Before apparently running out of gas against Mexico, Clint Dempsey provided the decisive snowplow goal in the 1-0 victory against Costa Rica. Michael Bradley marshaled the midfield; as Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated noted, Bradley completed 57 of 58 passes against Mexico and pulled El Tri’s foot off the accelerator just enough so that the Americans could catch their breath at 7,200 feet above sea level.

How foolish it seems that some once considered Bradley’s position on the national team an act of nepotism because his father, Bob, happened to be the coach.

Guzan repelled Mexico’s frantic efforts in the final minutes. With successive shutouts in this qualifying round, he continued the Cirque du Soleil acrobatics that he has performed lately at Aston Villa. Is it impossible to think that Guzan might deserve to walk the high wire of the World Cup ahead of Tim Howard?

As the American chances brightened, so did the reputation of Klinsmann. His leadership and tactics were battered anonymously by some players in a recent article in The Sporting News. But he made the right moves against Costa Rica and Mexico, first plugging DaMarcus Beasley in at left back, then inserting Besler into central defense for an injured Clarence Goodson.

Klinsmann said the internal and external complaining was a sign of soccer’s growth in the United States. If people are criticizing him, at least they are not ignoring him.

“We have a simple goal, which is qualifying for the World Cup,” Klinsmann said. “We want to improve this program one step at a time, which I think we’re doing a very good job. We’re pleased there’s so much discussion, so much debate out there. It shows again that you can’t stop soccer in the United States anymore.”

Not as a sport, perhaps, but as a team that chronically struggles to score. Three matches have produced two goals, both by Dempsey. It seems clear the creative spark of a revived Landon Donovan, just returning to the Galaxy after a sabbatical, would be needed to reach the second round in Brazil.

“We battle on,” Dempsey said. “If he wants to come back, then we have to wait and see what happens. But we keep moving forward.”
708 2013-03-28 Third-seeded Maria Sharapova returned to the semifinals of the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., despite a patchy performance, beating Sara Errani, 7-5, 7-5. Sharapova, a runner-up in the tournament four times but never a winner, had 57 unforced errors, including 13 double faults, and overcame three set points in the second set. Errani fell to 0-26 against opponents ranked in the top five.

In the men’s quarterfinals, No. 3 David Ferrer rallied past the unseeded Jürgen Melzer, 4-6, 6-3, 6-0.
709 2013-03-28 Credit: Erin Baiano for The New York Times
710 2013-03-28 Whole Body, the beauty department of Whole Foods Market, has provided several niche brands with a national stage. Below, four favorites.

Leave it to the endorsements of actresses including Kate Hudsonand Brooke Shieldsto give staying power to a mysteriously named all-purpose cream (by a founder who calls himself Lord-Pharaoh ImHotep-AmonRa). “Especially with celebrities, it’s been really popular,” said Susan Wattik, associate global coordinator for Whole Body. “We started selling it in Southern California. Customers loved it, and it just grew and grew and grew.” ($40)

Frequently spotted in makeup artists’ kits, this green tube is depended on for hydration finished with a pretty shine. Fashion insiders like Tory Burch, who reportedly buys hers at Whole Foods, also eat it up. ($19 for 2.5 ounces)

Recognizable by its cheerful goat illustrations, this body line from Montreal now has a branch office in Waterbury, Vt. The company’s bar soaps are selling particularly well at $3 each. “We actually got to the point where they couldn’t make enough soap to keep in stock,” Ms. Wattik said.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, this plant-based hair-color brand from Herbaceuticals Inc., in Napa, Calif., names its hues after spices and foods: for example, saffron blonde, pomegranate chestnut and burdock brown. The ammonia-free formula, made in Italy, has been especially lauded on pregnancy and green-living blogs. ($15)
711 2013-03-28 Tim McCarver has been as close as it is possible to being a ubiquitous baseball announcer.

Over 33 years, he has been a voice of the Phillies, the Mets, the Yankees and the Giants, and  an analyst of 23 World Series and 20 All-Star Games for various networks. But at the end of this season, McCarver will retire from Fox Sports, which hired him in 1996 and paired him with Joe Buck.

“Timing is everything,” McCarver said Wednesday in a conference call. “I wanted to step down while I know I can still do the job and be proud of the job I’ve done.”

He added: “It’s not a tough call. It’s not a sad thing for me.”McCarver, 71, said that he was healthy and that he had no plans to work part time at Fox or Fox Sports 1, the cable sports network that will start in mid-August.

He said he had been contemplating the choice not to renew his contract for the past two years but that nothing in particular happened to solidify his decision.

“There was no one event where I said, ‘Oh, this is too much,’” he said. “But I just thought it’s got to end sometime.”
712 2013-03-28 This election is becoming an anxious, and drawn-out, test for the entire nation, one of the most developed in Africa but one also riddled with deep ethnic divisions and a history of corruption.

The election was held on March 4, and Kenyans on all sides of the political divide have been asked to be patient and await the Supreme Court’s decision, which is expected over the weekend. The court may uphold the results or call for a runoff — or possibly an entirely new election. The last time Kenya had a presidential election dispute, in 2007, more than 1,000 people were killed in ethnic clashes and riots.

Since then, the country has reformed many aspects of its government, especially the Supreme Court, now led by Chief Justice Willy Mutunga, a former human rights lawyer who presides from the bench with a twinkling stud earring in his left ear and an iPad at his fingertips, where a gavel normally would be.

Justice Mutunga and the court’s five other justices are trying to sift through a host of intricate complaints in a very short time, including discrepancies in the voter registry and the crash of the election commission’s computer systems on election day. The commission says the crash was simply a malfunction, but many of Mr. Odinga’s supporters believe it was a conspiracy.

The court decided this week to recount votes from 22 polling stations where questions have been raised. It has also been asked to revisit the issue of whether to consider rejected ballots, like ones put in the wrong ballot box, as part of the total when calculating whether the 50 percent threshold had been passed.

The election commission has stood by the official results, saying they are credible and accurate, and lawyers for the commission were expected to present their defense on Thursday.

In the meantime, Mr. Kenyatta has begun to take on the trappings of the presidency, whisked around Nairobi in a motorcade and meeting with security officials for top-secret briefings. But even if the Supreme Court upholds his victory, Mr. Kenyatta’s court battles are far from over.

Prosecutors at the International Criminal Court in The Hague have charged Mr. Kenyatta with crimes against humanity, accusing him of using his family fortune to bankroll death squads that killed scores of Mr. Odinga’s supporters during the chaos of the 2007 election. Mr. Kenyatta has said the charges are false and based on gossip, and several key witnesses have dropped out.

Fatou Bensouda, the international court’s prosecutor, recently told reporters, “Kenya is the most challenging situation our office has had to deal with.” She cited concerns about intimidation and bribery of witnesses, but vowed to press ahead with the case. “It’s not a question of if it goes to trial, but when,” she said.
713 2013-03-28 The person said the European Central Bank had indicated it would continue flying cash to the country as needed.

The Cypriot finance minister, Michalis Sarris, said Wednesday that a flood of withdrawals was bound to happen quickly anyway, but that the restrictions would at least help stem a mass flight of deposits.

“Each day that banks remain closed creates more uncertainty and more difficulties for people, so we would like to do our utmost to make sure that this new goal that we have set will work,” Mr. Sarris said.

Despite those strictures, the Cypriot authorities are bracing for as much as 10 percent of the 64 billion euros on deposit in the country’s banks to be pulled out on Thursday.

Experts predict a much bigger bank run whenever the controls are eventually lifted or eased further.

“If you don’t impose the controls, the money is going to fly,” said Mujtaba Rahman, a senior analyst at the Eurasia Group. “But when you remove those controls, clearly the money is going to leave anyway. So they’re in a Catch-22.”

As part of the effort to clean up the situation, the chief executive of the Bank of Cyprus, the nation’s largest bank, was fired Wednesday by the central bank, along with the bank’s entire board. He will be replaced by an administrator overseeing the bank’s consolidation. That move came in consultation with the so-called troika of international lenders — the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund — that are completing the terms of a 10 billion euro bailout for Cyprus to help it absorb the blow from the collapse of its outsize banking system.

Also, President Nicos Anastasiades announced the opening of a criminal investigation into how the country’s banks had been brought to the brink of collapse. His aim, he said, was “to find and attribute responsibility wherever it belongs.”

Stress has intensified in recent days in Nicosia, the capital, as Cypriots have grown impatient waiting for the bailout deal to be completed so the banks can reopen and they can get somewhat greater access to their money. Many are also angry at what they see as the inept handling of the situation by Mr. Anastasiades. Others harbor suspicions that the I.M.F. and Germany are punishing Cyprus in part because of its role as a money haven that opened a window for wealthy foreigners to move their funds into the euro zone with few, if any, strictures.

Demonstrations that attracted hundreds here last week have swelled into gatherings of thousands of people who have grown more agitated as they realize that their future under the terms of the bailout will be bleak.

Thousands of employees will lose their jobs at Laiki Bank, the country’s second-largest bank, which is being wound down. And the freezing of accounts at all banks since March 16 means businesses have not been able to pay their employees. Importers have also not been able to pay their bills, raising concerns about shortages of basic goods on an island that imports almost everything it consumes.

The governing class is trying to deflect blame for the debacle.

Mr. Anastasiades has started making incendiary statements about the central bank president, Panicos O. Demetriades, hinting strongly that he wants to see Mr. Demetriades ousted. That, in turn, has raised concerns about the central bank’s independence.

“The knives are out,” said a person with knowledge of the situation, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

The cost of bailing out the island’s two largest banks, the Bank of Cyprus and Laiki, is to be borne by the banks’ large, uninsured depositors.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Demetriades said he expected big depositors at the Bank of Cyprus to sustain a “haircut,” or loss, of about 40 percent on their 14 billion euros in long-term deposits. In exchange, depositors will receive shares in a recapitalized bank.

But with the economy deteriorating rapidly, major depositors may have to take an even bigger loss so that the Bank of Cyprus can free up cash to protect its rapidly deteriorating loan book.

Laiki, also known as the Cyprus Popular Bank, is even worse off. About four billion euros in deposits there will be transferred to a so-called bad bank, and those assets will most likely be wiped out as the bank is wound down.

Under European Union treaties, restricting the free movement of capital is forbidden. Critics say that what is happening in Cyprus shows that union rules will be flouted when the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and European Union leaders find it convenient to do so.

By imposing capital controls, European and Cypriot officials have effectively created two classes of euro: cash that can be freely spent, and cash that is locked up by capital controls, effectively diminishing its value.

“It has to be acknowledged that this is something entirely new,” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research group in Brussels, and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “This will shape expectations in other countries, and the issue is whether capital controls can be avoided in future episodes.”
714 2013-03-28 “Am I disappointed?” Ms. Bonauto asked last week in her home here. “There is an element of disappointment, but I’m also incredibly excited. I feel like after all these years, you’re getting a hearing — a fair hearing — from the highest court in the land.”

At 51, Ms. Bonauto is serious and unassuming. “She is not going to set a room on fire,” said Dean Hara, a plaintiff in Ms. Bonauto’s Defense of Marriage Act case. “But when she is arguing, she is really somebody to listen to.”

Even her opponents offer kind words, saying they appreciate her civil tone.

“She has always been the consummate professional, very courteous and gentle,” said Kris Mineau of the Massachusetts Family Institute, even as he said her courtroom victories had “degraded the value of marriage.”

Ms. Bonauto works mostly from her home in this seaport city, where she and her wife, Professor Jennifer Wriggins of the University of Maine’s law school, are raising their 11-year-old twin daughters. Last year, the couple made the list of “The Most Powerful Lesbian Moms in America,” published by the Web site mombian.com. But Ms. Bonauto is too busy juggling legal briefs, homework and piano lessons to see herself as a woman making history.

“That’s not how we experience our lives,” she said.

Ms. Bonauto would be the first to say she builds on the work of others. As early as the 1970s, gay couples began suing for the right to marry, inspired by the 1967 Supreme Court ruling in Loving v. Virginia, which struck down state laws banning interracial marriage. In 1983, a young Harvard law student named Evan Wolfson wrote his third-year thesis on why gays should be free to marry.

Mr. Wolfson was eventually hired by Lambda Legal, the gay advocacy group, where he joined what he called “a very small little network of people who at that time were dedicated to toppling the so-called sodomy laws” that criminalized homosexual sex. Among them was Ms. Bonauto.

The daughter of a pharmacist and a preschool teacher from Newburgh, N.Y., she had come out, with some difficulty, while an undergraduate at Hamilton College. There, Ms. Bonauto was harassed over her sexual orientation, which she said contributed to her desire to “make life better” for others.

By 1990, with a law degree from Northeastern University, she was working for GLAD in Boston. She had been there less than a week when a gay couple approached her with the idea of suing to get married. She said no, the timing was not right.

“I would have cases of somebody who goes to a Dunkin’ Donuts and the wait person realizes it was a gay person and goes nuts,” Ms. Bonauto recalled. How could she pursue a seeming luxury like marriage, she reasoned, when gay people were being discriminated against in housing, employment and adoption and being harassed by the police?

In 1991, a Honolulu lawyer, Dan Foley, did what Ms. Bonauto had declined to do and sued on behalf of three same-sex couples denied marriage licenses. The case prompted intense discussion in gay legal circles, recalled Mr. Wolfson, who later became Mr. Foley’s co-counsel and has since founded Freedom to Marry, a national advocacy group. Some, he said, thought marriage was “patriarchal and exclusionary,” while others said the gay rights movement “was supposed to be about liberation,” not joining heterosexuals. Still others, like Ms. Bonauto, worried that the legal foundation had not been laid and that a loss could lead to a gay rights setback.

She was right to worry; Hawaii voters eventually amended their Constitution to allow a ban on same-sex marriage, much as California would. So the advocates opened up what Mr. Wolfson called “a second front” in Vermont — in part, he said, because the legal and constitutional climate was more hospitable there, and in part “because we had a really terrific talent in Mary.”

Vermont’s decision to create civil unions did not entirely please Ms. Bonauto, who saw them as a “separate system” for gay people. Of all her legal victories, the 2003 Massachusetts case sticks with her. She still remembers clutching the Supreme Judicial Court’s ruling, and can still recite its first paragraph, including the declaration that the Massachusetts Constitution “forbids the creation of second-class citizens.”

Once she had established a right to marriage, Ms. Bonauto went after the Defense of Marriage Act, which denied legally married gay couples the federal benefits that straight couples could have. Barney Frank, the former Massachusetts congressman, who is openly gay, said the move had sealed Ms. Bonauto’s reputation as a “first-rate lawyer and a first-rate strategist” who built on one victory after another.

“She’s our Thurgood Marshall,” he said, referring to the Supreme Court justice who made history fighting racial discrimination.

Ms. Bonauto was at first skeptical of the other gay marriage case before the court, the challenge to Proposition 8, California’s ban on same-sex marriage. She feared the court was not ready to grant gay couples a broad constitutional right to marry. But public opinion has shifted so drastically since the case was filed in 2009, Ms. Bonauto said last week, she now believes the justices can find a way to “issue a marriage decision that the country would embrace.” She has witnessed that shift at home; last year, Maine became the first state where voters approved same-sex marriage, reversing a decision from 2009.

“The things that scared people three years ago don’t scare people now,” Ms. Bonauto said.

In the run-up to Wednesday’s hearing, Ms. Bonauto focused on helping Ms. Kaplan prepare. She coordinated “friend of the court” amicus briefs, and she arrived in Washington early to participate in moot court briefings.

Ms. Kaplan said it “makes me crazy” that people do not know Ms. Bonauto’s work. Like Mr. Frank, she drew an analogy to Justice Marshall.

“She conceived of a strategy just like him, over a long number of years, and then implemented it,” Ms. Kaplan said. “It was strategically brilliant, and she succeeded. No one else can say that.”
715 2013-03-28 WASHINGTON – The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear almost two hours of arguments on Wednesday morning over the constitutionality of a part of the federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996. Here is a look at the background of the case, United States v. Windsor, No. 12-307; the issues it raises; the lawyers who will argue it; and the possible outcomes.

What is at stake? The case concerns the part of the law that defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman for purposes of federal benefits. Should the court strike it down, same-sex couples in the nine states that allow such unions, along with the District of Columbia, would start to receive federal benefits. Such a ruling would not require other states to allow same-sex marriage. (That question is before the court in the case argued on Tuesday, about Proposition 8, California’s ban on same-sex marriage.) Nor does the case concern a different part of the 1996 law that allows states to refuse to recognize same-sex marriages from other states.

How did the case start? The case concerns two New York City women, Edith Windsor and Thea Clara Spyer, who married in 2007 in Canada. Ms. Spyer died in 2009, and Ms. Windsor inherited her property. The 1996 law did not allow the Internal Revenue Service to treat Ms. Windsor as a surviving spouse, and she faced a tax bill of about $360,000 that a spouse in an opposite-sex marriage would not have had to pay. Ms. Windsor sued, and in October the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, struck down the 1996 law.

What is the Obama administration’s position? Until 2011, the Justice Department defended the law in court, as it typically does all acts of Congress. That year, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced that he and President Obama had concluded that the law was unconstitutional and unworthy of defense in court, though he added that the administration would continue to enforce the law. After the Justice Department stepped aside, House Republicans intervened to defend the law. Although the administration’s position prevailed in the lower courts, the Justice Department filed an appeal to the Supreme Court, saying the final decision should come from the highest court.

How long will the arguments last? The arguments are scheduled for 1 hour and 50 minutes. They will probably start around 10:15, after one or more of the justices summarize decisions released that day. In major cases, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. typically allows lawyers a little extra time, so the arguments may not conclude until 12:30 or so. Transcripts and audio recordings will be available by about 2 p.m.
716 2013-03-29 It’s worse than I thought....
717 2013-03-29 Pakistan’s former military ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, narrowly escaped being struck in the head by a shoe hurled at him outside a courtroom in Karachi on Friday, video of the incident showed....
718 2013-03-29 A federal judge has ruled that the U.S. government can proceed with a case in which it seeks to seize an ancient Cambodian statue that Sotheby’s had sought to sell at auction....
719 2013-03-29 Suddenly, Florida Gulf Coast has become a popular pick to keep its N.C.A.A. tournament upset streak going, this time against Florida....
720 2013-03-29 Jerry Weissman, a former theater director, helps companies prepare to go public by schooling top executives on how to talk to Wall Street....
721 2013-03-29 The new investigation was prompted by six reports from owners that a rear control arm failed, apparently because of corrosion....
722 2013-03-29 Not doing too well....
723 2013-03-29 Authorities make one of their highest-profile indictments to date, arresting a portfolio manager at Steven A. Cohen’s investment firm.
724 2013-03-29 Russia has dismissed Western concerns about a wave of raids targeting civil society groups in Russia. Could President Vladimir V. Putin’s latest hard-line tactic to marginalize his opponents backfire on the Kremlin leader?...
725 2013-03-29 A front-page article involving the New York Police Department’s internal communication could have provided greater context...
726 2013-03-29 Now that college acceptance and wait-list offers are out, a college counselor offers a list of what should — and shouldn’t — happen next....
727 2013-03-29 Until voters demand transparent and equitable pricing, it will be hard for the United States to control health care spending....
728 2013-03-29 The N.B.A. informed the Timberwolves that the referee crew should have called the Lakers’ Kobe Bryant for a foul on a potential game-tying 3-pointer at the buzzer by Ricky Rubio on Wednesday night.

“Video review by the league office confirmed that Kobe Bryant fouled Rubio while Rubio was in his shooting motion,” the league said on its Web site. “Rubio should have been awarded three free throws.” The decision will not change the outcome of the game, a 120-117 victory for the Lakers.
729 2013-03-29 Serena Williams advanced to the final of the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., by drubbing Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-0, 6-3. Williams, ranked No. 1, will play Maria Sharapova for the title on Saturday. Williams broke the tournament record for victories by a woman. She is 60-7; Steffi Graf was 59-6.

Sharapova swept the first 10 points, beating Jelena Jankovic, 6-2, 6-1. Sharapova completed a career Grand Slam last year but has never won this tournament.

Andy Murray advanced to the men’s semifinals by beating Marin Cilic, 6-4, 6-3. He will face Richard Gasquet, who beat Tomas Berdych, 6-3, 6-3.
730 2013-03-29 D. A. Points opened with five straight birdies and wound up with an eight-under 64 at the Houston Open. He had a one-shot lead over Cameron Tringale and John Rollins. Rory McIlroy, in his last event before the Masters, had to fight hard for a 73.

¶ Marcel Siem of Germany had two eagles and shot an eight-under 64 to lead by three strokes after the opening round of the Hassan II Trophy in Agadir, Morocco. (AP)
731 2013-03-29 Health officials on Thursday urged an oral surgeon’s patients to undergo hepatitis and H.I.V. testing, saying filthy conditions at his upscale practice posed a threat to his 7,000 clients and made him a “menace to the public health.” The Oklahoma Board of Dentistry said inspectors went to Dr. W. Scott Harrington’s office after a patient with no other known risk factors tested positive for both hepatitis C and the virus that causes AIDS. Inspectors found multiple problems, including cross-contamination of needles and other instruments and the use of a separate rusty set of instruments for patients who were known to carry infectious diseases, according to a complaint. Dr. Harrington voluntarily closed his offices and faces a hearing April 19.
732 2013-03-29 Another factor, it said, is that federal and state government agencies are imposing new taxes and fees on insurers, which are likely to pass on some of the costs to consumers.

“Health insurance will become relatively less expensive for people with chronic conditions and relatively more expensive for healthier people,” said Robert G. Cosway, an actuary at Milliman, a large consulting firm that prepared the report.

Some people, especially those in good health, may drop their insurance because of the premium increases, Mr. Cosway said.

However, the study said that low-income people would see significant reductions in their premiums and out-of-pocket costs, in part because of income tax credits and other subsidies. The total cost of care, it said, will fall by an average of 76 percent for people who are currently insured and have incomes less than 250 percent of the poverty level (meaning less than $28,725 a year for an individual).

The report was prepared to help state officials evaluate proposals from insurers and develop marketing messages to reach consumers.

“There are 5.3 million Californians who will qualify to purchase insurance through the exchange,” said Peter V. Lee, the executive director of the California exchange. “Insights gained from this research confirm that most people will experience a positive impact.”

The California report follows a study by the Society of Actuaries, a professional organization, suggesting that the new law would contribute to higher insurance costs in the next three years.

Asked about such estimates, Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, acknowledged that costs could rise in the individual insurance market, particularly for men and for younger people. She noted that the law prohibits insurers from charging women more than men and limits their ability to charge higher premiums based on age. “Women are going to see some lower costs, some men are going to see some higher costs,” she said Tuesday at a White House briefing. “So it’s sort of a one-to-one shift.”

Republicans said the Society of Actuaries report validated their concerns. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said, “This nonpartisan report offers more evidence that what I told the president in 2010 is true: individual insurance premiums will rise under his plan.”

Under the law, insurers cannot deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people because of pre-existing medical conditions.

As a result, Milliman said in the California study, “we expect the average currently insured to experience premium increases because they will be part of a new risk pool” including sicker people who have been excluded from the market in the past.

The White House says the fears of “rate shock” are overblown. Consumers can move from expensive health plans to more efficient, lower-cost plans, the administration says. Officials also predict that people gaining insurance will, on average, be younger and healthier than those who already have it.
733 2013-03-29 DENVER (AP) — Prosecutors in the Aurora, Colo., movie theater shooting on Thursday rejected an offer from the suspect, James E. Holmes, to plead guilty in exchange for avoiding the death penalty, and they accused his defense lawyers of breaking court rules by making the offer public.

In a scathing court document, prosecutors said the defense had refused to give them information needed to evaluate the offer, so it could not be considered genuine. They also said anyone reading articles about the offer would conclude “the defendant knows that he is guilty, the defense attorneys know that he is guilty, and that both of them know that he was not criminally insane.”

The defense lawyers could not be reached for comment. Mr. Holmes is charged with murder and attempted murder in the July 20 shootings, in which 12 people were killed and 70 were wounded.

His lawyers disclosed the plea offer in a court filing Wednesday. Prosecutors called the disclosure a ploy meant to draw the public and the judge into what should be private negotiations.

Prosecutors did not say what information the defense had refused to give them, but the two sides have argued about access to details about Mr. Holmes’s mental health.
734 2013-03-29 Boston is one of the few teams that Sabathia has not done particularly well against in his major league career. In 22 starts against the Red Sox, he has an 8-9 record and a 4.23 earned run average.

His last regular-season start of 2012 was against Boston; he allowed two runs and four hits over eight innings in his final tuneup before the playoffs.

Although he would not fully acknowledge it at the time, he was pitching with pain in his elbow, the result of loose bone chips. It was an ailment that sapped him of velocity and the ability to extend his arm and finish his pitches, and it affected him for much of the second half of the season.

Still, despite the discomfort, Sabathia put together a representative season, going 15-6 with a 3.38 E.R.A. He also went 2-0 against the Baltimore Orioles in the American League division series, including a marvelous four-hitter in the deciding Game 5, in which he threw 121 pitches.

But Sabathia struggled in Game 4 of the A.L. Championship Series against Detroit. He was knocked out in the fourth inning as the Tigers completed a sweep.

Nine days later, on Oct. 25, Sabathia was in Birmingham, Ala., where he had arthroscopic surgery to remove the aggravating bone chips.

Unlike many of his teammates on the disabled list this spring, Sabathia has reported no problems in his recovery and says his elbow is feeling fine.

With half of the regular Yankee lineup — Derek Jeter, Mark Teixeira, Curtis Granderson and Alex Rodriguez — on the disabled list for opening day, there will be increased pressure on Sabathia and the rest of the pitching staff to keep games under control and give a diminished Yankee offense a chance to score enough runs to win.

Sabathia will be followed in the rotation by Hiroki Kuroda, who made his final spring appearance Thursday in the Yankees’ 2-1 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates. Andy Pettitte, Ivan Nova and David Phelps will fill out the rotation, at least until Phil Hughes comes off the disabled list in the middle of April.

Mariano Rivera, who like Sabathia had a solid spring training after recovering from surgery, said he was confident that at least one of the new Yankees would make a positive impact and make up for the injured stars.

He noted how Scott Brosius came to the Yankees in 1998 after hitting .203 for the Oakland Athletics the year before and became a vital component of their success. Brosius hit .300 for the Yankees that season, and he helped them get to the World Series in each of his four years with the team, with three rings to show for it.

“You don’t need to have those big names to get the job done,” Rivera said. “You just have to have the heart and the will to do the job. That’s what’s important. I believe that everyone who is here is capable of doing that.”

Rivera said he thought there was another Scott Brosius on the Yankee roster right now, perhaps Kevin Youkilis, Travis Hafner, Vernon Wells or Lyle Overbay.

The one star position player who managed to escape the spring unscathed is Robinson Cano, the Yankees’ top hitter. With so many of his teammates out of the lineup, it may be easier for pitchers to avoid giving him anything to hit.

“It’s going to be hard,” Cano said. “But this is part of life.”

The Yankees released Juan Rivera, which means Lyle Overbay has all but secured the first baseman’s job, with Ben Francisco and Brennan Boesch getting the inside track to make the team as backup outfielders. Manager Joe Girardi indicated that if Overbay did not start against left-handers, Kevin Youkilis would play first base with Jayson Nix at third.
735 2013-03-29 A doctor who prosecutors said recklessly performed liposuction on a woman with a transplanted heart, leading to her death, was arraigned Thursday on charges including manslaughter and falsification of records.

According to the indictment, the woman, Isel Pineda, 51, went to Dr. Oleg Davie’s Manhattan office on Park Avenue for a consultation in April 2012 and filled out forms disclosing her heart transplant eight years earlier and the immunosuppressant drugs she was taking. The transplant had been performed by Dr. Mehmet Oz, the cardiothoracic surgeon who has become a television personality, prosecutors said.

“Any medical professional would clearly know if a patient has previously had heart transplant surgery because of the obvious scar on the chest,” Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, said in a statement, adding that anti-rejection drugs put Ms. Pineda at higher risk for infection. “Doctors are well aware of the fact that they are discouraged from performing liposuction and similar procedures on patients with heart disease.”

Prosecutors charge that Dr. Davie, 51, was reckless in going ahead with the laser procedure known as SmartLipo on May 10, 2012, in his Brooklyn office, using a local anesthetic. Ms. Pineda went into cardiac arrest and was rushed to Coney Island Hospital, where she died.

Prosecutors charge that Dr. Davie falsified the medical history forms in an attempted cover-up, eliminating the references to heart disease, the transplant and anti-rejection drugs like Prednisone. The changes came to light after the original forms were found in Ms. Pineda’s purse.
736 2013-03-29 The Supreme Court correctly ruled this week that using a drug-sniffing police dog on a suspect’s property without a warrant violates the Fourth Amendment’s protection against unreasonable searches. The ruling was not surprising; the split among the justices was.

The majority included conservative Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas and three of the court’s more liberal members (Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan). The four dissenting justices were: Samuel Alito Jr., Anthony Kennedy and Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., all on the conservative side; and Stephen Breyer, a moderate liberal.

Even though the drug-sniffing dog in his case got no further than the suspect’s front porch, Justice Scalia, writing for the majority, said that Fourth Amendment protection extends not only to a house but to its surroundings.

In a concurring opinion, Justice Kagan agreed that this dog-sniffing was an unconstitutional search, but because of the right to privacy as well as trespass. A person’s home, she said, is not only his castle but “his most intimate and familiar space.”

In 2001, the Supreme Court held that a person has a “minimal expectation of privacy” in his home that the police had violated when they conducted a search for marijuana using a thermal imaging device from outside the home. The Kagan concurrence points the way for a future court to emphasize this important principle again: In an era of sophisticated technology, the Constitution must keep police from using it to invade privacy — whether it is lawful for them to be on private property or not.
737 2013-03-29 WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency will propose a rule on Friday that will cut the amount of sulfur allowed in gasoline by two-thirds to improve the performance of the catalytic converters in engines that fight smog, the agency has told refiners and clean-air advocates.

The proposal has been ready for about 15 months but was delayed until after the election because opponents will argue that it will raise the price of gasoline, according to people familiar with its history.

“They didn’t want to have a big fight during an election year,” said S. William Becker, executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies.

The rule will essentially move the country to the sulfur standards now in place in California, Mr. Becker said.

Refiners said it could raise the price of a gallon by 6 to 8 cents, but clean-air groups said it would be more like 1 cent. The difference depends in part on details of the rule that have not been made public.
738 2013-03-29 “The attacks have changed from espionage to destruction,” said Alan Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a cybersecurity training organization. “Nations are actively testing how far they can go before we will respond.”

Security experts who studied the attacks said that it was part of the same campaign that took down the Web sites of JPMorgan Chase, , and others over the last six months. A group that calls itself the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed responsibility for those attacks.

The group says it is retaliating for an anti-Islamic video posted on last fall. But American intelligence officials and industry investigators say they believe the group is a convenient cover for . Just how tight the connection is — or whether the group is acting on direct orders from the Iranian government — is unclear. Government officials and bank executives have failed to produce a smoking gun.

is considered the most likely source of the attacks on South Korea, though investigators are struggling to follow the digital trail, a process that could take months. The North Korean government of has openly declared that it is seeking online targets in its neighbor to the south to exact economic damage.

Representatives of American Express confirmed that the company was under attack Thursday, but said that there was no evidence that customer data had been compromised. A representative of the did not respond to a request for comment on the American Express attack.

Spokesmen for JPMorgan Chase said they would not talk about the recent attack there, its origins or its consequences. JPMorgan has openly acknowledged previous denial of service attacks. But the size and severity of the most recent one apparently led it to reconsider.

The Obama administration has publicly urged companies to be more transparent about attacks, but often security experts and lawyers give the opposite advice.

The largest contingent of instigators of attacks in the private sector, government officials and researchers say, remains Chinese hackers intent on stealing corporate secrets.

The American and South Korean attacks underscore a growing fear that the two countries most worrisome to banks, oil producers and governments may be Iran and North Korea, not because of their skill but because of their brazenness. Neither country is considered a superstar in this area. The appeal of digital weapons is similar to that of nuclear capability: it is a way for an outgunned, outfinanced nation to even the playing field. “These countries are pursuing cyberweapons the same way they are pursuing ,” said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the in Washington. “It’s primitive; it’s not top of the line, but it’s good enough and they are committed to getting it.”

American officials are currently weighing their response options, but the issues involved are complex. At a meeting of banking executives, regulators and representatives from the departments of Homeland Security and Treasury last December, some pressed the United States to hit back at the hackers, while others argued that doing so would only lead to more aggressive attacks, according to two people who attended the meeting.

The difficulty of deterring such attacks was also the focus of a White House meeting this month with Mr. Obama and business leaders, including the chief executives of JPMorgan Chase; of Bank of America; of ; Randall L. Stephenson of and others.

Mr. Obama’s goal was to erode the business community’s intense opposition to federal legislation that would give the government oversight of how companies protect “critical infrastructure,” like banking systems and energy and cellphone networks. That opposition killed a bill last year, prompting Mr. Obama to sign an executive order promoting increased information-sharing with businesses.

“But I think we heard a new tone at this latest meeting,” an Obama aide said later. “Six months of unrelenting attacks have changed some views.”

Mr. Lewis, the computer security expert, agreed. “The Iranian attacks have tilted private sector opinion,” he said. “Hence the muted reaction to the executive order versus squeals of outrage. Companies are much more concerned about this and much more willing to see a government role.”

Neither Iran nor North Korea has shown anywhere near the subtlety and technique in online offensive skills that the United States and demonstrated with Olympic Games, the ostensible effort to disable Iran’s nuclear enrichment plants with an online weapon that destabilized hundreds of centrifuges, destroying many of them. But after descriptions of that operation became public in the summer of 2010, Iran announced the creation of its own Cyber Corps.

North Korea has had hackers for years, some of whom are believed to be operating from, or through, . Neither North Korea nor Iran is as focused on stealing data as they are determined to destroy it, experts contend.

When hackers believed by American intelligence officials to be Iranians hit the world’s largest oil producer, Saudi Aramco, last year, they did not just erase data on 30,000 Aramco computers; they replaced the data with an image of a burning American flag. In the assault on South Korea last week, some affected computers displayed an ominous image of skulls.

“This attack is as much a cyber-rampage as it is a cyberattack,” Rob Rachwald, a research director at FireEye, a computer security firm, said of the South Korea attacks.

In the past, such assaults typically occurred through a denial-of-service attack, in which hackers flood their target with Web traffic from networks of infected computers until it is overwhelmed and shuts down. One such case was a 2007 Russian attack on that affected its banks, the Parliament, ministries, newspapers and broadcasters.

With their campaign against American financial institutions, the hackers suspected of being Iranian have taken that kind of attack to the next level. Instead of using individual personal computers to fire Web traffic at each bank, they infected powerful, commercial data centers with sophisticated malware and directed them to simultaneously fire at each bank, giving them the horsepower to inflict a huge attack.

As a result, the hackers were able to take down the consumer banking sites of American Express, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and other banks with exponentially more traffic than hit Estonia in 2007.

In the attack on Saudi Aramco last year, the culprits did not mount that type of assault. Instead, they created malware designed for the greatest impact, coded to spread to as many computers as possible.

Likewise, the attacks last week on South Korean banks and broadcasters were far more sophisticated than coordinated denial-of-service attacks in 2009 that briefly took down the Web sites of South Korea’s president and its Defense Ministry. Such attacks were annoyances; they largely did not affect operations.

This time around in South Korea, however, the attackers engineered malware that could evade popular South Korean antivirus products, spread it to as many computer systems as possible, and inserted a “time bomb” to take out all the systems at once for greatest impact.

The biggest concern, Mr. Lewis said: “We don’t know how they make decisions. When you add erratic decision making, then you really have something to worry about.”
739 2013-03-29 Within Cyprus, though, as the realization sinks in of how badly the national economy might be ravaged by the combination of capital controls on the flow of money out of the country and an indefinite freeze on the bulk of bank deposits, frustration is flaming into full rage. Some establishment figures are now openly discussing the option of leaving the euro currency union and defaulting on the country’s loans.

“Two weeks ago exiting the euro was never mentioned; now it is being widely discussed and a lot of people are considering it,” said Nicholas Papadopoulos, the chairman of the Cypriot Parliament’s finance committee, whom many here see as a future candidate for the presidency. “Europe has destroyed our banking system; now we need to consider all our options.”

Like Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Agrotis, who is 56, is no one’s version of an extremist. He is a solid member of Cyprus’s financial establishment, and his ancestors were founders of Cyprus’s most venerable financial institutions.

So convinced was he, even in recent weeks, that Bank of Cyprus was too big to fail that Mr. Agrotis even increased his stake, buying additional shares as the stock hit new low after new low.

Now, like just about everyone on this shellshocked island, he is groping for answers.

Turning from the carnage on his computer screen, Mr. Agrotis took off his glasses and rubbed at eyes bloodshot from the many sleepless nights he had spent poring over economic papers, analysts’ reports and political histories. It was all part of a fruitless search for a theory or precedent that might explain the terrible predicament that had fallen upon him and his countrymen.

On a computer screen, the downward fever chart is the symbol of loss in the world of money, equally understood by the day trader in his living room or the globe-trotting hedge fund investor.

But for Mr. Agrotis and many others in this tiny country of fewer than a million people, Bank of Cyprus’s plunging chart line means much more than the mere evisceration of a lifetime’s savings.

“There is an arrogance in the behavior of Europe’s leaders that reminds me of the behavior that started two world wars,” said Mr. Agrotis, pointing out that World War I began as a dispute among Russia, Germany and Britain over a tiny sliver of the Balkans. “The next war starts here in little Cyprus.”

Hyperbole, probably. But Cypriots are staring into an abyss. They see having about 10 billion euros in the country’s financial assets — more than half the size of Cyprus’s annual gross domestic product — frozen indefinitely as nothing less than an apocalyptical event. Add to that the immediate pain suffered from a deposit haircut that may exceed 40 percent on any balances of more than 100,000 euros and the loss, probably forever, of billions of dollars of savings at Laiki, the country’s second-largest bank, which has been shut down.

For all Cypriots, their defining historical moment until now was July 20, 1974, when the Turkish army landed troops in the north and eventually seized control of a third of the island. Many are now comparing the events of March 2013 with that time.

“People have lost all their money,” screamed a young financier Wednesday night, as he knocked back drink after drink at a local nightclub — which, despite the earsplitting din of Greek rap music, was half empty. “To me, that feels like war.”

But on a global scale, investors have refused to panic, other than unloading the risky bonds of second-tier banks in Spain and Italy.

And while the bond yields of Italian government debt have spiked in recent days, a signal of investor wariness, and the euro has traded down against the dollar, the view, for now, is that even though Europe’s handling of the crisis has been a mess, broader contagion has largely been avoided.

“This does not worry us at all — Cyprus is just not systemic,” said a senior executive at a large sovereign wealth fund based in the Middle East, who was not authorized to speak publicly.

Even Cypriot government bonds that are due to reach maturity this June are holding up fairly well, trading at 88 cents, not far from their recent high of 94 cents earlier this week, though a 12 percent discount from their face value.

Local bankers here say that distressed debt hedge funds have been scooping up the paper, betting that, despite all the turmoil, once the Cypriot government secures its 10 billion euro loan from the troika, the government will be in a position to pay the 1.4 billion euros it owes on those bonds in June.

To many, such an exchange rankles. The European Union forces devastating losses on Cypriot savers large and small, while at the same time lending the country billions of euros to make sure it can pay off speculative hedge funds.
740 2013-03-29 Representative of , the No. 2 House Republican, proposed much the same in a speech in February. “We should begin by ending the arbitrary division between Part A, the hospital program, and Part B, the doctor services,” he said. “We can create reasonable and predictable levels of out-of-pocket expenses without forcing seniors to rely on Medigap plans.”

While Mr. Cantor’s proposal got little attention at the time, its echo by Mr. Obama hints at a new route toward compromise — in contrast with the budget that House Republicans passed this month that has no chance of Senate approval.

At a time when retiring baby boomers and mounting medical prices have made federal health care spending the biggest single driver of the nation’s rising debt, the House budget from Representative , Republican of , would transform Medicare into a voucherlike system known as premium support, which Mr. Obama and Democrats adamantly oppose. But Mr. Cantor, like Mr. Obama, is suggesting cost-saving changes within the existing Medicare program.

To Senator of Virginia, a Democrat who has long led a bipartisan group of senators seeking a fiscal deal, such a proposal is the sort of newer idea needed for the parties to stop the “stale arguments” that after three years have turned their budget battling into “World War I trench warfare.”

“You’ve got a whole lot of folks on the Republican side saying, ‘Well, we don’t really like what Ryan has done — premium support — but we want systemic reform,’ ” Mr. Warner said at a round table hosted by Bloomberg News.

Mr. Obama’s openness to Medicare changes seemed to be news to many Republicans, even though he first proposed detailed ideas in 2011. Republicans often accuse the president of opposing changes in entitlement spending while focusing on raising taxes, an attack that ignores his proposals but also reflects how little Mr. Obama has talked about them.

Still, the same hurdle to compromise stands: The president and his party will not support even his Medicare proposals unless Republicans agree to raise taxes on the wealthy and some corporations. Without that trade-off, common ground on Medicare will remain unplowed.

“The president has said this to the Republicans: ‘You want to do entitlement reform? I do, too. I can produce entitlement reform and bring Democrats to the table, because I am a Democratic president. And so I’m ready to sit down with you and work out an approach,’ ” Senator of , a Democratic leader, said at a recent forum hosted by The .

Many Republicans remain distrustful of Mr. Obama. Yet when they speak of altering Medicare, not replacing it, it is clear that they share some concerns about the existing program.

Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of and chairman of a health subcommittee, said the structure of the traditional fee-for-service Medicare is “outdated and confusing.”

“Can you imagine a world in which someone has to buy hospital and nursing home coverage from one insurance company, physician office coverage from another insurance company, prescription drug coverage from yet another company, and likely supplemental coverage from a fourth insurance company?” Mr. Brady asked. “This is exactly how the current Medicare benefit is designed.”

Both the administration’s and Mr. Cantor’s interest in restructuring Medicare’s Parts A and B dates to 2011, when various proposals were considered by a deficit-reduction group headed by Vice President that included Mr. Cantor.

The goal is to discourage people from seeking unneeded treatments, shrink health spending and offset the costs of a cap on beneficiaries’ total out-of-pocket costs. Such a cap would reduce beneficiaries’ need for extra insurance. About 90 percent of beneficiaries in the traditional Medicare program have supplemental coverage through Medigap policies, employers’ retiree plans or for low-income people.

Many health-policy economists have called for creating a single, unified deductible. The current two deductibles reflect separate legislative tracks that came together in the creation of Medicare in 1965. The deductible for Part A hospital care is relatively high ($1,184 this year), while that for Part B doctor care is relatively low ($147). Patients also have co-payments for many services.

Despite the bipartisan interest, the politics of merging Part A and Part B are complicated.

Glenn M. Hackbarth, chairman of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a group of nonpartisan experts that advises Congress, said a combined deductible could increase costs for those who use only doctor and outpatient services — a majority of beneficiaries in any year. It could reduce costs, he said, for the roughly 20 percent who require hospitalization.

Proponents, including some in the administration, acknowledge the political risks of increasing most beneficiaries’ costs, even in exchange for capping their total costs, as in cases of catastrophic illness. A 1988 law protecting against catastrophic costs caused such an outcry among older Americans, who faced an extra tax, that Congress quickly repealed it.

But administration officials say the 1988 law affected current beneficiaries, while Mr. Obama would apply any changes only to people becoming eligible for Medicare after 2016.

So far, the changes the president has proposed do not go as far as a single deductible and a cap on catastrophic costs. Instead, Mr. Obama has called for increasing the Part B deductible, which has risen much less than medical costs. He also proposed that beneficiaries pay something for home health care, which is among Medicare’s fastest-growing and most fraud-prone expenses; people just released from the hospital would be exempted.

Third, Mr. Obama proposed a 15 percent surcharge on Medigap plans that cover all or nearly all of a beneficiary’s initial annual expenses. Economists say that such coverage leaves beneficiaries insensitive to costs, increasing Medicare’s spending and the premiums beneficiaries pay.
741 2013-03-29 Workers in the United States have learned that the stock market’s performance is not always a good gauge of the underlying economy’s strength. Unemployment in the United States has remained stubbornly high at the same time that share prices have risen since bottoming out in March 2009. Even with the record level, the S.& P. 500 is still not back to its 2007 level when inflation is taken into account.

Still, the performance of the American stock market would have seemed improbable during the depths of the crisis, given that it was financial markets in the United States that led the global economy into recession. Strategists and economists have said that the divergence since then is largely a result of the relative speed with which the United States government and corporate sector responded to the causes of the 2008 crisis.

“The U.S. addressed the problems of the financial crisis faster and with much more ferocity than the rest of the world,” said Edward M. Clissold, a market strategist at Ned Davis Research.

The S.& P. 500 finished Thursday up 0.4 percent, or 6.34 points, at 1,569.19. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.4 percent, or 52.38 points, to 14,578.54. That is 11 percent above its level at the beginning of the quarter.

The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.3 percent, or 11 points to 3,267.52, far below the heights it reached during the dot-com boom in 2000.

Economists have given much of the credit for the market’s recovery to the Fed, which worked quickly with the rest of the federal government to bail out and revamp the nation’s banks and financial system, which the European Central Bank started doing in earnest only last year. While bank bailouts remain contentious, they have allowed the institutions to resume lending.

The Fed also acted on its own to pump money into the economy with bond-buying programs known as quantitative easing. Many central bankers around the world worried that those programs would result in extreme inflation. There are also fears that the American economy will not be able to remain on its current trajectory once the Fed draws back. But all that has not stopped other countries from beginning to copy the Fed’s lead.

“The Fed has won the battle, and continues to win the battle,” said Jack Malvey, the chief global markets strategist at BNY Mellon.

In Japan, the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was elected last December after promising a more aggressive approach to monetary policy. Japan’s Nikkei index has been the best performer of any of the world’s large stock markets in the first quarter of this year, rising 19 percent. That still leaves the Nikkei almost 68 percent below the heights it scaled in 1989 before Japan’s real estate market soured.

The European Central Bank began taking more aggressive action to stimulate the Continent’s economy last year, most notably after the bank’s president, Mario Draghi, said last July that he would do “whatever it takes to preserve the euro.” Since then, European stock indexes have roughly kept pace with the S.& P. 500, but the MSCI index of European stocks remains 28 percent below its 2007 peak.

The other major catalyst for the ascent of the American stock market is the cost-cutting strategy used by corporate executives, which has raised profit and allowed companies to increase dividends to shareholders. That strategy, however, has exacted a toll on American workers, who have faced layoffs and pay cuts.

In Europe, by contrast, the greater legal protections offered to workers have made it harder for companies to revamp their businesses for the current economic environment.

“There is a very aggressive corporate mind-set, that a lot of people don’t agree with,” said Joseph P. Quinlan, the chief market strategist for Bank of America’s private wealth management division. “But corporate America has proved that it is much nimbler and more resilient” in the new economic climate.

In many emerging economies, the lagging performances of the stock markets have not necessarily pointed to slower overall growth.

China’s economy, for instance, continues to expand at a significantly faster pace than the American economy. But China’s stock market has suffered because growth is slower than many investors expected just a few years ago. In addition, Chinese companies are more reliant on exports to places like Europe than corporate America. That has contributed to the MSCI China index remaining down 42 percent from highs in 2007.

Even with higher economic growth in some developing countries, investors have sought out American investments as a haven during the last few years when big shocks threatened the global economy. Last year alone, $385 billion in foreign money flowed into American stocks and bonds, while investors in the United States sent almost no new money overseas, according to data released this week by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis.

Many strategists expect the big global threats to diminish as 2013 goes on, which could help encourage more investing outside the United States. So far this year, the stock markets in a number of countries have done better than the S.& P. 500.

Even in the United States, the rising market has not helped all stocks. Citigroup’s shares, for instance, are worth 92 percent less than they were back in 2007. That is almost the percentage the Greek stock market is down from its 1999 peak.

In the bond market, interest rates showed little change on Thursday. The price of the Treasury’s 10-year note slipped 2/32, to 101 11/32, while its yield remained steady at 1.85 percent.
742 2013-03-29 In a daily struggle for meager rations, he said, “The weak ones will be eaten.”

Mr. Sofroniou has a sheaf of checks from customers who have bought pigs from him over the past two weeks. But they were nearly all drawn on accounts at cooperative banks and are not yet honored by the Bank of Cyprus.

Not since the introduction of the euro in January 1999 has a European country blocked bank depositors from having full access to their own cash. Under European Union treaties, such restrictions are normally forbidden. But the European Commission, the union’s administrative arm, issued a statement Thursday morning that the Cyprus controls were legal — though urging that they be rescinded as soon as possible. Originally, the controls were to be in place for one week. But on Thursday, the Cypriot foreign minister, Ioannis Kasoulides, said that restrictions on financial transactions would not be lifted for a month.

Earlier, as banks were preparing to open at noon, local radio stations and Twitter messages pleaded for patience, urging people to show patriotic discipline and not to stampede cashier windows. To make sure that there was enough cash on hand, the European Central Bank flew in a container on Wednesday with about 1.5 billion euros, or $1.9 billion, to the Larnaca airport near Nicosia. The container was then taken under police escort to the Cypriot central bank.

Bank employees started preparing early. Many were given three pages of allowed transactions to which to refer when customers demanded their money. Bags of coins were piled high on a desk at Laiki Bank in central Nicosia, while a manager in a dark business suit stood at the front door waving away a retiree who was trying to enter early.

Some of those in bank lines on Thursday conceded understanding for the rigid restrictions, imposed by Cypriot officials in consultation with the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund — the so-called troika of lenders that now largely dictates the fate of Cyprus. The lenders promised the country 10 billion euros, or $12.8 billion, as long as it shrinks a banking sector bloated by money from wealthy Russians and other foreigners seeking to avoid taxes back home.

“They need to control the money,” said Dimitris Dimitriou, the owner of an optical business. He stood in line for 45 minutes in Nicosia to enter a branch of Laiki Bank, which is set to be dismantled as part of the bailout. “Financially it’s been a disaster, for me and for the entire population.”

As security guards let a slow trickle of customers through a revolving door, a small crowd pressed Mr. Dimitriou toward the bank’s entrance, a scene probably repeated in hundreds of spots across the country. But with the police on high alert and extra private security guards called in to prevent disorder, no outbreaks of violence were reported.

Few thought that the banks’ reopening was a return to normality — or even a dependable sign that a bank run was out of the question once the currency controls lift. “People here have not recovered from the shock that has happened to us,” Mr. Dimitriou said. When they do, he said, “a lot more people will want to get their money out of the banks.”

The controls effectively create two classes of the same money, analysts said: the constrained euros in Cyprus, and the fully fungible ones elsewhere.

In Akaki, the village president, Giannakis Chatziyannis, said he feared that “this is just the start of our troubles.” The economic crisis, he said, will get far worse as jobs evaporate — including those at a local Laiki branch set to be shut down. He was supposed to pay his own employees at the end of March but told them they would have to wait.

“Everyone knows that the next 10 years are going to be very bleak,” he said. “We are in a downward spiral.”

Anger at the European Union and its most powerful member, Germany, has reached a boiling point in Cyprus. Even in Akaki, which seems distant from the political passions of the capital, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has become a hated figure. Writing by the roadside entrance to the village referred to her with a vulgarism and said, “Cyprus above all.”

“We are what you call collateral damage,” said Chrysanthos Chrysanthou, a goat and chicken farmer. He blamed the German-led push to reshape Cyprus’s banking industry for leaving his animals on “starvation rations.”

He, too, went to the bank on Thursday and withdrew the limit of 300 euros, far less than he needed to keep his animals fed.

Germany and other lenders “say they want to penalize bankers but are just hurting everyone,” he said. “We are not all bankers. A lot of people here do real work.”

When a supplier of animal feed called to demand cash, he said he could pay only by check. The supplier, who uses a different bank, said no. Throwing down the phone in fury, Mr. Chrysanthou said he had returned to Cyprus in 1994 after years in South Africa but was now thinking of leaving. “I left South Africa after I was robbed by thieves,” he said. “Now I’m being robbed again here.”
743 2013-03-29 A doctor who prosecutors said recklessly performed  liposuction  on a woman with a transplanted heart, leading to her death, was arraigned Thursday on charges including manslaughter and falsification of records. &#xa;   &#xa;According to the indic...
744 2013-03-29 A federal judge raised questions on Thursday about a settlement of more than $600 million between the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors and securities regulators to resolve insider-trading accusations, expressing specific concerns over a provision t...
745 2013-03-30 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
746 2013-03-30 But which price? That makes all the difference....
747 2013-03-30 An effort to rescue two puppies determined to be ensnared in fish nets has a surprising end....
748 2013-03-30 Steve Wheatcroft, a Monday qualifier for the Houston Open, shot another 67 to take a one-stroke lead over Jason Kokrak and D. A. Points. A Monday qualifier has not won a PGA Tour tournament since Arjun Atwal in August 2010. Rory McIlroy made the cut by a single stroke.
749 2013-03-30 The Mets generally sell out on opening day, and they are trying to do it again despite the fact that they have not had a winning season since 2008. Ticket representatives have been calling fans in their database, trying to persuade them to come to the game — even if the fans can’t name anyone on the low-wattage San Diego Padres, the Mets’ opponent Monday at 1 p.m.

The Mets have also sent e-mails offering fans a free ticket to a second game next week if they buy a ticket to opening day. “Opening day may be on April Fools’ Day this year, but we’ve got an offer that’s no joke,” the team said in one message.

The Mets also took out newspaper ads this week to remind fans that both New York teams are opening at home on Monday, not just the more glamorous Yankees.

Meanwhile, the average price of tickets being resold online for both games is dropping. The average ticket price for the Yankees-Red Sox game was $191.23 on Friday, a 21 percent decline from two weeks ago, according to TiqIQ, which tracks the resale market. The average ticket price for the Mets-Padres contest was $139.80, a 14 percent drop since mid-March.

It is not unusual for ticket prices to decline as games approach because fans reselling their tickets often overprice them initially. Still, declines of more than 10 percent in the two weeks before a big game are infrequent, Jesse Lawrence, the founder of TiqIQ, said.

“I would have to think that lower expectations on the field this year for both teams is definitely pushing opening day prices down lower than usual,” he said.

According to FanSnap.com, more than 3,300 tickets were being resold online for the Mets game, including some for as little as $45, which is below face value. On Friday, the team said it would also sell a limited number of standing-room-only tickets to the opener for $45.

Despite compiling another losing record last year, the Mets raised single-game ticket prices for nearly every seating category this season. The least expensive single-game ticket for opening day is $63, 75 percent more than a year ago.

As for the Yankees, more than 4,000 opening day tickets were being offered for resale, including some as low as $65, according to FanSnap.com.

In the off-season, the Yankees opted out of baseball’s deal with StubHub, the country’s largest ticket reseller, and instead chose to work with Ticketmaster. The Yankees have blamed StubHub for driving down prices and making it harder for the team to sell tickets.

The Yankees, like the Mets, are also using e-mail. They have sent out messages advertising $5 tickets to midweek games against the low-profile Houston Astros and Seattle Mariners.
750 2013-03-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
751 2013-03-30 Cashman described the acquisition of other teams’ hand-me-downs as his Statue of Liberty play.

“Give us your tired, your weak, your poor,” he said.

On the other hand, the Yankees are dealing from a position of strength with pitching, so they were forced to designate the hard-throwing reliever David Aardsma for assignment to make room on the roster for Shawn Kelley. Aardsma has already drawn interest from other teams.

The Yankees also informed Overbay, Francisco and Jayson Nix that they had made the team.

Manager Joe Girardi put something close to an everyday lineup on the field Friday at Nationals Park for the Yankees’ last major league exhibition game. They won, 4-2.

The lineup might be tweaked for Monday’s regular-season opener against the Boston Red Sox left-hander Jon Lester. Kevin Youkilis might switch to first base, with Nix at third against left-handers. But for the bulk of games against right-handed pitchers — at least for the first month — Girardi will most likely go with Wells in left field, Overbay at first, Eduardo Nunez at short and Travis Hafner as the designated hitter.

Youkilis hit his sixth homer of the spring, and 13th extra-base hit, in the fourth. He also has six doubles and a triple. Youkilis was signed in December to replace Rodriguez, who is recovering from hip surgery, and Hafner was added Feb. 1, less than two weeks before spring training. Once spring training began, Cashman kept adding, picking up Francisco and Boesch, and then Wells and Overbay in the final week.

He has also added some pitchers in the last few days, signing Chien-Ming Wang to a minor league contract and claiming Danny Otero off waivers Tuesday. The next day, Otero was designated for assignment after Cashman claimed Sam Demel, another relief pitcher headed for the minor leagues. Otero was claimed off waivers by the Oakland Athletics on Friday.

“My job is to find players who are better than what we’ve got, always,” Cashman said. “This spring we’ve had to find any incremental upgrade we can.”

The hope is that all of this is just a temporary solution to a temporary problem, and that Curtis Granderson and Mark Teixeira can return from injuries once April ends.

Teixeira took ground balls at first base Friday morning and later said that he expected to return May 1, eight weeks after he injured a tendon in his right wrist.

He expects to get the brace off his wrist Monday, when he will be examined by doctors. If all is well, he will continue to the next stage of his recovery, strengthening the wrist for a week or so. If he can do that without discomfort, then he will pick up a bat and do some light swings with two hands for several days, followed by hitting off a tee for a few days.

If at any point Teixeira feels pain, he will have to stop. If his wrist has not improved at the end of eight weeks, then he will probably have surgery. He said it was not an injury he could play through.

“If at 10 weeks it hurts and I can’t swing, then you might have to look at other options,” Teixeira said.

Overbay is the Yankees’ immediate option to fill in at first. If Teixeira is not able to come back, Cashman may have to go back to perusing other teams’ transactions to find another upgrade, while outsiders predict doom.

“I understand everybody is coming after us right now, the doomsday sayers,” Cashman said. “It’s our job to prove them wrong.”

The Yankees beat the Washington Nationals, 4-2, on Friday before heading to West Point to play Army on Saturday. Andy Pettitte allowed one earned run over six innings, and Mariano Rivera pitched a 1-2-3 ninth to finish the spring with a 0.00 earned run average.
752 2013-03-30 Donald Longueuil (top) and Noah Freeman admitted to taking part in an insider trading conspiracy involving technology stocks.

Wesley Wang admitted to passing illegal tips about semiconductor stocks to a former portfolio manager, Dipak Patel, who worked in the same division of the company.

Michael Steinberg, who was Horvath’s boss, is accused of trading on that information; he denies the charges.

“circle of friends” trading insider tips about the tech sector.

Wiretap of a tech expert at a company known to traffic in illegal information.

Suspicious trading reports; e-mails with secret data from an industry expert.

Cohen, SAC’s founder, has not been charged with any crimes.

Mathew Martoma had SAC sell shares of Elan and Wyeth after getting insider tips that clinical trials were not going well. He has denied the charges via his lawyer.
753 2013-03-30 A Chinese businessman and his wife agreed to settle insider trading charges for $3.3 million in a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into the $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen of Canada. The S.E.C. said that Ren Feng and his wife, Zeng Huiyu, bought Nexen shares knowing that the energy company was about to be acquired by Cnooc, the state-owned energy company, in July, China’s biggest-ever takeover. Nexen stock jumped almost 52 percent on the announcement, but the S.E.C. soon got an emergency court order to freeze several trading accounts after it saw suspicious activity in the shares.
754 2013-03-30 The world’s biggest banks won a major victory on Friday when a judge dismissed a “substantial portion” of the claims in private lawsuits accusing them of rigging global benchmark interest rates.

Sixteen banks had faced claims totaling billions of dollars in the case, which had been considered their biggest legal threat aside from investigations being pursued by regulators in the United States and Europe into manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate, known as Libor. The list of banks includes Bank of America, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and JPMorgan Chase.

The banks had been accused by a diverse body of plaintiffs, as varied as bondholders and the City of Baltimore, of conspiring to manipulate Libor, a benchmark at the heart of more than $550 trillion in financial products.

But in the ruling on Friday, Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald of United States District Court in Manhattan, while acknowledging that her decision “might be unexpected,” granted the banks’ motion to dismiss federal antitrust claims and partly dismissed the plaintiffs’ claims of commodities manipulation. She also dismissed racketeering and state-law claims.

Judge Buchwald allowed a portion of the lawsuit to continue: the claims that banks’ purported manipulation of Libor had harmed traders who bet on interest rates. Small shifts in rates can mean sizable gains or losses.

The decision may also make it more likely that banks will have an advantage in potential settlement talks.
755 2013-03-30 The country’s nuclear weapons program and its development of long-range rocket systems have angered many in the West, including in the United States.
756 2013-03-30 A judge dismissed a lawsuit on Friday that sought to stop the display of a cross-shaped steel beam found in the World Trade Center’s rubble, saying it could help tell the story of the terrorist attack.

The judge, Deborah A. Batts of Federal District Court in Manhattan, rejected the arguments of the nonprofit group American Atheists, which filed a lawsuit against the operators of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in 2011 on constitutional grounds, contending that the prominent display of the cross constituted an endorsement of Christianity, diminishing the contributions of non-Christian rescuers.

Judge Batts wrote that the cross and its accompanying panels of text helped “demonstrate how those at ground zero coped with the devastation they witnessed.” She called its purpose “historical and secular,” and noted that it would be in the “Finding Meaning at Ground Zero” section of the museum, with placards explaining its meaning and the reason for its inclusion.

“No reasonable observer would view the artifact as endorsing Christianity,” the judge said. She added, “The cross does not create excessive entanglement between the state and religion.” She said the plaintiffs also failed to find any form of intentional discrimination or cite any adverse or unequal treatment on the basis of their religious beliefs.

Edwin F. Kagin, a lawyer for the atheists group, said he would appeal.

“Naturally, we don’t like the ruling and we think it’s incorrect,” he said. “For anyone to think this is not a religious symbol being moved for religious reasons into the World Trade Center museum is incredible.”

The 17-foot-tall steel beam was found by rescue workers two days after the terrorist attacks, and it is scheduled to be displayed among 1,000 artifacts in an underground museum that will also house the staircase that workers used to escape the towers, as well as portraits of the nearly 3,000 victims.

Joe Daniels, the museum’s president, said he was grateful that the court “agrees that the display of the World Trade Center cross is not a constitutional violation, but is in fact a crucial part of the 9/11 Memorial Museum’s mission of preserving the true history of 9/11.”
757 2013-03-30 Open resolvers have been set up in such a way that they are not unlike the naïve users of public Wi-Fi who forget to turn off their file-sharing settings, so that any hacker on the Internet can creep inside the computer. It’s similar to PC users who do not realize that by not updating their software, they let their computers get infected with malware and used as a zombie in a cyberattack.

The difference is that if you think of a computer as a digital weapon, then an open resolver is a machine gun. Attackers can use open resolvers to amplify the strength of a cyberattack by a factor of 100.

In this week’s attack on Spamhaus and the company hired to fight it, CloudFlare, attackers made use of more than 100,000 open resolvers to inflict an attack that reached 300 billion bits per second, the largest such attack ever reported. When they could not take down those targets, they aimed and fired open resolvers at the world’s major Internet exchanges, first London, then Amsterdam, Frankfurt and then Hong Kong.

“At some point, we thought, ‘They are going to hit everything at once, and that’s when this gets real,’ ” said Matthew Prince, the chief executive of CloudFlare. “That’s the nightmare scenario that hasn’t happened — yet.”

“We’ve now seen an attack that begins to illustrate the full extent of the problem,” Mr. Prince wrote in a blog post.

Closing an open resolver, unfortunately, is not as simple as flipping a switch or downloading some software. Finding out if your home cable box is an open resolver, for instance, requires you to call your cable company and tell them that you do not want to be running an open resolver — a tough request when most of the world’s population does not even know what an open resolver is.

Recent efforts have been made to increase awareness of the issue. Computer security experts have recently started “naming and shaming” the operators of open resolvers. The DNS Measurement Factory, one such group, published a survey of top offenders by network, and more recently the Open Resolver Project published a full list of the 27 million open servers online.

The campaign is making slow progress; thousands dropped off those lists in the last few months.

But Dr. Vixie calls the open resolvers just the low-hanging fruit. Even if they were all fixed tomorrow, there are other types of servers that could just as easily be used to amplify an attack, a fact that hackers are eager to point out.

“The guys doing the attack indeed use open resolvers, but those are not needed for this type of attack,” Mr. Kamphuis said in an online interview with The New York Times earlier this week.

Indeed, there are other servers that amplify attacks — including machines called Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) servers — albeit by a significantly smaller magnitude. Dr. Vixie and others have been working on what is called response rate limiting technology, a potential solution to the amplification problem. That technology helps servers decipher between unusual requests and normal traffic, but engineers still need to fine-tune it in such a way that it can be used without slowing Internet speeds.

Even if they can pull it off, that still leaves the other half of the problem. To accomplish this week’s attacks, the attackers sent messages forged to look as if they came from their victims, so that when the open resolvers responded, they responded to Spamhaus, CloudFlare and their Internet providers with large blocks of traffic.

That digital forging is easy to pull off. But, there too, Internet security specialists have long had a solution. For more than a decade, Dr. Vixie and others have encouraged companies to use what is called Source Address Validation, a technology that filters forged traffic from legitimate traffic. The problem is that the technology is not yet pervasive.

The reason, Dr. Vixie said, was “simple economics.” What incentive do companies have to pay for the cost of adopting the technology and training their engineers to use it when their competitors don’t? The victims of the attacks are usually not those companies, so they bear the expense and reap no direct benefit.

Dan Kaminsky, a prominent computer security researcher, said, “The problem is that it’s hard to get someone to care.”

This week’s attack, which had halted on Tuesday, resumed Thursday morning.

But there is a silver lining. “I’ve been waiting for this attack for a long time,” Dr. Vixie said, “so that we could tell the earth’s population to do something about it.”
758 2013-03-30 “We’re convinced this is about Kim solidifying his place with his own people and his own military, who still don’t know him,” one senior administration official said Friday. He added, “We’re worried about what he’s going to do next, but we’re not worried about what he seems to be threatening to do next.”

The cyberattacks and torpedo attack have something in common: Unlike the missile attacks and beach landings that Mr. Kim seems to be suggesting are imminent, they are hard to trace to North Korea, at least immediately. As a result, they are hard to retaliate against, and in fact the South never struck back militarily for the sinking of the Cheonan, even after a commission of inquiry, with experts from outside South Korea, concluded it was the work of a submarine-launched torpedo.

To North Korea experts in Washington and Seoul, there is something familiar in the country’s threats to “keep the White House in the cross hairs of our long-range missiles.” Such threat of armed brinkmanship — the catchphrase in the 1990s was that Seoul would become a “sea of fire,” a term recently revived by North Korea’s news agencies — has in the past drawn its adversaries to the bargaining table with economic concessions. But at the same time, the tensions with the outside world provide the government with opportunities to elevate its leader’s status among his people — which might be more important to a young, untested leader than it was to his father and grandfather.

According to the view that North Korea’s propaganda machine pounds into its citizens’ minds, the North is a tiny nation besieged by hostile outside forces, one that survived despite decades of sanctions and can finally stand up to both its longtime Chinese ally and American enemy — all thanks to the strong “military-first” leadership of the Kim family and the country’s nuclear arsenal.

In such a setting, Mr. Kim’s trip to a border island on a wooden boat — it almost seemed designed to create a “Washington crossing the Delaware” motif — is proof of his “daring and pluck,” as the country’s main party newspaper, Rodong, explained. Rodong also declared about North Korea’s nuclear weapons: “Let the American imperialists and their followers know! We are not a pushover like Iraq or Libya.” The first, famously, had no nuclear weapons; the second gave up its nascent nuclear program in late 2003, a move North Korea describes as Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s greatest mistake.

In the propaganda world that the three generations of the Kim dynasty has created, Mr. Kim is “a great iron-willed general admired by all of his people, including real generals who have actually served in the military,” said Lee Sung-yoon, North Korea specialist at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. “For the Kim III, fantasy is reality.”

Keeping the fantasy up has required a lot of work in the past month, with many visits to military units on both of the country’s coasts, and a lot of conferences at midnight with generals.

Yet in each of these scenes, North Korea’s propagandists sometimes made Mr. Kim look as much a clumsy actor as a new leader of one of the world’s most belligerent governments.

For one, North Korean state-run media on March 12 released a photo showing Mr. Kim arriving at an island within the gun range of South Korean marines and quoted him as threatening to “cut the windpipes of the enemies.” But it strained credibility that he traveled to a region he called a powder keg on a small unarmed wooden boat, as shown in the photo.

On Tuesday, North Korea released a photo showing Mr. Kim watching hovercrafts storm a snow-covered beach in eastern North Korea. But it did not take long for journalists and analysts to conclude that the picture was clumsily doctored to add more amphibious landing vehicles and make the drill look far more imposing than it really was.

Then on Friday, photos released by the North’s state media, which also showed signs of digital manipulation, featured Mr. Kim huddling with his top generals during a midnight meeting to approve “plans to strike the mainland U.S.” A military chart behind them showed a series of lines shooting out of North Korea and hitting major cities in the United States, including those on the East Coast. Even if the North Koreans had such missiles — most analysts doubt it does — would they really intend to launch them at the United States in what would be a suicidal action for the Pyongyang government?

“We’re all trying to put him on the couch,” said Jonathan D. Pollack, a North Korea expert at the Brookings Institution. “A year ago the U.S. and the Chinese saw at least the possibility that you could do business with him. But he has steadily reverted to form,” adopting the approach of his father and grandfather in using the perception of an external threat to solidify support at home.

On Saturday those threats were South Korea and “the Americans and their puppets,” a statement from the North said. The two Koreas “were back to a state of war,” it said, and the North’s foes “should know that everything is different under our peerless general and dear Marshal Kim Jong-un.” While many fear that Mr. Kim’s rhetoric is building up toward some action, Mr. Pollack held out the hope that the threats could abate as United States and South Korean military exercises, which infuriate the North, wind up at the end of April.
759 2013-03-30 So hospitals call patients within 48 hours of discharge to find out how they are feeling. They arrange patients’ follow-up appointments with doctors even before a patient leaves. And they have redoubled their efforts to make sure patients understand what medicines to take at home.

But hospitals have also taken on responsibilities far outside the medical realm: they are helping patients arrange transportation for follow-up doctor visits, get safe housing or even find a hot meal, all in an effort to keep them healthy.

“There’s a huge opportunity to reduce the cost of medical care by addressing these other things, the social aspects,” said Dr. Samuel Skootsky, chief medical officer of the Faculty Practice Group and Medical Group.

, which monitors hospitals’ compliance with the new rules, says nearly two-thirds of hospitals receiving traditional Medicare payments are expected to pay penalties totaling about $300 million in 2013 because too many of their patients were readmitted within 30 days of discharge. Last month, the agency reported that readmissions had dropped to 17.8 percent by late last year from about 19 percent in 2011.

But increasingly, health policy experts and hospital executives say the penalties, which went into effect in October, unfairly target hospitals that treat the sickest patients or the patients facing the greatest socioeconomic challenges. They say a hospital’s readmission rate is not a clear measure of the quality of care it provides, noting that hospitals with higher mortality rates may also have fewer returning patients.

“We’re using a proxy because it’s a convenient proxy — it’s just not a very accurate proxy,” said Dr. Karen E. Joynt, a health policy expert and co-author of an article critical of the penalties in The this month. Large academic medical centers and so-called safety-net hospitals are bearing the brunt of the new policy, and the authors warn that the penalties could make it even harder for hospitals struggling to care for those patients with the highest needs. The current policy, the article says, “has the potential to exacerbate disparities in care and create disincentives to providing care for patients who are particularly ill or who have complex health needs.”

The penalties, which apply to rates of readmission after hospitalization for heart attacks, and , are now calculated at 1 percent of hospital payments but will increase to 3 percent by 2015. Medicare also expects to expand the targeted readmissions to include more kinds of hospitalizations, like those for chronic lung disease.

Some hospitals say they have little choice but to incur the penalties, simply because they have other demands. At Boston Medical Center, which serves a high number of low-income patients, efforts to reduce readmissions, including making follow-up appointments and writing out a simple plan of what to do after leaving the hospital, have been successful for patients.

But the medical center chose not to immediately expand the program to all patients, including the Medicare patients who would count toward future penalties.

“We make those trade-offs,” said Dr. Stanley Hochberg, the center’s chief quality officer. Medicare’s focus on readmissions “doesn’t necessarily align with our social priorities and medical priorities,” he said. Medicare officials say they have listened to hospitals’ concerns but defend the policy as heading in the right direction. “It’s a very traumatic event to go back to the hospital,” said Jonathan Blum, a senior Medicare official. “I’m personally comfortable with some imprecision to our measures.”

“The ultimate goal is to have these numbers come down,” he said.

Because so many hospital readmissions are tied to social or economic factors, hospitals have a hard time predicting which patients are likely to return, said Dr. Jan Berger, the chief medical officer for Silverlink Communications, a consulting firm. When Marjorie Crear, 66, left Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center after a stroke, she struggled to keep track of her medications and to remember her doctor appointments. Tiffany Phan, a newly hired care manager, helped with those tasks and has also been trying to find public housing with a shower instead of a hard-to-navigate bathtub.

Making it even harder for hospitals is the number of consultants and companies springing up to offer solutions with little hard evidence about which steps are the most effective. “We don’t really know very clearly how to prevent more readmissions,” said Austin Frakt, a health economist at .

In some cases, such prevention may take a combination of efforts that differ from hospital to hospital, said Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, chief executive of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which has been financing pilot programs aimed at reducing readmissions. “One of the key factors we keep emphasizing is that there isn’t a single magic bullet to fix everything,” she said.

And complicating the issue even further is the possibility of doing harm. In 2011, for example, the halted a program in which patients with chronic lung disease were supposed to learn to take better care of themselves when 28 patients in the program died, in contrast to 10 deaths in the group receiving typical care.

“It was just an incredible thing,” said Dr. Dennis E. Niewoehner, a researcher from the who said the findings were “a warning signal” for others thinking about embarking on similar programs. The higher death rate may have been purely chance, he said, but the researchers, who published their findings last year, do not know.
760 2013-03-30 WASHINGTON — President Obama’s nominee for energy secretary, Ernest J. Moniz, is a consultant to the energy giant BP and a member of the advisory council and board of trustees of King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center, of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, among other positions, according to disclosure statements filed with the government and released on Friday.

Dr. Moniz, who was under secretary of energy during the Clinton administration and is an advocate of natural gas and nuclear power as cleaner alternatives to coal, is also a director of ICF International, a prominent energy and policy consulting firm. He owns common and restricted stock worth $200,000 to $500,000 in that company, according to the statement, which lists assets and describes their value in broad ranges.

In all, he holds assets worth $4.6 million to $17.9 million.

He is also a consultant to General Electric and IHS CERA, the consulting firm formerly known as Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and a director at American Science and Engineering of Billerica, Mass., a company that does security work, including cargo screening.

Dr. Moniz, a physicist, is a professor at M.I.T. and director of that institution’s Energy Initiative, an industry-financed group that does research on energy technologies and climate change.

Dr. Moniz told the ethics officer of the Energy Department, in a letter made public by the Office of Government Ethics on Friday, that he would resign from all of those positions upon his confirmation as energy secretary by the Senate.

He also said he would follow government rules requiring him to not participate in decisions affecting those entities. He plans to sell his ICF shares within 90 days of his confirmation. Dr. Moniz has already been criticized for failing to disclose his ties to ICF and other firms in a study produced by his program at M.I.T., on the future of natural gas.
761 2013-03-30 At 12:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 21, Billy Cohen of Sherman Oaks, Calif., was getting ready to watch college basketball on his hotel room’s wide-screen television in St. Louis, the site of the Spring North American Championships.

Suddenly his girlfriend, Bronia Jenkins, came into the room and told him to get dressed because he was playing in the Silodor Open Pairs with David Bakhshi from England.

The players had only a few minutes to agree on bidding and defensive methods. But it all worked out fine when two days later they won, finishing just under one board ahead of Robert Giragosian of Bakersfield, Calif., and Larry Robbins of Deerfield, Ill.

This was Bakhshi’s first NABC+ title (premier North American Bridge Championship) and Cohen’s fifth.

Students sometimes complain that teaching deals never occur at the table. But Bakhshi sent me three textbook deals from the Silodor. In this one, how did the defenders take five tricks against four spades?

Cohen (West) led the club ten. East overtook with his jack (in case the lead was a singleton), cashed the club king and continued with the club ace. When South ruffed with his spade ten, what did West do?
762 2013-03-30 Pictures From the Week in Business
763 2013-03-30 BEIJING — A Tibetan monk killed himself this week by self-immolation near his monastery in western China, according to a report on Thursday by Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government.

The act by the monk, Kunchok Tenzin, 28, took place at a major intersection near Mori monastery, in Gansu Province, which has a significant Tibetan population.

The news organization said word of the self-immolation leaked out only two days after the act because of “communications difficulties.”

Chinese security forces have locked down many parts of the Tibetan plateau because of the wave of self-immolations and protests against Chinese rule. At least 114 Tibetans have set fire to themselves in Tibetan regions of China since 2009, according to Radio Free Asia’s count. On Monday, a Tibetan forest ranger, Lhamo Kyab, 43, killed himself by self-immolation in an eastern county of the Tibet Autonomous Region by stepping into a burning wood pile.
764 2013-03-30 8:55 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;Friends of Michael S. Steinberg had always marveled at his good fortune....
765 2013-03-30 GOLDSTOCK--Herbert Mayer, 98, of Roslyn, NY, passed away peacefully on March 28, 2013. He and Evelyn, his wife of 67 years, had a storybook marriage. He was the beloved father of Ron and Judy; grandfather of Deborah, Jenny, Jaime, and Lisa, who to...
766 2013-03-31 D.A. Points’s one-stroke win extended to 14 the streak of American-born champions on the PGA Tour this year....
767 2013-03-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
768 2013-03-31 Deficits are a monopartisan issue....
769 2013-03-31 “Those are shots that you have to make, that we’ve been making in this tournament, that we’ve been making in the Big Ten,” Matta said. “Guys had good looks. Unfortunately, they didn’t go down.”

Answering questions in the center of the room was Ohio State’s go-to scorer, Deshaun Thomas, who may have never taken a shot he did not like. Before Saturday’s game, Wichita State Coach Gregg Marshall had said, as a compliment, that Thomas was “a bad shot-taker and a bad shot-maker.”

Thomas had embraced the idea, even joked about it. He said he first noticed when he was in the third grade that he had a knack for scoring. By high school, he said, he had a perpetual green light, meaning he “took every shot — took every bad shot.”

At Ohio State, he said, Matta always told him: “Take good shots. We need good ones.”

On Saturday, Thomas missed the first five shots he took. He missed nine shots in the first half.

But in the second half, as Ohio State whittled a 20-point deficit to 3, Thomas was rejuvenated, shooting 4 of 7 and scoring 14 points. He finished with 23 points, and an average of 22.3 points for the tournament. He said he thought that he had played well. So he was pleased.

Asked about Wichita State’s defense, Thomas said: “They were bumping and grinding. They just played sound defense, got in the gaps and rotated real well.”

In a corner of the room, Shannon Scott, who was 2 of 7 from the field, sat with a towel over his head. Next to him, Lenzelle Smith Jr., who was 2 of 6, told reporters, “Our first half was probably the worst I’ve seen us play in a very long time.”

Evan Ravenel stared at his phone and texted his family. Amir Williams hung his head and ate pizza.

Ravenel had taken one shot and missed it. Williams had not shot at all. He lauded Thomas, rationalized the shots Thomas took. Some went in and out. A couple were blocked. Maybe that affected Thomas’s shot selection, Williams said.

Craft, who shot 2 of 12, told a reporter that he would probably be back in the gym the next day.

“They were laying off me, daring me to shoot,” Craft said. “I couldn’t make them pay today.”

At his locker, LaQuinton Ross shook his head. He could not forget the defensive rebound he had failed to corral with the Buckeyes trailing by by 4 points with 1:36 remaining. After that, Wichita State ran down the clock and scored to go ahead by 6. Then Craft misfired.

“I went up for the ball, thought I had it in my hands; guy came over the top, hit it out, ended up getting a rebound,” said Ross, who missed eight shots. He sighed. “Tough play, man.”

That is what Ross would remember, he said — that rebound, the ending. Not all the missed shots.
770 2013-03-31 Stewart Cink and Bill Haas wound up with a share of the lead in the Houston Open, and they have plenty of company.

Cink is winless in 75 starts on the PGA Tour since beating Tom Watson in the British Open at Turnberry in 2009. He had a four-under 68 and was tied with Haas, who had a 67.

Steve Wheatcroft, Ben Crane, D. A. Points and Jason Kokrak were a shot behind.
771 2013-03-31 Emily Katherine Keast, a daughter of Mary Jane Keast and David G. Keast of Dalhart, Tex., was married Saturday evening to James Matteson Ellis, the son of Janelle Mayeux Ellis and James E. Ellis, both of Dallas. The Rev. Miles R. Brandon II, an Episcopal priest, officiated at the Green Pastures Victorian Estate, an event space in Austin, Tex.

Mrs. Ellis, 34, is an owner of Gallery D, a women’s clothing boutique in Austin. She graduated from the University of Texas. The bride’s father owns an agricultural management business in Austin that bears his name.

Mr. Ellis, 38, is known as Matteson. He works in Austin as a special counsel at Miller & Chevalier Chartered, a Washington law firm. He graduated from Dartmouth and received both a law degree, cum laude, and a master’s in foreign service from Georgetown. The groom’s mother teaches communications at El Centro College, a community college in Dallas. His father is the assistant dean of the executive M.B.A. program at the University of Texas at Arlington.
772 2013-03-31 Mojoyin Morolayo Onijala and Aderemi Ademola Jacobs were married Saturday at the Westwood Country Club in Vienna, Va. The Rev. Aloja A. Airewele of the National Association of Christian Ministers and an uncle of the bride, officiated.

On Dec. 22, the couple had a traditional Yoruba wedding ceremony in Abuja, Nigeria. The ceremony, which included elements of Christianity, was conducted by a group of women, leading prayers and taking the couple through traditional rites.

The bride, 28, is an associate at the New York law firm Shearman & Sterling. She graduated from Georgetown and received a law degree from Columbia. She also received a Master of Laws in public international law from the London School of Economics. She is a daughter of Moremi O. Onijala and Olutola Onijala of Abuja. The bride’s father, an ambassador, is the state chief of protocol to President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria. He works in Abuja. Until 2009, he was the chargé d’affaires at the Nigerian Embassy in Budapest. Her mother, a lawyer in private practice in Abuja, was until 2011 the special assistant on legal matters, migration and humanitarian services for Nigeria.

The bride’s maternal grandfather, Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright and poet, received the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature. He now lives in Upland, Calif.

The groom, 30, works in New York as a director within the investment banking unit of UBS, the Swiss bank. He specializes in advising industrial companies on mergers and acquisitions. He graduated from Imperial College in London, from which he received a master’s in chemical engineering. He is the son of Bolanle M. Jacobs and Adekunle Jacobs of London. The groom’s mother is a senior nurse practitioner at the Princess Royal Hospital in Bromley, England. His father retired as a manager from the Industrial Bank in Lagos, Nigeria.

The couple met in October 2008 at a dinner party in London, when Mr. Jacobs was working there for UBS and Ms. Onijala was studying at the London School of Economics. “She was beautiful, very intelligent and well traveled,” Mr. Jacobs said. “She brought a different perspective to every one of my conversations.”
773 2013-03-31 Elizabeth Elaine Cuenin and Eric Glenn Kissack were married Saturday evening at the Los Angeles River Center, an event space in Los Angeles. The Rev. Walter H. Cuenin, a Roman Catholic priest and an uncle of the bride, officiated.

The couple have been working as freelance film editors in Los Angeles, she most recently for “We the Parents,” a documentary, and he on the feature film “The Dictator.” The groom has also directed short films and a feature-length romantic comedy called “Missed Connections,” which was screened last year at the Austin Film Festival in Texas.

The bride, 31, will continue to use her name professionally. She graduated from the University of North Carolina. She is a daughter of Cathy C. Cuenin and Douglas R. Cuenin of Memphis.

The groom, 35, graduated from Brown. He is the son of Christine M. Cziko of Berkeley, Calif., and Glenn J. Kissack of Forest Hills, Queens.
774 2013-03-31 The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the agency that many Americans love to hate and industry calls overzealous, has largely ignored the slow, silent killers that claim the most lives....
775 2013-03-31 The New York Times reviewed documents related to the hazards of a chemical known as nPB or normal propyl bromide. This chemical is commonly used as a solvent in auto body shops and electronics manufacturing. The Times focused on its use in cushion-making factories, and particularly at a North Carolina company called Royale Comfort Seating, which O.S.H.A. cited repeatedly for exposing its workers to dangerous levels of the fumes. The most important of the documents are provided here.
776 2013-03-31 BEIJING (AP) — Rescuers in Tibet digging for victims of a huge landslide at a gold mining site found one body on Saturday, a day after 83 workers were buried in the disaster, Chinese state news media reported. The fate of the other victims was unknown.

The workers were buried early Friday when about 2.6 million cubic yards of mud, rock and debris swept through the mine in Gyama, a village in Maizhokunggar County, about 45 miles east of Lhasa, the capital of Tibet, and covered an area measuring around 1.5 square miles.

More than 3,000 rescuers with sniffer dogs and excavators were scouring the high-altitude, mountainous area on Saturday, but search efforts were slowed after snow started to fall early in the afternoon, the official Xinhua News Agency said.

Xinhua said the body was retrieved at 5:35 p.m., nearly 36 hours after the landslide slammed through the area.

The disaster has highlighted the extensive mining activities on the Tibetan plateau and prompted questions about whether they have been excessive and are destroying the region’s fragile ecosystem. Criticisms, however, only flashed through China’s social media on Saturday before they were scrubbed off or blocked from public view by censors.

Officials in Beijing said the cause of the disaster had yet to be fully investigated.

A Tibetan writer, Tsering Woeser, who has been following the development of mining projects in Gyama and surrounding areas since 2007, said that China’s powerful, resource-hungry state-owned companies had ravaged the landscape.

“Unchecked mining has polluted water, sickened animals and humans, dislocated herdsmen and now caused a massive mudslide,” she wrote on her blog.
777 2013-03-31 Rory McIlroy has made a last-minute decision to play in the Texas Open on the advice of his caddie, J. P. Fitzgerald. After McIlroy’s second round at the Houston Open, Fitzgerald suggested that McIlroy should consider playing in San Antonio next weekend to get in a few more competitive rounds before the Masters the following week. McIlroy mulled it over at lunch and told Fitzgerald in a text message that he thought it was a good idea.

Marcel Siem of Germany shot a three-under 69 to extend his lead to four shots after the third round of the Hassan II Trophy in Agadir, Morocco. The 72nd-ranked Siem, who needs to enter the top 50 by Sunday to earn his first invitation to the Masters, has to a 15-under total of 201 in the European Tour event.
778 2013-03-31 A similar bipartisan group in the House has been meeting on and off for nearly four years, and hopes to unveil its own immigration legislation shortly.

The agreement resolved what the pay level should be for low-skilled immigrants — often employed at hotels and restaurants or on construction projects — who could be brought in during labor shortages.

Labor groups wanted to ensure that guest workers would not be paid less than the median wage in their respective industries, and the two sides compromised by agreeing that guest workers would be paid the higher of the prevailing industry wage as determined by the Labor Department or the actual employer wage.

Under the deal, guest workers would be allowed to pursue a path to citizenship and to change jobs after they arrived in the United States.

Another sticking point, involving the specific type of jobs that would be included in the guest worker program, was also resolved. Though low-skilled construction workers will be included in the visa program, construction unions persuaded the negotiators to exclude certain types of more skilled jobs — like crane operators and electricians — from the program, officials involved in the talks said.

According to officials with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the program would start at 20,000 visas, rising to 35,000 visas in the second year, 55,000 in the third and 75,000 in the fourth. In the fifth year, the program would expand or shrink based on the unemployment rate, the ratio of job openings to unemployed workers and various other factors. The agreement calls for a maximum of 200,000 guest visas granted each year.

One third of all visas available in any given year would go to businesses with fewer than 25 employees. No more than 15,000 visas per year would go to construction occupations.

Business groups, which had long been pushing to allow in 400,000 such guest workers each year, will get what they regard as an adequate number to meet the needs of employers.

Mr. Schumer also spoke on Saturday with Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, to update him on the agreement. President Obama is eager for an overhaul of the immigration system and has threatened to step in with his own plan if Congress does not move quickly with legislation of its own.

“The president continues to be encouraged by progress being made by the bipartisan group of senators,” said Clark Stevens, a White House spokesman. “We look forward to seeing language once it is introduced, and expect legislation to move forward as soon as possible.”

But Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and a member of the bipartisan group, sent a letter Saturday to Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, urging against “excessive haste” in considering the soon-to-be-introduced legislation. The support of voters will be crucial for passing any immigration law, Mr. Rubio said in the letter, and “that support can only be earned through full and careful consideration of legislative language and an open process of amendments.”

Shortly before the conference call on Friday night between Mr. Schumer, Mr. Donohue and Mr. Trumka ended, one of the men suggested that the three of them get together soon for dinner; it had been, they all agreed, a long few weeks.
779 2013-03-31 The Rays always seem prepared to cover pitching losses, and for now, anyway, they still employ the best pitcher in the league: David Price, the reigning A.L. Cy Young Award winner.

“It’s very cool to think that we have the realistic possibility of winning the World Series and getting to the playoffs,” Price said, “and doing it in a division like the A.L. East is very special. It feels that much better when you get to the playoffs and either New York or Boston or somebody else is at home.”

Price is not the only 2012 Cy Young Award winner in the division. The other is R. A. Dickey, who became the final piece of the Toronto Blue Jays’ makeover when the Mets traded him in December. Jose Reyes, Mark Buehrle, Josh Johnson, Emilio Bonifacio, Maicer Izturis and Melky Cabrera have also joined since last season, when the Blue Jays lost 89 games.

“There’s a lot of new faces here that are kind of thrown into the petri dish together,” Dickey said. “We’re trying to figure out what’s our identity. That’s fun, that’s exciting.”

There is reason for excitement in Toronto. The Blue Jays can beat teams with their speed (Reyes, Bonifacio) and their power (Jose Bautista, Edwin Encarnacion). But instant superteams rarely seem to live up to their billing, and the Blue Jays have serious injury concerns to go with their vast potential.

The Baltimore Orioles, surprise wild-card winners last season, may be the hardest team to figure out. It is extremely unlikely that the Orioles will repeat their success in one-run games (they were 29-9 last season), but they should be better over all with a full season from third baseman Manny Machado and a more stable rotation. Dylan Bundy, rated as the game’s best pitching prospect by Baseball America, could make a major impact this summer.

The A.L. Central seems a lot more predictable. The Detroit Tigers, who won the pennant last fall, added Torii Hunter to the outfield and welcomed back Victor Martinez as the designated hitter. The heralded relief prospect Bruce Rondon did not make the team out of spring training, leaving Detroit without an obvious closer, but the rotation is dominant and the bullpen should sort itself out.

The Tigers are the clearest division favorite in the majors, but the rest of the Central teams, besides the rebuilding Minnesota Twins, should at least put up a challenge. The Chicago White Sox made few changes to a team that led the division for most of last season. The Kansas City Royals revamped their rotation with Shields, Wade Davis and Ervin Santana, and the Cleveland Indians spent big on outfielders Michael Bourn and Nick Swisher.

“I can assure you other teams are going to get sick of reading about how good a team the Tigers have,” Manager Jim Leyland said in training camp. “I would. So I just want to warn the guys, ‘Don’t get wrapped up in all this.’ It’s not our fault, that’s just the way it is; we got a good team, so people are saying we got a good team. But if I’m sitting in Kansas City or Chicago, all these other teams, they’re pretty good too.”

Three pretty good teams will slug it out in the West, where the Los Angeles Angels hope to avoid last season’s 6-14 start before the promotion of Mike Trout. They were never able to climb to first place after that, finishing five games behind champion Oakland and four behind wild-card Texas.

“It’s not fun playing catch-up,” the Angels’ ace, Jered Weaver, said. “We tried to fight back, but it just wasn’t enough. That start at the beginning of the season killed us.”

Weaver was 20-5 last season, and on days when he pitches, the Angels may look unbeatable. With Josh Hamilton joining a nucleus of Trout, Albert Pujols and Mark Trumbo, their offense may be the best in the game. But the bullpen is shaky and the rotation is ordinary after Weaver, with C. J. Wilson, who is coming off elbow surgery, and the veteran newcomers Jason Vargas, Tommy Hanson and Joe Blanton.

It is a similar story for the Texas Rangers. They led the majors in runs last season and can endure the loss of Hamilton. Their rotation is solid up front, with Yu Darvish and Matt Harrison, but unremarkable thereafter.

The Rangers seemed to know this — they aggressively pursued Zack Greinke in free agency — and are banking on breakthroughs from Derek Holland and Alexi Ogando. They begin the season with several pitchers on the disabled list, including Colby Lewis and Joakim Soria, who could be important additions by midsummer.

The Oakland Athletics reminded fans last season that they still can defy expectations and win the West. Dismissing them would be foolish, but a repeat would be too much to expect. The A’s will be interesting. Will their hitters’ strikeouts catch up to them? Can their bullpen sustain its success? Is a healthy Brett Anderson an ace? But the Rangers and the Angels seem like safer bets, and the improved Seattle Mariners could hang in the race, too.

That leaves the Houston Astros, who host the Rangers on Sunday to inaugurate their entry to the A.L. The Astros, losers of 213 games the last two seasons, had a one-word slogan on the wall of their spring training clubhouse: Process.

“The team that wins more often is the team that takes care of the process before the outcome is decided,” said the Astros’ energetic new manager, Bo Porter. “So that’s what we’ve stressed to our guys from Day 1. We are more concerned about the process: our work, our attitude, how we go about our business. If we take care of that, the end result will take care of itself.”

Porter’s last job was as the third-base coach for the Washington Nationals, who look like the best team in baseball. The Nationals’ success started with a process, too. The Astros, to put it kindly, are at a much earlier stage in theirs.
780 2013-03-31 “You can make it run when nature wouldn’t have it run,” Mr. Morse said.

His greatest secret weapon is a reverse-osmosis machine that concentrates the sap by pulling it through sensitive membranes, greatly increasing the sugar content before it even hits the boiler. The $8,000 instrument with buttons and dials looks like it belongs in a Jetsons-era laboratory more than in a Vermont sugarhouse. But it saves more fuel and money than every other innovation combined. With it Mr. Morse can process sap into syrup in 30 minutes, something that used to take two hours.

Scientists project that climate change will eventually make New England less suitable for maple forests, but that the trees will continue to thrive in Canada, which even now produces more than 80 percent of the world’s maple syrup.

So an increasing number of maple producers are betting on technology.

The biggest United States maple farmers have expanded their production acreage and are tapping more trees than ever before: the total was 5.5 million taps last year, compared with slightly over 4 million taps 10 years earlier.

As a result, United States maple syrup production hit a new high in 2011. In Vermont, the top-producing state, sap yield per tap has risen over the past decade.

Maple farms are installing equipment that may take 10 years to earn back their cost in syrup sales.

“Technology has greatly increased that ability to make a full-time living,” said Matthew Gordon, the executive director of the Vermont Maple Sugar Makers Association. “It’s not merely the supplemental income it once was.”

But these changes have drawn questions about sustainability. Purists criticize the “techno-syrup” trend, saying it alters syrup’s rustic flavor and sucks the life out of maple trees.

Wrong on both counts, says Timothy Perkins, a plant biologist who directs the Proctor Maple Research Center in Underhill, Vt., the world’s foremost academic center for the study of maple and maple syrup.

“It’s pretty darn hard to kill a tree by over-tapping it — we’ve tried,” said Dr. Perkins, leading a tour through the center, past long counters with beakers, microscopes and segments of maple, as well as vacuum gauges, spouts and pliers.

The center’s scientists, who are employed by the University of Vermont, have altered the face of the industry many times over with inventions to make sugaring more efficient and sanitary, including a special plastic spout that prevents tap holes from drying up or collecting bacteria.

The center’s studies have found that as long as maple farmers follow tapping guidelines, maple trees can supply much more sap than was previously thought.

“It’s like the tree is a sugar-filled straw, with water and sap that we’re sucking right out of the ground,” Dr. Perkins said. “The amount we can get out of the soil is unlimited, but the amount of sugar in the tree is limited.”

As for taste, a chemical analysis of maple syrup processed with and without reverse osmosis concluded that some flavor compounds had been affected. But when the Proctor center conducted a sensory evaluation with a panel of top maple syrup tasters, no one could tell the difference. Dr. Perkins estimates that as much as 90 percent of the syrup now sold passes through reverse osmosis, adding a new dimension to the official “state flavor” of Vermont.

Dr. Perkins believes that a few more technical improvements could slightly lengthen the maple season, which usually ends in early April. Eventually, though, tubing and vacuums will not be able to overcome the effects of winters with too few extended cold snaps. Weather that is too warm can give late-season sap a “buddy” flavor — a taste that has been compared to sweaty gym socks.

Mr. Morse keeps a couple of “pet buckets” — old-fashioned metal ones — on maple trees to show tourists how it used to be done. He also burns wood chips instead of oil to power the evaporator, his only other concession to the past.

“It keeps our image intact,” he said.
781 2013-03-31 It was like “Attack of the 50 Foot Woman” everywhere, except the women weren’t exactly attacking.

They were lolling, they were prancing, they were luxuriating, sun-kissed and giant, atop yachts and beneath palm trees. Natan Dvir, an Israeli photographer, was struck by the images as soon as he arrived in New York in 2008. As big as billboards, they sat at street level and stretched skyward for stories, giant ads heralding name-brand shops that were coming soon.

“I was totally baffled by this,” said Mr. Dvir, 40. “Everything was moved to ground level, and it literally changed our urban landscape.”

So Mr. Dvir, who has a master’s degree from the School of Visual Arts, began shooting photos of the sleek ads, as well as the mere mortals shuffling by, resting or scraping out a living on the sidewalks below.

In one, two men, one with a shopping cart overflowing with plastic bags, sit on a bench facing an outsize young woman clad in a swimsuit, poolside, nursing a tall iced drink.

In another, a hot dog vendor in a sweaty T-shirt leans over his cart, with a giant, impeccably turned-out blonde as a backdrop.

For Mr. Dvir, the pictures, currently exhibited at the Anastasia Photo gallery on the Lower East Side, capture the stark contrasts of American consumer culture.
782 2013-03-31 Or how about the way to conduct yourself at the gym? Videos on gym etiquette are a particularly hot Web topic of late, said Kevin Allocca, the trends manager for YouTube. One video, “Don’t Be That Guy at the Gym,” shows five men demonstrating various sweat-soaked faux pas, like the “meathead” who grunts loudly each time he performs a rep, or the self-anointed “coach” who offers unsolicited (and largely unwelcome) advice to other gym-goers. Posted last April, it has been viewed some 3 million times.

No arena of modern life, it seems, is too obscure or ridiculous for consideration. An instructional Web site called Howcast.com has a popular channel on YouTube that tackles weighty issues like how to handle flatulence in yoga class or how to behave at a nude beach. “If it would be unseemly to gape at that body part while it’s fully clothed,” the latter video instructs, “it’s downright rude to gawk at it undressed.”

On another video, one veteran of the fast-food industry proffers advice on how to act at a drive-in window (“Do not scream ‘hello’ as soon as you pull up to the speaker. Wait to be greeted”), while there are more than 500 videos on the momentous subject of how to properly set the dinner table.

But perhaps the fastest-growing area of social advice — one that has spawned not just videos but also Web sites, blogs and books — is the Internet itself, and the proper displays of what’s been termed “netiquette.” There are YouTube videos on using emoticons in business e-mails, being discreet when posting on someone’s Facebook wall, limiting baby photos on Instagram, retweeting too many Twitter messages and juggling multiple online chats.

“We’re living in an age of anxiety that’s a reflection of the near-constant change and confusion in technology and social mores,” said Steven Petrow, an author of five etiquette books including “Mind Your Digital Manners: Advice for an Age Without Rules,” to be published in 2014. (Mr. Petrow is a regular contributor to The New York Times, writing an advice column on gay-straight issues for the Booming blog.)

“Whether it’s wondering how many times it is acceptable to text a date before being seen as a stalker, or what the role of parents is at a same-sex wedding,” he said, “etiquette gurus are popping out from under tablecloths everywhere to soothe all those living in fear of newfangled faux pas.”

Such advice is dished out on Web sites run by protocol professionals like the dapper Thomas Farley, a television talk-show staple, and Elaine Swann, a San Diego County-based consultant, and in the online newsletter Dot Complicated, published by Randi Zuckerberg, the former Facebook executive.

“Many of these emerging etiquette issues are complicated because there are no clear-cut, black-and-white answers,” Ms. Zuckerberg said. A recent post on Dot Complicated dealt with how to respond to a request for money, something that Ms. Zuckerberg, C.E.O. of Zuckerberg Media, said she has had to deal with quite frequently. (Her advice: “Say no and say it quickly.”)

Young people “are getting sick of the irony, rudeness and snark that is so prevalent in their online lives,” said Jane Pratt, the editor in chief of xoJane, a women’s lifestyle site where etiquette posts are a popular feature. “The return of etiquette is in part a response to the harshness of the interactions they are having in the digital sphere.”

“Nice is very cool right now,” she added.

THE PUBLISHING INDUSTRY is scurrying to catch up, with a flurry of new etiquette books. “Etiquette is a popular publishing subject right now because, yes, it’s true, good manners never go of style,” said Christine Carswell, the publisher of Chronicle Books, which will publish “The Forgetful Gentleman” by Nathan Tan in May.

Last year alone, three books that tackle such subjects were published by contributors to The Times: Henry Alford’s “Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That: A Modern Guide to Manners”; Philip Galanes’s “Social Q’s: How to Survive the Quirks, Quandaries and Quagmires of Today”; and the former “Ethicist” columnist Randy Cohen’s “Be Good: How to Navigate the Ethics of Everything.”

Other notable titles include “Miss Jane Austen’s Guide to Modern Life’s Dilemmas,” by Rebecca Smith, a British novelist who says she is a direct descendant of the “Pride and Prejudice” author, and “What Would Michelle Do? A Modern-Day Guide to Living with Substance and Style,” by Allison Samuels, a Daily Beast senior writer, who looks to the White House for guidance.

The social quandaries seem to be endless. Are you obligated to respond to Facebook party invitations? Is it rude to listen to your iPod while car-pooling?

When Daniel Post Senning, the great-great-grandson of Emily Post, was working on the 18th edition of “Emily Post’s Etiquette,” he found it impossible to cover technology in a single chapter. Instead, he devoted an entire book to it, “Emily Post’s Manners in a Digital World: Living Well Online,” to be released as an e-book and paperback in April.

The book tackles questions like whether one should announce a serious illness on Facebook. (Yes, Mr. Post Senning said, but medical updates should be confined to close friends and family.)

Even the new gurus who position themselves as the embodiment of Old World civilities — currently fashionable, thanks to “Downton Abbey” — feel obligated to tackle 21st-century conundrums.

Charles MacPherson, who runs a school for butlers in Canada, has written his first book, “The Butler Speaks: A Guide to Proper Etiquette, Stylish Entertaining and the Art of Good Housekeeping,” to be released in April. An authority on such antediluvian rituals as spooning caviar, Mr. MacPherson nevertheless finds himself pondering whether one may keep a cellphone on the table during a dinner party, if the 4-year-old is at home sick with a baby sitter.

“It is never O.K. to leave your cellphone on the dinner table,” Mr. MacPherson said. “If you must go out and anticipate a call, first inform your hostess of the situation and keep your cellphone on vibrate and in your pocket or on your lap. In the event that it does ring, excuse yourself from the table — don’t explain why, just a simple ‘excuse me’ — and leave the dining room before taking the call.”

Meanwhile, there is a retro allure to etiquette that appeals to 20-somethings, said Pam Krauss, the publisher of Potter Style, which in September is coming out with “Modern Manners: Tools to Take You to the Top,” by Dorothea Johnson, a longtime expert in the etiquette world, with a foreword by Liv Tyler, who is Ms. Johnson’s granddaughter. “There’s a whole generation of young people for whom etiquette, much like cooking, sewing, and other ‘home arts,’ was not passed down from their parents or grandparents the way it would have been in years past,” Ms. Krauss said.

In some circles, old-school manners, like vinyl records, single-barrel bourbon and trilby hats, are relics of the Eisenhower era ripe to be reclaimed by young urban tastemakers, said Brett McKay, a founder of a men’s lifestyle blog, the Art of Manliness. The site has popular etiquette posts drawn from the lives of George Washington and Theodore Roosevelt. The latter, for example, learned he could be more persuasive in political debates when he stopped disparaging the opposition as  “oily-Gammon, churchgoing specimens” and “classical ignoramuses,” according to one post on debating politics civilly.

“There’s this idea in sociology that every generation rebels against its parents and makes friends with its grandparents’ generation,” Mr. McKay said. “You see that with Generation Y dressing like ‘Mad Men,’ and you see that with etiquette. The baby boomers were about ‘let loose, be who you are.’ The ‘greatest generation’ was more formal, and people want to embody some of those grandpa values.”

Young women in the D.I.Y. demographic have also shown a new interest in manners, said Grace Bonney, the founder of Design Sponge, a popular home décor blog with a new weekly etiquette column. Etiquette posts, on things like “social media dos and don’ts,” have attracted five times the number of comments and Facebook “likes” as many other posts, she said.

“I think people are starting to see that it can be rewarding to put time into any effort that makes people feel more welcome in your home, whether that’s a great meal, learning to arrange flowers or just general etiquette for being a good host,” she said.

It is an open question whether the renewed interest will signal an actual shift in behavior, or if, like the latest diet books, the latest crop of etiquette guides will just gather dust on shelves. Good manners take work, after all.

“We don’t struggle for good intentions,” said Mr. Tan, the “Forgetful Gentleman” author. “We struggle converting our good intentions into action.”
783 2013-03-31 The other two terraces complement the not-so-little universe that constitutes the master suite. It has a 20-foot-high arched window that captures the eastern horizon, as well as a sitting room, an elaborate three-section marble bath with gilded fixtures, a gym with a stone fireplace, and a discrete kitchenette (one of three the penthouse has in addition to the main kitchen adjacent to the staff room).

Mr. Zweig and his second wife, Barbara, moved into the penthouse with their Yorkshire terrier and a museum-quality collection of popular-culture memorabilia. He owned and displayed the guitars and performance attire of major rock musicians from Hendrix to Clapton to Springsteen, and the team jerseys of sports icons like Michael Jordan and Wayne Gretzky. As a touch of ornate whimsy, Mr. Zweig installed an antique billiards table in the center of the living room.

Matthew Dwyer, the real estate adviser to the Zweig family and a principal of the Roseview Group of Boston, said the Zweigs’ decision to buy the penthouse was instantaneous. “They were looking around for a place to call home in the city and were just sort of surprised by it,” he said. “They walked in, saw the totality of the space, and they fell in love with it. They saw it as a one-of-a-kind home that could be a lot of fun to live in, and a place that was not likely ever to be replicated.”

The penthouse makes a striking first impression: the private entrance hall on the 41st floor has Versailles pattern oak floors and leads to a foyer with a Byzantine-style mosaic floor emblazoned with the family crest of the previous owner, Lady Mary Fairfax, an Australian newspaper heiress. She paid $12 million in 1988; at the time the penthouse was a duplex encompassing the 41st and 42nd floors. Besides the reception rooms on either side of the grand staircase and a library with 18th-century paneling, the 41st floor has a guest suite with two bedrooms, three baths, a granite kitchen, two living areas and ample views.

The Zweigs, after buying another home in Miami, put the penthouse on the market for $70 million in 2005 but withdrew it in 2007 after receiving two offers unlikely to pass muster with the co-op board.

The listing brokers are Elizabeth Lee Sample and Brenda S. Powers, who represented Mr. Zweig in 1999, and Serena Boardman, all of Sothebys International Realty. Ms. Sample said the $125 million asking price had not been easily arrived at. “We based it on the highest-priced comparable co-ops and condos recently sold in New York City,” she said, “but because this is a one-of-a-kind penthouse, it was hard to set a price because nothing really compares. I think of it, and I believe the buyer will see it, as a work of art.”
784 2013-03-31 IS THIS WHERE THE THIRD INTIFADA WILL START?

I applaud the effort to demonstrate that not all West Bank residents have been indoctrinated by Hamas. But a more appropriate juxtaposition for the peace-seeking children of Nabi Saleh would have been the young people of other West Bank towns who harbor ill will toward Israelis, Jews and Americans, not the Israeli soldiers you refer to (and demonize). It is, after all, the violence that such villages have exhibited that makes the Nabi Saleh story so remarkable. While I do not support the settlements or their expansion, the soldiers you portray as bullies ultimately exist to protect an increasingly moderate Israeli populace. RABBI BENJAMIN DAVID, Adath Emanu-El, Mount Laurel, N.J.

Ben Ehrenreich’s piece is indeed “unusual,” as Chemi Shalev writes in the Israeli daily Haaretz — not because it is “pro-Palestinian” (if anything, Ehrenreich’s somber tone sometimes disguises the brutality and hopelessness of the situation) but because its point of departure is the plight of Palestinians under occupation and not the internal Israeli debate over the future of “the territories.” Stories dealing with the occupation in the U.S. media are often presented within a two-sided framework — either as a Rashomon of versions between Israelis and Palestinians (the “equal playing field” illusion) or as an internal Israeli debate between a moderate (“rational,” “moral”) peace camp and a “hard-line” (“messianic,” “violent”) camp. . . . But there are other ways to tell this story, and what might seem like a “pro-Palestinian” bias is simply the “bias” of reality. . . . At its best moments, journalism has the ability to give a voice to those who are not heard — so that in the future, they can speak for themselves. Ben Ehrenreich’s piece is a fine example of such a success. NOAM SHEIZAF, Tel Aviv, on 972mag.com

Your cover article was an incredible look at the nonviolent struggle for equality in the West Bank. While I’m sure there is a lot of pushback from those who support the status quo, it’s safe to say that your article will still be referenced in years to come, not because it was controversial but because it was the first mainstream-media account to powerfully address the nonviolent movement for civil and human rights in the Occupied West Bank. MIKE COOGAN, Arlington, Va.

Ted Jr. is a work in progress, politically and personally, and I think Mark Leibovich’s article captures that well. He is torn. The thing is, though, Ted doesn’t want it. Everyone else does. Does he heed the call or listen to his reluctance? Stay true to you, Ted. JENNIFER LYNCH, Centerville, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

This is just like Disney manufacturing the next teen pop star. The question isn’t talent, experience or anything else specific to the individual; it is solely: “Can we design and properly market this package so that lots of people will buy it?” The answer here is almost certainly yes, especially since there is one specific attribute of this individual that predisposes a large segment of our population to buy whatever they are selling — that special last name. Ted Kennedy Jr. seems like a good guy, but that is what I’d like in my neighbor or brother-in-law; it is not the qualifying metric for a senator or a president. KEVIN TIMMONS, Schodack Landing, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

I haven’t read much by Anne Carson, but I think I’m in love with her. . . . She makes her living teaching ancient Greek and seems unusually attuned to the creative possibilities of randomness, two subjects that are dear to my heart. But what’s really fascinating about Carson — and instructive for the rest of us — is that these two sides of her personality, the rigorous and the random, seem to arise from the same place. ALEC NEVALA-LEE, on nevalalee.wordpress.com
785 2013-03-31 I’m a biologist with a federal agency. My family owns land in northeast . A portion is owned outright by my mother, who has entered into a contract with a natural-gas company to allow drilling on the property. Royalties from the gas extraction allow her to live comfortably in . My mother made the arrangements for the gas drilling without my support. I’m not in favor of increasing fossil-fuel dependence. In light of the anticipated royalties, my mother was advised by her lawyer to establish a corporate partnership with my brother and me, for liability protection. This would mean a portion of the royalties will be mine. If I intend to work on any future climate-change projects professionally, should I decline the partnership with my mother? If I do not support natural-gas drilling, is that another reason to decline the partnership? And is this decision different from eventually inheriting money related to drilling? RICHARD,

There are three issues here: the responsibility to your mother, a responsibility to your professional vocation and the internal tenets of your own environmental worldview. I’m tempted to split the difference by advising you to take a middle path — i.e., joining the partnership for the sake of your mom, scrutinizing the actions of the drilling company from your enhanced “insider” position and then donating your slice of the royalties to climate-change research. But that just circumvents the central problem. The more I think it over, the more I’m prone to respond “yes” to all three of your questions.

It would be one thing if your mom needed you to enter this partnership in order to validate the original contract and earn the income she needs to survive, but that’s not what’s happening here. The partnership merely mitigates her liability if something goes awry with the drilling. This is the (relatively low) risk she accepted when she signed the deal, knowing you were against the idea in the first place. Moreover, your mother must realize that your professional future is at odds with her request. It could be highly damaging to both you (and, to a degree, your peers) if you pursued high-profile green-energy projects and were subsequently exposed as profiting from ecological practices you’re against.

Your third question is tricky. Some would say the only difference is semantic. But I would argue that directly earning money from a specific source is (slightly) different from inheriting money from a person who was involved with that same source in the past. In other words, if you sign the partnership and actively take the royalties, you are entering a business relationship with the drilling company. The two of you are working together in a complicit relationship. But as the beneficiary of an inheritance, that relationship is disconnected by a third party (your mother). The money itself has no memory, and it’s not as if declining the inheritance would retroactively reverse the drilling process. Taking the money (and using it for some positive purpose) is more reasonable than declining it because of your distaste for an unchangeable past.

I’ve noticed (at the supermarket) that product manufacturers sometimes lower the amount in a package while not changing the price. This is a way to raise the product’s price without drawing the attention of the customer. This is tricky. Is it ethical? BARTH POLLAK, SOUTH BEND, IND.

It is. The purchase price and the amount of the product are both listed on the package. It’s only a trick to people who memorize the size and cost of an item the first time they buy it and assume that reality will never change. Inflation exists. Prices go up. It’s your responsibility to notice, which you obviously have.

My family rented a condominium for a ski vacation. During the stay, I picked up an old novel that was one of approximately 20 books in the apartment. The story hooked me, and I wanted to continue reading. My wife suggested there’s an implicit “lending library” aspect to vacation rentals, and that the book was probably left in the condo by a previous renter who intended it be taken by a future guest. Do you agree with her take on the issue? NAME WITHHELD,

I do not (and I have no idea how your wife came to this “implicit” conclusion). You’re not supposed to take things from places you’re staying at temporarily. It doesn’t matter what the object is. If the book was just sitting on a shelf when you showed up, it’s part of the rental (unless the renter specifically says otherwise). If you want to continue reading the novel, buy the novel.
786 2013-03-31 It took a couple of performances for me to lose the hazy filter of actuality — to get over myself and the people I knew, even though it is well-known that hardly anyone is more entertaining than journalists, certainly not to other journalists — and to recognize something besides the names. This was reality, sampled, with the pathos and comic folly remixed. The guts of it had stayed true, thrillingly so, to the life I had witnessed.

That was one more surprise to savor after 14 years of knowing about “Lucky Guy,” before that was its name, or it was a play, or it seemed at all likely.

IF MEMORY SERVES, sometime around March 1999 a caller to The Daily News introduced herself as Nora Ephron, and how about dinner?

She was thinking that the life and death of Mike McAlary would make a film. Ephron told me that she couldn’t remember ever meeting him, but that she had read the obituaries a few months earlier, after his death at 41 on Christmas Day 1998. Seen from a distance, the contrails of his life were the stuff of myths.

Fueled by high-octane swagger, McAlary had been a star columnist at the city tabloids for a decade, specializing in police corruption and police heroics. Near the end he fell spectacularly on his face and was written off, prematurely and in some circles, gleefully, as a sloppy, self-aggrandizing hack. Terminally ill, he bolted his own chemotherapy session one summer morning to sneak into the hospital room of Abner Louima, who had been grotesquely tortured with a plunger by police officers. A few months before he died, McAlary was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for the columns that made the case a national scandal.

What Ephron needed from me, and others, were not bold-type headlines, but brush strokes. There were things I couldn’t be much help on. McAlary and I were not bar buddies — he was a night life Olympian — and for most of the decade, we worked at different papers. But we were the same age, both writing columns three times a week and we spoke almost every day to help each other feed the column furnace, swapping names, phone numbers, angles.

He began practically every conversation not with hello, but by announcing, “This is good for us.”

What was? Almost anything.

If we turned up on opposite sides of some issue — let’s say that McAlary wrote that the police commissioner was a bum, and my column crowned him a prince — he would call early.

“This is good for us!” he’d say. “If they push him out, I’ll have the new guy. You’ll get leaks from the empire in exile, which is even better.”

At our dinner in 1999, Ephron did not touch her food. She had insisted that I order the veal chop, a bit bossy considering that we’d only met 90 seconds earlier.

She kept taking notes as I passed along McAlary lore.

At closing time in bars, McAlary would do actual cartwheels. In 1980, the first time he visited Elaine’s he spotted Jerry Brown, the governor of California, a man he knew virtually nothing about except that he had recently broken up with the singer Linda Ronstadt. McAlary fed $10 in quarters into the jukebox and played the same song 40 times in a row: the governor’s ex-girlfriend wailing, “Baby, you’re no good.” He was all of 22.

Yes, McAlary had a big ego, but he was not a prisoner of self-absorption: later on, a young reporter who’d been given some minor journalism honor might find a magnum of Champagne on the desk, wrapped by McAlary in the prizewinning articles.

In the summer of 1997, the McAlarys visited my family’s vacation place in the Poconos, after Mike had already gone through four cancer surgeries. Even so, when his 12-year-old son, Ryan, was nervous about diving off the high board, McAlary climbed the ladder to show him. He took a couple of steps, bounced and did a full one and a half somersault, with a tiny flop on entry. He surfaced laughing, then lifted his index fingers. A pronouncement. The point wasn’t how you do a flip; it’s that you can’t think about what will go wrong.

“Just do the dive,” he said. “The important thing when you’re trying to do this is, don’t be afraid.”

McAlary spent his final weeks in Room 918 on the swanky floor of a hospital. Afternoon high tea. A grand piano concert at 4. He’d lurch awake five minutes before.

Ephron shut her notebook. “If anything ever comes of this, and I use your material, I will show it to you and you can decide whether you want your real name used, or another name,” she said.

We parted amiably. She spoke to loads of people. After a year or two, she had no more questions when we met. I assumed she had abandoned the story.

In 2005, I was speaking to Hollywood producers on something unrelated. “By the way,” one said, “what did you think of the script about the New York columnist?”

The next time I ran into her, I reported: “These producers said it was, the best thing Nora Ephron has ever written, quote, unquote.”

She was pleased, but the project was in limbo. “I can’t get the money to do it,” she said.

Hadn’t films she worked on, like “Sleepless in Seattle” and “When Harry Met Sally,” made hundreds of millions?

She sighed. “I can’t get the person I want to play the lead,” she said.

“I can’t tell you,” she said.

We drifted into other conversations. Later, I passed the cluster surrounding Ephron. She peeled off for a quick aside.

“Tom Hanks really doesn’t like certain people in your profession,” she said.

SIX YEARS LATER, November 2011. An Ephron e-mail, subject line, “McAlary.”

“Believe it or not, something may actually be happening with my McAlary project,” she wrote. It was now a play.

“I hope you’ll let me use your real name, because almost everything you say in the play is from my interview with you — but not absolutely everything,” she wrote.

Real name or not, she said, I would be included in a small royalty pool for people who had given her stuff.

“If the play is a huge hit, your share of the royalty pool will be enough to send your child to college,” she wrote, “for exactly one day.”

A few days later, after her script arrived, I stood in a subway station to finish reading what I had started on the train. Her McAlary would not be doing cartwheels in bars. But so much else was in the play that I was dizzied.

“Did you get the script?” Ephron wrote at last. “Just wondering what you thought.”

“Loved it so much I can’t speak,” I answered. “Use my name.”

There was no reply.

Then one day last June, an item on the home page of The New York Times’s Web site read: “Nora Ephron Dies at 71; Writer and Filmmaker With a Genius for Humor.” Even people who only glancingly knew her, like me, felt that a huge withdrawal had been made from the cosmos’s reservoir of wit and decency.

THE END of September 2012. Nearly a year had gone by since Ephron sent me the script. Presumably, without her driving presence, the play was not happening. A text message landed from Malachy F. Cleary, professional actor. More than 40 years ago, we had been in the ninth grade together at the Loyola School.

“Jim: I have an audition for a Broadway play starring Tom Hanks called, ‘The Lucky Guy.’ I am reading for the part of Jim Dwyer. Any tips?”

Three things. One, the play was on. Two, Mr. Hanks had changed his mind. And three, I had absolutely no tips on playing Dwyer; I had been at it going on 56 years and the role still gave me headaches.

My friend didn’t get the part — one that, it should be said, is small enough that it was not commanding a movie star like Tom Hanks, or a television star, like Maura Tierney, playing McAlary’s wife, Alice. But it did bring in a fine character actor named Michael Gaston. “If you’re not too repulsed by the whole damn thing,” he wrote, graciously, “I’d love to meet over a beer or a cup of coffee.”

During a dress rehearsal, I sat next to Edward W. Hayes, a lawyer of limitless brass, who had spun up salary bidding wars for McAlary and other journalists. A character on stage, an editor named John Cotter — in real life, a rascal savant, who ordered us to “never write a story you wouldn’t read” — tells McAlary that he is jumping papers because he has gotten a $100,000 signing bonus.

Suddenly I got an elbow in the ribs from Mr. Hayes, who had represented Mr. Cotter. He proudly tapped his chest.

At dinner with Mr. Hanks, Mr. Gaston and two other actors, Courtney B. Vance and Danny Mastrogiorgio, I learned that they had mostly steered clear of real-life counterparts. A good thing: high points of the play’s truth-telling include a late-night fistfight between McAlary and Bob Drury, played by Mr. Mastrogiorgio, and, especially, emotional swordplay between Mr. Hanks, as McAlary, and Mr. Vance, as his editor, Hap Hairston. Honest as scenes like that are, to have added more messes of actual history would have blunted their power. On the other hand, Mr. Gaston, who near the end of the play delivers the story of McAlary on the diving board, said it had been a huge help to know that it had come from a real eulogy.

Journalists have swarmed to the previews and those of my era are tracking the literal differences between the actors and our memories. The most heartening response, though, came from Emily Rueb, a Times editor of a generation too young to have known the ridiculous and noble fools portrayed on stage.  “This is good for newspapers,” she said at intermission.

Then she uttered a line not actually in the play, but at the heart of the story for all who lived through it, or might one day.
787 2013-03-31 Take, for instance, the scene near the end of “The Shining” in which Jack Torrance is about to chop down a door as he chases his wife and child with an ax. The character recites a few lines of the “Three Little Pigs” story. “Little pigs, little pigs, let me come in,” Jack huffs, mugging and grinning in pure derangement. “Not by the hair on your chinny chin chin.”

In “Room 237,” Geoffrey Cocks, a professor of history at Albion College in Michigan and author of “The Wolf at the Door: Stanley Kubrick, History, and the Holocaust,” writes that Disney’s original animated version of “Three Little Pigs” featured an anti-Semitic caricature, a wolf dressed as a Jewish peddler. He ties that in with several supposed references to the Holocaust to suggest that Kubrick wanted to link the fictional horror in “The Shining” with the real-world horror of the Nazi concentration camps.

That reading implies that Kubrick planned to use “Three Little Pigs.” But according to Mr. Vitali, when the scene was being filmed Kubrick brainstormed with him and Mr. Nicholson what Jack Torrance ought to howl before swinging his ax.

“Stanley thought the scene needed something, a few lines for Jack that would make him sound threatening and nasty,” Mr. Vitali recalled, but lines that could, in another context, sound soothing. “Three Little Pigs” was proposed, but nobody was quite sure about the words. So Kubrick called the mother of Danny Lloyd, the child actor who’d won the role of Danny Torrance.

“She was staying in an apartment nearby and she had the words to ‘Three Little Pigs’ right there,” Mr. Vitali said.

Mr. Vitali also cautioned against the suggestion that there might be Holocaust overtones to the German-made Adler typewriter that Jack uses to tap out his mad loop of “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.”

“That was Stanley’s typewriter,” he said. “A lot of decisions made on the set were about pragmatism: ‘This looks good. It sits on the oak table pretty perfectly.’ Not to mention, it’s a great typewriter. I used that typewriter for 10 years, actually.”

Kubrick, who died in 1999, was legendary for his perfectionism, but he also believed in improvisation. What looks to many of the Shinologists in “Room 237” like the result of careful planning is often mere happenstance.

There are scenes, for instance, in which Danny wears a sweater showing the Apollo 11 rocket. This becomes part of the faked-moon-landing theory, as articulated by Jay Weidner, an author and independent filmmaker.

“That was knitted by a friend of Milena Canonero,” the costume designer, Mr. Vitali said. “Stanley wanted something that looked handmade, and Milena arrived on the set one day and said, ‘How about this?’ It was just the sort of thing that a kid that age would have liked.”

Likewise, the cans of Calumet baking powder seen in the Overlook pantry were chosen not because they featured an American Indian in headdress, thus highlighting Kubrick’s interest in the plight of the American Indian, but because they had bright, bold colors.

“Part of what I did during that trip to the U.S. in 1975 was shoot larders in hotels,” said Mr. Vitali, using the British word for pantries. “It was so that Stanley” — who was American born but had lived in England for years by then — “knew what one was likely to see there. And I found Calumet cans all over the place.”

Yet another contention is that a poster in the Overlook shows a Minotaur, suggesting that the movie is a retelling of the Greek myth about the part man, part bull.

“That astonished me,” Mr. Vitali said. “I stood staring at all that stuff for weeks while we were shooting in that room. It’s a downhill skier. It’s a downhill skier. It’s not a Minotaur.”

Mr. Vitali said he never spoke with Kubrick about any larger meaning in “The Shining.” “He didn’t tell an audience what to think or how to think,” he said, “and if everyone came out thinking something differently that was fine with him. That said, I’m certain that he wouldn’t have wanted to listen to about 70, or maybe 80 percent” of “Room 237.”
788 2013-03-31 Straddling a high point in the Bronx, High Bridge takes its name from a near-forgotten pedestrian crossing into Manhattan, closed off in the early 1970s. But in recent years, given plans to reopen the restored High Bridge next year, both it and the neighborhood have been rediscovered by growing numbers of would-be buyers and renters.

Nor is the bridge the only alluring new landmark. In 2009, just to the east, the opening of the new billion-dollar Yankee Stadium further bolstered the name recognition of this neighborhood, which spans about a square mile and has about 38,000 residents, mostly Puerto Rican and African-American, along with large numbers of newcomers from the Dominican Republic and West African nations including Senegal, Mali, Guinea and Gambia.

It is not only very close to Manhattan, but also endowed with a large amount of income-restricted housing — as well as some market-rate properties priced much more affordably than comparable real estate in Harlem. Since 2003, dozens of three-family houses have gone up, said Allison Jaffe, the owner and broker of Key Real Estate Services. Despite the housing growth, 2010 census data indicate that more than 95 percent of residents are renters. That trend may stem from a ’70s-era history of serious blight. High Bridge used to be among those areas of the South Bronx where crime, drugs and arson ran rampant.

Ocynthia Williams, a founder of Taqwa Community Farm, a garden cultivated on undeveloped land originally belonging to the city, has lived in High Bridge for three decades and recalls how the area’s derelict condition back then drew her into a life of community activism.

“I thought this was one of the most dilapidated communities that I’d ever seen in my life,” Ms. Williams said. “It was so dirty, and crack was an epidemic, and all the buildings were burnt out.”

Taqwa, one element of a communitywide effort to create green spaces, has helped the neighborhood undergo a “complete transformation,” said Ms. Williams, who describes herself as tickled at the number of small farmers’ markets now operating during the warmer months.

A precipitous drop in crime rates has dovetailed with the other changes: homicide rates in the 44th Precinct, which covers High Bridge, along with Concourse Village, East and West Concourse and Mount Eden, fell 91 percent from 1990 to 2012; there were 8 murders last year, according to police data. Similarly, over that period robbery was down 79.4 percent, with 451 robberies reported in 2012.
789 2013-03-31 Tens of thousands of co-op and condominium owners across  New York City  are facing a tax increase this year after the recent tweak of tax-abatement regulations. &#xa;   &#xa;On Jan. 30, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo signed into law a bill passed by the  N...
790 2013-03-31 Sadly, the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art closed its doors in SoHo last summer, but its collection and its name live on in  a dedicated gallery  at the Society of Illustrators on East 63rd Street in Manhattan. And the society is making sure that ...
791 2013-03-31 GOLDSTOCK--Herbert Mayer, 98, of Roslyn, NY, passed away peacefully on March 28, 2013. He and Evelyn, his wife of 67 years, had a storybook marriage. He was the beloved father of Ron and Judy; grandfather of Deborah, Jenny, Jaime, and Lisa, who to...