1 2013-09-01 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30 - 8/30/03. 10 years, dearly beloved, sadly remembered, always in my heart. "For you have sailed beyond the sunset." Bernie...
2 2013-09-01 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30--8/30/03. In my heart always. Your daughter, Wendy...
3 2013-09-01 Francis Tiafoe grew up at the Junior Tennis Champions Center in College Park, Md., where his father, Constant, an immigrant from Sierra Leone, was a live-in custodial worker from 1999 to 2010....
4 2013-09-01 Verizon Communications neared a deal on Sunday to buy the 45 percent stake in its wireless business held by Vodafone, people briefed on the matter said....
5 2013-09-01 No. 18 seed Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain is playing some of the best tennis of her career right now, but faces a tough challenge in No. 8 Angelique Kerber....
6 2013-09-01 Yani Tseng moved into position to end a long victory drought, shooting a nine-under 63 to take a three-stroke lead into the final round of the Safeway Classic in Portland, Ore. Tseng, the 24-year-old Taiwanese star who has 15 LPGA Tour titles, is winless in 36 events since the Kia Classic in March 2012.

■ Rocco Mediate played the back nine in seven-under 29 for a second straight day to increase his lead to two shots at the Champions Tour’s inaugural Shaw Charity Classic, in Calgary, Alberta.
7 2013-09-01 John Roberts Ashworth and Michael Roy Vondriska are to be married Sunday evening by the Rev. Stephen C. Holton, an Episcopal priest, at Grace Church in New York.

Mr. Ashworth, 32, is a manager in the health care unit of S.A.I.C., a national security, engineering and health care consultancy based in McLean, Va. He advises hospitals and other medical facilities on management and business strategies. He graduated from Dartmouth and received an M.B.A. and a Master of Public Health degree from Johns Hopkins.

He is a son of Stephen R. Ashworth of Charlotte, N.C., and the late Pamela Roach Ashworth, who lived in Bunker Hill, W.Va.

Mr. Vondriska, 33, is a director in the capital markets origination division of Citigroup in New York. He specializes in advising corporations on raising capital and arranges loans for them. He graduated cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree, cum laude, and an M.B.A. from Northwestern.

He is a son of Christine Cashin Vondriska and Donald L. Vondriska Jr. of Midlothian, Va.
8 2013-09-01 Isner said he sweated through seven or eight shirts and wore himself down, not from chasing down Kohlschreiber’s well-placed shots, but from pumping his fist and making expressions of exultation earlier in the match.

“It was stupid on my part,” he said. “So, I was pretty gassed there. Had I kept it calm, I could still be out there right now.”

But Isner was not the only one making noise. Two of his supporters sitting courtside were so boisterous during Kohlschreiber’s serve that the chair umpire, Damien Dumusois, had to climb down during a break and go over to the other side of the court to admonish them.

Isner said he was not aware of the disturbance, and apologized to Kohlschreiber.

In between Riske’s victory and Isner’s loss, the Americans Christina McHale and Jack Sock were also eliminated. Riske joined No. 1 Serena Williams and No. 15 Sloane Stephens as the remaining Americans in the women’s draw. The 109th-ranked Tim Smyczek is the only American man left standing. Smyczek will play Marcel Granollers of Spain in a third-round match Sunday.

“It was really emotional for me,” said Riske, a 23-year-old from Pittsburgh. “It’s just really cool because I feel like I’m playing within myself.”

The No. 2 seed, Victoria Azarenka, did not feel quite as comfortable after losing the first set of her third-round match to No. 26 Alizé Cornet of France. But Azarenka came back to win, 6-7 (2), 6-3, 6-2, overcoming one of Cornet’s best serving days.

Azarenka, a United States Open finalist last year, will next play No. 13 Ana Ivanovic, who needed three sets to get past McHale. Ivanovic looked rattled and uncertain, making 51 unforced errors to McHale’s 28, but she prevailed, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4.

Playing for the third time in her career in Arthur Ashe Stadium, McHale, a 21-year-old from Englewood Cliffs, N.J., won the first set. She then broke Ivanovic at love in the first game of the second set as the crowd ramped up its support in anticipation of an upset.

“The crowd was great, and I feel like I’m getting more comfortable on that court,” McHale said.

It appeared that McHale had a good chance to match Riske by advancing to the fourth round of a major for the first time. But in the hard-fought second set, Ivanovic tightened her game and ended up breaking McHale six times.

Next on Ashe was Rafael Nadal, the No. 2 seed, who made quick work of Ivan Dodig of Croatia, 6-4, 6-3, 6-3, to advance to a meeting with Kohlschreiber in the Round of 16.

On Court 17, where Riske was looking to avenge a tight three-set loss to Kvitova at the New Haven Open on Aug. 21, it was almost as easy. But Kvitova was weakened by a virus and a fever the day before the match, and she received medical attention before the final game of the second set.

Kvitova struggled with her serve, getting only 52 percent of her first serves in and committing seven double faults. Riske converted 5 of 9 break-point opportunities.

Perhaps the most dangerous threat on that side of the women’s draw is Simona Halep, a 21-year-old Romanian. On the hottest run of any player on the women’s tour, the 21st-seeded Halep was nearly flawless in crushing 14th-seeded Maria Kirilenko, 6-1, 6-0.

Halep has won four titles since June, including the New Haven Open. And she appears to be improving.

Sock, 20, could hardly say the same after he won the first set against No. 18 Janko Tipsarevic, only to lose the next three. Tipsarevic, the 29-year-old Serb who was a quarterfinalist here the last two years, won, 3-6, 7-6 (1), 6-1, 6-2.

“His experience showed a little bit,” Sock said, “and he stepped up his game when he had to.”
9 2013-09-01 This was my first time in mainland China, and I was struck by paradoxical realities. One, which I fully expected, was just how much is being built and accomplished here, at a velocity that takes your breath away.

The other was how much exaggeration, gilding, deception and misdirection nonetheless occur.

In I turned to a local resident I’d met and remarked, “This city is greener than people tell you it is.”

“Not really,” she responded, explaining that the trees we happened to be passing by were neither representative nor entirely honest. They’d been planted, along with tens of millions of others, for the 2008 Olympics, as Beijing constructed a Potemkin eco-friendliness for the world. These were the same Olympics, I was later reminded, at which the adorable little girl singing “Ode to the Motherland” at the opening ceremony was lip-syncing to the voice of another little girl who had been deemed insufficiently adorable for the television cameras.

Of course most cities pretty themselves up for guests, the trees are here to stay and even pulled a fast one, using prerecorded vocals for ’s second . And all great, self-respecting nations have their areas of expert artifice, their specialized spuriousness: , its plastic beauty-pageant contestants; , its lowballed returns; , its hollow courtesies; America, its . To forge is human.

But the Chinese are divine at it. Or at least unabashed. The reported food scams are most infamous: rat masquerading as lamb; bargain-basement liquor in premium-brand bottles; soy sauce made from human hair swept off barbershop floors and processed for optimal deliciousness. There was even a widely disseminated dispatch in 2007 about dumplings filled with cardboard, but in a transcendently poetic twist, the story itself was called into question as a possible fake.

There have been very serious problems with phony and less serious ones with make-believe monks, their reverent garb and holy mannerisms a ruse for collecting donations and peddling spiritual trinkets. Earlier this year two temples on one of China’s sacred Buddhist mountains were closed because of such impostors.

In July an entire museum was shuttered after claims that many of its 40,000 artifacts weren’t quite as ancient as they pretended to be. One of the giveaways? The kind of writing on relics that supposedly dated back four millenniums hadn’t come into widespread use until the last 100 or so years.

I’ve read about a bogus store so much like the genuine article that its employees as well as its customers were duped.

Beijingers I met filled me in on other improvisations.

“Fake commenters,” one of them said, explaining that you can’t know whether the assent and the raves that accompany a Web post or video are real or paid for, a practice believed to be especially prevalent here.

“Fake divorces,” another Beijinger said, noting a phenomenon by which couples who were trying to avoid extra taxes on the sale of second homes would dissolve their unions and thus become two individuals with one home each. They would then remarry once their real-estate transaction was complete.

David Barboza of The Times wrote about that in March. Last month he was back with an exposé of the sprawling Chinese industry in fake receipts and invoices, with which employees defraud companies and companies defraud the government. During one government crackdown on that industry in 2009, 1,045 production sites for fictive invoices were closed.

I’VE been asking people who know China a whole lot better than I do what to make of all of this. They say that it’s an example of entrepreneurship on , of an economy moving so fast and furiously that regulations are pointless and real vigilance is almost impossible. They say that it reflects a culture in which the face of things often attracts more fussing than the soul of them and that it’s an offshoot of a political system dependent on impressions, atmospherics, half-truths.

In any case it’s corrosive, eating away at the trust that people on the outside and the inside can have in this mighty country and its manifold wares. And it’s worrisome, at times jeopardizing people’s health, perhaps mental as well as physical.

I felt relentlessly on guard. I was always suspicious.

Riding down the mountainside from a stretch of the Great Wall, I noticed a sign in the cable car that said that President had used the very same vessel for his own Wall excursion on June 28, 1998. As soon as my car stopped, I sprinted around the landing platform to try to look inside others and see if they made the same claim. Workers foiled me, so I’ll never be sure: was my perch Bill’s perch? Or had I been a sitting duck for yet more Chinese quackery?
10 2013-09-01 The problem, Mr. Issacharoff said, is that voting laws based on intentional racial discrimination, which the Voting Rights Act has been so successful at blocking, are both rarer and harder to identify today. “A lot of the contemporary problems are not well handled through the 50-year-old mechanism of the Voting Rights Act,” he said.

The elections clause, by contrast, does not speak to racial discrimination at all, but addresses the administration of voting rules. Still, in light of the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County, it could have an important role to play. Strong federal laws enacted under the clause could help ensure voting fairness to all voters, especially when a state law appears neutral but has serious partisan or racially discriminatory effects. For instance, a state’s voter ID law might put up hurdles for poor or young voters, who may be disproportionately minority and Democratic, or for elderly voters, who lean Republican.

The elections clause allows Congress to set rules only for federal elections, but those laws almost always guide state election practices, too. For instance, Congressional legislation could pre-empt voter ID laws like Arizona’s or changes to early-voting laws like those attempted in Florida last year.

The bottom line, said Daniel Tokaji, an election law professor at the Moritz College of Law at Ohio State, is that Congress has much more power to legislate under the clause than it has exercised. It could, for example, liberalize voter registration nationwide, which has been shown to lead to higher turnout.

“I think Congress would be foolish not to look at the elections clause,” Mr. Tokaji said. “If they could do it over again, they might have paid more attention to it back in 2006,” when the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized using data that the Supreme Court in the Shelby County case found to be outdated. (Mr. Tokaji argued in an amicus brief that the justices should rely on the elections clause to uphold the Voting Rights Act, but the court did not address the issue in its ruling.)

Given the apparent direction of the court, even the remaining parts of the Voting Rights Act could be vulnerable to constitutional challenges. That makes it all the more timely for Congress to turn to its expansive authority under the elections clause to protect the right to vote.
11 2013-09-01 Then came the crackdowns, and lawsuits, when jobs did not get done right, or the money simply went missing.

And now many Afghans who grew wealthy off American contracting are learning that the price of keeping their good names, their revenue streams and, potentially, their freedom starts with a six-figure retainer.

“We paid them when they started our work, and we paid them when they finished,” said Ahmad Rateb Popal, chairman of the Watan Group, an Afghan security and logistics firm. There was, he noted, “no bargaining.”

The lawyers in question were from Venable of Washington. The Watan Group hired the firm after being banned in 2010 from doing work for the United States government over allegations that it had paid off the Taliban to keep supply convoys safe.

It cost almost $1 million in legal fees to get the ban reversed in 2011, and Watan still had to agree not to guard convoys for three years, Mr. Popal said. At the time, much of the $25 million to $30 million a year Watan was making on work for the United States was for convoy security.

Venable did not respond to a request for comment.

Before its run-in with the Pentagon, Watan was spending nothing on legal fees, Mr. Popal said. Now, as it has branched out into other business, like oil exploration, it has added to its stable of legal talent, seeking advice on structuring deals and reviewing contracts from other firms. Mr. Popal said they include Fulbright & Jaworski, one of the largest in the United States, based in Houston.

It is hard to say just how many Afghans have sought outside legal counsel to smooth their dealings with the United States — neither the entrepreneurs nor their clients are eager to advertise their relationships. But in general, the owners of big Afghan businesses seem to fall into two categories: those who already have legal problems with the United States government, or those who anticipate they will have them soon enough. To that end, the firms they favor tend to have big Washington practices.

To be clear, most of the billions of dollars spent by the United States in Afghanistan have gone to American companies, which then subcontracted work to Afghans firms — and, when needed, provided their Afghan partners with referrals for legal counsel in the United States. Many of the American companies have also run into legal troubles of their own, but most are used to paying top dollar for legal help as the price of doing business.

It can feel a bit more surreal when the Afghan owner of a used car and spare parts garage in the United Arab Emirates, Yousef Zaland, stops an interview and mentions that perhaps it would be best to call his lawyer in the United States.

“He is in Washington. He is at Patton Boggs,” Mr. Zaland, a businessman who has been accused of aiding the Taliban, said during the interview in July.

He waved off questions about how a man from rural Afghanistan who speaks no English, has never visited the United States, and owns companies that the Commerce Department says provided the Taliban with bomb-making materials used to kill American soldiers, came to work with one of Washington’s most influential law firms.

In an e-mail in July, Travis M. Seegmiller, a partner at Patton Boggs, said that the firm no longer represented Mr. Zaland and that most of the work it did for him was in 2011.

Neither Mr. Zaland nor Patton Boggs said why the relationship had ended. But the complications that clients like Mr. Zaland might present for a high-profile American firm illustrate the peculiar risks posed by taking work in Afghanistan, where loyalties can be hard to track and it is nearly impossible to run a business without paying bribes, at the very least.

But some lawyers “view Afghans as easy cash cows,” said Gerald Posner, a lawyer and writer who has advised relatives of President Karzai. “They’ve got millions to spend, and some of them are not really the most sophisticated of clients.”

That is probably how many would see Mahmood Karzai. But he seems to have done well with his first two lawyers. Mr. Posner has served more as a crisis consultant, trying to help the family shape its public image, and Mr. Karzai speaks highly of Henry W. Asbill, a criminal defense lawyer at Jones Day in Washington whose rates run around $1,000 an hour.

He is less happy about the results with his third hire: Thomas P. Puccio, who made a name for himself in the 1980s as a pugnacious defense lawyer willing to take on notorious clients. His biggest success was the 1985 acquittal of Claus von Bülow, a socialite accused of trying to kill his wife.

Mr. Karzai had been looking for a lawyer in 2011 to find out more about why federal prosecutors in New York were said to be weighing charges of extortion, racketeering and criminal tax evasion against him. He did preliminary interviews with lawyers in New York via Skype, he said, and then Mr. Puccio agreed to meet in Paris at his own expense, which Mr. Karzai liked.

Mr. Puccio was “full of confidence” when they sat down together in April 2011, Mr. Karzai said. He gave Mr. Puccio a $100,000 retainer.

It took Mr. Puccio six months to get back in touch: he sent a terse e-mail saying that he had met with the prosecutors and that “maybe they weren’t interested in me anymore,” Mr. Karzai said. Mr. Puccio promised to follow up later — that was October 2011. The next Mr. Karzai heard of Mr. Puccio was in March 2012, when news broke that he had died of leukemia.

Mr. Karzai is still waiting for a full readout on what, if anything, prosecutors in New York might be planning.
12 2013-09-01 His plan appears far from winning government endorsement, but is “one of those trial balloons that wouldn’t be floated unless there’s serious discussion opening up about what China should do,” said Barbara Finamore, Asia director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based advocacy group.

Chinese policy advisers have developed proposals to control greenhouse gases in the nearer term, government-sponsored studies show. They include a carbon tax on fossil fuels, and beginning in 2016 setting annual guiding limits for carbon dioxide emissions from energy use. China will explore expanding nascent local carbon credit markets into a nationwide plan starting in 2015, Xie Zhenhua, an official who oversees climate change policy, said in late July.

In part, China is responding to international pressure, as governments negotiate a proposed new global agreement on climate change, scheduled to be settled in 2015 and go into force in 2020. In June, President Obama and President Xi Jinping agreed to discuss how to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, a potent class of manufactured greenhouse gases.

But domestic economic, energy and environmental worries are also forcing China’s leaders to consider policies that could limit greenhouse gases, analysts said. The new leadership wants to reinvigorate the economy by reducing reliance on heavy industry that produces high amounts of pollution. Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Li Keqiang have vowed to clean up contaminated soil, air and water, and achieving those goals could also bring carbon reductions in their wake.

“Air pollution was the perfect catalyst,” said Wai-Shin Chan, director of climate change strategy in Asia for HSBC Global Research in Hong Kong. “Air pollution is clearly linked to health, and the great thing is that everybody — that’s government officials and company executives alike — breathes the same air.”

There are, though, formidable obstacles facing proponents of rapidly cutting China’s emissions. Robust economic growth remains imperative for leaders, who fear that slowing growth and rising joblessness would imperil the Communist Party’s rule. China remains dependent on coal, the source of about 70 percent of the country’s energy. And officials and companies in China are likely to resist steps they fear could jeopardize their industrial investments.

“They will not be happy to see that the investment in new capacity they made a few years ago may have to be scrapped,” said Wang Tao, an expert on climate change and energy issues at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. “It really all depends on how quickly China can transform the current economic structure.”

In April, Mr. Xie, the climate change official, announced a reassessment of when and how high China’s greenhouse gas pollution could peak. “There is very limited room for putting more carbon emissions into the atmosphere,” said Yang Fuqiang, an expert on Chinese climate change policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Determining when China could peak, and what the level will be, is extremely important for everyone and for working out a global pathway.”

The magnitude of that issue is evident in every Chinese city. Factories and homes run on power from plants that overwhelmingly use coal; and in the winter, many heating boilers in the north also burn coal. More cars and trucks crowd the roads. The expanding cities consume cement, steel and chemicals — all industries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide.

China has been the world’s biggest emitter of carbon dioxide from fuel use since about 2006, when it passed the United States. In 2009, the Chinese government introduced a policy to reduce the carbon dioxide emitted in the production of each unit of economic activity by 40 to 45 percent by 2020, compared with levels in 2005. That means emissions grow along with China’s economy, but at a slower rate than if there were no improvements.

Even with such efforts, China’s size and feverish growth have pushed its emissions well past those of the United States. By 2011, China’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels accounted for 28 percent of the global total, and the United States’ for 16 percent, according to the Global Carbon Project, a consortium of researchers. The International Energy Agency estimates that China’s emissions grew by another 3.8 percent in 2012.

“I do not see anything coming out of China that would suggest a significant change in emissions in the short term,” said Glen Peters, a researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo. “There would need to be some really radical policies to come out of China for a large change in the pathway to occur.”

Mr. Jiang, who has studied energy emissions for two decades, has that grand shift in mind. China must expand wind, solar and nuclear power beyond current targets, and curb heavy industry, forcing carbon dioxide emissions to peak within a dozen years, he argues. If China’s effort is accompanied by big emissions cuts by rich countries, he says, then there is a good chance of avoiding rises in the global average temperature of beyond 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above the preindustrial average, which most governments have agreed is a dangerous threshold.

But other Chinese government experts said their country must not risk its prosperity on such a shift.

Wang Zheng, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, estimated that China’s emissions were likely to reach their peak by around 2030 at up to almost a fifth higher than Mr. Jiang wants. “If we aim for earlier, that may mean wrecking stable economic growth and triggering an economic crisis,” Mr. Wang said.

Mr. Jiang said he would keep trying to persuade scientists and officials to back his proposal. Several years ago, some scoffed at his earlier, less ambitious idea for an emissions peak by 2030, which is now widely accepted.

“I’ve been in constant communication with the government,” he said. “They’re listening, and at least they haven’t yet said no.”
13 2013-09-01 IT’S a Monday morning in August — last Monday, to be precise — and more than 500 e-mails have arrived in the public editor’s in-box. Some are spam. Some are requests for corrections or assignments, which can be sent to another desk. But a bunch, maybe two dozen, are legitimate topics for investigation or exposition. As my crack assistant, Meghan Gourley, does triage on the e-mail, I pick a subject for a blog post that seems timely, important and of broad interest — The Times’s use of anonymous sources, particularly on that day’s front page — and start reporting it.

During the day, I interview Scott Shane, a national security reporter, and Carolyn Ryan, the politics editor. I refresh my memory on what the stylebook says, and I quote from two letters from readers that are especially on point. I write about 800 words and send the post to the copy desk. In the meantime, we deal with other complaints unlikely to be the topic of columns or blog posts: a grieving sister who has been in touch with us for many months about a news report on her sibling’s death; a reader who thinks the photographs in a full-page ad for a Times cruise don’t represent reality; a reader complaining that his idea for a story was stolen. Each gets some attention.

I also have my scrawled notes from reading the Sunday paper. I’m still looking at T: The Times Style Magazine to see if its level of diversity has increased (not much). I’m wondering if the Clintons-do-the-Hamptons story could be intended as Timesean self-parody. I’m paying particular attention to the skepticism and soundness of the coverage, which becomes the topic of my Friday blog post.

The day hurtles on. My boss, , stops by for a moment to make a joke (I’m hereby deleting his expletive) about The Times’s printing the “f-word,” which is being written about elsewhere as if it were the first time, though it isn’t. Later, I’m asked by a few media reporters to comment on this momentous nonevent, but I don’t have much to say. (Journalists, journalism professors and journalism students take a particular interest in public editor’s role as the readers’ representative and internal watchdog; I hear from many of them by e-mail, on and in real life.)

A familiar sense washes over me of being simultaneously overwhelmed and exhilarated. I leave for the day. But I can’t really get away — the 24-hour-a-day world of continuous comment follows me wherever I go. I’ve taken seriously The Times’s desire to have the public editor go digital; the job is more public than ever, and in new ways. As a result, I’m sometimes grateful for my smartphone’s “do not disturb” option.
14 2013-09-01 The genius of Section 311 is that Treasury doesn’t do anything other than apply a financial “scarlet letter.” The actual damage is done by the bank’s peers, which typically refuse to do business with it out of fear that they, too, will be cut off from the financial system. Just the threat of a 311, Mr. Zarate writes, has caused nations as powerful as Russia, and as recalcitrant as Myanmar, to change their money-laundering laws, forcing their banks to conform to international standards. A handful of well-placed 311’s, he says, has put much newfound pressure on governments including North Korea and Iran.

“Geopolitics is now a game best played with financial and commercial weapons,” Mr. Zarate writes. “The new geoeconomic game may be more efficient and subtle than past geopolitical competitions, but it is no less ruthless and destructive.”

The centerpiece of the book, and probably the best example of Section 311’s uses and limitations, is the story of Treasury’s assault, beginning in 2005, on North Korea, which American officials said was involved in activities like counterfeiting and drug trafficking. Mr. Zarate describes how the United States hit one of the banks it linked to North Korea, Banco Delta Asia in Macau, with a 311.

Practically overnight, banks throughout the region, even in China, began turning away or throwing out North Korean government business. By this one simple act, Mr. Zarate writes, “the United States set powerful shock waves into motion across the banking world, isolating Pyongyang from the international financial system to an unprecedented degree.” He adds: “The North Koreans didn’t know what hit them.”

As the depth of its plight sank in, North Korea appeared to panic. First, it fired off a missile into the Pacific, a move that had the additional benefit of freaking out the State Department, which demanded to know what Treasury was up to. Then, Mr. Zarate writes, a North Korean representative contacted the United States, seeking relief from the 311. At the State Department’s insistence, negotiations began in Beijing, and appeared to end when a Chinese bank volunteered to handle a measly $25 million of North Korean money the authorities in Macau had frozen.

Mr. Zarate writes that “the amount of money wasn’t the issue” and that the North Koreans “wanted the frozen assets returned so as to remove the scarlet letter from their reputation.”

Then, he says, something amazing happened. Despite its government’s support of North Korea, the Chinese central bank refused to approve this solution, indicating that it, too, wanted nothing to do with a bank hit by a 311. “Perhaps the most important lesson was that the Chinese could in fact be moved to follow the U.S. Treasury’s lead and act against their own stated foreign policy and political interests,” he writes. “The predominance of American market dominance had leapfrogged traditional notions of financial sanctions.”

Eventually, however, Treasury’s pressure on Pyongyang had to be lifted at the insistence of the State Department, which was far more worried about North Korea’s missiles than its bank accounts. Mr. Zarate deplores the move. “The North Koreans had expertly turned the tables” on the United States, he says. “We were outmaneuvered at the height of international pressure and gave up our leverage.”

Fascinating stuff, I grant you, but not quite a fascinating book. Alas, some decent scene-setting aside, the author often writes like a government bureaucrat. In places, the book reads like a white paper. It also lavishes much praise on just about every official he has dealt with — his bosses and peers are described as “brilliant,” “hard-charging” and “legendary.”

Those quibbles aside, “Treasury’s War” does a fine job of shedding light on a new and significant aspect of international relations that many of us may not be aware of, and that is likely to gain in importance in the years to come. The risk, Mr. Zarate concludes, is that other nations are now learning Treasury’s new tricks, and may eventually find ways to use them against us.
15 2013-09-01 COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Sri Lankan customs agents have seized 550 pounds of heroin worth $19 million from a container sent from Pakistan, in the largest seizure of the drug in South Asia, an official said Saturday.

The heroin, concealed inside 17,500 small grease cans packed into a large container sent from Karachi, was found Friday at a customs terminal in Sri Lanka’s capital, Colombo, said Mali Piyasena, a customs director. One Pakistani and three Sri Lankans were arrested in connection to the seizure, Mr. Piyasena said.

He said customs agents had received a tipoff about the heroin in July and were “waiting till the importer came to clear it.”

A police official involved in the investigation said that the authorities had known of a Pakistani narcotics ring that supplies heroin for Sri Lankan drug dealers and for shipment to Europe. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the news media, said the authorities received information that part of this stock was for Sri Lanka, and the rest was for Europe.

The Sri Lankan authorities have seized large quantities of heroin and other drugs shipped from Pakistan in recent years, including 121 pounds of heroin concealed in fake potatoes in 2010.
16 2013-09-01 The fall season is looming, but plenty of ambitious artists are not content to wait for any official starter’s pistol to sound, and this week three of them come to the stylish Bleecker Street nightclub Le Poisson Rouge. Two are coming together. On Tuesday, the excellent young pianists Ran Dank and Soyeon Kate Lee present an evening of works for piano duo, including the premiere of Frederic Rzewski’s “Four Hands,” as well as Brahms’s 16 Waltzes, Op. 39 and an arrangement of Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring.”

Then on Friday, Mohammed Fairouz, a talented and industrious composer, arrives for a showcase of his new and recent pieces, as performed by the pianist Kathleen Supové, the clarinetist David Krakauer, the Voxare String Quartet and others. Compositions by Daniel Bernard Roumain, Matt Marks and Du Yun complete a most promising bill. (7:30 p.m., Tuesday, 8 p.m. Friday, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, 212-505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com.)
17 2013-09-01 While distracted driving is a problem in any vehicle, the consequences are potentially greater on a motorcycle. So the designers of communication headsets for riders face a decision in striving to make systems safe to use.

Is it better to have several buttons, each assigned to a separate function, or fewer buttons that require riders to learn a code for different features? (Perhaps one tap for intercom, two taps for music.)

With its new Scala Rider Q3, the engineers at Cardo chose the latter. Compared with Cardo’s Q2, the new helmet headset adds the ability to update its software, and you can use your own earphones with it. A phone app that lets you adjust the settings is on the way.

For many riders, getting away from phone calls is a leading reason to take off on a motorcycle. Headsets like this are still appealing, however, for talking with a passenger in back or nearby motorcyclists, listening to music or receiving GPS directions.

The Q3 two-transceiver set ($390 street price) comes with hardware to clip the transceiver to your helmet or mount it with a stick-on bracket. Installation is easy once you remove the pads lining the helmet. A boom microphone is supplied for open-face helmets and a button mic for full-face helmets.

The transceiver can broadcast about half a mile and connect up to four people. In my test, the sound was clear and two riders never lost contact, although they were usually within view.
18 2013-09-01 The couple added to their holdings the next year, “when it was obvious that we were going to be spending more time in the city,” said Mr. Child, who is lean and tall — 6-foot-4 to Jack Reacher’s 6-5 — and affable.

“Male genre authors always make their protagonist taller than they are,” he said. “Female genre writers give their protagonists blond hair and slimmer thighs.”

The success of his novels — the latest, “Never Go Back” comes out Tuesday — has allowed Mr. Child to indulge his perfectionist streak. “If I’m going to do something, I’m going to try and do it right,” he said. “So I decided to do this apartment up to a standard that is ridiculous, frankly. It’s the classic mistake of putting so much money into doing up a small apartment. In terms of getting my investment back, it will be 20 years, but that was never the point. It was about just enjoying the process.”

The floor, now white concrete tile, used to slope two inches from the far wall to the front door but was scrupulously leveled; the ceiling, which had a bit of a belly, was flattened; and the windows were replaced with custom-built models, the right angles everywhere made sharp and exact enough to warm the heart of a Pythagoras.

“The contractor told me he felt like he was working inside a Swiss watch, because everything was so precise,” said Mr. Child, who, on the evidence of his apartment’s surfaces — kitchen counter, tabletop, windowsills, all empty white expanses — is as tidy as a Trappist.

“I love minimalism, which to me is more than a decorative style,” he said. “It’s a fundamental choice which ties into my character Jack Reacher. He has this desire — he wants everything he needs and nothing he doesn’t.

“Fortunately, my books were doing really, really well and I was rich beyond my wildest dreams, essentially. And at some point you realize you can have everything you want, which leads you to the big question: What is it that you want? The easy thing would have been to run out and buy a big trophy place.” Mr. Child does, in fact, have vacation properties in France and in the English countryside. “But I like small, compact spaces. This has everything I need and nothing I don’t.”

But really, fans shouldn’t go around confusing Mr. Child with Mr. Reacher. Would the nomadic Jack, who owns little more than a toothbrush, change his décor every few years to fulfill some furniture fantasy in the manner of his creator? “Suppose that in the ’50s MoMA had built five replicas of a standard apartment and asked five designers to outfit it,” Mr. Child said. “Basically that’s what I decided to do.”

He started with Florence Knoll and has since moved on to Saarinen. Two of the Finnish designer’s signature womb chairs and the quartet of armless office chairs around the dining table — half of them red, half gray — are the only pops of color in the apartment. “Next,” said Mr. Child, “I’m probably going to do Eames.”

His possessions, mainly a large collection of books, are deliberately kept out of sight behind floor-to-ceiling cabinets, on shelves in the kitchen — little cooking goes on — and in a free-standing koa-wood divider that separates the bedroom from the living room/dining area.

“Some people have absolutely massive walls of books,” Mr. Child said, “but for me it would have been too visually distracting. I’m completely a slave to words. If there are words in a room I have to be reading them. I expected the apartment to feel serene, because it’s white, but it’s super-serene and I realized it’s because my eye is not constantly roving over words.”

Mr. Child, who was born Jim Grant, grew up in Birmingham, England, and spent two decades as a director of features, documentaries and commercials at Granada Television. When he lost his job at 40, a victim of industry belt-tightening, “it was scary, but I also sensed it was a great opportunity,” he said. “I thought, ‘If you’re going to do something different, this is the time to really go for it.’ Writing a book was everything I would want to do, because there’s no boss. It was the product of my previous main fun, which was reading.

“But to say you’re going to make a living out of writing fiction is fundamentally ludicrous,” Mr. Child continued. “It’s like saying, ‘I’m going to be hit by lightning twice on the same day that I win the lottery.’ But someone’s got to make it.”

Mr. Child, of course, is that someone. Now, he can live anywhere. He has toyed with the idea of moving out of his building, buying a bigger apartment, one with enough room for an office; but, you know, on second thought, he’ll stay right where he is. “No one will ever believe this,” he said. “But I am just too lazy to do that change-of-address stuff.”
19 2013-09-01 Before reading this, I felt that while Snowden’s intentions were probably good, government surveillance was necessary in this frightening world and should not be curtailed. I believed that Snowden should come home and defend what he did in court. But if the government can treat a citizen as Poitras has been treated without any due process or possibility of protest or appeal — then yes, Snowden was entirely right to do what he did. More power to him. And he’d be wise not to leave Russia. JUDITH M. AMORY, New York, posted on nytimes.com

This was a masterpiece of situational irony. So much of the reporting concerns Poitras’s reluctance to be in the public eye, remaining behind the scenes of a story that has made icons of Snowden and Greenwald. But this same profile broadcasts an intimate look at her, splashing her face across the cover of a pre-eminent magazine. So Maass, in publicizing Poitras’s fear of once again becoming a target of intrusive government surveillance, lends her enough renown (or notoriety, depending on your perspective) to amplify and substantiate those exact fears. Maybe it’s a clever ploy: like Glenn Greenwald’s April 2012 Salon story on Poitras, this public exposure will keep the government off her back by raising the cost (in moral reputation) of snooping on her without charges. And I sure hope it works, so that she can continue to resist government abuse and stand up for privacy. CHARLES KOPEL, New York

Laura Poitras says, “I don’t know if I’ll ever be able to live someplace and feel like I have my privacy.” This, from a woman in the business of documentary films, which rely on intrusion — a somewhat disingenuous point. Snowden, meanwhile, has accepted the hospitality of Russia, where Poitras’s life would be fairly cheap and Glenn Greenwald’s very lifestyle would mark him as expendable. Yes, the N.S.A.’s and Mossads of the world are trying to sell us the illusion of safety by intruding into our lives. Still, I prefer that to Snowden and Putin. It’s quite difficult to separate the “good guys” from the publicity seekers. LELDE B. GILMAN, Portland Ore.

I believe what “Snowden’s people” did would have been right and noble in some ideal world. But in the practical world we live in, it is misguided and potentially harmful. Has Snowden uncovered any real harm to real people? I’m not aware of any. And yet it is safe to assume that what Snowden has done has probably aided, however unwittingly, our enemies. In the real world, the best intentions often pave roads to the wrong destination. VALENTIN LYUBARSKY, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

The parallels between the plight of the elephants in Kerala and that of the captive orcas in the U.S., which have also killed humans, show that the imprisonment and mistreatment of animals for show — whether for religion or for “wildlife education” — has the same root cause the world over: profit. KAREN FISHLER, Seattle, posted on nytimes.com

PETER BERG THREW HIMSELF UNDER A BUS. NOW WHAT?

Berg seems to be interested in the complicated moral issues generated by war. “Battleship” was a failure because it did not raise any nuanced moral questions, requiring its audience to leave their brains “outside the theater.” The plot, involving an alien invasion presumably to plunder Earth’s resources, was presented without the slightest irony, considering America’s voracious appetite for raw materials. Why do most blockbuster films keep their audiences in a state of robotic mindlessness? Had there been more courage here — the same courage required of the soldiers Berg vaunts so much — the film could have addressed the complexities of war that he seems so interested in depicting. RONALD TUCH, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com
20 2013-09-01 The latest in high-tech eyewear....
21 2013-09-01 There’s great energy at Blue Water Seafood in Red Bank: the art, the seafood display, the open kitchen. Others seem to agree: On both my visits — one on a weeknight, the other on a weekend — there was a crowd in the downstairs dining room, a respectable gathering at the sidewalk tables and a steady stream of traffic up and down the stairs to the second dining room.

The food, prepared with fresh ingredients and with precisely cooked seafood, was presented with flair and beauty. Each plate was appetizing to see: glistening leaves of lettuce, dots of sauces in contrasting colors, lamb chops leaned against a Gehry-like stack of roasted potato wedges. And there were several standout dishes that made for satisfying meals.

But I had hoped for more care and quality control around that exquisitely cooked seafood. I wanted fewer clichés and far less pasta. Or no pasta.

Mark Longo, the executive chef since Blue Water Seafood opened in 2011, also became the manager recently.

As for the food, the standout dishes among the appetizers included the pile of mussels, heaped to precariousness, with two whole-grain sourdough crostini balanced on top for dipping into the heady white-wine-garlic-herb broth. There was the tuna duo, one seared, the other a gingered version of poke, a chopped and marinated dish (pronounced POH-keh in Hawaiian, its locale of origin). And there was the creamy richness of the lobster rolls, in which the sweet, delicate flavor of the lobster came through the mayonnaise flavored with tarragon and lemon zest. Then there was the crab cake, light yet loaded with jumbo lump crab, though with a smidgen too much salt in the mix, marring the balance.
22 2013-09-01 There was no McDonald’s in Lhasa when the Rubin Museum in New York mounted an exhibition of contemporary Tibetan art in 2010. In a catalog essay accompanying that show, however, H.G. Masters wrote that it wouldn’t be so shocking to see a fast-food restaurant in that cultural center of Tibetan Buddhism. After all, the “collision of traditional architecture, culture and commerce with the aesthetics, iconography and branding of an arch-modern corporation is one of the defining experiences of 21st-century life.”

This analysis feels pertinent when looking at “Anonymous: Contemporary Tibetan Art” at the Samuel Dorsky Museum of Art in New Paltz, N.Y., which expands upon the 2010 exhibition at the Rubin, and features many of the same artists. Drawn largely from the collection of Donald and Shelley Rubin, who also founded the Rubin Museum, “Anonymous” shows the quirks of a show assembled primarily from a private collection. In the 2010 catalog, Mr. Rubin wrote that the couple bought their first traditional thangka — a painting on silk or with embroidery — in 1975, and their first contemporary Tibetan art works in the mid-2000s. Four 17th- and 18th-century thangkas from the Rubins’ collection are included in “Anonymous” to create some brief sense of context.

But Tibet has an elaborate history. Lying at a critical juncture along the Chinese-Indian border, the area has been invaded by everyone from the Mongols to the British and more recently, China. Many of the artists in “Anonymous” now live outside Tibet — even some who lived in Lhasa at the time of the 2010 show. The “anonymous” leitmotif was added to highlight how traditional Tibetan art was largely unattributed — unlike Western art — and now provides some protection for artists or their families who could face reprisals for political critiques in their work.

Although there is still no McDonald’s in Lhasa, you sense the McDonald’s effect in this show. To participate in the globalized art world, artists often have to speak the lingua franca of art. The downside of “global art” is a homogenizing effect, such that much of the work here uses techniques familiar from conceptualism, installation art, minimalism and particularly Pop art — expressed, however, with a Tibetan accent. Ang Sang’s “Faces of the Buddha” (2011) is a black-and-white canvas with a Buddha figure built up from images of Che Guevara, Superman, Michael Jackson, Barack Obama and Pop Art’s uber-icon Marilyn Monroe. Kesang Lamdark’s “Dorge Drakkten and Kiss” (2012) juxtaposes two faces with tongues out: one is the Tibetan protective spirit Dorge Drakkten, the other Gene Simmons of the band Kiss, known for his painted face and tongue-waggling antics. Even Ronald McDonald makes an appearance, along with Mickey Mouse, in Gade’s “Mahakala” (2013), a work that remakes a traditional Buddhist mandala using contemporary popular references.

Phurba Namgay, who is from Bhutan, lives in Atlanta now, and his paintings include ancient-looking dragons perched alongside a rocket emblazoned with “USA” and a Humvee. Rabkar Wangchuk lives in New York and his painting “Spiritual Mind and Modern Technology” (2013) features a Buddha head with yellow taxicabs speeding under its chin.

Most of the work here is “political” in that it comments on the effects of globalization and consumer culture. A few others look at political repression: Tenzing Rigdol, who now lives in New York, made “Melong” (2013), a collage of photos juxtaposing Tibetan protesters and dissidents against Chinese officials, and “Unhealed” (2010), a photograph showing the artist’s back tattooed with a map of Tibet and the dates of important political events, with acupuncture needles stuck in for emphasis. Losang Gyatso’s grid of black-and-white portraits, enlarged to near-abstraction to protect the identities of protesters in recent uprisings in Tibet, comments on the phenomenon of self-immolation — there have been more than 100 cases in Tibet since 2009.

Like traditional Tibetan thangkas, the contemporary paintings here are often dense with imagery — but they create a cacophony (perhaps simulating the overload of modern-day consumerism) rather than encouraging spiritual meditation. Some respite can be found in the videos, most of which are made by anonymous artists. (The curators sent out an open call for video on the Internet, but in the end, most of the videos were hand-delivered to contacts in the art world, rather than submitted through the Web site, suggesting the sensitive nature of disseminating images of contemporary Tibet.) The dozen or so videos here include a fascinating street documentary and a trip down a river that reveals, without really showing off, the natural beauty of Tibet. Two works feel torn from the pages of early video-performance art: in “Scripture Noodle” (2009), the anonymous artist cuts pages from a sacred text into “noodles,” cooks them in a wok with onions and peppers, and eats them out of a Styrofoam container; the undated video “Self” shows different people blowing up a text-emblazoned balloon until it pops.

Unlike, say, the 20th-century African portrait photography the Dorsky showcased in its last exhibition, which showed an extraordinary degree of ingenuity, the work here is unlikely to be a game changer for global art — that is, the art made, exhibited, bought and written about by a certain group of people who flow like a gyre to different art centers around the world. Most of the paintings here are competent — often crafted with skills acquired through traditional Tibetan training — but not on par with the extraordinary thangka paintings hanging near the entrance, which originally inspired the Rubins.

Instead, “Anonymous” is interesting because of the questions it raises, like, who is the audience for new Tibetan art? At what point do artists no longer living in Tibet become merely “Tibetan-born” artists? And should we even continue to look at art through the lens of nationality? After all, “Anonymous” reveals that even places where there is no McDonald’s experience the collision of traditional aesthetics and multinational corporations, and all forms of culture are affected. Mickey Mouse and Michael Jackson therefore serve as metaphors, not just for global branding and iconography, but also for the homogenization of art itself.
23 2013-09-01 With mortgage rates inching up and homeowners often refinancing before the end of their loan terms, adjustable-rate mortgages are becoming more enticing to more borrowers.

In July, for example, 6.5 percent of mortgage applications nationwide were for adjustable-rate loans, while a year ago, the percentage was 4.2, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, which expects demand to continue. “We expect ARMs to increase,” said Matthew J. Robinson, a spokesman.

Because adjustable-rate loans carry more risk, rates on them are lower than those on fixed-rate loans. After an initial period of fixed interest, rates may rise — though such loans also come with a lifetime cap that limits ups and downs.

For some borrowers, the initial savings may be worth the risk. By taking an adjustable-rate mortgage with a 5/1 term (with the rate fixed for the first five years) at 3.21 percent rather than a fixed 30-year jumbo mortgage at 4.69 percent, someone borrowing $750,000 could save $637.68 a month off the $3,885.28 payment, enough to “lease a nice car or more,” Keith Gumbinger, the vice president of the financial publisher HSH.com, said in an e-mail.

After 60 months, the borrower would have paid $54,565.92 less in interest, or $114,181.61 rather than $168,747.53. Kept in a piggy bank, it would be “enough to put your kid through at least one year of a good college,” Mr. Gumbinger added.
24 2013-09-01 Neighborhood lore, at least as related by an oft-cited local history, has it that “Dumbo,” an acronym for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass, was coined in the late 1970s by a few artists hoping that an odd name would deter development.

So much for that effort (detailed on DumboNYC.com). Over the last 15 years, residential development has swept from west to east through this tiny Brooklyn loft district anchored by the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges, an enclave of about 25 blocks that once manufactured everything from boxes to Brillo pads.

Now the noirish late-19th- and early 20th-century warehouses originally populated by several dozen artists have been joined by waterfront condominiums and rental buildings that are home to almost 3,000 residents — and the pace of development has not slowed.

Even a decade ago, Dumbo was not a place for the faint of heart. Ted Moncreiff, a resident, said he remembered having to protect his son, a toddler at the time, from treacherous conditions along Front Street. “There used to be these deep wells along the sides of the buildings,” he said. “And honestly, it was like Baby Jessica in the well — if anybody fell in, there was no getting you out.”

These holes have since been covered and the rough edges smoothed. The area, no longer rugged, has become almost quaint, with old train tracks in uneven Belgian-block streets. And whatever one thinks of its name, Dumbo has become one of the toniest parts of Brooklyn.

“It’s a much more physically pulled-together and beautiful place to live,” Mr. Moncreiff said. “It also feels more — ‘suburban’ isn’t the right word — but there’s only so many strollers before you are no longer officially an urban pioneer.”
25 2013-09-01 A creative energy lends vibrancy to a neighborhood that now has enough of its own shops and parkland to rival neighboring Brooklyn Heights....
26 2013-09-01 Forget fish and chips: London’s current culinary infatuation is with the American hamburger, with blogs and apps serving the city’s new obsession. Until recently, the high temple of British burgermania was the dark, no-reservations Meat Liquor, near Oxford Circus. But in December, its owners, Scott Collins and Yianni Papoutsis, opened Meat Mission, in trendy Shoreditch, with such diner-friendly features as reservations and enough wattage for guests to see what they are eating.

Housed in a converted Christian mission that once served the neighborhood’s down-and-out, the new outpost offers cheeseburgers, fries and other New World fare with the fervor of a new religion.

“A burger is such a variety, isn’t it?” Mr. Collins said. “You’ve got cheap burgers, fast food burgers, high-end burgers, gourmet burgers. It’s not just one thing.”

The same could be said of Meat Mission. The soundtrack is classic rock (the Who, Led Zeppelin), while the space has the neon-hued look of a nightclub; there’s a playful nod to its previous incarnation with a stained-glass skylight depicting a pastiche Last Supper. During a lively after-work scene, the young, well-dressed crowd piles into intimate booths by the half-dozen to share pitchers of Sierra Nevada Pale Ale and sticky-but-sublime appetizers like Monkey Fingers, fried chicken strips in a peppery chile sauce.

Main courses are where Meat Mission finds its calling, at least in the case of the bacon cheeseburger, wedging a juicy, inch-thick patty of medium-rare ground beef, tangy melted Cheddar and thick slices of smoky bacon into a firm but absorbent bun. It’s a great example of the lowbrow burger as culinary masterpiece.

From there things just get messier and more caloric. You’ll need multiple napkins to finish the Peckham Dip — a roast-onion-larded French dip sandwich that unfortunately comes partly soaked in jus. And anyone who finishes the Roast Beef Garbage Plate, a poutine-like platter of fries, cheese, beef, gravy and a topping of prickly horseradish cream, risks an express ticket to Goutville.

With all the crowds, apps and blogs, are Londoners possibly making too much out of this kind of hearty, simple food? One of Meat Mission’s owners seems to think so. “People need to get a life,” Mr. Collins said. “Just good food is interesting.”
27 2013-09-02 When it comes to cuisine, the United States Open is unlike any other sporting event. Lynn Zinser, a veteran of several Opens, shares her secrets about what to eat without going broke.
28 2013-09-02 The meatball sub at the South Plaza Cafe made Monday’s rainy U.S. Open  just a tiny bit less depressing....
29 2013-09-02 Verizon, which is buying out Vodafone of Britain, views gaining full control of its wireless business as essential to addressing new competition and consumers desire for new services....
30 2013-09-02 Camila Giorgi, 21, is a potential star to keep an eye on, especially after her comeback, three-set victory over the No. 6 seed Caroline Wozniacki on Saturday. On Monday, she faces her fellow Italian Roberta Vinci, the No. 10 seed....
31 2013-09-02 “Couldn’t be much more disappointed right now,” Smyczek said after the loss. “But, you know, these are kind of the types of situations that you dream about. I mean, it was pretty cool to be the last American in the draw, male, for a day.”

Smyczek had looked in command of the match after winning the third set, 6-0, and then taking a 4-1 lead in the final set. Three times, he was a point from match point at 5-4 in the third set, but Granollers held, broke and then held at love to seal the victory.

The first United States Championships tournament in 1881 featured a 25-player singles draw, compared with this year’s 128-player draw. In that first year, the event made a net profit of $4.32, not even enough to buy a cup of gelato at this year’s tournament. But through all the changes, an American man in the Round of 16 had been a constant.

The season’s final Grand Slam event ends a year in which no American man made the Round of 16 at any of the four Grand Slams. Only one American man reached the third round of each of the first two Grand Slams: Sam Querrey at the Australian Open and Isner at the French Open; they each defeated a fellow American in the second round of those tournaments. At Wimbledon, no American men reached the third round, the first time that had happened since 1912.

Smyczek, however, was largely sanguine about the country’s hopes.

“At the very top of the game American tennis is a little bit behind where it has been in years past,” he said. “I know we got really spoiled with Pete, Andre, all those guys — and Andy — for so many years. But, you know, I think it’s also a really exciting time, because there’s five, six, seven guys that are hovering right around 100 and have a good chance to make a big breakthrough.”

When asked about the American men’s lack of success at majors this year, Smyczek pointed to a bigger picture.

“I think it’s tough being judged by just the Grand Slams,” he said, citing recent success by Isner, who won a title in Atlanta and made the finals in Washington and Cincinnati.

But with Isner out, Smyczek was the one left to turn the lights out on his country’s biggest tournament, an unfamiliar experience for a player who has spent most of his career at Challenger events and qualifying draws.

“I’d never heard somebody yell out from the stands, ‘You’re our last hope!’ ” he said with a smile. “That was new.”
32 2013-09-02 At Connecticut Muffin, where local residents pause before hitting the subway, residents said the city’s ambience has been enhanced by the continued tamping down of crime, the promotion of biking and the construction of projects like the High Line.

“A public project on that scale hasn’t happened since Central Park and Prospect Park were created,” said Bojana Ilievski, 37, an architect.

But Rachel Kaufman, 43, a musician, worried that a development juggernaut had replaced colorful mom-and-pop shops with sleek chain stores.

Yael Sverdlik, 34, an acupuncturist, was chewing on a scone — something she admitted was a naughty treat by her standards — while sipping green tea.

“There’s more consciousness of being healthy,” she said. “We’re using cars less. People are getting more exercise. Citi Bikes is great and the city is getting cleaner.”

But she, too, had misgivings over the widening gap between rich and poor that she believes is pushing low-income New Yorkers out of the city.

“It’s almost impossible to live by yourself if you start out in New York,” said Ms. Sverdlik, who shares a one-bedroom apartment for $1,850 a month. “The city has improved but it’s become elite.”

Schools were another worry. Karen Schmauk, 49, who had just stocked up on peaches and artichokes at the park’s farmers’ market, said she teaches English to foreign-born students at New York City College of Technology and sees that high schools are “graduating kids who are not prepared to write at a college level — or read.”

Her 1-year-old son, Luca, biting happily into a peach slice, has several years to go before starting school, but she was concerned about his educational future.

Many also faulted top city and police officials for what they suggested was their cluelessness about the emotional impact of stop-and-frisk policies on innocent young men who suffer the humiliation of searches. Quincy Vance, 43, a gym teacher at St. Ann’s School and its basketball coach, said he had been stopped four times.

“People feel violated,” he said. “Some officers don’t give an explanation. They pick a bunch of black and Latino teenagers. They don’t stop Wall Street guys and frisk their briefcases.”

Ms. Ilievski, though, said she has had a different experience. “For a 6-foot-tall white girl, it’s a story of stop-and-flirt.”

The muffin shop sits near the sealed-off bicycle lane on Prospect Park West, which has been the subject of vigorous local debate. So there was a wealth of opinions about the hundreds of bicycle-lane miles Mr. Bloomberg’s administration has carved out.

Ms. Ilievski said cycling had become safer. “I noticed people who never rode bikes before riding them,” she said. But Mr. Mecea, a bicyclist and driver, dissented.

“They’re making it almost impossible for drivers to get through,” he said. “They say it’s traffic calming but by the time you get here you’re so enraged because you have only two lanes left and some guy double parked. It’s not calming.”

There was no great enthusiasm for the candidates seeking to replace Mr. Bloomberg. As Ms. Ilievski put it: “Two candidates are riddled with scandal and a third I don’t see that she has particular public projects in mind.”

“It’s hard to imagine filling the shoes of someone who’s had a strong presence like Bloomberg,” Ms. Schmauk said.

But Mr. Vance said he liked Bill de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, who lives nearby in Park Slope.

“He’s married to a black woman and it seems like he can relate to New Yorkers because it’s a multicultural place,” Mr. Vance said.

The ban on smoking in restaurants and bars was cited as a signature improvement that upgraded life for Bob Bozic, a burly 63-year-old former prize fighter who once went six rounds with Larry Holmes, before he was heavyweight champion.

“I work in a bar and I used to worry about dying of secondhand smoke,” Mr. Bozic said.

Almost everyone was optimistic about the city’s future, though Mr. Mecea’s comments bore a tinge of world weariness.

“New York is a slow, churning monolith,” he said. “It’s like putting your shoulders on Mount Rushmore and trying to move it. I don’t think any person can have that much effect on our lives.”
33 2013-09-02 For the twins Bob and Mike Bryan, one lost set was enough to change a winning formula.

The Bryans, the top-seeded doubles team, had dropped the first set in a tiebreaker to the Canadian team of Daniel Nestor and Vasek Pospisil. So they swapped their return positions before the second set, switching the left-handed Bob to the left (ad) side of the court, and the right-handed Mike to the right (deuce) side.

The tactic did not pay dividends immediately, and it seemed to work against them as Nestor and Pospisil broke for the first time in the match to take a 4-3 lead in the second set.

But starting with the next game, the Bryans were able to exploit the faltering serve of the 40-year-old Nestor, breaking him in that game as well as his next service games. The Bryans went on to close out a 6-7 (1), 7-5, 6-2 victory, punctuating the comeback with a signature chest bump.

Bob said he came up with the idea of the switch, a move the brothers have used before but not in the last three years.

“I thought it might throw a different wrinkle at them, and it maybe caused a few double faults, who knows,” Bob said in his postmatch on-court interview. “But we’re lucky to be alive here.”

He added at his news conference: “We did have a little confidence because we have used that tactic against Nestor in the past. I was telling Mike like in the beginning, he’s getting so much width on the wide serve and the deuce and he’s killing me on the T.
34 2013-09-02 The year it unfolded, 2008, brought two political shocks that altered the course of both of their careers. Mr. Bloomberg, after flirting with a presidential candidacy as an independent, realized that the White House would never be his and turned his gaze back to New York City. Ms. Quinn, a Democrat who was the first woman to be Council speaker and who was just building a name beyond her West Village district, faced a federal inquiry into her office’s oversight of millions of dollars in taxpayers’ money.

Mr. Bloomberg’s needs drove what happened next. After the mayor decided he wanted another four years in City Hall, his aides expected Ms. Quinn to get it done, treating her almost as an afterthought. They assured Mr. Bloomberg, aides said in interviews, that she would abandon her own plan to run for mayor in 2009 and push through legislation allowing elected officials to serve 12 consecutive years, instead of 8.

When the mayor first spoke with Ms. Quinn about his designs on a third term, during a phone call in the fall of 2008, it was to tell her of his decision to rewrite the law, not to seek her approval beforehand, she said in an interview last week.

Ms. Quinn did not object. Asked about her reply to the mayor, she said, “I didn’t have much of one.”

In the interview, Ms. Quinn acknowledged how pivotal Mr. Bloomberg was in her deliberations, saying she would not have reversed course on the divisive issue if Mr. Bloomberg had not proposed changing the law.

But Ms. Quinn said her decision was consistent with her longstanding personal opposition to term limits and her belief that in the midst of the 2008 economic crisis, voters should have the chance to keep their elected leaders in place.

“We were in the worst economic recession since the Great Depression and nobody had any sense of how quickly or how long we would stay in the throes of that,” Ms. Quinn said.

A detailed picture of how Ms. Quinn grappled with term limits emerged from dozens of interviews with her, lawmakers, political strategists and city officials who were involved with the decision or have spoken about it with those who were. Many of them discussed the episode on the condition of anonymity to describe conversations that were intended to be confidential.

Term limits remains a stubborn issue for Ms. Quinn: as she trails Public Advocate Bill de Blasio in a Democratic mayoral primary that she once dominated, her handling of it five years ago is her biggest political liability.

When she formally rolled out her candidacy in March with a day of neighborhood tours, a man walked up to Ms. Quinn in Queens and loudly asked “Why did you push Bloomberg for a third term?”

The New York Times/Siena College Poll conducted in late August found that two-thirds of likely Democratic voters viewed the overturning of term limits as a bad idea — and of those, 54 percent said they had an unfavorable opinion of Ms. Quinn.

Anticipating the fury, Ms. Quinn’s political team has armed hundreds of volunteers with a carefully worded script to explain her change of heart (“one which the NY Times, Daily News, Mario Cuomo and others also agreed with,” it reads) and quietly conducted a poll to test the lingering potency of the subject.

“Some people express that it’s a decision I made that they really disagree with,” Ms. Quinn said in an interview. “Some people express that it’s a decision I made that they really disagree with and then they cannot vote for me.” Some voters, she added, with a hint of relief, “don’t raise it all.”

The continuing blowback is a bitter turn for Ms. Quinn, who thought she had long ago put the issue behind her. In 2005, she and Mr. de Blasio both ran for speaker promising Council members that they would end the two-term limit, which threatened to eject dozens of the members from office. Once elected speaker, though, Ms. Quinn ran into fierce opposition from Mr. Bloomberg, who called the prospect of nullifying the will of city voters “disgraceful” and promised a veto. After determining that the Council would be unable to override his veto, she abandoned the idea, issuing her 2007 statement.

Then the mayor, reeling from a fizzled White House flirtation and itching to stay in government, changed his mind.

The timing, with the citywide elections barely one year away, was abysmal for Ms. Quinn — who as the powerful Council speaker, with viselike control over all legislation, loomed as the only person standing between the mayor and a third term.

The city’s unforgiving tabloids were feasting on revelations that the Council had stashed money in appropriations for fictitious groups. It was a practice that predated Ms. Quinn, and she soon ended it, but federal investigators were swarming and Ms. Quinn’s attempts at damage control were badly backfiring, alienating Council members who whispered about overthrowing her as speaker.

In May 2008, polling showed that negative perceptions of Ms. Quinn, at the time an all-but-declared candidate to succeed Mr. Bloomberg as mayor, had doubled.

The scandal was “probably at the essence of her decision,” saidMelissa Mark-Viverito, a Council member from Upper Manhattan, echoing the sentiment of several other Council members. (Ms. Mark-Viverito was interviewed before she endorsed Mr. de Blasio for mayor.)

Ms. Quinn confided to a few friends that she saw an upside to putting off her mayoral run and spending another four years at the helm of the Council, a prominent post that played to her strengths as a can-do tactician.

“It’s not the worst thing in the world,” she told one of these people, a longtime adviser, who summed up Ms. Quinn’s state of mind: “Her run for mayor had dissipated. Her desire had dissipated. She was falling back in the polls.”

Aides to Mr. Bloomberg had reached the same conclusion. The “slush fund” scandal, they said in interviews, eliminated any doubt about Ms. Quinn’s willingness to comply with the mayor’s wishes for a third term. To their mind, another term would be a political gift to the speaker as well as the mayor.

Ms. Quinn, always reluctant to publicly cross the mayor, has told those close to her that she worried what might happen if she defied him on such a potent issue. The mayor’s people, a Democratic official recalled Ms. Quinn later explaining, “were prepared to ruin her political career.”

As she weighed how to proceed, a crucial intermediary joined those aides urging her to back the mayor’s plan: Josh Isay, a longtime political adviser to both Ms. Quinn and Mr. Bloomberg, whose firm would go on to make millions of dollars for work on the mayor’s free-spending 2009 campaign. Today, Mr. Isay is the chief strategist for Ms. Quinn’s own mayoral bid.

Ms. Quinn, in the interview, said the slush fund scandal “was not a critical issue for me” in her decision, and she denied having expressed fear of what Mr. Bloomberg might do to her. “I was not concerned about the repercussions with the mayor,” she said. Pressed on how he would have reacted had she rebuffed him on term limits, Ms. Quinn said, “I assume the mayor would be disappointed.”

For weeks, into the fall of 2008, Ms. Quinn publicly refused to say what she would do, until she announced her support on Oct. 12, 2008, for letting herself and her colleagues seek another term. At a news conference, she told reporters: “If voters are not happy with any of us, they have the right to vote us out of office next November.”

With Ms. Quinn’s mind made up, she and Mr. Bloomberg unleashed their fierce and coordinated lobbying campaign to cajole wavering Council members to back the term limits measure. A few weeks before the Council voted on the issue, Ms. Quinn sought to persuade Councilman Vincent J. Gentile of Brooklyn, a Democrat, over coffee at a Manhattan diner. During the conversation, the speaker reminded him that she would soon select chairmen for legislative committees, coveted assignments in the Council, according to people with knowledge of the meeting.

“Decisions have to be made,” she told Mr. Gentile, one of the people said.

After Mr. Gentile voted against overturning term limits, Ms. Quinn denied him prestigious chairmanships, leaving him with a lesser post overseeing libraries. “It was carrot-and-stick at epic proportions,” said Councilman James S. Oddo, Republican of Staten Island, who opposed the change in term limits.

Ms. Quinn confirmed that she had lobbied Mr. Gentile at the diner, but said she could not recall mentioning committee chairmanships.

As they lobbied Mathieu Eugene, a Brooklyn Democrat who is the first Council member born in Haiti, Ms. Quinn’s staff discussed the possibility that Mr. Bloomberg would accompany him on a trip to Haiti to deliver aid to the impoverished country, according to two people that Mr. Eugene told of the conversations. Mr. Eugene voted no; neither he nor the mayor went to Haiti. In an interview, Mr. Eugene, who, like Mr. Gentile, is backing Mr. de Blasio for mayor, declined to comment on the conversations.

Ms. Quinn said, “I believe my office made it clear if there was a trip to Haiti, Dr. Eugene should go on it.” But she also said, “I don’t think there was any connection, nor would it have been appropriate if there was any connection, with that to term limits.”

Aides to Ms. Quinn denied having used committee assignments to reward or punish, pointing to many cases where the speaker gave prominent chairmanships to opponents of the change.

The process was unvarnished and ugly at times, council members said, but it worked, showcasing Ms. Quinn’s mastery of the legislative machinery. Despite daunting public polls and deep divisions within the Council, the term limits change passed, 29 to 22, on Oct. 23, 2008.

From the moment she walked off the Council floor that day, Ms. Quinn said, she recognized that the outcome would take a toll. “I knew this was an issue that voters cared about and would continue to care about,” she said.

And she can barely contain her frustration at what she sees as the hypocrisy of Mr. de Blasio, who campaigned for speaker on a pledge to end the two-term limit, but then reversed himself, voting against the change.

She expressed no regrets over her role, however. “I stand by the decisions I make,” she said.

“If you are going to be mayor of the city of New York, you are going to make decisions that are unpopular sometimes,” Ms. Quinn said. “That’s a reality.”
35 2013-09-02 A slide presentation given to The New York Times shows that the Hemisphere Project was started in 2007 and has been carried out in great secrecy.
36 2013-09-02 Hemisphere covers every call that passes through an AT&T switch — not just those made by AT&T customers — and includes calls dating back 26 years, according to Hemisphere training slides bearing the logo of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy. Some four billion call records are added to the database every day, the slides say; technical specialists say a single call may generate more than one record. Unlike the N.S.A. data, the Hemisphere data includes information on the locations of callers.

The slides were given to by Drew Hendricks, a peace activist in Port Hadlock, Wash. He said he had received the PowerPoint presentation, which is unclassified but marked “Law enforcement sensitive,” in response to a series of public information requests to West Coast police agencies.

The program was started in 2007, according to the slides, and has been carried out in great secrecy.

“All requestors are instructed to never refer to Hemisphere in any official document,” one slide says. A search of the Nexis database found no reference to the program in news reports or Congressional hearings.

The Obama administration acknowledged the extraordinary scale of the Hemisphere database and the unusual embedding of AT&T employees in government drug units in three states.

But they said the project, which has proved especially useful in finding criminals who discard cellphones frequently to thwart government tracking, employed routine investigative procedures used in criminal cases for decades and posed no novel privacy issues.

Crucially, they said, the phone data is stored by AT&T, and not by the government as in the N.S.A. program. It is queried for phone numbers of interest mainly using what are called “administrative subpoenas,” those issued not by a grand jury or a judge but by a federal agency, in this case the D.E.A.

Brian Fallon, a Justice Department spokesman, said in a statement that “subpoenaing drug dealers’ phone records is a bread-and-butter tactic in the course of criminal investigations.”

Mr. Fallon said that “the records are maintained at all times by the phone company, not the government,” and that Hemisphere “simply streamlines the process of serving the subpoena to the phone company so law enforcement can quickly keep up with drug dealers when they switch phone numbers to try to avoid detection.”

He said that the program was paid for by the D.E.A. and the White House drug policy office but that the cost was not immediately available.

Officials said four AT&T employees are now working in what is called the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program, which brings together D.E.A. and local investigators — two in the program’s office and one each in and .

Daniel C. Richman, a law professor at Columbia, said he sympathized with the government’s argument that it needs such voluminous data to catch criminals in the era of disposable cellphones.

“Is this a massive change in the way the government operates? No,” said Mr. Richman, who worked as a federal drug prosecutor in in the early 1990s. “Actually you could say that it’s a desperate effort by the government to catch up.”

But Mr. Richman said the program at least touched on an unresolved Fourth Amendment question: whether mere government possession of huge amounts of private data, rather than its actual use, may trespass on the amendment’s requirement that searches be “reasonable.” Even though the data resides with AT&T, the deep interest and involvement of the government in its storage may raise constitutional issues, he said.

Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director of the , said the 27-slide PowerPoint presentation, evidently updated this year to train AT&T employees for the program, “certainly raises profound privacy concerns.”

“I’d speculate that one reason for the secrecy of the program is that it would be very hard to justify it to the public or the courts,” he said.

Mr. Jaffer said that while the database remained in AT&T’s possession, “the integration of government agents into the process means there are serious Fourth Amendment concerns.”

Mr. Hendricks filed the public records requests while assisting other activists who have filed a federal lawsuit saying that a civilian intelligence analyst at an Army base near infiltrated and spied on antiwar groups. (Federal officials confirmed that the slides are authentic.)

Mark A. Siegel, a spokesman for AT&T, declined to answer more than a dozen detailed questions, including ones about what percentage of phone calls made in the United States were covered by Hemisphere, the size of the Hemisphere database, whether the AT&T employees working on Hemisphere had security clearances and whether the company has conducted any legal review of the program

“While we cannot comment on any particular matter, we, like all other companies, must respond to valid subpoenas issued by law enforcement,” Mr. Siegel wrote in an e-mail.

Representatives from , and all declined to comment on Sunday in response to questions about whether their companies were aware of Hemisphere or participated in that program or similar ones. A federal law enforcement official said that the Hemisphere Project was “singular” and that he knew of no comparable program involving other phone companies.

The PowerPoint slides outline several “success stories” highlighting the program’s achievements and showing that it is used in investigating a range of crimes, not just drug violations. The slides emphasize the program’s value in tracing suspects who use replacement phones, sometimes called “burner” phones, who switch phone numbers or who are otherwise difficult to locate or identify.

In March 2013, for instance, Hemisphere found the new phone number and location of a man who impersonated a general at a Navy base and then ran over a Navy intelligence agent. A month earlier the program helped catch a woman who had made a series of bomb threats.

And in in 2011, the document says, Hemisphere tracked drug dealers who were rotating prepaid phones, leading to the of 136 kilos of cocaine and $2.2 million.
37 2013-09-02 Not too long ago, JPMorgan Chase and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, were celebrated for navigating the 2008 financial crisis, which brought other big banks to their knees. Now this one-time darling of federal regulators, long thought to be the best managed of all the big banks, is in trouble or apparently headed there on multiple fronts. While the outcome of the various investigations into the bank’s dealings remains unclear, they raise the obvious question of whether banks have become not only too big to fail but too big to manage.

In the past month alone, JPMorgan paid $410 million to settle accusations by federal regulators that it had manipulated energy markets in California and Michigan. Federal prosecutors are pursuing criminal and civil investigations into mortgage securities that JPMorgan sold to investors before the housing bust.

Meanwhile, two JPMorgan employees have been criminally charged in the London Whale fiasco. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether the bank’s hiring practices in China violated federal bribery laws. California is investigating the bank’s mortgage business; New York is investigating JPMorgan’s retail banking practices; and two federal agencies are reportedly on the verge of seeking damages for the bank’s alleged abuses of its credit card customers. All this and more comes on top of earlier settlements over allegations of abusive foreclosures and tainted tactics in a municipal bond deal.

The question now is whether federal officials can be persuaded by evidence that the government is gathering to make fundamental changes to America’s banking landscape. Even Mr. Dimon must know that the underlying problem is not only this or that violation, but the fact that the sheer size and scope and complexity of the banking behemoths defy controls, encouraging speculation and bad behavior.

Administration officials, lawmakers and regulators know this, too. But they remain at odds over the Volcker Rule and other reforms that, done properly, would curb the size and complexity of banks. For their part, prosecutors have consistently balked at seeking criminal prosecutions of big banks and their senior executives, or even at extracting admissions of wrongdoing in civil settlements, even though deterrence and accountability are impossible without prosecutions and admissions.

For the investigations of JPMorgan and other banks to make a real difference, the federal authorities would have to show a willingness that has thus far been lacking to get tougher with banks and bankers and move from there to carry out broader reforms of the nation’s financial system.
38 2013-09-02 The last five years, rain pushed the men’s final at the United States Open to a Monday, prompting more calls for a retractable roof to be built at Arthur Ashe Stadium. Plans for that roof, and another on a new Louis Armstrong Stadium, have been made, but bad weather at United States championships is hardly a recent phenomenon. The Open media guide devotes three pages to “Rain and the U.S. Open” in its historical highlights section, citing 18 times the event was extended because of the weather and instances when the Open finished on time despite lots of rain. Here are some notable examples:

1935 In the first year the men’s and women’s national championships were a combined event in Queens, five sessions were near complete rainouts. A fourth-round match between Wilmer Allison and Gene Mako started Sept. 8, but it was suspended by rain with Allison leading, 6-2, 6-0, 2-3. Play did not resume until Sept. 12, and Allison, the eventual champion, took the third set, 7-5.

1938 Because of a hurricane that postponed play for six days, the tournament did not end until Sept. 24, the latest finish for the event. But the tournament included the event’s shortest women’s final, with Alice Marble beating Nancy Wynne in 22 minutes.

1960 Because of Hurricane Donna, the men’s and women’s semifinals were played Sept. 10, but the finals were not until Sept. 17.

1969 The men’s final between Rod Laver and Tony Roche was postponed to Monday, Sept. 8, and then was delayed for 1 hour 35 minutes so a helicopter could be flown over the playing surface to dry it. Laver won to complete a Grand Slam. That was not the final match of the tournament, though. The men’s doubles final was held the next day.

1971 Billie Jean King defeated a 16-year-old Chris Evert in a semifinal Sept. 10 but did not play in the final until Sept. 15, a Wednesday. With the schedule backed up because of the rain, the men’s and women’s singles finals and the men’s doubles final were played on the same day, the doubles final going last. With darkness coming, Stan Smith, who had won in singles, and his partner, Erik Van Dillen, and the pair of John Newcombe and Roger Taylor agreed to play a first-team-to-five tiebreaker rather than a fifth set. Newcombe and Taylor won it, 5-3.

1987 The threat of rain forced the men’s semifinal between Mats Wilander and Stefan Edberg to be played at 10 a.m. Upset by the time change, Wilander and Edberg walked onto the court 15 minutes late.
39 2013-09-02 “The show will be a coming out for Burma,” said Melissa Chiu, museum director of the Asia Society. “The country has been closed off for so many years, we hope the show will assume a bigger significance, and shed new light on material not seen before. Buddhism is the state religion and plays such a major role in daily life.”

The curators searched in the former capital, Yangon; in the new capital, Naypyidaw; in Prome; and here in Bagan, which from the ninth century to the 13th century was the center of a royal kingdom where the creative energy was so intense that nearly 2,000 brick and gilded temples were built across a vast plain. In Bagan, a popular destination for tourists imagining the glory days among faded temples, farmers still unearth ancient gold jewelry.

The antiquities hunt has the support of President Thein Sein. During a visit to the United States last year, he approved the loan of dozens of artworks for the 2015 show, ensuring that the curators were welcomed in usually off-limits inner sanctums. Of the estimated 70 objects planned for the exhibit, about three-quarters will come from Myanmar and the remainder from collections in the United States, Ms. Chiu said.

In exchange for the right to borrow the art, the Asia Society has pledged to provide training in conservation techniques to Myanmar’s museum employees, who must make do with a scant $100,000 budget that leaves the nation’s museums with little electricity, poor air-conditioning and no money for acquisitions.

Although the visitors had extraordinary access and freedom to choose the objects they wanted, some items were too precious to ship to New York, including an elaborately carved gilt door from the royal court in Mandalay that was salvaged before the British Army looted the palace in 1885.

The door was low, making it impossible for subjects who visited the king to enter without bending in obeisance. The curators coveted it, but it was one of the few pieces that the directors of the National Museum in Yangon vetoed. “Impossible,” said Daw Nu Mra Zan, a former deputy director of the museum.

But that still left many images of Buddha — in stone, bronze and wood — to choose from. Some looked similar to other famous images. A few were judged to be fakes. But with so many remarkable pieces, it will be difficult to make the final selections, the curators said.

A wood carving more than two feet high from the 12th century that shows Buddha descending from heaven after giving a sermon to his mother will surely be on the A-list. “This is very special,” said Sylvia Fraser-Lu, a guest curator for the show, as she admired the movement carved into the piece. “It’s luck that it was preserved. It may have been inside a temple, or on the shady side of a temple.”

For a spectacular object that would impress hard-to-please New York audiences, the curators liked an 11th-century stone sculpture of a jaunty-looking Prince Siddhartha shearing his hair with a sword as he vowed to begin the journey that would lead him to become the Buddha. “It could be the signature piece of the show,” said Ms. Chiu, thinking ahead to marketing possibilities.

Over the years, waves of looters depleted much of the great storehouse of treasures. In the 1885 Anglo-Burmese war, British soldiers plundered smaller items like mirrors, manuscripts and jewelry, said Ms. Fraser-Lu, who lived in Burma in the 1970s. In the 1920s, German souvenir hunters carted away chunks of walls from several monasteries, she said.

Monks told her that during the military dictatorship from 1962 to 2011 they wielded baseball bats to protect the treasures in their monasteries from smugglers in league with the authorities.

Still, many of the stone Buddha images that were too heavy for even the most ardent looters to move remained in the country, so the New York exhibit will be a chance to show the pieces for the first time outside Myanmar. “There is not a single major Bagan-era stone sculpture outside of Burma,” said Donald Stadtner, also a guest curator and the author of books on Burma’s Buddhist heritage.

At the curators’ last stop, the tin-roofed annex of the museum in Prome, a 1,500-year-old bronze Buddha, encrusted with a rough patina from centuries buried in the ground, stood on a green plastic tablecloth under a bare neon strip light. A rice farmer stumbled across it in 2005 while plowing his fields, said U Thein Lwin, the deputy director general of the National Department of Archaeology. “He hit something hard,” Mr. Thein Lwin said. “We are lucky it wasn’t broken.”

Shipping the tough bronze Buddha to New York should not be risky, but the fragile lotus flower at Bagan is another matter, and may need special permission from the government to exit the country, Ms. Chiu said.

Daw Baby, the deputy director of the museum here, said the prized lotus flower should travel to New York.

“All of the collection is in my heart,” she said. “Every day I check the 1,000 pieces in our museum. A temporary loan to New York is not a problem for me. But not permanently.”
40 2013-09-02 That push has taken on momentum thanks to the Windsor decision, which gay rights groups are citing in challenges to state bans on same-sex marriage. On Thursday, the Internal Revenue Service said it would implement the Windsor ruling by recognizing the unions of all lawfully married same-sex couples, including those living in states that do not allow same-sex marriage.

On Saturday, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who joined Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion in Windsor, became the first member of the court to officiate at a same-sex wedding.

The praise now being showered on Justice Kennedy by gay rights advocates — and the deep disappointment of conservatives — would have been hard to imagine when President Ronald Reagan nominated him to the Supreme Court in 1987. Gay rights groups were more than a little wary then.

On the federal appeals court in California, where Justice Kennedy had served for 13 years, he heard five cases concerning gay rights. He voted against the gay rights claim every time.

“I have to say that Kennedy seems rather obtuse on important gay issues and must be counted as a likely vote against us on most matters likely to come before the Supreme Court,” Arthur S. Leonard, an authority on gay rights at New York Law School, wrote in The New York Native, a newspaper that focused on gay issues.

The justice’s trajectory since then has been a product of overlapping factors, associates and observers say. His Supreme Court jurisprudence is characterized by an expansive commitment to individual liberty. He believes that American courts should consider international norms, and foreign courts have expanded gay rights. His politics, reflecting his background as a Sacramento lawyer and lobbyist, tend toward fiscal conservatism and moderate social views. And he has long had gay friends.

Michael C. Dorf, a law professor at Cornell who served as a law clerk to Justice Kennedy, said the key to understanding his former boss was the culture of his home state.

“The way to think about his instincts is that he is fundamentally a California Republican,” Professor Dorf said. “It’s not surprising that a California Republican in 1987 would be expected to be at best an unreliable ally for gay rights groups.”

In the 1980s, California Republicans, like most Americans, had deep reservations about the notion of gay equality. But there were also early stirrings of the gay rights movement in California.

Harvey Milk, a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and one of the first openly gay elected officials, delivered a landmark gay rights speech in 1978 (on which the song “Give ’Em Hope” was based). Mr. Milk was assassinated later that year.

The same year, Reagan, a former California governor preparing to run for president, helped defeat a ballot initiative that would have made it easy to fire gay teachers.

Over time, some leading California Republicans moved more on the issue than many Republicans elsewhere. Theodore B. Olson, a Northern Californian who served as the United States solicitor general under President George W. Bush, helped lead the fight to overturn Proposition 8, the state’s ban on same-sex marriage.

Justice Kennedy’s three major gay rights decisions are in this tradition, Professor Dorf said. They also hark back to a third California Republican, Chief Justice Earl Warren, another former governor, who wrote Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 decision barring segregation in public schools.

Romer v. Evans, in 1996, struck down a Colorado constitutional amendment that had banned laws protecting gay men and lesbians. Lawrence v. Texas, in 2003, struck down laws making gay sex a crime. And in June, Justice Kennedy wrote the Windsor decision.

In 1987, gay rights advocates could see little of this coming. Jeffrey Levi, then the executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, testified against Justice Kennedy at his confirmation hearings, saying that “his past opinions offer little hope to gays and lesbians challenging adverse treatment in the courts.”

Professor Levi, who now teaches health policy at George Washington University, said in an e-mail that “there was no way to predict that Justice Kennedy would ‘evolve’ as he did (given prior opinions on gays in the military, immigration and federal employment).”

Professor Levi drew a comparison to Dr. C. Everett Koop, whose nomination as surgeon general under Reagan was opposed by gay rights groups based on hostile statements he had made.

“He turned out to be a hero of the early fight against AIDS,” Professor Levi said of Dr. Koop.

There were, though, other ways to read the available evidence about the Kennedy nomination. As a federal judge in 1980, when he voted to uphold the discharge of Navy personnel for homosexuality, he seemed to leave the door open to further challenges.

“We recognize, as we must,” he wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “that there is substantial academic comment which argues that the choice to engage in homosexual action is a personal decision entitled, at least in some instances, to recognition as a fundamental right and to full protection as an aspect of the individual’s right of privacy.”

Seven years later, at Judge Kennedy’s confirmation hearings, Senator Gordon J. Humphrey, Republican of New Hampshire, said that language worried him. “My goodness,” he said, “you can find academic comment to justify almost anything.”

Judge Kennedy responded that he had thought it important for the service members “to know that I had considered their point of view.”

In 1986, a month after the Supreme Court upheld a Georgia law that made gay sex a crime in Bowers v. Hardwick, Judge Kennedy, not yet a justice, gave a speech at Stanford expressing reservations about the ruling. He contrasted it to a 1981 decision from the European Court of Human Rights striking down a similar law in Northern Ireland.

Seventeen years later, Justice Kennedy cited the European court’s decision in his majority opinion in Lawrence v. Texas, which overruled Bowers.

“Its continuance as precedent demeans the lives of homosexual persons,” Justice Kennedy wrote.

Justice Harry A. Blackmun, who wrote the majority opinion in 1973 in Roe v. Wade, which established a constitutional right to abortion, warned Justice Kennedy to expect harsh criticism when he stood up for gay rights.

“Monday’s decision took courage,” Justice Blackmun wrote to Justice Kennedy, praising his majority opinion in 1996 in Romer v. Evans. “You undoubtedly now will receive a lot of critical and even hateful mail. I have had that experience.”

Justice Kennedy replied: “No one told us it was an easy job when we signed on.”

These days, Professor Dorf said, there is more praise than criticism, and Justice Kennedy has joined a select group.

“What Earl Warren was to civil rights and what Ruth Bader Ginsburg was to women’s rights,” he said, “Kennedy is to gay rights.”
41 2013-09-02 The Japanese animation director Hayao Miyazaki will retire from filmmaking, according to a report on Variety’s Web site. Mr. Miyazaki, 72, has directed 11 animated features over 34 years, including “My Neighbor Totoro,” “Princess Mononoke” and “Spirited Away,” which won an Oscar for best animated feature in 2003. Koji Hoshino, who is the president of Mr. Miyazaki’s production company, made the announcement on Sunday at the Venice Film Festival, where Mr. Miyazaki’s latest work, “The Wind Rises,” was shown. “Miyazaki has decided that ‘Kaze Tachinu’ (‘The Wind Rises’) will be his last film, and he will now retire,” Mr. Hoshino said. More details are to be revealed at a news conference in Tokyo next week. The language of the announcement does leave the door open for Mr. Miyazaki to work on shorter projects.

“The Wind Rises” has been met with some controversy in Japan and in South Korea. The film is a fictional account on the life of Jiro Horikoshi, the engineer who designed the Mitsubishi A6M Zero, a fighter plane used in the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. Some Japanese conservatives have criticized Mr. Miyazaki for the film’s antiwar stance, while a number of South Korean Internet users have accused him of romanticizing the inventor of a plane that became a symbol for the Japanese military during World War II.

In a 2011 interview with Cut Magazine, translated into English in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Miyazaki explained his reasoning for making the film: “My wife and my staff would ask me, ‘Why make a story about a man who made weapons of war?’ ” he said. “And I thought they were right. But one day, I heard that Horikoshi had once murmured, ‘All I wanted to do was to make something beautiful.’ And then I knew I’d found my subject.” “The Wind Rises,” has made more than $80 million at the box office in six weeks in Japan.

Disney announced last week that it would handle theatrical distribution in the United States, although no release date has been set. The movie is slated to be shown this month at the Toronto International Film Festival and the New York Film Festival.
42 2013-09-02 ATLANTA — The final event at the 3rd World Youth Open Championships here last month was the Board-a-Match Teams.

The winners were from Turkey: Erkmen Aydogdu, Akin Koclar, Altug Gobekli, Berk Gokce, Muhammet Ozgur and Sarper Uslupehlivan. They finished two points ahead of Australia: Ellena Moskovsky, Lauren Travis, the brothers Justin and Nathan Howard, Max Henbest and Peter Hollands. Third, another three points back, was the American team of Anthony Lee, Ryan Wessels, Frank Lin and Kevin Rosenberg.

The Junior Knockout Teams winners (Marius Agica, Adam Kaplan, Owen Lien and brothers Adam and Zach Grossack) had a chance to gain a medal, but in the last round, against the team that came second to last, both of their pairs sat North-South. This resulted in an under-average score, which left the team fifth, four points behind third.

The winners showed better bidding judgment and good declarer play in the diagramed deal.

Aces are great, worth more than four points. At the other table, South opened one no-trump, showing 15 to 17 points. This was a definite underbid with four aces and a five-card suit. Gobekli (West) made a debatable two-heart overcall. (A good rule of thumb is to have at least a six-card suit, especially when you have a balanced hand.) After two passes, South rebid two spades, which was passed out. This contract came home with an overtrick, declarer losing one trick in each suit.

At the other table, Ozgur (South) correctly upgraded his hand, opening one spade. After West overcalled two hearts, and Uslupehlivan (North) made an aggressive negative double, promising length in the minors (but usually more high-card power at this level), South rebid three no-trump.

West led his fourth-highest heart. South won with his jack, cashed the diamond ace, played a diamond to dummy’s queen and led a third diamond to West’s king.
43 2013-09-02 Gareth Bale is gone. Even after officials spent months issuing don’t-even-talk-about-it, don’t-even-think-about-it, no-seriously-stop-thinking-about-it statements regarding any potential sale of Bale, a midfielder who was last season’s player of the year, the North London club surprised absolutely no one on Sunday when it sent him to .

Bale’s transfer price, believed to be 100 million euros (about $130 million), puts him in a class by himself. If confirmed, the fee would be the highest paid for a player. But while that largess may make Bale unique — at least until next summer, when ’s magic money men lock in on their next fascination — there is one area in which Bale, a Welshman, is most certainly not alone: he is a star who spurned .

Look at the list of big-money transfers this summer. Neymar ( ) and Bale (Madrid) went to . Mario Götze ( ) stayed in . Edinson Cavani ( ), Radamel Falcao ( ) and Marquinhos (P.S.G.) went to . Even if pulls off a last-minute move for Mesut Özil, as has been speculated, five of the six most lucrative moves completed during this transfer period will have sent players somewhere other than the Premier League, generally regarded as the best league in the world.

There are a number of possible explanations for this seeming incongruence. The more physical style of play in England may be less appealing to some players; the league-imposed financial restrictions on English clubs may hold down gratuitous spending on players (relatively speaking); and the depth of competition in England may give a star pause before he commits to a team that will have a less-than-guaranteed opportunity to play in the Champions League. In addition, winters in England are brutal.

Any one of these explanations is feasible, and all very likely have some measure of truth.

“It’s a bit of a traffic jam, in a lot of ways, in the Premier League,” said Laurent Dubois, an author and professor at Duke who writes often about the intersection of soccer and politics. “There are a number of reasons why a star player might go somewhere else, and a lot of it depends on that specific situation.”
44 2013-09-02 The commute is coordinated from a room behind Arthur Ashe Stadium. The numbers are dizzying: 175 cars, 75 buses, 1,300 rides a day, 1.1 million miles logged during the tournament.

Dozens of the drivers are former law enforcement officers. “They can deal with the traffic — and player anxiety,” said Roy D. Fugazy, the president of Fugazy Sports & Entertainment, the transportation company that works with the Open.

The traffic slog is part of what makes the Open distinct from the other major tournaments, which are set in more peaceful locations, like Wimbledon, Melbourne and the outskirts of Paris.

Here, as New Yorkers know all too well, the commute does not always go so well.

Dmitry Tursunov, a Russian player ranked 34th, said his car did not show up Tuesday at his hotel to take him to Queens, forcing him to find a car pool.

“We’re talking about the U.S. Open, which spends a ridiculous amount of money,” he said. “A lot of players complain about it, a lot of players have problems with transportation.”

When Open organizers surveyed the players about their experiences after previous tournaments, officials said the top complaint was always the same: transportation. Those complaints make their way to the desk of F. Skip Gilbert, a senior official with the United States Tennis Association. He is responsible for, among other things, making sure all of the players make it through the tunnels and across the bridges in time for their matches.

“It is thankless, and we know that there are going to be times, thanks to a car breaking down, or weather, or incredible traffic or something goes on, you’re going to run a minute late and you’re going to expect to get criticized,” Gilbert said. “And if you do, you smile and say, ‘Yes, we’re very sorry and we’ll try not to do it again.’ ”

He and his team manage the commutes from a small office on the stadium grounds, where nearly a dozen dispatchers pore over color-coded spreadsheets.Multilingual workers field questions and remind players of their pickup times. Radio dispatches fill the air from dawn to dusk.

Fugazy, the contractor who oversees the cars, said that when he began handling the Open transportation in 2006, his team had to travel among about 15 pickup locations. Now, they pick up athletes at more than 200 places.

He said he worked to match players with chauffeurs who will suit their temperament. “You have certain players that have their nuances, their needs, and we’re managing their expectations, so we marry them with certain drivers,” Fugazy said.

This year marked the debut of a software system designed to manage the Open’s fleet of 250 player vehicles and buses.

The software creates a profile for each player that includes hotel addresses and match times. Players typically ride in their own car, but Fugazy sometimes has to resort to car pools, sparking occasional grumbles.

Mornings are the busiest times as cars from the Open swarm around hotels — like the Grand Hyatt, the Waldorf-Astoria and the Le Parker Meridien — in search of athletes toting large racket bags. Players are advised to allow 45 to 60 minutes for the drive. But there can be additional obstacles. Like Labor Day weekend traffic, and special trips to the airport for losing players.

Nevertheless, tennis officials are willing to bend the rules for top players, like Andy Murray, Fugazy said.

“We know if Mr. Murray needs an extra car, we’re probably more likely to provide that because he’s earned the right to have that kind of consideration,” Gilbert said.

Some players are sanguine about the traffic woes.

“I think they’re trying their level best,” said Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi, a 12th-ranked doubles player from Pakistan. “But, unfortunately, just New York City, man.”

Unfortunately, a bad commute can affect a player’s game. Caroline Wozniacki, a Danish player ranked eighth, said her car was late Thursday. She still won her match in two sets, but she said the drive threw off her routine.

“I was a bit stressed after my first round,” she said. “When there’s a little bit of traffic, and then the car is 10 minutes late, then all of a sudden, you’re like, under pressure.”
45 2013-09-03 Microsoft just purchased Nokia's cell phone division. Will the move help the company in the crowded smartphone market? Nick Bilton, Bits columnist, takes a look at the competition.
46 2013-09-03 The tourist-heavy summer months of 2013 saw attendance fall by 8 percent compared to the same period last year, but high prices brought overall sales slightly higher....
47 2013-09-03 It’s hard to understand why Microsoft bought Nokia. But the purchase won’t affect the fortunes of Windows Phone....
48 2013-09-03 Recent statistics show that the incidence of involuntary part-time work is positively correlated with a state’s unemployment rate, evidence that it is the job market at work, not the Affordable Care Act, an economist writes....
49 2013-09-03 Kathy Karadza, sewing machine close by, is constantly coming to the rescue of players at the tennis tournament, be it to repair a rip or to affix a patch from a last-minute sponsor....
50 2013-09-03 Tuesday’s United States Open food review: the roasted summer vegetable sandwich at Farm 2 Fork....
51 2013-09-03 The prospect of Nokia shedding its core business – the longtime pride of Finland – weighed heavily on the potential deal....
52 2013-09-03 One owner says she is having trouble pitching clients and budgeting because she does not know what her costs will be....
53 2013-09-03 DFS Group, Hong Kong, the luxury travel retail chain that is part of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, named Profero, New York, as its global digital agency of record, a new assignment. Billings were not disclosed.

Doug Dome joined All Terrain, Chicago, in a new post, president. He had most recently been president of Dome Consulting and has also worked for agencies like Dome Communications, Dome HK, Carmichael Lynch Spong and Foote Cone & Belding.

Toto Ellis joined the new London office of Droga5 as head of strategy. He had most recently been head of strategy at TBWA London, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Espalhe, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, which specializes in digital and social media marketing, sold a majority stake to the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed. Espalhe will operate under its current management and be renamed the Espalhe MSLGroup, becoming part of the MSLGroup division of the Publicis Groupe.

Neil James joined Solve, Minneapolis, as a digital strategist. He had been a digital strategist at Russell Herder, Minneapolis.

Scott Kronick, president at Ogilvy Public Relations, North Asia, part of the Ogilvy Public Relations unit of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, was named president and chief executive at Ogilvy Public Relations, Asia-Pacific. He succeeds Steve Dahllof, who will retire, the agency said, at the end of the year. Mr. Kronick, who will continue to be based in Beijing, is to assume Mr. Dahllof’s duties on Jan. 1, 2014.

Jack Link’s beef jerky, sold by Link Snacks, Minong, Wis., named Space150, Minneapolis, its digital agency of record, handling online, mobile, social media, content creation and e-mail marketing. Billings were not disclosed. The account had been handled by Atomic Playpen, Minneapolis.

Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, part of the Martin/Williams division of the Omnicom Group, hired five employees. They are: Kathleen Heist, engagement analyst; Carmen Nesenson, interaction planner; Michael Smith, media analyst; Bryce Wandling, motion design editor; and Laura Wiering, account manager.

McDonald’s Boston Region restaurants awarded their local marketing account to H&L Partners, San Francisco, formerly Hoffman Lewis, which will open an office in Boston to handle the assignment. Billings were not disclosed. The account — for almost 600 stores from Maine to Connecticut and also the Albany area -- had previously been handled by Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas. H&L Partners also creates campaigns for McDonald’s restaurants in Northern California and St. Louis.

Courtney Mullen joined LevLane, Philadelphia, in a new post, digital media supervisor. She had been a search manager at the Philadelphia office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

NCC Media, New York, has added Dish Network to its I+ (Interconnected Plus) initiative, which offers advertisers commercial inventory from cable, satellite and telecommunications companies like Comcast, Cox and Time Warner Cable.

Patrick O’Hara joined Gyro in a new post, global chief strategy officer, based in the New York office. He had most recently been running his own consultancies, Table Consulting, and before that, Prospero Consulting; he also worked at agencies like Anderson & Lembke and Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners.

Sankar Patel joined Livefyre, San Francisco, as vice president for native advertising, leading a new social native advertising platform. He had been vice president and group director for digital at the San Francisco office of Carat USA, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network unit of Dentsu.

Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, expanded its relationship with Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., by awarding the agency the creative assignment for the Herbal Essences line of hair-care products, which had been handled by the Atelier division of Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe. Spending was estimated at more than $20 million.

Redscout, New York, part of MDC Partners, hired three senior-level employees. They are: Arian Franz, senior designer; Olivier Gregoire, senior industrial designer; and Colin Kelly, senior industrial designer.

Gary Sheffer, vice president for corporate communications and public relations at General Electric, was elected chairman of the Arthur W. Page Society, New York, for 2014. He will succeed Jon Iwata, senior vice president for marketing and communications at I.B.M.

Dean Stefanides joined Sewall Road/Spud Partners, New York, part of Sewall Road Partners, as partner and chief creative officer, with a goal of creating wine and spirits brands. He had been executive vice president and executive art director at the New York office of Cramer-Krasselt. The move reunites Mr. Stefanides with Norman Schwartz, managing partner and chief executive at Sewall Road/Spud Partners; they previously worked together on introducing and popularizing Yellow Tail wine.

Daniel Vassallo joined the New York office of Starcom USA in a new post, vice president and digital director for the Novartis account. He had been vice president for performance media, search and social marketing at the Jar Group, Brooklyn. Starcom USA is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Larry Williamson joined Barker DZP, New York, in a new post, creative technologist. He had most recently been a freelance developer and before that worked at Monster Media.

Jeff Zoss joined Grocery Shopping Network, Minneapolis, as vice president for national sales. He succeeds John Gaughan, who became vice president for digital media. Mr. Zoss had been senior account executive at the Minneapolis office of ValueClick.
54 2013-09-03 Since William Ackman sold his 18 percent stake in Penney, Glenview Capital Management and Hayman Capital Management have become some of its largest stockholders....
55 2013-09-03 Now that Microsoft has thrown its financial muscle behind Nokia, BlackBerry is left to find another suitor....
56 2013-09-03 Roger Federer held fast to a game plan that seemed better suited for playing Rafael Nadal than Tommy Robredo....
57 2013-09-03 The acclaimed London production of the Stephen Sondheim-George Furth musical “Merrily We Roll Along” will be shown in movie theaters on Oct. 23....
58 2013-09-03 Five business stories to watch. How to terminate an employee you don’t want to terminate. Nine Israeli start-ups....
59 2013-09-03 Nissan had sent out a technical service bulletin to dealers with repair instructions for C.V.T. fluid leaks....
60 2013-09-03 Microsoft to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion. | Verizon is betting the American desire for cellphones and broadband services is far from being sated. | A new book asks whether advice from McKinsey & Compan...
61 2013-09-03 Microsoft could help Nokia keep customers who are transitioning from lower-end feature phones, rather than let them escape to an Apple iPhone or Google Android ecosystem....
62 2013-09-03 Microsoft says it has reached an agreement to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion, in an audacious effort to transform Microsoft’s business for a mobile era that has largely passed it by....
63 2013-09-03 Who would have thought the match of the day would feature the 32-year-old Lleyton Hewitt against the 31-year-old Mikhail Youzhny?...
64 2013-09-03 A megadeal between Nokia and Microsoft of the sort announced Monday night is something that pundits and analysts have speculated about for years, after Mr. Elop joined Nokia and signed a pact with Microsoft in February 2011 to standardize on the software company’s Windows Phone operating system.

The fortunes of the two companies in the mobile business have become closely intertwined since that agreement, but it has done little to turn either company into a leader in the mobile business. Windows Phone accounted for only 3.7 percent of smartphone shipments in the second quarter, according to the technology research firm IDC.

Nokia remains the second-largest shipper of mobile phones in the world after Samsung, but that is largely because of lower-end feature phones, from which consumers are moving away. Nokia is no longer among the top five makers of smartphones.

A big question is whether Microsoft and Nokia will succeed as one company where they have not as close partners. Mr. Ballmer said Microsoft and Nokia have not been as agile separately as they will be jointly, citing how development could be slowed down when intellectual property rights were held by two different companies. “There’s friction,” he said.

Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner, says she believes the deal could help the companies respond more quickly to the dynamism of the mobile market. “They need to move faster,” she said.

Large acquisitions are fraught with peril, especially in the technology business, where there are challenges to integrating employees from different backgrounds into a coherent whole.

The Nokia deal echoes Google’s $12.5 billion deal to acquire Motorola Mobility, which gave it control of a trove of mobile patents and a handset business that has yet to shine under Google’s ownership.

While Microsoft still has enormous stockpiles of cash from its lucrative software business, there has been widespread speculation about how long Nokia could make it as an independent company, given how the spoils of the industry have gravitated to companies like Apple and Samsung. For Microsoft, there was risk that Nokia could have ended up as an acquisition target for another company, creating uncertainty around the future of their earlier business partnership.

Microsoft will pay about $5 billion for Nokia’s devices and services business and $2.18 billion to license Nokia’s patents. After it sells its high profile handset operations, Nokia will be left with three primary businesses: network infrastructure and services; mapping and location services; and a technology development and licensing unit.

The company will continue to do business as Nokia, licensing the Nokia name to Microsoft for use on its mobile phones for 10 years. “For Nokia today, it’s a moment of reinvention,” Risto Siilasmaa, the chairman of Nokia’s board, said in an interview.

Mr. Siilasmaa also assumed the title of interim chief executive. Since Mr. Elop plans to join Microsoft after the deal is closed, which is expected to happen in the first quarter of 2014, he resigned as chief executive and relinquished his Nokia board seat to avoid conflicts of interest. He has become a Nokia executive vice president, reporting to Mr. Siilasmaa.

Mr. Ballmer declined to say whether Mr. Elop, considered a leading contender to be his successor because of his familiarity with Microsoft and the importance of mobile to Microsoft’s future, will be considered for the job. “Our board is running an open succession process, considering internal and external candidates,” he said.

“I think it strengthens his potential for C.E.O.,” said Ms. Milanesi, the Gartner analyst. “It makes perfect sense.”

Mr. Elop, a native of Canada whose family still lives in the Seattle area, said in an interview that he believes the industry is at a “tipping point” where a third mobile phone ecosystem, based on Windows Phone, will emerge as a more vibrant alternative to the iPhone and devices running Google’s Android operating system.

In a sign of how vital Nokia’s partnership has become to Microsoft, Mr. Ballmer said the first calls he made outside Microsoft to discuss his retirement and succession planning at the company were to Mr. Elop and Mr. Siilasmaa.

Mr. Ballmer said his conversations with Nokia about an acquisition “heated up in the last several months,” but started during a mobile industry conference in Barcelona in late February.

For Microsoft, there is also an attractive financial dimension to the deal. Because Nokia is based in Finland, Microsoft can use a portion of its foreign-held cash to pay for the acquisition, allowing it to avoid hefty taxes it would otherwise pay to bring the cash back to the United States. Microsoft took a similar approach to its $8.5 billion deal to acquire Skype, the largest deal in its history.

The plan to buy Nokia is likely to upset the other companies that use Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating system on their devices, notably HTC and, to a lesser extent, Samsung. But there is little business there for Microsoft to lose. Mr. Ballmer said that Nokia’s phone currently counts for more than 80 percent of the Windows Phones sold.
65 2013-09-03 Nearly 200 staff members at the Khmer Rouge tribunal, which is supported by the United Nations, have gone on strike to demand wages that are several months overdue, a court spokesman said Monday. A majority of the court’s Cambodian employees, including interpreters and translators essential to the court’s functions, did not show up for work on Monday because their wages had not been paid since June, said the spokesman, Neth Pheaktra. Budgetary shortfalls, along with the defendants’ advanced age and poor health, have raised concerns that the tribunal’s trial may grind to a halt. A United Nations spokesman at the court, Lars Olsen, said the strike threatened to delay proceedings at the tribunal, which was set up to seek justice for atrocities committed by the Khmer Rouge in the late 1970s. An estimated 1.7 million Cambodians died under the Khmer Rouge as a result of forced labor, starvation, medical neglect and executions.
66 2013-09-03 “The Fight for Voting Rights, 50 Years Later” (editorial, Aug. 28) correctly states that the voter suppression measures taken in states across the country make clear “the need for comprehensive and lasting protection of voting rights.”

While it is important to reform the Voting Rights Act, the best way to ensure full protection of our voting rights is to include a guaranteed right to vote in our Constitution.

Contrary to popular belief, although the Constitution prohibits discrimination in voting based on race, gender and age, it does not explicitly provide Americans with an affirmative right to vote.

Thus, we have seen efforts to restrict access to the polls through measures like voter ID laws in states across the country, including in my home state, Wisconsin.

Enshrining the right to vote through an amendment, like the one proposed by me and Representative Keith Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat, would switch the burden of proof from the voter to the states, which would have to demonstrate a compelling reason for a voting-law change.

This added protection is essential for what should be our most fundamental right, the right to vote.
67 2013-09-03 LONDON — Evidence of a rebound in manufacturing activity in China and Europe helped stock markets rise in much of the world on Monday, although Wall Street’s closure for Labor Day kept trading volumes light.

In Britain, the FTSE 100 added 1.5 percent, to close at 6,506.19. Much of that gain came from Vodafone, which is selling its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless to Verizon Communications. Confirmation of that $130 billion deal came after trading in London had closed, but Vodafone’s shares closed up 3.4 percent on expectations of the purchase.

Germany’s DAX index ended the day up 1.7 percent, to 8,243.87 while France’s CAC-40 was up 1.8 percent, to 4,006.01. Italian and Spanish stocks also advanced after surveys showed that manufacturing activity rose in the two countries, which are in recession and have been focal points of Europe’s debt crisis.

Global market sentiment was also bolstered by two surveys that showed China’s manufacturing sector improved last month after prolonged weakness.

The HSBC purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.1 points in August, a level that indicates expansion as output and new orders edged up slightly and order backlogs rose at the fastest pace in two years. The official China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing P.M.I. rose to 51.0 from July’s 50.3, which was the highest level and biggest increase this year.

On Monday, the leading stock indexes in Japan, Hong Kong and Australia all rose more than 1 percent.

Crude oil for October delivery declined $1.08, to $106.57 a barrel, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange as fears of an imminent American military strike on Syria continued to fade.
68 2013-09-03 Giants wide receiver Victor Cruz returned to practice Monday, running pass routes with the starting lineup and making cuts on his bruised left heel with no apparent discomfort. Cruz said after practice that he expected to play in Sunday night’s season opener against the Dallas Cowboys.

“I’m pretty much ahead of schedule,” Cruz said. “They were predicting a couple more weeks.”

Two others who have missed recent practices — defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul and fullback Henry Hynoski — were also on the field. Hynoski, who had knee surgery in May, said he was not limited and seemed hopeful about playing on Sunday. Pierre-Paul, recovering from back surgery, was noncommittal about his status.

JETS SIGN QUINN The Jets signed quarterback Brady Quinn, adding a veteran backup while Mark Sanchez recovers from a shoulder injury.

Quinn’s arrival is the latest sign that the rookie Geno Smith is set to start Sunday in the season opener against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Jets, who also have Matt Simms as a backup, released Graham Harrell, who was brought in Wednesday.

NEW BACKUP IN GREEN BAY The Packers have signed quarterback Seneca Wallace just days after he was released by the San Francisco 49ers, Green Bay’s opening opponent.
69 2013-09-03 But as the time passed and the uncertainty lingered, some county clerks took matters into their own hands.

The first among them, Lynn Ellins of Doña Ana County — where Governor Martinez began her political career — said he was tired of waiting when, on Aug. 21, he began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples from his office in , an increasingly liberal city in the largely conservative southern part of the state. Five other county clerks followed, though not until a court order gave them justification and permission, a move that also served to limit the legal options available to stop them.

The court order, which was issued Aug. 26 by an Albuquerque judge, Alan M. Malott, established that “implying conditions of sexual orientation on one’s right to enter civil contracts such as marriage” was a violation of the equal-protection clause in the state’s Constitution.

William E. Sharer, a Republican state senator from Farmington, in northern New Mexico, and the loudest voice of opposition, said that the court order “complicates things,” and he characterized the clerks’ moves as “pure lawlessness.” Still, late on Friday, Mr. Sharer sued Mr. Ellins to stop him from granting any more marriage licenses.

Terry H. McMillan, a Republican state representative from Las Cruces — who had considered joining Mr. Sharer’s lawsuit, but backed away because, he said, he was ultimately not opposed to same-sex marriage — conceded in an interview that marriage equality in New Mexico was “an inevitability.”

The clerks have shifted their focus to the state’s . They are joining one of the lawsuits filed by same-sex couples so they can appeal Judge Malott’s ruling, which is limited to Bernalillo and Santa Fe Counties, both defendants in the lawsuit, and try to force a statewide resolution.

For their part, elected officials from both parties are contemplating the political price they may have to pay for their stance on same-sex marriage.

The state’s Democratic Party has worked hard to take ownership of the issue, using it to bolster its narrative of New Mexico’s gradual tilt to the left on social issues. In an interview, the party’s chairman, Sam Bregman, noted the lack of protests after clerks began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples in San Miguel County, home to many Roman Catholic Hispanic families, and County, where evangelical churches have recently multiplied. (The Valencia County clerk, Peggy Carabajal, is the sole Republican among the clerks issuing the licenses. She won her election in 2012 by 26 votes.)

“We’re going to prove that the here in New Mexico is on the wrong side of history,” Mr. Bregman said.

Political observers here acknowledged that the position is a bit of a gamble — but also that risks exist for all sides.

Republicans need conservative Democratic voters to win statewide office, which could help explain Governor Martinez’s reluctance to publicly engage in the debate over same-sex marriage — and also Mr. King’s noncommittal stance. He is regarded as a leading contender for the Democratic nomination for governor, which means that he would be vying for support from the same group of constituents, the state’s most reliable set of swing voters, in a general election.

Silence, however, might also antagonize both parties’ bases.

Brian Sanderoff, a New Mexico pollster, said evangelical megachurches in Albuquerque, for example, could successfully mobilize opposition in primary races against Republican candidates who did not speak strongly against same-sex marriage.

What most people are hoping for is a definitive ruling from the state’s Supreme Court, but the outcome also has its wrinkles. If the court legalizes same-sex marriage, conservative legislators might push for a ballot question to give voters the ultimate say. But if there is a ballot question, liberal and progressive voters would most likely mobilize in droves, posing a challenge for Governor Martinez, who is up for re-election next year.

“The last thing the governor wants is a bunch of liberal, young voters going to the polls,” Mr. Sanderoff said.

They have already proved they are able to organize quickly and cheaply. Pat Davis, executive director of ProgressNow New Mexico, an advocacy group, said the mass wedding ceremony outside the county building here came together in less than 24 hours and cost $50, mostly because so many of the organizers volunteered their time and labor.

One of the group’s interns asked college friends to design fliers, and then they each pitched in to pay for printing them. Flower shops offered discounted rates for arrangements that adorned a makeshift podium Mr. Davis had kept from another event and transported in his car.

About 200 people gathered for the wedding, including Ms. Oliver, the Bernalillo County clerk, who took a rainbow-color rose to her office afterward, a souvenir to mark the record 136 marriage licenses — 130 of them for same-sex couples — that her office issued that day.
70 2013-09-03 There was widespread consensus among French officials that the Assad government was culpable even before the intelligence report was published Monday, however, so it was not clear what impact the document would have.

The lower house of the French Parliament has scheduled a special session about Syria on Wednesday, but no vote is planned. Several government ministers, including Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, met with top legislators on Monday.

The leader of the opposition in Parliament, Christian Jacob, said afterward that an intervention “could only be justified in the framework of the United Nations.” He expressed concern that France was out of step with its neighbors, including Germany, which has made clear that it would participate militarily only in operations backed by the United Nations. “Why is there no European country, not a single European country as an ally?” he asked.

Alain Juppé, a former prime minister and foreign minister and a respected figure of the opposition center-right, said in a speech on Monday that “even if the Constitution does not require it, I think that in such a context, the Parliament should express itself by a vote, so that the president of the republic can at least rely upon the backing of the national representation.” Mr. Juppé called upon Mr. Hollande to publicly detail his strategy for intervention.

Some on the left have issued similar calls, including the Greens party and a small number of Socialists, as well as the leftist national newspaper Libération.

“After the British dropping out and Barack Obama’s sudden rediscovery of his Congress, François Hollande finds himself quite alone in wanting to hold his war in Syria,” the newspaper said in an editorial on Monday. Under France’s “monarchic constitution,” the president has “every power to make war,” Libération acknowledged. “But can he today be the only head of state to employ force without a vote of the national representation, without even a speech?”

Mr. Hollande, a Socialist, is backed by majorities in both houses of Parliament. Though recent polls indicate that the French public opposes intervention in Syria by a narrow margin, most legislators are thought to favor it.

Mr. Hollande has notably received the public support of the leader of the center-right Union for a Popular Movement party, Jean-François Copé.

“In this blocked situation” in Syria, Mr. Copé said in an interview published Monday in Le Monde, “the first urgent priority is to react in an extremely firm manner in the face of what I view as the unacceptable. The use of chemical gas, if proven, constitutes a crime against humanity.”

French officials say they will await the decision of the American Congress before taking any action, however, not least because France and other NATO allies usually depend on American logistical support for operations overseas.

Still, a decision by Washington against intervention would not “call into question the principle of a sanction” against the Assad government, said Romain Nadal, a diplomatic spokesman for Mr. Hollande. “France will not act alone,” however, and would seek an alternative coalition, Mr. Nadal said. Its possible composition was not clear.

The French intelligence report released Monday largely matched the conclusions of an unclassified summary of American intelligence released Friday, which linked the Syrian government to the chemical attack with “high certainty.” The American government said the attack killed at least 1,429 people.

Though much of the debate in France has been focused on the role of Parliament, there are also growing doubts about the wisdom of any military intervention. “It is not France’s place to intervene in Syria,” the rightist newspaper Le Figaro said Monday in an editorial. “Does one know what chain reaction an intervention, even initially ‘proportionate,’ will set off?”

To respond to the Damascus chemical attack with airstrikes “would be to fall into Assad’s trap,” the newspaper wrote. It recommended instead that France “put a bit of coherence in our Syrian policy,” but it did not elaborate.
71 2013-09-03 An excerpt from a 2010 essay by Natalie Angier that objected to “the odious and increasingly pervasive term ‘STEM education.’”...
72 2013-09-03 MOSCOW — Countries often issue travel advisories warning citizens of danger abroad: war, for instance, or a terrorist threat or an outbreak of disease. The Russian Foreign Ministry posted advice of a somewhat different nature on Monday, cautioning people wanted by the United States not to visit nations that have an extradition treaty with it.

“Warning for Russian citizens traveling internationally,” the Foreign Ministry bulletin said. “Recently, detentions of Russian citizens in various countries, at the request of American law enforcement, have become more frequent — with the goal of extradition and legal prosecution in the United States.”

Citing examples in Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Lithuania and Spain, the Foreign Ministry said, “Experience shows that the judicial proceedings against those who were in fact kidnapped and taken to the U.S. are of a biased character, based on shaky evidence, and clearly tilted toward conviction.”

Extradition has frequently been a contentious issue between Russia and the United States, but the disagreements have been particularly sharp in recent months over the case of Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who is wanted on criminal espionage charges but has been granted temporary asylum in Russia.

In response to the demands by the Obama administration for Mr. Snowden’s return, Russian officials have said the United States has routinely ignored extradition requests from Russia. Russia has also complained about the arrests of Russian citizens by the United States or by other countries at the Americans’ request.
73 2013-09-03 Female students are catching up or surpassing male counterparts in math and science, yet the fields like engineering and computer science remain male dominated....
74 2013-09-03 But Mr. McCain said in an interview that Mr. Obama did not say specifically what weapons might be provided to the opposition or discuss in detail what Syrian targets might be attacked.

“There was no concrete agreement, ‘O.K., we got a deal,' ” Mr. McCain said. “Like a lot of things, the devil is in the details.”

In remarks to reporters outside the West Wing, he called the meeting “encouraging,” urged lawmakers to support Mr. Obama in his plan for military action in Syria and said a no vote in Congress would be “catastrophic” for the United States and its credibility in the world. Mr. McCain said he believed after his conversation with the president that any strikes would be “very serious” and not “cosmetic.”

Although the words from Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham were a positive development for Mr. Obama and a critical part of the administration’s lobbying blitz on Syria on Monday, the White House still faces a tough fight in Congress. Many lawmakers entirely oppose a strike, and others favor a resolution that would provide for more limited military action than what is in a draft resolution that the White House has sent to Capitol Hill. The conflict of opinion underscores Mr. Obama’s challenge in winning votes in the House and Senate next week and avoiding personal defeat.

A Labor Day conference call with five of Mr. Obama’s highest-ranking security advisers drew 127 House Democrats, nearly two-thirds their total number, after 83 lawmakers of both parties attended a classified briefing on Sunday. Pertinent committees are returning to Washington early from a Congressional recess for hearings this week, starting Tuesday with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which will hear from Secretary of State John Kerry, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

“The debate is shifting away from ‘Did he use chemical weapons?’ to ‘What should be done about it?' ” said Representative Adam B. Schiff, a California Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, in an interview after the Monday conference call.

The push in Washington came as reaction continued around the world to the president’s abrupt decision over the weekend to change course and postpone a military strike to seek authorization from Congress first.

In France, the only nation to offer vigorous support for an American attack, there were rising calls for a parliamentary vote like the one last week in Britain, where lawmakers jolted the White House with a rejection of a British military attack. But the French government, in an effort to bolster its case, released a declassified summary of French intelligence that it said ties Mr. Assad’s government to the use of chemical weapons on Aug. 21.

In Russia, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov dismissed as unconvincing the evidence presented by Mr. Kerry of chemical weapons use by the Syrian government. “We were shown certain pieces of evidence that did not contain anything concrete, neither geographical locations, nor names, nor evidence that samples had been taken by professionals,” Mr. Lavrov said in a speech at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations.

In Israel, President Shimon Peres offered strong support for Mr. Obama’s decision to seek the backing of Congress, saying he had faith in the president’s “moral and operational” position. “I recommend patience,” Mr. Peres said in an interview on Army Radio. “I am confident that the United States will respond appropriately to Syria.”

In Washington, the White House’s “flood the zone” effort, as one official called it, will continue. Classified briefings will be held for all House members and senators on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.

On Tuesday, Mr. Obama has invited the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate defense, foreign affairs and intelligence committees to the White House. But that night, he will depart on a long-planned foreign trip, first to Sweden and then to Russia for the annual Group of 20 summit meeting of major industrialized and developing nations, a forum that is sure to be dominated by talk of Syria, and bring Mr. Obama face to face with Mr. Assad’s chief ally and arms supplier, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

House Democrats on the conference call with administration officials, which lasted 70 minutes, said Mr. Kerry, who has been the most aggressive and public prosecutor for military action, took the lead. Democrats said he had portrayed not only the horrors of chemical weapons inflicted on Syrian civilians in the Aug. 21 attacks outside Damascus, but also the potential threat, if left unanswered, that such weapons posed to regional allies like Israel, Jordan and Turkey.

Mr. Kerry argued that inaction could embolden Iran or nonstate terrorists to strike those allies, and further encourage Iran and North Korea to press ahead with their nuclear programs.

“One of the important propositions that Kerry put to members was, are you willing to live with the consequences of doing nothing?” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, a Virginia Democrat.

The secretary of state addressed lawmakers’ concern that the United States should have international support. “The United States will not go it alone,” he said at one point, according to a senior Democrat who declined to be identified. Offers of “military assets” have come from France, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, he said, without identifying the assets, and more are expected.

In the week since the Obama administration began moving toward a military strike on the Assad government, Mr. Kerry said, the Syrian military has had about 100 defections, including 80 officers.

General Dempsey reviewed the range of possible targets and how the Pentagon is planning strikes that would minimize risk to civilians. Despite reports that Syrian commanders were moving troops and equipment into civilian neighborhoods, General Dempsey told lawmakers, as he had assured Mr. Obama, that delaying military action would not weaken the effectiveness of any military attack. He suggested that military officials would adjust their targets to address changes on the ground.

The general acknowledged that the United States could not prevent the Assad government from using chemical weapons again, but said the military had “additional options” should a first missile strike not deter a retaliatory strike by Mr. Assad, including in defense of critical allies, presumably Israel, Jordan and Turkey. That possibility, however, describes just the escalating conflict some opponents fear.

“My constituents are skeptical that a limited effort will not mushroom into a full-blown boots on the ground,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat.

Mr. McCain, who has been arguing for two years that the United States should support a moderate Syrian opposition, said he strongly urged the president on Monday to provide anti-tank and antiaircraft systems to the opposition and to attack the Syrian Air Force.

Mr. Obama indicated that “he favorably viewed the degrading of Bashar al-Assad’s capabilities as well as upgrading the Free Syrian Army,” Mr. McCain said in an interview.

Administration officials have told Congress that the C.I.A.'s program to arm the rebels would be deliberately limited at first to allow a trial run for American officials to monitor it before ramping up to a larger, more aggressive campaign. American officials have been wary that arms provided to the rebels could end up in the hands of Islamic extremists with ties to Al Qaeda.
75 2013-09-03 But like the housing booms and busts that have driven the economic prospects of the area over the last 25 years, the airport’s plight has left some to wonder if such ideas were too speculative.

Ontario’s experience mirrors that of other smaller airports in large markets — like Islip and Newburgh in New York — which expanded to handle added traffic only to see airlines pull back. The Inland Empire, which includes San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, continues to be one of the fastest-growing regions in California, with more than four million residents, but the lure is affordable housing, not high-paying jobs. The region is projected to have a double-digit unemployment rate through 2015. And last week, a judge cleared the way for the city of San Bernardino to declare bankruptcy.

“With the benefit of hindsight, it might have been overreaching when they expanded,” said Sampath Rajagopalan, a professor of data sciences and operations at the University of Southern California’s business school. “Airlines can never operate at a profit if they rely on consumer business. They need business passengers. Yes, there are a lot of people living there, but they are a lot more price-sensitive.”

It is not just the economy that has crippled the Ontario airport. There has been a change in the way airlines operate, analysts say, prizing profitability now more than market share, which has driven airlines away from smaller airports to larger ones nearby.

Southwest Airlines, the main tenant at Ontario, began there in 1985 with five daily flights to Phoenix. It once flew 64 flights a day from Ontario in the late ‘90s, but is now down to 35 flights a day. An additional reduction of 12 percent has been announced for January. At the same time, it has expanded service at Los Angeles International.

Brad Hawkins, a Southwest spokesman, said that cost “is by far the most important determinant in how we operate.” The company’s service to Ontario, he said, “is where it should be.”

This has left Ontario with a conundrum: declining flights mean that airports must charge airlines higher fees per passenger to recoup expenses, and Ontario’s fee of $11.12 per passenger was close to the $12.18 that Los Angeles International charged in the 2012-13 fiscal year, according to airport officials who set the fees.

And with high fees, airlines are more likely to move flights elsewhere to lower those costs — there are scant direct flights to the East Coast favored by business travelers — or raise fares to recoup them. While it was once regularly less expensive to fly out of Ontario than Los Angeles International, now it rarely is, Sean Nealon said as he returned from a trip to Montana.

“You can’t get a red-eye to New York like you used to,” said Mr. Nealon, who grew up near Buffalo.

Ontario’s decline stands in contrast to the region’s other smaller airports, like Burbank International, Long Beach and Orange County, which have mostly rebounded from the recession.

But as Ontario struggles, what has gained the most attention locally is the political tug of war over control of the airport.

Los Angeles World Airports, an agency of the city of Los Angeles, has operated Ontario and several other smaller airports along with Los Angeles International since the 1960s, when the largely rural area was happy not to have the task of running an airport. Now, though, a group of Inland Empire officials, headed by an Ontario city councilman, Alan Wapner, and a team of consultants and lawyers, have started a bid to take the airport back.

They have set up a shadow airport board and begun a public relations campaign that includes a Web site, setontariofree.com. In June, they fired their sharpest shot, filing a breach-of-contract lawsuit against Los Angeles in an effort to return control of Ontario to local officials. Mr. Wapner said that the airport agency had eliminated advertising, raised airline fees and neglected Ontario facilities, all with the purpose of driving business to Los Angeles International.

“Initially, we gave them the benefit of the doubt,” Mr. Wapner said in an interview. “We just said it’s mismanagement or miscalculation. But when you go from seven million to four million passengers in such a short period of time, it wasn’t accidental, it was intentional. There’s no vested interest for a city located 40 miles away in another county doing anything here that doesn’t service them. In fact, it’s just the opposite. If a business is here, they’re not using the services in L.A.”

Gina Marie Lindsey, the executive director of Los Angeles World Airports, declined to comment through a spokeswoman, citing the impending litigation. But Ontario’s city manager, Chris Hughes, who is leading negotiations, is hopeful that the newly elected mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, who has not announced if he will retain Ms. Lindsey, will be more open to returning the Ontario airport to local control than his predecessor, Antonio Villaraigosa.

The belief that a return of local control will ultimately lead to the boom in economic development around the airport is embraced in the area. But a few voices warn that it would not be a panacea.

“Local control isn’t a magic wand,” said Janice Rutherford, the chairwoman of the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors.

This spiral is not unlike what many in the Inland Empire know about the housing market, how one foreclosure can unleash a chain of events that soon leaves an entire neighborhood half-vacant.

“I can’t think of another situation like it,” said Jan Brueckner, an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine’s Institute of Transportation Studies. “It’s a great airport with good facilities that’s underutilized in the middle of millions of people. It’s the strangest thing.”
76 2013-09-03 MOSCOW — Russia’s foreign minister dismissed as unconvincing the evidence presented by Secretary of State John Kerry of chemical weapons use by the Syrian government, saying on Monday that the United States had fallen far short of making a case for international cooperation on military strikes against the government of President Bashar al-Assad.

“We were shown certain pieces of evidence that did not contain anything concrete, neither geographical locations, nor names, nor evidence that samples had been taken by professionals,” Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov said in a speech at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations.

Mr. Lavrov’s remarks signaled that Russia would continue to block the United Nations Security Council from authorizing military intervention against the Syrian government, even if the United States Congress grants President Obama the backing he has requested for an attack.

Mr. Lavrov initially appeared to have developed a strong working relationship with Mr. Kerry, a striking contrast with the often acrimonious relationship that Mr. Lavrov had with Mr. Kerry’s predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton. But the Kerry-Lavrov relationship has soured swiftly in recent weeks, particularly after Mr. Obama canceled a planned meeting in Moscow with President Vladimir V. Putin.

“What we were shown before and recently by our American partners, as well as by the British and French, does not convince us at all,” Mr. Lavrov said on Monday. “There are no facts, there is simply talk about ‘what we definitely know.’ But when you ask for more detailed evidence, they say that it is all classified, therefore it cannot be shown to us. This means there are not such facts to encourage international cooperation.”
77 2013-09-04 Bureaucracy, corruption and other problems have left companies unenthused about building factories and other projects in India.
78 2013-09-04 There had been speculation that Verizon Communications would buy two struggling Canadian start-up carriers, allowing it to bid for radio spectrum at a government auction....
79 2013-09-04 Wednesday’s United States Open food review: the vegetarian crepe at Sweet & Savory Crepes....
80 2013-09-04 Ms. Fleming created the role of Blanche DuBois in the inaugural production of André Previn’s opera based on the Tennessee Williams play....
81 2013-09-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
82 2013-09-04 Verizon’s deal, which included $61 billion in financing, highlights what bankers describe as the continued health of the debt markets....
83 2013-09-04 Microsoft’s $7.2 billion deal for Nokia’s phone units is an attempt to catapult the company up the ranks in the smartphone market, which has been dominated by more established players, like Apple and Google....
84 2013-09-04 Even though LinkedIn does not need the money, its plans to raise $1 billion through a stock sale looks a lot better for shareholders than an overpriced buyback....
85 2013-09-04 Mr. Swenson will replace Mr. Chase in the coming musical adaptation of the Oscar-nominated film....
86 2013-09-04 Julian Cihi, a recent New York University graduate, will star opposite Elizabeth Olsen in “Romeo and Juliet” Off Broadway....
87 2013-09-04 Monte Carlo techniques were used to determine each remaining man’s chances of winning the United States Open....
88 2013-09-04 It took a great deal of time and effort for Deb Weidenhamer to get “Chinafied” — but now she’s trying to make it easier for other small companies....
89 2013-09-04 Independent contractors. Promoted tweets. Orange Tuesday. And an intellectual property battle over “crabfries.”...
90 2013-09-04 If Turkey’s prime minister persists in playing politics with the economy, he risks losing his supporters among the business elite....
91 2013-09-04 Microsoft’s predicament is reminiscent of Apple’s in the early 1990s: high-quality products overlooked in a marketplace saturated by competitors, Nick Wingfield reports....
92 2013-09-04 A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought by Bank of America against two former Bear Stearns executives that accused them of lying about the health of their hedge funds....
93 2013-09-04 What you need to know in New York for Wednesday: a locavore Jewish New Year, gorgeous weather and a salute to a fashion designer....
94 2013-09-04 No. 8 Richard Gasquet and No. 4 David Ferrer won grueling matches in hot and humid conditions to reach the quarterfinals, and fitness may determine which one reaches the semifinals....
95 2013-09-04 Microsoft’s predicament is a flashback to the situation Apple found itself in during the early 1990s. At that time, Apple arguably had a superior computer product, the Macintosh, but it languished as PCs running Microsoft’s Windows operating system engulfed most of the market. One of the biggest problems for Apple then was that Microsoft had succeeded in gaining the allegiance of software developers, who produced a bounty of applications.

“They’re stuck in the same vicious cycle that Apple was in 20 years ago,” said Benedict Evans, an analyst with Enders Analysis, a research firm, and a former strategist in the wireless industry.

The challenges for the marriage of Nokia and Microsoft go far beyond support from developers. Microsoft is in the midst of the biggest organizational changes in its 38-year history. In mid-July, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, unveiled a plan to restructure the company’s often clashing fiefs into business groups intended to cooperate more.

While the new organization seemed to set up Mr. Ballmer as the maestro in charge of keeping the various groups in harmony, he stunned the tech industry late last month by announcing his plans to retire from Microsoft within 12 months. Mr. Ballmer said he was leaving earlier than planned because he felt the company needed a leader prepared to stay longer. That fueled speculation that Mr. Ballmer had been encouraged to leave by Microsoft’s board.

Blending a major acquisition into a company is challenging enough in times of calm. Doing so with the unexpected management change at Microsoft could make it even harder, tech industry executives and analysts said.

“The issue I wonder about is the amount of complexity Microsoft is taking on its business by absorbing Nokia at the same time it is reorganizing at the same time Windows 8 is faltering,” said Michael Mace, a former executive at Palm and Apple who now runs an app development company in Silicon Valley, Zekira. “It’s scary from that standpoint.”

While Mr. Ballmer plans to leave Microsoft after a successor is found, he was very much involved in cutting the Nokia deal. Over the last several months, Mr. Ballmer and his deputies met in places like Redmond, Wash., London and Helsinki with counterparts in the talks, led by Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia’s chairman. The style of Mr. Ballmer, an exuberant leader with a booming voice, was a stark contrast to the reserved, gentlemanly manner of Mr. Siilasmaa, according to a person present during many of the meetings.

Microsoft is under enormous pressure to reinvent itself for a world where mobile devices are the animating force in technology, rather than personal computers. Sales of PCs are suffering the most prolonged decline in their history. Two powerful pistons of Microsoft’s business — Windows and the Office suite of applications — are tied to closely to the health of the PC market.

The Nokia deal plunges Microsoft deeper into hardware than ever before. It is a business with enormous complexities — managing sprawling overseas supply chains, for one — that are not as prevalent in the software business. While it has had success in hardware through its Xbox video game console, Microsoft has also badly stubbed its toe in this area. It recently took a $900 million charge stemming from slow-moving sales of Surface, a tablet computer it created to compete with the iPad.

Unlike some companies like BlackBerry that have missed technology shifts, Microsoft still has vast financial resources that could give it a lot of room to develop a mobile strategy that produces results. Because of the huge profits it makes from its flagship software business, “Microsoft has choices most companies don’t,” said Bill Whyman, an analyst at ISI Group.

Nokia remains the second-biggest maker of cellphones in the world, when inexpensive feature phones are considered as part of the calculation. The company has footholds in large emerging markets like India that could eventually move to smartphones.

Microsoft and Nokia became partners over two years ago, when Nokia agreed to standardize its smartphones on Microsoft’s mobile operating system. In an interview on Monday night, Mr. Ballmer said he believed that Microsoft and Nokia had “done incredibly well in the last couple of years” in the mobile market and that the Windows Phone operating system had emerged as a “clear No. 3” in smartphones.

But that is far from No. 1 in this arena. Microsoft’s software ran on 3.7 percent of the smartphones shipped during the second quarter, compared with 13.2 percent for Apple and 79.3 percent for Android, according to IDC.

Microsoft has argued that the selection of apps available for its phones is improving all the time. There are still big developers that have not produced software for Windows Phone, like Facebook’s Instagram, but far fewer than there used to be. The company says there are more than 170,000 Windows Phone apps.

One unsettling possibility for Microsoft in mobile is what has occurred in the Internet search market, where the company’s Bing search engine lags far behind the market leader, Google. Microsoft has conducted exhaustive research showing that Bing search results are equivalent or better than those of Google. But the affinity for the Google brand is strong for most people.

The question is whether a similar perception dooms Microsoft’s mobile phones to the margins of the industry.

“They’re making something arguably very well designed, but it doesn’t matter,” Mr. Evans, the analyst, said. “I think they’re late.”
96 2013-09-04 The group breaks into cramped basements and other crowded living spaces identified through anonymous tips from residents, and then tries to hold immigrants there until the police arrive. In an online tally, Moscow Shield claims to have “discovered” more than 600 illegal migrants, seven of whom have been deported, since its creation in March.

Even as Russia has cracked down on many nongovernmental organizations, especially those perceived to challenge the authority of President Vladimir V. Putin, loosely organized groups like these appear to be thriving, particularly those adhering to an increasingly conservative public agenda.

Like Cossack patrols in southern Russia or improvised neighborhood watch programs fighting drug dealers, Moscow Shield has been given unusual latitude by the police — and at times tacit assistance — as its members sometimes have pursued aggressive, even illegal, tactics.

The group, like other nationalist and patriotic youth organizations, is giving auxiliary support to Russia’s on-again, off-again crackdown on immigrant workers, which intensified last month when the police interned about 1,500 migrants in an outdoor detention camp.

“They’ve found themselves a safe niche,” Alexander Verkhovsky, the head of the SOVA Center for Information and Analysis, which monitors extremism in Russia, said of the anti-immigrant groups. Disenchanted with big politics, younger groups have opted for more direct action in the past two years, he added.

“In the end, it is just fun for them,” he said. “To go in, push people around. They’re young, after all.”

Moscow Shield, the creation of Mr. Khudyakov, a six-year veteran of a pro-Kremlin youth group called Young Russia, has held more than 50 “raids” — surprise inspections of the basements and street-level workers’ quarters that house some of Moscow’s estimated two million illegal migrants.

“They think that we are Nazis,” said Anton Zharkov, 20, a buzz-cut, blue-eyed university student who takes part in the group’s raids with his girlfriend. “But we’re not there to beat them or punish them. We are there to achieve justice.”

Mr. Khudyakov, a graduate of the elite Bauman Moscow State Technical University, began providing tips on illegal migrant communes to Russia’s Federal Migration Service as part of Young Russia in 2009.

In 2011, he joined the Youth Anti-Narcotics Spetsnaz, a group that violently ambushed sellers of a synthetic drug called “spice.” Its members often came armed with sledgehammers, to smash through front doors and disable getaway cars, and with crimson spray paint, to color the hair of their targets as others held them down.

Now, Mr. Khudyakov says he has parted ways with his past groups to work on social causes.

“Yes, we break a few locks because otherwise it is not possible to do what we do,” Mr. Khudyakov said in an interview. “But we’re ready to pay the fine for that.”

Critics, like Mr. Verkhovsky, say they are vigilantes.

“They are acting as they believe that Russia’s police should, and that more or less means that they are taking the law onto themselves,” he said.

Some other movements have drawn news media attention and investigations by the police in recent weeks. Occupy Pedophilia, a movement championed by a prominent nationalist, Maksim Martsinkevich, has violently harassed and ambushed gay teenagers by luring them into meetings through VKontakte, Russia’s version of Facebook.

The group, which claims it focuses on pedophiles, has spread to cities across Russia, where local affiliates carry out their own attacks, and then upload the videos to the Internet.

Mr. Martsinkevich, who goes by the nickname Hatchet, spent three years in prison for inciting ethnic hatred after he staged a mock execution of a Tajik drug trafficker and uploaded the film to YouTube.

Last month, the police announced that they had raided the homes of members of Occupy Pedophilia. As a result, Mr. Martsinkevich asked his followers to keep the violence off-camera.

By contrast, groups like Moscow Shield seem to have found common cause with the police. In certain districts, members say they have even been used as support in some large operations.

In one raid last month, five organizations — including Moscow Shield and two others known as Light Russia and Attack — claimed to have caught more than a hundred illegal migrants while the police supervised the operation. Video of the raid showed muscle-bound young people wrestling migrant workers in the stalls of a market.

A spokesman for the district police said its officers do not hold joint raids with activists. But organizers for several of the groups said that about 40 members of law enforcement, including local police and immigration officers, attended the raid. Photo and video reports uploaded to social networking sites showed officers and group members making arrests side by side, and the police marching detainees to buses.

“We create a perimeter; the police check documents,” said Igor Mangushev, the head of Light Russia, which has been holding raids for two years and asserts that it has had more than 1,000 migrant workers deported.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Mangushev said that his group had cooperated with the police in joint raids in three city districts. Last month’s operation also served as a training exercise for newer organizations, he added.

“Moscow Shield came along as sort of master class,” Mr. Mangushev said. “They have a lot of young people, and they don’t always work properly.”

At the apartment building in Chertanova, the young men of Moscow Shield did not need to break in; the door was unlocked. The group entered an apartment with five men inside and beds for 12. A dozen pairs of slippers lay on the floor. The smell of a plov, a Central Asian rice dish, wafted through the house.

A resident who gave only his first name, Numon, and his age, 23, said that the others had locked themselves in a back room when they saw the intruders.

Mr. Khudyakov’s team called the police. As two officers checked the men’s documents, Yunus Z. Daminov, 24, one of a dozen men from Uzbekistan who live in the apartment and carry trash for buildings in the neighborhood, said it was not the first time that strangers had broken in. There had been other intrusions, and attacks on the street outside of the apartment.

“There were two of them, twice my size,” said Mr. Daminov, a broad-chested man who sat hunched over on a bunk bed as he recalled a previous episode. “They didn’t say anything. They pointed at me, and that was that. They started kicking and punching me. I lost consciousness.”

He did not file a police report, and the attackers were never found, he said.

In the apartment hallway, a police officer approached Mr. Khudyakov and said that everyone living in the house, Mr. Daminov included, was registered.

“We understand what you’re doing,” the police officer said to Mr. Khudyakov. “Have you had any other complaints in the neighborhood?”
97 2013-09-04 ROCHESTER — Kodak’s trip through bankruptcy is now a memory, as it finished its restructuring and exited Chapter 11 on Tuesday.

Kodak is now a commercial imaging company serving business markets like packaging and graphics.

Its chairman and chief executive, Antonio M. Pérez, said the company was on track for profitable growth.

Kodak emerged from bankruptcy protection vastly different from the company of old, which was founded by George Eastman in 1880. Gone are the cameras and film that made it famous. It hopes to replace them with new technologies like touch screens for smartphones and smart packaging embedded with sensors.

Over the desk in Mr. Perez’s office hang pictures depicting Kodak’s future — including one of the company’s ultrafast commercial inkjet printers, the Prosper Press.

“Look for a case of a company that had to go through this kind of excruciating restructuring and kept innovating,” Mr. Perez said. “It just doesn’t happen, but we’ve done it.”

Kodak filed for bankruptcy protection last year, brought down by increasing competition, digital photography and debt.
98 2013-09-04 The Diocese of Gallup plans to petition for Chapter 11 reorganization in federal bankruptcy court because of mounting legal claims over sexual abuse by clergy members. In a statement read in parishes during Mass over the weekend, Bishop James Wall said the filing “is the most effective and thoughtful course to take in light of the claims from those who were abused.” The diocese includes parishes in six counties in New Mexico, three counties in Arizona and seven American Indian reservations. It will become the ninth Roman Catholic diocese to seek bankruptcy protection since the abuse scandal erupted in 2002.
99 2013-09-04 The police opened an investigation on Tuesday after Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, urged them to find out what happened to a suitcase he thinks was stolen from him by intelligence agents as he traveled from Sweden to Germany in 2010. The suitcase contained three laptops with WikiLeaks materials, according to an affidavit that Mr. Assange’s lawyer filed with the police at Stockholm’s Arlanda Airport.
100 2013-09-04 So when the Supreme Court opened the sluice gate in 2010 allowing corporations to spend unlimited amounts on campaign ads, pretty much every liberal voice in the country believed that a flood of corporate cash was about to deliver the political system to the Republican Party.

It was, President Obama said, “a major victory for big oil, Wall Street banks, health insurance companies and the other powerful interests that marshal their power every day in Washington to drown out the voices of everyday Americans.”

Three years later, however, these fears have not quite materialized. Money is flowing to elections like never before. The 2012 elections cost some $6.3 billion, $1 billion more than the 2008 elections, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that researches money and politics. Independent spending by outside groups on campaign advertisements and the like topped $1 billion last year.

Corporate America, however, accounted for a comparative trickle. Adam Bonica, a political scientist at Stanford University, points out in a recent working paper that companies openly spent about $75 million from their treasuries on federal elections last year.

Even if all the hidden money funneled into campaigns through private 501(c) organizations had come from businesses — unlikely given the contributions by noncorporate groups like Planned Parenthood and the N.R.A. — corporate spending would not reach $400 million, still a small share of the total.

Perhaps this should not be surprising. For companies, spending on elections can be risky. Business executives might prefer lobbying, where they spend far more than on campaign contributions, not because the limits are more relaxed but because swaying legislators on both sides of the aisle is more effective at getting what they want. And such lobbying is less likely to kindle anger among consumers, shareholders and other constituents than spending to change the outcome of elections.

“While Citizens alters the ability of corporations to contribute to campaigns, it does not alter their substantial risk in doing so,” the political scientists Wendy L. Hansen, Michael Rocca and Brittany Ortiz of the University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, argued in a recent study.

Still, corporations’ reluctance to open their checkbooks suggests an intriguing alternative explanation for the rise of Republicans who are willing to defy their will: companies may have spent too little. Their money was swamped by that of big individual donors who are more ideologically extreme. In 2012, the top 0.1 percent of donors contributed more than 44 percent of all campaign contributions. In 1980 their share of contributions was less than 10 percent.

Corporations have a pro-Republican bias, of course. But it is not quite as extreme as pop culture would have it, and is certainly less pronounced than organized labor’s pro-Democrat leanings.

Effective lobbying requires both Republican and Democratic friends. Political action committees run by businesses are known for spreading money on both sides of the partisan divide. They give to incumbents. They choose winners. They show little partisan loyalty.

In the 2006 elections, when the G.O.P. controlled Congress, corporate PACs gave 65 percent of their money to Republicans. In 2008 and 2010, after the Democrats had swept both the House and Senate, they split their contributions roughly fifty-fifty.

By contrast, substantial research in political science suggests that individual donors favor more ideological candidates and are less strategic in their giving. Big, frequent donors are particularly extreme.

An analysis of polarization of state legislatures by Michael Barber, a Ph.D. candidate in political science at Princeton, finds that limits on corporate contributions lead to more partisan polarization, while limits on individual contributions moderate it.

There are alternative explanations for the rise of the uncompromising right within the G.O.P.

Mark Mizruchi, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, traces the rift back decades. He put it to me this way: “In the 1970s it would have been inconceivable that Republicans would tell business” to get lost.

Last May, he published “The Fracturing of the American Corporate Elite,” about business’ waning influence over the political process. He suggests the power of the business lobby started waning after it succeeded at beating back government regulation and organized labor in the late 1970s. Corporations then turned to narrow individual agendas and gradually lost force as a collective power that could impose discipline on the G.O.P.

Other analyses have suggested a shift in the party base from the industrial Northeast to the conservative rural South, the ideological polarization of voters and the gerrymandering of House districts into safe partisan seats that favored uncompromising, ideologically pure candidates.

That argument can be carried only so far, however. Jacob S. Hacker, a political scientist from Yale, said that the idea of a rift opening between businesses and the “party of business” was overstated.

Corporations continue to spend more on Republicans, he points out. They are unlikely to jump ship, especially when a Democratic administration is working on new regulations over financial services, health care and energy that business views as potentially onerous.

Despite concerns about the tactics of some Republican ideologues, the Chamber of Commerce and several other business organizations still support many of Republicans’ low-tax goals.

And even if corporations didn’t turn on the spending spigot, their executives did. Mr. Bonica of Stanford estimates that executives and directors of Fortune 500 companies spent a whopping $217 million on state and federal elections, more than twice as much as the same individuals spent four years earlier. That’s about 70 percent of what was spent by more than 1,500 corporate PACs.

But that doesn’t undermine the point that the reluctance of corporations to spend on politics is likely to limit their role as a stabilizing force.

Corporate chiefs and other top executives do not put money into campaigns merely to favor their firms. Mr. Bonica finds their giving is more ideological and less strategic than that of their companies. They rarely switch candidates: only 43 of the 1,400 or so executives of Fortune 500 companies who contributed to presidential campaigns last year gave to both sides.

That suggests a new take on the role of money in politics. If big-money people are drowning out the political voice of ordinary Americans rather than big business, American democracy still has a problem. But it is not the problem we thought we had.
101 2013-09-04 The United States and its allies differ on some intelligence estimates when it comes to chemical weapons use in Syria, but all agree that only the Assad government had the means to launch attacks....
102 2013-09-04 (AP) — Kodak's (NYSE:EK) trip through bankruptcy is now a memory for the scrapbook.

Kodak says it finished its restructuring and exited Chapter 11 on Tuesday.

The company says it's now a commercial imaging company serving business markets such as packaging and graphics. Chairman and CEO Antonio Perez says it's on track for profitable growth.

Kodak filed for bankruptcy protection last year, brought down by increasing competition, digital photography, and debt. Since then it has sold off many of its businesses and patents, while shutting down the camera manufacturing unit that made it famous.

It spun off its personal imaging and document imaging units to its pension plan.

Kodak says its old stock is canceled as of Tuesday. Creditors are getting shares in the reorganized company.
103 2013-09-04 The testing of the Sparrow target missile caused concern in Russia and Syria, given the tensions over a possible American military strike on Syria....
104 2013-09-04 Nokia’s once mighty position in the mobile phone business has been lost, as the industry shifted to the era of the smartphone. Samsung and Apple divide nearly all of the profits in the global smartphone business now.

Nokia’s fall has been most spectacular in Asia, a region that its phones once dominated. As recently as 2010, the company had a 64 percent share of the smartphone market in China, according to Canalys, a research firm. By the first half of this year, that had plunged to 1 percent.

While Nokia phones used to be prized in Asia and other developing economies for their durability and value, the company was late to introduce innovations like touch screens. That left the high end of the market to brands like Apple and Samsung.

In the lower price ranges, smartphone makers from China have been more responsive to consumer demands, offering phones with features resembling those of their more expensive rivals at a fraction of the cost.

Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia’s interim chief executive, said on Tuesday that the sale of the handset business was the logical step in the company’s evolution but still pulled on his heartstrings.

“Selling a business is sometimes the right cause of action, but it’s emotionally complicated,” Mr. Siilasmaa said.

Consumers may be less concerned.

At a cellphone store in central London on Tuesday, Geoffrey Widdows, a 33-year-old engineer, said he had once been a devoted Nokia fan but now preferred Android phones because of the greater choice of apps available on phones from companies like Samsung and HTC.

“Everyone had a Nokia when I was growing up,” he said. “You just don’t see them around a lot anymore.”

A megadeal between Nokia and Microsoft is something that pundits and analysts have speculated about for years, after Mr. Elop joined Nokia and signed a pact with Microsoft in February 2011 to standardize the software company’s Windows Phone operating system.

The cellphone fortunes of the two companies have become closely intertwined since that agreement, but the relationship has done little to turn either company into a leader in the mobile business. Handsets running Windows Phone accounted for only 3.7 percent of smartphone shipments in the second quarter, according to the technology research firm IDC.

Nokia remains the second-largest shipper of mobile phones in the world, after Samsung, but that is largely because of lower-end feature phones, from which consumers are moving away. Nokia is no longer among the top five makers of smartphones.

A big question is whether Microsoft and Nokia will succeed as one company where they have not as close partners. Mr. Ballmer said Microsoft and Nokia had not been as agile separately as they would be jointly, citing how development could be slowed down when intellectual property rights were held by two different companies.

Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner, said she believed the deal could help the companies respond more quickly to the dynamism of the mobile market. “They need to move faster,” she said.

By offloading its handset business, Nokia is attempting to reboot itself around its telecommunications equipment unit, NSN, its mapping and location business and an extensive patent portfolio.

In June, Nokia acquired the 50 percent stake in NSN, which provides services for both fixed-line and mobile networks, that it did not already own from its partner Siemens for $2.2 billion.

Analysts said Nokia’s remaining operations were likely to benefit from increased spending from the world’s largest telecommunications companies like China Mobile and Vodafone on so-called fourth-generation high-speed mobile networks.

“Nokia can get rid of the uncertainty of its handset business at a great price,” said Janardan Menon, a telecommunications analyst at Liberum Capital in London. “It’s a good deal for both Microsoft and Nokia."

Shares in Nokia rose 37 percent in trading in Helsinki on Tuesday.

Large acquisitions are fraught with peril, especially in the technology business, where there are challenges to integrating employees from different backgrounds into a coherent whole.

The Nokia deal echoes Google’s $12.5 billion deal to acquire Motorola Mobility, which gave Google control of a trove of mobile patents and a handset business that has yet to shine under Google’s ownership.

While Microsoft still has enormous stockpiles of cash from its lucrative software business, there has been widespread speculation about how long Nokia could make it as an independent company, given how the spoils of the industry have gravitated elsewhere. For Microsoft, there was a risk that Nokia could have ended up as an acquisition target for another company, creating uncertainty about the future of their earlier business partnership.

Microsoft will pay about $5 billion for Nokia’s devices and services business and $2.18 billion to license Nokia’s patents. The Finnish company will continue to do business as Nokia, licensing the Nokia name to Microsoft for use on its mobile phones for 10 years. “For Nokia today, it’s a moment of reinvention,” Mr. Siilasmaa of Nokia said in an interview.

Since Mr. Elop plans to join Microsoft after the deal is closed, which is expected to happen in the first quarter of 2014, he resigned as chief executive and relinquished his Nokia board seat to avoid conflicts of interest. He has become a Nokia executive vice president, reporting to Mr. Siilasmaa.

Mr. Ballmer declined to say whether Mr. Elop, considered a leading contender to be his successor because of his familiarity with Microsoft and the importance of mobile to Microsoft’s future, will be considered for the job. “Our board is running an open succession process, considering internal and external candidates,” he said.

“I think it strengthens his potential for C.E.O.,” said Ms. Milanesi, the Gartner analyst. “It makes perfect sense.”

Mr. Elop, a native of Canada whose family still lives in the Seattle area, said in an interview that he believed the industry was at a “tipping point” where a third mobile phone ecosystem, based on Windows Phone, will emerge as a more vibrant alternative to the iPhone and devices running Google’s Android operating system.

In a sign of how vital Nokia’s partnership has become to Microsoft, Mr. Ballmer said the first calls he made outside Microsoft to discuss his retirement and succession planning at the company were to Mr. Elop and Mr. Siilasmaa.

Mr. Ballmer said his conversations with Nokia about an acquisition had “heated up in the last several months,” but started during a mobile industry conference in Barcelona in late February.

For Microsoft, there is also an attractive financial dimension to the deal. Because Nokia is based in Finland, Microsoft can use a portion of its foreign-held cash to pay for the acquisition, allowing it to avoid hefty taxes it would otherwise pay to take the cash back to the United States.

Microsoft took a similar approach to its $8.5 billion deal to acquire Skype, the largest deal in its history.

The plan to buy Nokia is likely to upset the other companies that use Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating system on their devices, notably HTC and, to a lesser extent, Samsung. But there is little business there for Microsoft to lose. Mr. Ballmer said that Nokia’s phones currently counts for more than 80 percent of the Windows Phones sold.
105 2013-09-05 The doctor, Joel Ross, is one of two physicians who prosecutors say leaked secret information about clinical drug trials that are at the center of the government’s insider-trading prosecution of the hedge fund SAC Capitol Advisors....
106 2013-09-05 Opposition leaders called for a peaceful demonstration Saturday after reported irregularities in July elections, but the police have also begun gearing up....
107 2013-09-05 Opposition leaders geared up for a protest Saturday against the government of Prime Minister Hun Sen.
108 2013-09-05 Yes, the PC police are out there, and the real worry for men is that they will have to change their ways....
109 2013-09-05 Go to next slide
110 2013-09-05 Iran’s new foreign minister engaged in a flurry of Twitter diplomacy on Thursday....
111 2013-09-05 Thursday’s selections from around the Web include reactions to Yahoo’s new logo and an argument for how Netflix could harness big data to make more money off users....
112 2013-09-05 It was time to give the Fulton Fish Market stand another chance....
113 2013-09-05 A Bangkok-based trader has agreed to pay $5.2 million to settle charges that he traded on insider information tied to Smithfield Foods’ proposed $4.7 billion sale to a Chinese food processor, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced on T...
114 2013-09-05 The Philadelphia-based group has a new album and big tour dates with the Lumineers, but it still seems to be most comfortable as a basement band....
115 2013-09-05 The owner of Amerisleep talks about discovering that it was cheaper to manufacture mattresses in the United States than in China....
116 2013-09-05 A small bank holding company in Wisconsin plans to use Chapter 11 to recapitalize, not to liquidate as typically happens. The company hopes to use the bankruptcy to save its bank, AnchorBank....
117 2013-09-05 Brazil’s securities and exchange commission says it has opened a new formal investigation into the business dealings of Eike Batista, the onetime billionaire, and five other executives of the petroleum company OGX....
118 2013-09-05 Economists say Lawrence Summers would slow the economy. Kodak emerges from bankruptcy. And Amazon.com makes small businesses nervous....
119 2013-09-05 Thursday’s schedule features two men’s quarterfinals: Andy Murray versus Stanislas Wawrinka and Novak Djokovic versus Mikhail Youzhny....
120 2013-09-05 SEATTLE — Microsoft said on Wednesday that a jury in federal court had decided in its favor in a dispute over Motorola Mobility’s licensing of so-called standard, essential patents used in Microsoft products.

The jury, in Seattle, agreed with Microsoft’s claim that Motorola, which is owned by Google, broke agreements with standard-setting bodies to license certain patents at a fair and reasonable rate.

The company said that the jury awarded it about $14 million in damages, about half what it had sought.

That amount consisted of $11 million for the costs of relocating a warehouse in Germany because of an injunction on certain Microsoft products brought by Motorola in that country, and about $3 million in legal fees for fighting that injunction.

A Motorola spokesman indicated the company would appeal.

The victory for Microsoft follows a decision in its favor in a related trial in Seattle federal court last year in which a judge found that the appropriate rate for Motorola to license certain wireless and video technology used in the Xbox game console was only a fraction of what Motorola had sought.
121 2013-09-05 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
122 2013-09-05 “If 40 percent of the time a season-opening loss to Dallas leads to a Giants Super Bowl victory, then I’m all for it,” Ard said. “I like those odds.”

The current Giants were a little more strait-laced.

“The Cowboys have been a longtime, traditional rival,” Eli Manning said. “And the games always seem close and spirited, which is the way it should be.”

Still, given the historical record, Manning was asked if he would rather start the season against a team less celebrated than Dallas, perhaps a foe with a lower profile who could provide an opening-day warm-up. Manning laughed and said: “No, I think it’s good that the first game is against a big rival. And there aren’t any easy games in the N.F.L. anyway.”

Coach Tom Coughlin concurred while acknowledging that the Giants rarely started the season with an easy matchup.

“You’re right: we do play an exceptional opponent, and many times it is a divisional foe,” Coughlin said. “It’s a tremendous challenge, and it’s an exciting challenge.”

But it has not always been pleasant for the Giants.

In 1965, the defeat was the Giants’ worst of the season. In 1986, the team was considered a preseason Super Bowl contender, but the defense squandered three touchdown passes from Phil Simms and lost the lead when the Cowboys’ Herschel Walker scored on a 10-yard run with 76 seconds remaining.

“Believe me, that was a bad, ugly loss,” Ard said. “It was a total wake-up call.”

The Giants’ coach at the time, Bill Parcells, furious and frustrated, made changes to his lineup, and the Giants won 17 of their next 18 games, including Super Bowl XXI.

By 1995, the Cowboys were the dominant team in the N.F.C. East, but the Giants had won their last six games of the 1994 season, including one against Dallas. They thought they were ready to take over from Dallas — and said so on the eve of the game.

The game was on a Monday night at Giants Stadium, and on the first possession, Emmitt Smith burst through a gaping hole in the middle of the line and ran 60 yards untouched into the end zone.

“We thought we could match up with them,” said Jessie Armstead, a young linebacker on that Giants team who went on to play in five Pro Bowls. “We found out the truth real quick. I was one of those people trying to catch Emmitt.”

The Cowboys won in a 35-0 rout, finished the regular season 12-4 and won the Super Bowl. The Giants ended up 5-11.

In 2007, the Giants hardly appeared to be Super Bowl contenders, but a playoff push seemed possible — until they lost to the Cowboys in their opener, 45-35. Dallas gained 478 yards against a defense devised by the Giants’ new defensive coordinator, Steve Spagnuolo. It did not bode well, but Spagnuolo’s bend-but-don’t-break defense was celebrated by the season’s end.

The Giants’ most recent opening-day loss to Dallas was just a year ago, in what was supposed to be a coronation. As the defending Super Bowl champions, the Giants were featured in the N.F.L.’s nationally televised season opener on a weekday. In that setting, the defending champions had been 8-0.

But the Cowboys outplayed the Giants early, and the Giants became the first defending champion to lose its opener in 13 years.

“It takes a bite out of humble pie,” Coughlin said at the time.

On Sunday, though, the Giants’ stretch of season-opening losses to Dallas will be opposed by another streak. Since the Cowboys moved into their new stadium — once called Cowboys Stadium, now called AT&T Stadium — they are winless against the Giants, in four games.

Ard, the guard on the 1986 team, had another perspective.

“Three times out of five, the Super Bowl winner has come out of this opening-season Giants-Cowboys game,” he said. “I guess we all better watch it on Sunday.”

Victor Cruz and Jason Pierre-Paul practiced Wednesday, and Tom Coughlin characterized their preparation as “full speed ahead.” But neither player has been cleared to play Sunday. Cruz sounded extremely optimistic about his chances of playing. Pierre-Paul said he would know on Friday. ... Running back Andre Brown was placed on injured reserve with a designation that would allow him to return to the lineup Nov. 10 against Oakland, but not before.
123 2013-09-05 Weapons experts believe this is the design of the rockets used in a suspected chemical attack last month in Syria, based on videos and photographs posted online.
124 2013-09-05 “I have agreed to give this talk today because I am still amazed at how much misunderstanding there is about the current system of health care, how it works, how it compares with what other people in other countries pay for health care,” Mr. Clinton told the crowd assembled in a hall around the corner from a montage of black-and-white photographs of the 1992 presidential campaign. The audience of about 250 included Gov. Mike Beebe, a Democrat, and Speaker Davy Carter of the Legislature and Michael Lamoureux, president of the State Senate, both Republicans.

Despite the bipartisan show, health care is a contentious topic in politics that conservatives have seized on in local campaigns. Mr. Pryor did not attend the event for risk of being too closely associated with the health care law, according to one person with knowledge of his plans, but who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. A campaign spokesman has said that Mr. Pryor had a scheduling conflict.

With the new insurance markets set to open on Oct. 1 for an initial six-month enrollment period, the White House has asked cabinet officers and other presidential appointees to step up efforts to promote the law. The administration has also recruited actors and entertainers and is seeking athletes and disc jockeys to whip up enthusiasm. Last week, the singer Katy Perry retweeted a post from encouraging young people to sign up for coverage. He responded, “Thanks for spreading the word.”

Mr. Clinton’s speech, which the White House broadcast live on its Web site, was not the first time that the former president, whose own attempt to sell a universal failed drastically in his first term, has stepped into the debate over the new law. At the last September, Mr. Clinton delivered an endorsement of Mr. Obama that included concrete, well-received explanations of his policies, including on health care. That speech in particular signaled to the White House that Mr. Clinton could be an effective surrogate to sell the highly complicated Affordable Care Act.

On Wednesday, the former president carefully laid out Mr. Obama’s plan without delving into politics. But his mere involvement in selling the law provides him with a platform to reframe the failed battles of “Hillarycare” from his own administration.

“It would not be in her interest to be running for president and have this be a huge controversial issue in 2016,” said Robert J. Blendon, a professor of health policy at Harvard who closely follows public opinion of the law. “The Clintons have a lot of interest in getting this up and working and making it a legacy for the Democratic side.”

Reading glasses perched on his nose, Mr. Clinton struck a professorial tone as he explained in extensive detail the intricacies of the act. He laid out who would qualify for federal subsidies to help pay for the cost of coverage through the new markets and even ticked off Web addresses and phone numbers where Americans could find information.

Calling the current system “unaffordable and downright unhealthy for millions of Americans,” he emphasized that other prosperous countries “cover everybody and do it at far less cost,” and bemoaned that the United States ranks “first by a country mile” in the percentage of income spent on health care.

Mr. Clinton said that last year’s decision upholding the law created a “whopper” of a problem by allowing states to opt out of expanding Medicaid and covering more low-income people. Almost half the states subsequently refused to expand the program, which will leave far more people uninsured than Mr. Obama had planned.

But Mr. Clinton praised Mr. Beebe and the Republican-controlled State Legislature here for agreeing on a compromise. Under Arkansas’s so-called “private option,” federal money that was supposed to support an expansion of will instead help eligible residents buy private insurance through the state’s new online marketplace, or exchange.

Without mentioning Mrs. Clinton’s efforts specifically, Mr. Clinton talked about the longtime opposition to universal coverage. Perhaps the most pointed criticism came in the 1990s when the lobby introduced the multimillion-dollar “Harry and Louise” television campaign to protest the Clintons’ proposed health care overhaul.

“We’d all be better off working together to make it work as well as possible,” Mr. Clinton said, “instead of to keep replaying the same old battles.”

Mr. Clinton said the law did have some problematic provisions, including one that prohibits many people with modest incomes who cannot get insurance through their spouses’ jobs from buying subsidized coverage through the new marketplaces. But he stressed that such problems could be fixed if opponents of the law in Congress and in state governments would drop their resistance.

“We’ve got to do this,” Mr. Clinton said.
125 2013-09-05 The annual fee some vendors offer to pay the city has doubled or even tripled in the past 10 years.

A decade ago, the fee paid for the pushcart at the Central Park Zoo entrance was $120,000, less than half what Mr. Mastafa paid most recently. The second most expensive cart is on the West Drive at West 67th Street near Tavern on the Green, where the fee is $266,850.

For many other parks, especially those in parks outside Manhattan, the fees are much lower — $14,000 in Astoria Park in Queens, $3,200 in Maria Hernandez Park in Brooklyn and $1,100 in Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx. The lowest fee, $700, is paid by the owner of a pushcart near the soccer fields in Inwood Hill Park in Upper Manhattan.

Elizendo Vaquero, 50, of the Bronx, has been selling there to soccer players on Sundays since 1989 (since 1997 with a permit).

“Everybody knows us here,” he said. “This is like family.”

He said he bids higher and higher each time it comes up for bid, but still earns $3,000 to $5,000 a year from his cart. “I don’t want to lose this spot, he said. “We have to pay the employee, the permit, everything. But at least we’re happy. We see everybody.”

The parks department’s pushcart concessions, which are put out for bid every five years, produce more than $4.5 million annually for the city’s general fund.

The vendors who work at the pushcarts are usually not the owners. Ripan Alam, 31, typically works Mr. Mastafa’s cart from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. in the summer and says it makes about $750 weekly, although the revenue produced by sales from the cart fluctuates wildly.

“When it’s raining, sometimes empty, nothing, zero,” Mr. Alam said the other day. “Lots of times I go empty. Monday and Tuesday, nothing.”

Pushcart operators complain that they are being crushed by increasing competition from disabled veterans who compete from choice curbside locations on park perimeters and who can charge less because their license fee to the city is waived under a 19th-century law.

Sometimes, the operators say, other people own the carts and pay veterans to staff them. That indirect relationship is a problem that parks department officials acknowledge, but maintain that they are largely powerless to police, particularly while the city is appealing court rulings that would further expand the veterans’ vending rights. (Food carts outside the parks are licensed separately by the city’s health department.)

Mr. Mastafa, like other operators interviewed, declined to say how much his cart nets. People in the industry suggest their reluctance stems from the fear of competition in bidding when licenses expire, tax confidentiality and dealings with their wholesalers.

He referred a reporter to his supplier, Alex Rad, who explained that pushcart economics are more complex than they might seem. Parks were shut during Hurricane Sandy last year and, since the Boston Marathon bombing, vendors are sometimes shooed away from large public gatherings by the police.

“Some locations are really losing money,” Mr. Rad said.

Mr. Rad has a partnership with New York Picnic Company to supply many of the Central Park pushcarts. He said pushcart operators have ancillary costs, including $20 or so for each delivery of ice several times a day and to transport their carts from warehouses or garages. He estimated that to recoup his expenses, Mr. Mastafa’s zoo pushcart would have to generate more than $425,000 a year in revenue.

“We’re dying,” said Ranjit Dev, whose company has the license to several desirable sites in and around Central Park. “How can I pay $180,000 if I can’t sell? How am I going to pay the rent?” Construction near the Metropolitan Museum of Art has also depressed sales at what is typically a prime vending site.

New York is a city of superlatives, so the estimated 40 million or so visitors to Central Park a year obviously buy an awful lot of bottled water, ice cream and other refreshments. Maximum prices for snacks and beverages are set by the department.

Seubankar Ray, who works at a cart at Central Park West and West 72nd Street, said bottled water was his best-selling item, although sometimes even New Yorkers balked at the price. “They say, ‘It’s $3? Oh, my God! I’m not a tourist.’ ”

In July, even at that price (the maximum for a 24-ounce bottle), he sold 15 cases a day. He typically sells up to 200 hot dogs a day at $2 each. He said the take for the cart ranges from $2,000 a day on a warm summer weekend to $200 in the winter, when he sells mostly hot dogs and nuts.

Another pushcart operator, Mr. Amin, who agreed to be identified using only his last name, said the cart he operates at West 67th Street and the West Drive can generate as little as $50 a day in the winter, but $2,500 on a summer Saturday.

At his cart and other locations on a recent weekend, sweat-dewed runners finishing their laps ordered frosty Gatorades by color — yellow and orange were the favorites — but water still appeared to be the top seller at most locations.

“We sell the most of the water,” Mr. Alam said. “The kids like the snow cone. The over 60, they like the Toasted Almond. Most of the local people like the hot dogs. Italian people think the sausages are like this big” — he measured about a foot with his hands — “so they say, ‘Can I have one?’ And then they see it and they don’t want it.”
126 2013-09-05 Rockets delivering toxic sarin gas to neighborhoods around Damascus held up to 50 times more nerve agent than previously estimated, a study by weapons experts concluded....
127 2013-09-05 Congressional leaders in both parties have said they are eager to move quickly on a Syria vote, and the House and Senate began hearings this week. But it remains unclear how long the Syria debate will take. White House officials said they expected the debate to drag out at least into the third week of September.

That would scramble the calendar that House and Senate leaders had anticipated when they left the Capitol for vacations earlier this summer. The problem is especially striking in the House, which will barely be in session this month. The Senate is scheduled to work for five straight weeks after a vote Monday night to force senators to return to Washington. The House will be taking nine workdays off during that stretch.

More than anything, the war question is likely to siphon attention away from efforts to resolve a simmering fiscal dispute between the parties. Without a Congressional agreement by Sept. 30, the government will run out of money on Oct. 1. Two weeks later, the government’s statutory borrowing limit must be raised to avoid a potentially catastrophic debt default.

Washington has been bracing for a fiscal clash for months. Some Republicans in the House have said they are prepared to shut the government down if Congress will not agree to remove money for the carrying out of Mr. Obama’s health care law. Other Republicans have said they do not intend to raise the nation’s debt limit unless the president agrees to more spending cuts.

Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate over the nation’s ability to pay its bills, and has warned Republicans that shutting down the government would be a reckless move. The Syria debate means both sides have less free time to work toward a negotiated settlement on the issues.

Kevin Smith, a spokesman for the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, played down any impact on the fall’s most important matters.

“We are confident we can address a resolution on use of force in Syria and still meet our obligations in a fiscally responsible manner,” he said.

But Congressional aides in both parties said the Syria debate was already causing disruptions.

Mr. Boehner had promised he would bring a bill to finance transportation and housing programs to the floor in September after an ugly defeat in July. That will not happen.

The House Judiciary Committee had hoped to begin moving piecemeal immigration legislation, but the bills’ prospects for House action this fall were already slim before the Syria crisis. Now they will probably slip beyond Thanksgiving.

Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate Intelligence and Judiciary Committees had also intended to move significant changes to laws governing the National Security Agency’s phone and Internet surveillance programs — either through stand-alone legislation or a reauthorization of existing intelligence law. That, too, is likely to slip.

A Senate Democratic leadership aide said the debate and vote on the war resolution would consume the first week back, putting off a fight over judicial nominations for the foreseeable future. But leaders still expect to turn to a bipartisan energy efficiency bill the week of Sept. 16, as scheduled.

White House officials said Congress shouldered the responsibility to get its work done despite the new burden of a vote on military action in Syria.

“An American president has to be able to walk, chew gum and juggle at the same time,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. “The president and his team will do everything they can to implement his overall agenda while this debate happens.”

Mr. Pfeiffer added, “This is an important debate, and it’s one the president, the country and the Congress are rightly focused on.”

Mr. Pfeiffer said the White House would continue to press ahead with Mr. Obama’s agenda. Former President Bill Clinton delivered a speech on Wednesday as part of the administration’s effort to get people to sign up for health care beginning on Oct. 1. That effort will continue, Mr. Pfeiffer said.

But other issues may languish, at least for a while.

Aides say some will now slip beyond Thanksgiving, including the annual defense policy bill and a possible fix to the Voting Rights Act in response to a Supreme Court ruling that struck down a key provision of the historic law.

Advocates of a comprehensive immigration overhaul had hoped to build some momentum in the House this month toward passage of legislation similar to a bill that passed the Senate this year with Mr. Obama’s backing.

That already faced long odds in the House, where many Republicans oppose any effort to offer citizenship to most of the nation’s 11 million illegal immigrants. Now, with the Syria debate in Washington, aides said any serious effort on immigration in the House was likely to be pushed back to November or even later.

“There’s no question that the debate on Syria is going to take precedence now,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, a group lobbying for an immigration overhaul. But he said that he was less concerned about the timeline for action than he was the need to build consensus around a solution.

“This is less about whether there’s time,” he said. “It’s more about whether there’s a will.”
128 2013-09-05 Spain limited Croatia to 3 points in the final quarter as it began its bid for a third straight European basketball title with a 68-40 victory in Celje, Slovenia. Marc Gasol had 14 points and 11 rebounds. Rudy Fernandez added 15 points, Jose Calderon had 13 and Ricky Rubio had seven assists to go with 7 points. Spain is playing without the stars Pau Gasol, Serge Ibaka and Juan Carlos Navarro.

In other games, a youthful Germany team missing Dirk Nowitzki got 19 points from Robin Benzing in an 80-74 victory over France. Tony Parker had 18 points for France.

Russia, the bronze medalist two years ago, lost, 76-69, to Italy, which got 25 points from Luigi Datone. Finland stunned Turkey, 61-55, and Britain scored a 75-71 overtime victory over Israel.
129 2013-09-05 Since the music executive Irving Azoff resigned as Live Nation Entertainment’s executive chairman at the end of last year, speculation about his next venture has been something of an industry pastime. Would he go into television? Music publishing? Something digital?

The answer is all of the above, and perhaps more.

On Wednesday, Mr. Azoff, 65, announced the creation of Azoff MSG Entertainment, a multifaceted company backed by $175 million from the Madison Square Garden Company, whose executive chairman, James L. Dolan, is one of Mr. Azoff’s longtime supporters.

The company, of which Mr. Azoff will be chairman and chief executive, will include his artist management business, whose clients include the Eagles, Van Halen, Steely Dan and Christina Aguilera; a television and live event division; a 50 percent stake in Digital Brand Architects, which manages bloggers; and a 90 percent interest in a music publishing venture led by Randy Grimmett, a former executive at Ascap, the 99-year-old performing rights organization.

“We want to be a nimble, quick place where people can get answers,” said Mr. Azoff, who got his start as an artist manager in the 1970s and upon his departure from Live Nation did not mince words about his distaste in working for a publicly owned company.

The Madison Square Garden Company — which is publicly traded — will pay $125 million for a 50 percent stake in Azoff MSG Entertainment, and provide up to $50 million of credit to the company, according to an announcement. Mr. Azoff will also serve as a consultant to the Madison Square Garden Company.

In a joint interview, Mr. Azoff and Mr. Dolan described the mission of the new company as being somewhat loose, saying they see it as a lean, digitally focused company that will address the needs of the evolving music business. They also pointed to Madison Square Garden’s $100 million renovation of the Forum, an arena in Inglewood, Calif., as an example of how their work could benefit the public.
130 2013-09-05 ATLANTA — The winners of the Freeman Mixed Board-a-Match Teams here last month were Judith Bianco and Win Allegaert of New York, Petra Hamman of Dallas and David Grainger of Roseville, Calif. They finished 0.24 points ahead of Dana Berkowitz and Craig Ganzer of New York, Robert Brady of McLean, Va., and Mihaela Balint from Romania.

When asked for a deal, the winners modestly said that nothing newsworthy had happened. But they did submit the diagramed deal, which occurred during the Roth Open Swiss Teams over the last weekend, when Bianco, Allegaert and Grainger played with Greg Hinze of San Antonio, Tex.; Daniel Korbel from Waterloo, Ontario; and Darren Wolpert from Thornhill, Ontario.

At the first table South played in four spades and made five.

In the given auction East opened three diamonds, showing at the prevailing unfavorable vulnerability a respectable seven-card suit and some 6 to 10 high-card points. After Bianco (South) overcalled three spades, Allegaert (North) cue-bid four diamonds to show a good hand with spade support. It made no promise of a diamond control. Two control-bids (cue-bids) followed, then South jumped to six spades.

South had a potential loser in spades, hearts and diamonds. Realizing that she needed West to have the heart king, declarer won with her diamond ace, played a heart to dummy’s jack, led a club to her king, took a second heart finesse and tried to cash the heart ace. However, East ruffed.

South overruffed, cashed her spade ace, played a club to dummy’s ace and ruffed the last heart in her hand. What had declarer learned?
131 2013-09-05 ATLANTA — Once again, the dog days of August have become the dog days of September for the Mets. The club is playing irrelevant games, as far as the standings are concerned, and the ambience for the outsider does not look very inviting. The team’s two biggest stars, pitcher Matt Harvey and third baseman David Wright, are injured, and the quest for a .500 season is nearly a fruitless cause.

Yet starter Dillon Gee (11-9) and his poise are reasons to tune in. He won here Wednesday, 5-2, over the first-place Braves, scattering four hits in seven innings. Second baseman Daniel Murphy, with a .284 batting average, is another reason to watch. Outfielder Juan Lagares, who plays above-average defense and made a diving catch Wednesday, has developed into a building block for the future. There is also the rookie pitcher Zack Wheeler (7-3), who should get several more starts before he is shut down.

The other reason a team 21 ½ games back in the standings is worth some attention is the wrangling over first base. In a radio interview on WFAN, General Manager Sandy Alderson indicated that Ike Davis was not a sure bet to be the starter at first next season and that Lucas Duda, who has been playing first since Davis left a game on Aug. 31 in Washington with a strained oblique, was in the midst of an audition for the spot.

“I actually think the injury with Ike might make it easier for us to make a decision going into the off-season because it’s going to give Duda substantially more playing time in September,” Alderson said. “I’m not sure what Ike was going to do in September that might have changed the evaluation.”

Alderson, however, seemed to be sending a mixed message. At one point in the interview, he appeared to suggest the Mets may not even tender an offer to Davis for 2014. But in another moment, Alderson was hopeful when speaking about Davis.
132 2013-09-05 Tarbaby opened its first set at the Jazz Standard on Tuesday night in search-party mode, warily poking around uncertain terrain. The pianist Orrin Evans was the first on the scene, his sparsely darting intervals evoking the trace of a flashlight beam. He was soon joined by the others: Eric Revis on bass, Nasheet Waits on drums, Oliver Lake on alto saxophone. After some formless preamble, they locked into the slinky syncopations of “Rolling Vamp,” by Mr. Lake. It led them down a trail without giving up any secrets.

There’s a space reserved for indeterminacy in Tarbaby’s playbook: the next song in the set, also by Mr. Lake, was “Aztec,” a ballad with an imploring melody in free tempo, building to a saxophone cadenza with some notes artfully slurred and others brusquely overblown. Later there came “August,” a theme by Mr. Revis, who set its rustling, folkloric mood with a bass intro gentle enough to suggest the sounds of an African thumb piano.

But it would be a mistake to conclude that Tarbaby embraces the unknown because of some lack of clarity about what can, indeed, be known. This is a strong postbop collective with plenty of moves at its command: advanced rhythmic calculus, sly harmonic implication, cohesive elasticity, brute force. Mr. Lake, 70, is more a guest of honor than a full-fledged member of the band, but his creative history — especially in the early-’70s, with the Black Artists Group — bears clear relevance to Tarbaby’s ideal of an intrepid and independent African-American music.

He appears on the band’s excellent new album, “Ballad of Sam Langford” (Hipnotic), along with the trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire, who’s in his 30s. At times they form a dynamic front line, working in a blended sync or at strategic cross-purposes. But there wasn’t a moment in Tuesday’s set when the trumpet was missed, because of the magnitude of Mr. Lake’s regal presence and the sturdiness of his rapport with the rhythm section.

Sam Langford was a celebrated black prizefighter in the early 20th century; among his nicknames was the Boston Tar Baby. “Ballad of Sam Langford” doesn’t attempt a suitelike consideration of his story — its only real nod in that direction is a scrappy theme called “Title Bout,” which bookends the album — but it isn’t hard to understand why Tarbaby might claim him as a lodestar.

A few tunes into the set the band pared down to a trio for “Hat Trick,” a hard-swinging postbop number that cleared a good lane for Mr. Evans, whose piano solo had spikiness, soul and an off-kilter logic. Next came “O,” a mischievous tune by Mr. Revis, set over a groove in 7/4 meter. Every now and again there was a brief pause in the action, and the musicians yelled out the song’s title, in what felt like a darkly comic provocation.
133 2013-09-05 After reports of the chemical attack emerged on Aug. 21, Mr. Putin’s vehement opposition to any foreign intervention seemed at first to leave Russia embarrassingly isolated in its defense of Mr. Assad’s government. But in the weeks since, other nations and leaders have moved closer to his insistence that any intervention would be unlawful without the authorization of the United Nations.

“I want to draw your attention to one absolutely fundamental fact,” Mr. Putin said in a lengthy interview with The Associated Press and the Russian state television network Channel One, published Wednesday. “In accordance with applicable international law, the authorization of the use of force against a sovereign state can only be given by the Security Council of the United Nations,” he said. “Any other reasons, or methods, to justify the use of force against an independent and sovereign state are unacceptable and cannot be qualified as anything other than aggression.”

In lieu of the meeting he was to have held with Mr. Putin in Moscow, Mr. Obama arrived in Sweden on Wednesday and defended his position on the imperative to respond to a gross violation of the international ban on chemical weapons, even as his advisers continued to make the case to a skeptical Congress at home.

“I didn’t set a red line,” Mr. Obama said in Sweden, referring to his remark last year, later described as off-the-cuff, that the use of such weapons would cause him to rethink his evident reluctance to involve the United States deeply in the war in Syria, which has now claimed more than 100,000 lives. “The world set a red line.”

Mr. Obama this week picked up support, albeit tepid in many cases, from the Republican Congressional leadership for military action in Syria, and on Wednesday the Senate Foreign Relations Committee followed suit.

He can also claim credit for a steadily reviving American economy, even as many formerly robust developing countries are experiencing weakness for the first time in years because of falling commodity prices and sagging currencies. Yet, even here, he faces challenges from countries that traditionally have been friends.

India, which also publicly opposed military action in Syria in a statement that refrained from assigning blame for the chemical attacks, has grown weary of American economic policies as its own domestic woes have deepened, though Mr. Obama himself remains fairly popular.

India’s currency, the rupee, has lost 20 percent of its value since the spring, when Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, signaled an impending end to large-scale bond purchases, prompting foreign capital to flee emerging markets. “I think there is fatigue, quite frankly,” said Siddharth Varadarajan, the editor of The Hindu, a leading newspaper. “Right now, the Indian economy is taking a beating because of what is happening in the U.S. Then there is a Syria crisis, which he has escalated, leading to higher oil prices.”

Of Mr. Obama in particular, he added, “There’s not too much enthusiasm for his leadership.”

The continuing leaks from Mr. Snowden, the former intelligence analyst who remains in hiding here in Russia, have also roiled relations with allies in ways that could seed distrust of the Obama administration’s broader goals.

The debate over Syria erupted at an unusually low point in relations with Brazil, where the disclosure that the National Security Agency focused particular attention on the nation — and President Rousseff personally — have soured the government’s view of the Obama administration.

Brazil’s foreign minister, Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, publicly rebuked the American government this week, describing the spying as an unacceptable affront to Brazil’s sovereignty and demanding a written explanation of the American intelligence activities in the country.

Mexico’s foreign ministry addressed neither the debate over Syria nor the eavesdropping in a statement released as President Peña Nieto departed for St. Petersburg, but tensions in the relationship are palpable. Analysts in Mexico said the relationship was now spread across so many different issues — trade, security, energy and migration, among others — and handled by so many different overlapping agencies and institutions, that personal relations between presidents play far less of a role than it used to. That, in itself, suggested a recognition of Mr. Obama’s diminished stature.

Mr. Obama visited Mexico City in May, where he was said to have found some chemistry with Mr. Peña Nieto, but they have both quickly been consumed by other issues. Indeed, a planned summit meeting between the United States, Mexico and Canada, which had been expected to take place this fall, has been pushed back to 2014.

“Everything was lined up during Obama’s visit to have an extraordinary advancement, and now that has been put into question because of the intensity of Barack Obama’s international and national problems, as well as Mexico’s problems,” said Rafael Fernández de Castro, an expert on United States-Mexico relations at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico.

Mr. Obama is not the first president to face such skepticism. President George W. Bush faced vehement opposition — especially from France, Germany and Russia — over the war in Iraq, though he also had the strong support of allies like Britain. That opposition only grew in Mr. Bush’s second term, as it became clear that Iraq had no unconventional weapons and after the outbreak of sectarian killing that continues today.

Mr. Obama is now fighting that legacy as he makes the case for a more limited military response in Syria based on intelligence that he says is more concrete than that presented before the war in Iraq. Mr. Obama is also suffering from the heightened expectations that his presidency would bring a new character to American leadership in the world.

Nina L. Khrushcheva, a professor of international affairs at the New School in New York, said that diplomacy under Mr. Obama, along with a general feeling of America as overbearing, has left many more skeptical, and not just over crises like the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and now Syria.

Here in St. Petersburg, a planned meeting with representatives of civil society groups was rescheduled so many times that several invitees from Moscow said Wednesday that they would not attend. “Honestly speaking, these meetings are rituals,” said Lev A. Ponomaryov, a rights advocate here. “It’s good we have them, but it is not the most serious issue during this trip.”

Ms. Khrushcheva noted that many Chinese also felt slighted, for example, by Michelle Obama’s failure to accompany Mr. Obama to his meeting with China’s leader, Xi Jinping, in California in June. “That ‘moral obligation’ in Syria, many feel is hard to argue with all the things the world has learned about the U.S. in the last 13 years,” Ms. Khrushcheva said, “and sadly in Obama’s own five years.”
134 2013-09-05 Hitting the ball flatter and harder while seeking breathtaking angles and using his gift of touch at the net, a fresher Nadal looks as prepared as ever to win the United States Open.

Nadal is 20-0 on hardcourts this year and has not lost his serve in 67 games in five Open matches, and in 82 straight over all this summer. He has dropped only one set here, against Phillipp Kohlschreiber in the fourth round.

Nadal said that the way he played against Robredo, changing direction and hitting precision inside-out forehands was a blueprint for him.

“That is the way I have to play to be successful on every surface, but especially this one,” he said. “I was able to do it today. I hope I will be able to do it in two days.”

In the next round Nadal will face his old friend Richard Gasquet of France, the No. 8 seed, who made the second Grand Slam semifinal of his career — six years after the first.

Gasquet’s triumph came with considerable effort. His 6-3, 6-1, 4-6, 2-6, 6-3 victory over No. 4 David Ferrer required 3 hours 23 minutes to complete, just two days after Gasquet needed five sets and 4:40 to win a fourth-round match over Milos Raonic.

“Right now for sure, I am a little bit tired,” Gasquet said, laughing. “This was difficult because Raonic, we played a big match. But today was the same. I managed to fight in the fifth. It was a big victory for me.”

Gasquet carried hopes of a signature moment in an up-and-down career, one marred by injuries and a brief drug ban in 2009. In fact, it was Nadal who came to Gasquet’s defense at the time, a gesture Gasquet has never forgotten.

“Rafa supported me more than anyone in the last few months, and if he ever needs me to help him, I will do what I can,” Gasquet said. “I’ll never forget what he’s done for me. Now I just want to get out and play.”

But he will not be given much of a chance against Nadal, who has beaten Gasquet all 10 times they have played on tour. Gasquet had to point to an ancient victory he earned over Nadal in France when they were 13.

Asked after his victory Wednesday night if he could beat Novak Djokovic in a potential final, Nadal insisted he was not looking past Gasquet.

“If I don’t play a great match against Richard, I will see the final on TV,” he said.

Nadal was the second No. 2 seed to advance to the semifinals Wednesday night. Earlier on a crisp, blustery evening, Victoria Azarenka pounded Daniela Hantuchova, 6-2, 6-3, in 1:16. By beating the 30-year-old Hantuchova, who was playing in her first Open quarterfinal since 2002, the 24-year-old Azarenka eliminated the possibility of an all-30s final four. Flavia Pennetta, 31, joined No. 1 Serena Williams and fifth-seeded Li Na as an over-30 semifinalist.

Pennetta had to feel the same nerves as her friend Roberta Vinci across the net in Ashe Stadium. Each player was fighting for her first semifinal berth in a Grand Slam tournament, and each considered the Open her favorite event. They had played each other for almost their whole lives, and they carried the same burden: lifting Italian tennis to a new level.

But as the occasion turned into an actual tennis match, anticipation replaced by serves, ground strokes and strategy, Pennetta shed those nerves for something altogether different in a 6-4, 6-1 victory: joy.

“It’s amazing,” she said. “I’m really happy. I cannot believe it. It was really tough today, playing against Roberta. I was trying to play my tennis, trying to be aggressive, and it worked out perfectly.”

Pennetta’s joy stemmed from her long, frustrating comeback from a wrist surgery last year, which cost her the chance to play in the Open last year. Pennetta said the pain and its accompanying cloud of doubt had finally parted.

“I didn’t play my best tennis the last six months, and I just try to keep working and working the same way,” she said. “I am starting to feel more my forehand, my backhand. Everything is starting to feel more normal in the way it was before the injury. I play really good tennis here, I think.”
135 2013-09-05 Construction was able to resume a few days after the hurricane, officials said.

The quick turnaround could be credited in part to some common-sense principles embedded in the design:

■ Build higher than you think the water could possibly come.

■ Make it tough, but not impossible, for surging water to get in.

■ Make it easy for water to flow back into the river, but not into sewers.

“We were lucky in that the park sits above the 100-year flood plain,” said Kyle Kimball, the new president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which built the park. “But the 100-year flood plain was tested by the last storm.”

“The idea is not that the park won’t flood, though ideally, it won’t,” Mr. Kimball added. “The resiliency feature is that when and if it does flood, it can drain quickly and at a pace that the sewers can handle.”

Welcome to the new world of civic design, in which projects bend so that they will not break.

The park, new and expanded streets nearby, streetlights, traffic signals, water mains, and storm and sanitary sewers were built at a cost of $66 million. They are to serve what the Bloomberg administration envisions as a new neighborhood with 5,000 housing units, 60 percent of which would be reserved for middle- and lower-income residents.

Therefore, the waterfront park is not merely a public amenity, though it is certainly that, with a dog run, ball courts, playground, sand lot and — soon — a cafe. It is also a first line of defense for what is to be a densely developed residential quarter.

That is why one of its most important features can be found at its edge. Running through the plantings along the eastern perimeter, for about 760 feet, are heavy wire cages, 18 inches wide, filled with broken chunks of stone. The cages are sunk six inches into the ground, but are partly visible among the grasses.

They are called gabions. Their role is to get in the way of floodwaters headed for the sewer system. “They slow it, capture it, retain it and clean it,” Mr. Manfredi’s partner, Marion Weiss, said.

The central green is an oval 285 feet long and 210 feet wide. The surface of the playing field is bordered by a retaining wall up to 30 inches high, except where it is closest to the water. There, the field is level with and open to the abutting walkway. This subtle design touch amounts to a flood mitigation measure.

“Water will never be trapped in there like a pond,” Thomas Balsley, the landscape architect, said.

Another sensible measure is the use of synthetic turf on the playing field and natural grass on the surrounding five-foot-high berm. Hard-charging games can be played on the synthetic grass, while parkgoers looking for a comfortable vantage can settle down on the real thing.

“Hidden in that is a resiliency feature,” Mr. Kimball said. The synthetic surface, he said, is likelier to be flooded but can bounce back more easily. The real grass, which could be badly damaged by salt water, is raised well above the flood plain.

This arrangement was not the product of smart engineering but of the conflicting philosophies of Amanda M. Burden, the director of the New York City Planning Department, who favored an all-natural green, and Adrian Benepe, who was then the parks commissioner and wanted an all-synthetic playing field, especially since a public school is being built nearby.

“The compromise was an artful one,” said Mr. Benepe, who is now a senior vice president of the Trust for Public Land. “It looks good and hopefully will work well.”

With more hurricane seasons to come, it may not take long to find out.
136 2013-09-05 Opening a trip overseas, President Obama declared that the confrontation with Syria over chemical weapons was a test for Congress, the United States and the world....
137 2013-09-05 In an interview, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia warned that an attack on Syria without authorization from the United Nations Security Council would violate international law....
138 2013-09-06 An openly anti-Semitic political party has gained power in Hungary’s Parliament in recent years, fueling fears that the Eastern European nation is experiencing a rise in anti-Jewish sentiment. Ninety percent of Hungarian Jews who participated in a recent survey by a European Union agency ranked the bias in the country as a “very big” or “fairly big” problem. The growing talk of anti-Semitism in Hungary has prompted the government to respond with a call on Hungarians to accept responsibility for the role played by their country in the Holocaust during World War II and to redouble efforts to commemorate the Holocaust.

The Times will be taking a deep look at anti-Semitism in Hungary this coming year. As we report on this issue, we are hoping to hear from Hungarian Jews on their experiences. If you are Jewish and living in Hungary or are from Hungary, we invite you to answer the following questions.

Your responses will not be published without your permission and only Times journalists working on this coverage will have access to them. Please include your contact information so that we may follow up with you. If you have any questions concerning this project, please email sources@nytimes.com.

Thank you for your interest. We are no longer accepting submissions for this project.
139 2013-09-06 Tornado Black will face the German Antonia Lottner in the girls semifinals....
140 2013-09-06 Costa Rica defeated the United States, 3-1, in a World Cup qualifying match Friday night in San José....
141 2013-09-06 Friday’s United States Open food review: Pat LaFrieda’s filet mignon sandwich at the East Gate Grill....
142 2013-09-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
143 2013-09-06 The Senator’s attempt to stay out of the government shutdown fight is making the Tea Party angry....
144 2013-09-06 Unemployment rate falls. Lessons learned from bootstrapping. Are our things spying on us?...
145 2013-09-06 Young women who regularly drink alcohol before their first pregnancy may be increasing their risk for breast cancer, a new study suggests....
146 2013-09-06 Li Na, at 31, has been working to add new dimensions to her game, but is it enough to challenge Serena Williams?...
147 2013-09-06 The deeper Novak Djokovic advances in this United States Open, the more his path to the final seems to open up.

It happened again Thursday. Instead of sixth-seeded Juan Martín del Potro, Djokovic in the quarterfinals faced Mikhail Youzhny, a Russian seeded 21st who became the first player of the tournament to take a set from Djokovic. Still, while Djokovic fought his way to the semifinals, 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-0, his much-anticipated showdown with Andy Murray failed to materialize.

So it went. Djokovic plowed ahead. Murray fell. A final between Djokovic and Rafael Nadal seemed more likely than ever.

Everything again seemed to align for Djokovic except for Stanislas Wawrinka, who toppled Murray and who took Djokovic to five sets in the fourth round at the Australian Open. That match lasted more than five hours. It ended with Djokovic ahead, 12-10, as he tore off his shirt, turned to his box and roared. It was nearing 2 a.m.

In his news conference, Wawrinka said that match was “one of the keys of the season, for sure.”

“I was really positive with that match because all Australian Open, my level was quite good and was better than ever,” he said Thursday. “That’s the most important for me. When I’m playing good tennis, I know the result will come.”

For his part, Djokovic, who had lost seven games in his previous two matches, seized the first two sets against Youzhny with similar ease as the crowd fought back yawns and tried to remain interested.
148 2013-09-06 Mr. Shafran, once an aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and former Representative Gary L. Ackerman, is locked in a four-way Democratic primary battle that includes a candidate who has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in support from Jobs for New York.

The group’s efforts are playing out in 17 races throughout the city at a time when the Council is facing extensive turnover, with 21 of its 51 members stepping down, mainly because of term limits.

In the 36th Council District, which covers Bedford-Stuyvesant and parts of Crown Heights in Brooklyn, Jobs for New York deployed dozens of paid canvassers to knock on doors promoting the candidacy of Kirsten John Foy, a Democrat who recently broke his foot and has had a hard time getting around the district on his own.

In all, the committee has spent more than $200,000 raising the profile of Mr. Foy, one of five candidates who are running in the Democratic primary to succeed Councilman Albert Vann, who is leaving office because of term limits.

In the 22nd Council District covering Astoria and Long Island City in Queens, Jobs for New York is distributing fliers and other campaign literature in English, Spanish and Greek promoting Costa Constantinides, a Democrat and one of three candidates running for the seat being vacated by Peter F. Vallone Jr.

The committee has also gone on the attack in the 19th Council District, where Jobs for New York is backing Paul Vallone, a Democratic candidate who is the councilman’s brother. Charges of mudslinging recently erupted in that race after the committee sent out campaign mailers leveling harsh attacks against three of Mr. Vallone’s rivals: Mr. Shafran, Chrissy Voskerichian and Paul Graziano. In one of the mailers, mug shots of all three candidates appear under a headline that reads: “Queens Can’t Trust These Candidates to Represent Our Values on the City Council.”

Whether the business-backed group will prevail in its effort to reshape the Council is not clear. Mr. Shafran said he believed that many local residents had been turned off by the negative tone the group had injected into the race. “It’s made people more frustrated than they already have been with politics,” he said.

The focus on Council races underscores the influence council members exercise over development in the city. The full Council tends to follow the wishes of individual members on whether to approve, modify or reject projects being proposed in their districts.

The effort is being organized by the Real Estate Board of New York, which includes some of the most influential figures and families in the industry, like Larry A. Silverstein, the developer of the World Trade Center, Richard S. LeFrak, Daniel R. Tishman, the Speyers and the Rudins.

The group also has the support of several unions that would benefit from development projects: Mason Tenders District Council of Greater New York, which represents supermarket workers, and the New York City District Council of Carpenters.

“The only way new supermarkets get built is if there’s a viable economy and this group was formed to elect candidates that will help make that happen,” Patrick Purcell, a spokesman for United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1500, said. The organization has not recruited any of the candidates it is supporting in these races. Instead, it decided to back candidates who were already in the races after extensively researching their positions, according to officials coordinating the campaign.

Bill Lipton, the state director of the Working Families Party, a progressive coalition based in New York City, predicted that Jobs for New York’s efforts would ultimately backfire because many of the candidates it is backing have long records as liberal activists.

“Wealthy real estate interests are trying to buy the loyalty of these candidates with a very big checkbook,” he said. “But these candidates are not going to throw away a lifetime of progressive advocacy for someone sending junk mail in their district.”

Phil Singer, a spokesman for Jobs for New York, said: “Being progressive and being pro-jobs are not mutually exclusive.”
149 2013-09-06 Reed traveled to Vail, Colo., last month to visit the surgeon who performed the procedure on his hip. He received injections during the visit and went to Atlanta to continue his rehabilitation before rejoining the team.

If Reed plays Monday, it will be in a limited capacity, Kubiak said, because Reed, 34, did not see any work in a preseason game. The Texans plan to start Shiloh Keo at free safety if Reed is not ready.

SCUFFLE AT EAGLES PRACTICE Receiver Riley Cooper, who left the Philadelphia Eagles for three days in training camp after a video of him using a racial slur surfaced on the Internet, scuffled with defensive back Cary Williams at practice. Cooper said afterward that the fight had nothing to do with his use of the slur; Williams declined to speak to reporters.

“Both being super competitive, going for the ball,” Cooper said. “We had a tangle-up at the ball; we both went to the ground. There was a lot of contact at the top of the route. It was nothing.”

ROOKIE BACK AT PRACTICE Detroit defensive end Ziggy Ansah, the No. 5 pick in this year’s draft, was able to practice, a sign that his recovery from a concussion may be progressing.

COWBOYS CUT GUARD The Cowboys released guard Nate Livings just a year after signing him as a free agent to shore up their offensive line. Dallas originally put Livings on season-ending injured reserve; during training camp, he had the second arthroscopic surgery on his right knee in the last six months.

JAGUAR MAY BE SIDELINED Jacksonville could be without tight end Marcedes Lewis in its season opener against Kansas City. Lewis, who reinjured his strained left calf Wednesday, missed his second consecutive day of practice.

CAMPAIGN AGAINST REDSKINS An American Indian tribe in upstate New York said it would launch a radio advertising campaign pressing for the Washington Redskins to shed their name.

The tribe, the Oneida Indian Nation, said the first ad would run on radio stations in Washington before the team hosts Philadelphia on Monday night. In the ad, Ray Halbritter, the Oneida Nation representative, says N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell should “stand up to bigotry” by denouncing “the racial slur” in the team’s name.
150 2013-09-06 “We don’t want a revolution, we don’t want a brawl,” Kem Sokha, the vice president of the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, told supporters gathered for a rehearsal on Wednesday. “We just want justice.”

Nearly six weeks after the election, which a number of monitoring groups say was marred by widespread voting irregularities, Cambodian politics remain in a deadlock. The leader of the opposition, Sam Rainsy, early on called for a special committee to investigate the reported irregularities and decide whether new balloting or recounting was necessary. But hopes of a negotiated solution have faded as Mr. Sam Rainsy says his attempts to engage the governing party “led nowhere.” And there seems little doubt who has the upper hand.

Prime Minister Hun Sen, who has been in power 28 years, has a firm grip over the army, the police, the judicial system and nearly every other institution in the country, analysts say. As a symbol of his power, the Khmer-language news media, which toe the government’s line, preface the prime minister’s name with a Cambodian honorific that roughly translates as “His Highness.”

Ou Virak, the president of the Cambodian Center for Human Rights, an independent advocacy organization in Phnom Penh, said he supported the right of the opposition to protest but was skeptical it would threaten the governing party’s grip on power.

“How are you going to topple the government with a three-hour demonstration?” he said.

Mr. Sam Rainsy says he is counting on the protests to maintain the momentum and energy of the election campaign. “They will look bad when they come with their guns and water cannons to crack down on us,” he said in an interview, referring to security forces. “We will offer them flowers.”

The election in July was a political milestone for the country because the governing party, the Cambodian People’s Party, lost its near-total monopoly on power, taking 55 percent of the seats in Parliament, down from 73 percent in the previous election, according to unofficial results. Mr. Hun Sen — who with the help of the Vietnamese in 1979 drove out the murderous Khmer Rouge — appeared chastened by the result, and in the days after the election, he spoke in conciliatory terms about his relations with the opposition.

But in recent weeks, he has returned to his characteristic combative style, honed over years in which he has accumulated unrivaled power. Once official election results are announced, which is expected on Sunday, members of his party say, with or without the cooperation of the opposition, they will proceed with the opening of a new session of the National Assembly and form another government, possibly as early as next week.

The government, which is portraying the protest as an attempt to instigate riots, has deployed military units to the outskirts of the capital, and the riot police are conducting their own rehearsals.

“It’s a rebellion,” said Phay Siphan, the secretary of state in the Council of Ministers, which functions as a cabinet. “They plan to use Cambodian bloodshed as their red carpet to power.”

Mr. Phay Siphan, a member of the governing party, said there would be some “policy adjustments” in the new government and shuffling of posts inside the party.

“We are going to get rid of some of our old policy makers,” he said. “The anticorruption unit will be stronger and more active than before.”

Kem Lay, a researcher who has conducted surveys and studied social trends for government ministries as well as for the United States Agency for International Development, said Cambodian intellectuals and human rights advocates were ambivalent about their political choices.

Mr. Hun Sen’s party is resented for allowing land to be seized from farmers, for the opaque way that contracts and concessions are given to groups of businesspeople close to the party and for stifling the independence of the judiciary.

But Mr. Kem Lay said he also saw autocratic tendencies in Mr. Sam Rainsy’s leadership of the opposition — and a generalized lack of competence and experience among the candidates that the party put forward in the July election. “It would have been a big disaster if the opposition had won the election,” Mr. Kem Lay said. “They are not ready.”

Although the result of the election remains disputed, Mr. Kem Lay points to one positive outcome: he noticed that villagers and low-level government officials were speaking their minds, being more analytical and critical of government policies, a development that he describes as the maturing of the Cambodian electorate.

At the rehearsal on Wednesday, a 34-year-old woman named Mai Simorn surged into the crowd with a wad of Cambodian money in her hands. She had collected donations from workers at the garment factory where she works as a seamstress and handed them to the organizers of the protest.

Divorced from her husband, Ms. Mai Simorn earns a base salary of about $80 a month at the factory, barely enough to support her two children. Saturday is a workday, but she plans to ask for half of the day off to attend the protest.

“Our life is not easy,” she said. “We need to dare to protest.”
151 2013-09-06 At stake, he says, is Las Vegas’s future as a two-newspaper town. Doing away with the joint operating agreement “is equivalent to buying The Sun and shutting it down,” he said, adding of his siblings, “It’s a business deal to them.”

The dispute is the latest twist in the outsize history of the Greenspuns and Las Vegas. While there are better-known publishing families in the United States, few are more colorful.

Hank Greenspun started the paper with his wife, Barbara, after working as a publicist for the gangster Bugsy Siegel. In the 1940s, he was convicted of running guns to the paramilitary group that would become the Israeli Defense Forces. (He was fined, never jailed and later pardoned by President John F. Kennedy.) In the ensuing decades, he helped end segregation on the Strip, developed an 8,000-acre master-planned community and brought cable television to Las Vegas. He was also revealed to be a proposed target of the Watergate burglars. The Greenspun name is on schools, clinics and colleges.

The Sun first came to prominence in the 1950s for its opposition to Senator Patrick McCarran’s red-baiting tactics. (Hank Greenspun was also a vociferous opponent of Senator Joseph McCarthy.) It continued to be a liberal voice amid the city’s dizzying growth, but by the time of Hank Greenspun’s death in 1989, the paper was losing millions. Within months, the joint agreement was created, but circulation continued to slide. By 2005, when the deal was revised, The Sun had fewer than 30,000 readers and essentially became a 6- to 10-page insert with no advertising.

On that day in 2005, Mr. Greenspun assured the 75 or so staff members that the deal would let the paper reinvest in journalism. In 2009, the paper won the industry’s highest honor, a Pulitzer Prize, for a series about construction deaths on the Strip.

But as the economy staggered, many of those same journalists were laid off or left. The paper once received as much as $12 million a year in profit-sharing through the joint agreement and now receives $1.3 million. Last month, the Greenspuns voted to dissolve the partnership.

None of the other Greenspun siblings would discuss the case. Brian Greenspun maintains that the deal violates antitrust laws. “In every antitrust violation, there’s always been at least two parties who combine based on it being a good business decision,” he said. His lawyers include Leif Reid, son of the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, another prominent family in Nevada and long supported by The Sun.

But Donald Campbell, outside counsel for Stephens, said: “We believe his beef is with the wrong people. He is a dissident shareholder. The problem he has is with his own family.” Mr. Campbell also said the offer did not include a noncompete clause, so the Greenspuns, or anyone else, would face no legal obstacle in continuing to print The Sun. Mr. Greenspun contends that the costs to do so would be prohibitive.

Rabbi Mel Hecht, who served at the synagogue the Greenspuns attended in the 1980s, said he thought that Mr. Greenspun was starting a quixotic campaign to preserve the paper’s ethos of speaking truth to power.

“I think they’re rolling over in their graves,” he said of Hank and Barbara Greenspun. “They represent an age and a dream that is passing, and they’ve got to be disappointed in three of their children.”

But Michael Green, a historian at the College of Southern Nevada, said that the influx of new residents to Las Vegas over the years might care little about the paper, or the family. Add to that the death of Barbara Greenspun in 2010, and the three siblings may appear to be making a practical decision, Mr. Green said.

“It’s easy for an outside observer to say, ‘You’ve turned your backs’ ” on the family, he said. “But it’s also easy to imagine Hank and Barbara Greenspun saying, ‘Live your lives.’ ”

Drex Heikes, a former deputy managing editor at The Sun who edited the Pulitzer Prize-winning series, said he had sensed a division among the siblings over whether to keep the paper alive even during the heady days of the mid-2000s. Given the family’s losses in real estate, casinos and other ventures during the recent downturn, “the pressure’s only built,” he said.

The deal was to go through on Sept. 1. In a ruling on Aug. 27 that granted Mr. Greenspun a temporary restraining order, Judge James Mahan of United States District Court appeared to suggest that the issue might be out of his hands, saying that the court was not inclined to maintain the joint agreement. He added that the Justice Department or the state attorney general could intervene if the courts found that the deal violated antitrust laws. Both sides are to present their cases in a hearing on Friday.

Splits in newspaper families that have reached the second generation and beyond are not unusual, said Alex S. Jones, director of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard. “That’s the classic pattern: ownership of the paper gets divided over generations, and one is usually deeply involved, while for the others it’s about money or some sort of psychic reward. If the psychic reward stops, they decide they’d rather have the money.”

Still, Mr. Jones said, “if The Las Vegas Sun was to go away, it would be a shame for Las Vegas.”
152 2013-09-06 Judge Shira Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan made the right decision last week when she granted class-action status to a lawsuit brought by public housing residents and visitors who say they were illegally stopped or arrested by the police in their buildings.

The ruling in Davis v. the City of New York clears the way for a trial in one of three federal class-action suits challenging different aspects of the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk program, under which hundreds of thousands of times a year people are detained, often while doing nothing wrong.

Judge Scheindlin, who oversees all three cases, has issued a blistering series of rulings making it clear that many police stops in New York City violate the Fourth Amendment. Courts have long ruled that police officers can legally stop and detain a person only when they have reasonable suspicion that the person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a crime.

Earlier this year, in Ligon v. City of New York, Judge Scheindlin excoriated the Police Department for persisting in making illegal stops and arrests outside private apartment buildings — even after prosecutors had pointed out that they were wrongful. Last month, she ruled in Floyd v. City of New York that street-stop tactics violated the constitutional rights of minority citizens who were disproportionately singled out. She also appointed an independent monitor who will be responsible for reforming Police Department practices.

The city has sometimes tried to deny that the Police Department has an actual stop-and-frisk program. But the judge points out in the Davis case that police training materials actually direct officers to approach and question people in New York City Housing Authority buildings “without reasonable suspicion of trespass, and to arrest for trespass those who fail to leave or affirmatively establish their right” to be present in a building.

The Housing Authority’s population is larger than most cities. It houses more than 400,000 New Yorkers in more than 330 developments spread around the five boroughs.
153 2013-09-06 The Brooklyn district attorney, , has ordered a review of nearly 40 cases investigated by Mr. Scarcella, who is now retired. The review came after Mr. Hynes’s office revealed six months ago that the detective’s flawed investigation had put an innocent man behind bars for two decades and news reports found further problems with his work.

An examination by of some cases Mr. Scarcella handled indicates that prosecutors in the district attorney’s office itself either ignored warning signs in the detective’s work or made missteps of their own.

“Our experience all around the city is that errors by police and errors by prosecutors go hand in hand and frequently become a toxic mixture,” said Steven Banks, the chief attorney for the , which represents many of the defendants whose cases are under review. “There are a series of circumstances that should have set off alarm bells both at the precinct and in the prosecutor’s office.”

Mr. Scarcella declined to comment on Thursday, saying he had retained a lawyer.

In defending his cases, Mr. Scarcella has repeatedly cited the oversight of prosecutors. “If what I did was so bad, it shouldn’t have been brought to trial,” he said in an interview in April.

The district attorney’s office has so far refused to release a full list of cases under review and declined to discuss particular ones. In addition, it is unclear what individual prosecutors knew about Mr. Scarcella and the accusations against him. But the potential problems seen in a sampling of cases in which Mr. Scarcella testified raises the prospect that innocent people may be serving life sentences for crimes they did not commit, or that guilty people whose cases were compromised could go free.

That 1997 murder case in which the prosecutor rose to defend Mr. Scarcella was emblematic of flaws in the detective’s cases: contradictory witnesses, disputed confessions and prosecutors willing to accept his findings and take them to trial.

Jabbar , who is serving 25 years to life, was convicted of taking part in a home invasion in 1995 that left one person dead and two others seriously injured. The case against him was built around his own confession and the testimony of a woman who said she saw the crime, but there were reasons to be skeptical of both.

Mr. Washington claimed the detective had told him what to say and then beat him until he confessed. The district attorney’s office accepted the confession, which had been videotaped, even though it started with the same two sentences uttered by suspects Mr. Scarcella had interrogated in other cases. Mr. Reeves, who defended the detective’s honesty during his closing argument, declined to comment.

The lead witness told Mr. Scarcella she could identify the killer, who had worn a mask, but she was unable to do so at trial. In response to an appeal years later, an assistant district attorney, Marie-Claude P. Wrenn-Myers, acknowledged that the witness had been “equivocal and somewhat inarticulate.”

“But,” she added, “the jury could consider Detective Scarcella’s testimony in tandem with hers.”

Critics, including political opponents, defense lawyers and inmates, have questioned the propriety of Mr. Hynes leading the investigation into his office’s work, particularly because most of the cases under review were prosecuted on his watch. (The district attorney’s office said 10 of the cases were closed under , who was district attorney before Mr. Hynes took office in 1990, but his office defended them if they were appealed.)

The critics note that Mr. Hynes, 78, is seeking re-election and that Mr. Scarcella’s daughter works in the office as a prosecutor. In a brief interview, Mr. Hynes said that so far no glaring problems had been discovered in the review. He said the detective’s sloppy work was not brought to the office’s attention until a year ago, when it reopened the case that led to an exoneration. Even in that case, he found no reason to blame the prosecutors.

“I am not going to second-guess the assistants involved,” Mr. Hynes said. “They are very good trial lawyers.”

In March, Mr. Hynes announced that he would support the release of David Ranta, who had served two decades in prison for the 1990 murder of an Orthodox rabbi. The district attorney’s staff documented a series of problems with Mr. Scarcella’s work in the case, like covering up the steps he took investigating another suspect.

But in court records and public interviews Mr. Hynes and his staff glossed over questionable actions by prosecutors that included making unauthorized tape recordings, overlooking inconsistencies in the evidence and offering a generous deal to an informer even after he changed his stories.

Those in the office at the time recall significant pressure from Mr. Hynes to win a conviction. Mr. Hynes, who had recently been elected district attorney, represented the state at the arraignment and also appeared at the grand jury. (A spokesman said the district attorney initially had “no recollection” of being at either hearing, though he later said Mr. Hynes remembered attending the grand jury proceedings.)

A two-month investigation initially focused on another man who prosecutors now believe was the real killer. But when that suspect died, Mr. Scarcella switched his focus to Mr. Ranta.

Mr. Hynes assigned the case to two top prosecutors in the office: Suzanne M. Mondo, now a judge, and Barry M. Schreiber, now a private lawyer and campaign contributor to Mr. Hynes. They were handed a case built on the words of a prostitute, a drug addict, a rapist and a jailhouse informer who had been lavished with favors by Mr. Scarcella for weeks.

Prosecutors promised the informer — Alan Bloom, who was facing over 100 years in prison for a string of armed robberies — from charges related to the murder and a sentence of as little as three and a third years for the robberies. They gave him the deal even though he had failed his first lie-detector test and initially named someone else as responsible for the murder.

Other problems were later discovered. Mr. Ranta’s confession included incorrect key details, like the color of the getaway car. A hair sample found in the vehicle was not a match for him, and years later, when investigators sought to test it against another suspect, it had been destroyed.

A witness was less than certain when he identified Mr. Ranta in a police lineup, saying “I think,” but when the district attorney’s office made a transcript of the recording it edited out the hedge and did not turn over the audio tape until the close of trial. Two decades later, that witness recanted and said that just before entering the lineup room, where a prosecutor was present, a police officer told him whom to pick. That admission forced Mr. Hynes’s office to reopen the case.

That is when investigators found a previously unknown tape recording made by an informer at the request of prosecutors but never turned over to the defense. On it, an informer chatted on the phone with Mr. Ranta, who called from jail to profess his innocence and mention other witnesses who could have helped his case. Supervisors at the district attorney’s Conviction Integrity Unit were angered by the discovery of the tape because they felt it was an unauthorized recording because Mr. Ranta already had counsel, a lawyer familiar with the case said.

Mr. Schreiber, who did not respond to requests for comment, told his former colleagues that he did not recall making the recording, court records show. The trial lawyer, Michael F. Baum, the first to bring the problems with the case to the office’s attention, said, “The fact is, there were red flags all over this case.”

Defense lawyers called them “magical confessions” — the surprising admissions of guilt that Mr. Scarcella was able to quickly elicit from stubborn suspects. While the district attorney’s office is now reviewing questions about how he managed to get those confessions, the pattern of his questionable tactics was evident for years.

Sundhe Moses, who was accused of killing a 4-year-old girl struck by a stray bullet, took the stand in his own defense in 1997 to say that he signed a confession only because the detective had knocked him around. Mr. Moses says he told the prosecutor that the detective had abused him and that the confession was fiction.

“He didn’t want to hear it,” Mr. Moses said by phone from prison, where he is serving 16 years to life.

In some cases, appeal records show inmates claimed that when they confessed to Mr. Scarcella, the details they allegedly gave did not even match the evidence, that they had been tricked or forced to make untrue statements, or that they had been asked to sign a blank piece of paper only to have the supposed confession written on it later. In some cases, when the prosecutor arrived to videotape a confession, the suspect denied telling Mr. Scarcella he had committed the crime.

Hector Lopez, who was convicted of arson and murder in 1995 and has been writing letters from prison detailing evidence he says shows his confession was fabricated, said it was odd that prosecutors had turned on Mr. Scarcella.

“They supported him all those years,” Mr. Lopez said. “Now that he is retired they are throwing him under the bus? If he was still working, they’d be covering it up.”

One of Mr. Scarcella’s former sergeants, Dennis Singleton, said that years before he retired in 1999, some detectives grew skeptical of the investigator’s cocky “superstar” image and refused to work with him. But if Mr. Scarcella took shortcuts, Mr. Singleton felt that the district attorney’s office should share the blame.

Eventually a similar skepticism emerged in corners of the district attorney’s office. One current top prosecutor said that even those who respected the detective cooled toward him after 1992, when video taken by a defense investigator showed Mr. Scarcella removing informers from jail for unauthorized outings. Some prosecutors began to review the detective’s work more thoroughly, the lawyer recalled.

But even some of those who were suspicious of Mr. Scarcella acknowledged that they mostly kept their concerns to themselves, saying that his ability to clear cases had made him popular with the bosses.

“Some prosecutors were leery; they didn’t trust it,” said one former investigator, who did not want to be identified publicly while criticizing his former supervisors. “He was one of the best detectives in the city. He’s turning over all these cases, and the bosses loved him. You’re going to go to the boss and say, ‘This doesn’t look right’?’”

Peter J. Tartaglia, a former police lieutenant who worked with Mr. Scarcella, had little patience for the second-guessing of the detective’s work.

“Every single one of those cases were scrutinized by high up,” Mr. Tartaglia said. “They were scrutinized by the bureau chief of homicide. Do you know who the bureau chief of homicide had coffee with every day? Charlie Hynes. If there was any doubt any bureau chief had, Charlie Hynes heard that question and the answer.”

Some prosecutors have emerged to defend Mr. Scarcella. They say what may now seem like red flags to others were just a reality of working in law enforcement, particularly in that era.

Douglas M. Nadjari, a former assistant district attorney who prosecuted the case against Mr. Lopez and is convinced of his guilt, said that dealing with defendants who denied confessing did not necessarily mean the admission was fake. He said Mr. Scarcella simply had a gift for getting suspects to open up and they sometimes regretted doing so.

“Lou would take the confession and say, ‘He’s ready to talk,’ ” Mr. Nadjari said. “When I got there with the video recorder, sometimes they clammed up. It’s a sign they thought it over a second time.”

Jeffrey I. Ginsberg, a former assistant district attorney who also prosecuted two of the convictions under review, said the cases might look bad in retrospect, but they needed to be considered in the context of the 1980s and ’90s, when the crack epidemic was helping fuel a crime wave.

“The witnesses often came in orange jumpsuits,” said Mr. Ginsberg, referring to the outfit worn by inmates. “I was not afraid to go to trial on a weak case. I was not afraid to lose. I was not lying and cheating to get a conviction.”

One witness who came from jail was Rayquan Shabazz, a burglar with a knack for getting caught. He kept the telephone number of Kenneth M. Taub, the chief of the Brooklyn district attorney’s homicide unit, tucked in his Bible to have it handy whenever he was arrested.

With a budding career as a jailhouse informer, Mr. Shabazz reached out to Mr. Taub in 1996, promising information that would help win a conviction in a gruesome murder.

Harry Kaufman, a subway token booth clerk, was working an overnight shift at the Kingston-Throop subway station when a group of teenagers approached his booth brandishing a soda bottle filled with gasoline. One of the teenagers squirted the gasoline into the coin slot; another dropped a match. The blast was heard a block away.

Mr. Scarcella, the investigator on the case, quickly zeroed in on Thomas Malik. The case seemed strong: the other teenagers pointed to him as the one who lighted the match, and Mr. Malik confessed on video. But there were problems for the prosecutors because testimony from co-defendants was inadmissible in court and Mr. Malik claimed he confessed only after Mr. Scarcella slammed his head into a locker.

Enter Mr. Shabazz. He told the jury that he had heard Mr. Malik not only admit to the crime, but also plot to have his co-defendants killed as well.

Mr. Malik was found guilty and sentenced to 25 years to life. Mr. Shabazz, who had previously testified for prosecutors in both Brooklyn and , told the jury that Mr. Taub helped get his sentence reduced.

Being a jailhouse was so rewarding that Mr. Shabazz kept at it, even as it became increasingly clear that many of his tips were false.

Six years after Mr. Malik’s conviction, law enforcement agencies had wasted so many resources investigating Mr. Shabazz’s tips that the inmate was criminally charged and, after he pleaded guilty to false reporting, was barred from contacting law enforcement as long as he was in state custody.

“This defendant has persistently made up false reports about the planned assassinations of a judge, prosecutors, correction and police personnel and witnesses in an attempt to curry favor with law enforcement and obtain consideration,” Justice Carol Berkman of State Supreme Court in wrote in 2003. “This defendant poses a very significant threat to the integrity of the criminal justice process.”

Mr. Malik’s lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby, who is seeking to have his conviction overturned, said: “Using a man like Rayquan Shabazz to be a roving informer on an intermittent basis is prosecutorial misconduct. It’s part of institutional willful .”

The files on the nearly 40 cases under review, including Mr. Malik’s, have been distributed to lawyers throughout the district attorney’s office, which could lead them to confront errors and oversights made by current leaders in the office.

District Attorney Hynes, known for standing by longtime lieutenants even when they face accusations of misconduct, also convened a civilian panel to examine his office’s investigation of the Scarcella cases and to make recommendations. That panel includes several of his friends and donors.

The review has complicated Mr. Hynes’s bid to be elected for a seventh term. His opponent in the Democratic primary next week, Kenneth P. Thompson, 47, a private lawyer and former federal prosecutor, has criticized how the investigation has been conducted and questioned whether the problems are more far-reaching.

Mr. Hynes said that if any cases appeared to be the “same as Ranta” — which led to the initial exoneration — he would immediately move to have the convict released. “We have not gotten to a point where we have found anything that appears to be problematic,” he said.
154 2013-09-06 So far, the rules have been applied only to flights within Europe, and European carriers and most non-European airlines have complied. The program is supposed to be expanded next year to include international flights in and out of Europe.

Despite the proposed concessions, a global deal is still a long shot. The United States and other countries have supported the arrangement, according to European Union diplomats. But emerging nations like China and India are resisting similar levels of regulation, which could make it difficult to develop global standards.

From the start, the aviation emissions law approved by European Union nations in 2008 has generated intense opposition among foreign governments, which say the rules violate their sovereignty and unfairly raise the costs of airlines from developing countries.

Carriers like China Eastern Airlines and Air India have refused to participate in the system, and they face the prospect of fines for not providing emissions data. Airbus, the European aircraft manufacturer, warned that Chinese carriers had halted some aircraft orders to signal their dissatisfaction with the European law.

Last year, President Obama signed the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act. The law could exempt carriers like American Airlines and Delta Air Lines from making payments.

Amid the outcry, Connie Hedegaard, the European Union climate commissioner, announced late last year that she would “stop the clock” on the system for 12 months, relieving airlines of making the first payments, which would have been due in April 2013. Those payments were expected to be modest. But the airlines balked because they could face big bills in coming years as the number of permits they needed to buy potentially rose.

Now, the European Union is putting forth a compromise.

Under the compromise, countries could regulate, for now, “the portion of those flights within the airspace of that state or group of states,” according to a copy of a working paper. But the paper also calls for a global set of regulations by 2016, and for that system to be carried out “from 2020 as part of a basket of measures which also include technologies, operational improvements and sustainable alternative fuels.”

The State Department in the United States said Friday that earlier concerns that the Europeans were overreaching with their environmental regulations had been alleviated.

“We have been working hard to develop a basket of measures that all countries can adopt” later this month, the State Department said in a statement sent by e-mail. “In the interim, states and regions should refrain from regulating emissions beyond their own airspace,” it said.

On Wednesday, the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations group based in Montreal, agreed to forward the European compromise proposal to a meeting of its general assembly that will start this month. The group is examining ways to regulate pollution from aircraft engines, which account for about 3 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.

European officials said paring back their system in exchange for a global deal would represent a better outcome. Under the new proposal, emissions would be reduced 37 percent by 2050 from 2005 levels, compared with just 20 percent under the original plan.

But some environmentalists said they had doubts about the value of the compromise.

“Timing is everything when it comes to global warming because of the cumulative effect of CO2 emissions,” said Bill Hemmings, an aviation expert at Transport and Environment, an environmental group based in Brussels. “So why would we give up on a law that is already cutting aviation emissions when it is very uncertain what the climate will get in return?”

Anthony Concil, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association, an industry group representing the world’s major carriers, declined to comment on Europe’s new proposal. Instead, Mr. Concil encouraged nations at the International Civil Aviation Organization meeting to “achieve a global agreement” allowing airlines to offset their carbon emissions and avoid “a patchwork of uncoordinated measures.”
155 2013-09-06 “American Made Movie” is harmless propaganda on behalf of re-establishing American manufacturing and encouraging consumers to support it. But it contains a contradiction of sorts, attributing the decline of the manufacturing sector to macroeconomic forces seemingly beyond anyone’s control, while pinning the hopes for reversing it on small-scale successes and plucky individuals.

The film plows the same familiar ground as other recent documentaries (“Death by China” is one) and countless news reports, reciting the grim statistics on lost jobs and shuttered factories since the 1970s. Dismaying graphics and images of empty buildings in places like Detroit flash by, as they always do. The big picture is intercut with personal stories intended to infuriate us at the unfairness of it all: a Connecticut woman found that the handmade jewelry she sold to the Smithsonian Institution’s gift shops — American-flag-themed jewelry, no less — had been replaced by knockoffs made overseas. Grrr.

Throughout, experts and employers say that American manufacturing was doomed not by open competition but by manipulative actions of governments like China’s and by the profit demands of Wall Street. Yet the best the film can offer for an antidote is small stories. Millions of jobs lost, versus 20 jobs created? “American Made Movie” ends up feeling as if it were built from well-known facts and wishful thinking.
156 2013-09-06 A huge wildfire in and around Yosemite National Park was caused by an illegal fire set by a hunter, the United States Forest Service said Thursday. No arrests have been made, and the hunter’s name was not released. The forest service gave no details on how the fire in a remote canyon of the Stanislaus National Forest had escaped the hunter’s control.
157 2013-09-06 There is a lot going on in and among the works in Carissa Rodriguez’s surgically precise New York gallery debut. The more you think about them, the busier it all becomes.

Ms. Rodriguez is a latter-day Conceptual artist with a preference for physical perfection similar to appropriationist precursors like Sherrie Levine, Louise Lawler and Sarah Charlesworth. Her efforts here center on the business, display and collection of art; different modes of site-specificity; and the circle, or cylinder, as a recurring form. Eric Rohmer’s 1967 film , “La Collectionneuse,” provides the title and features an artwork made from a used paint can neatly embedded with dozens of razor blades. Ms. Rodriguez has recreated it in four tastefully colored ceramic vessels, blades and all. (Rohmer aside, they also evoke Giacometti’s 1931 spiked phalluslike sculpture, “Disagreeable Object,” and Meret Oppenheim’s 1936 fur-covered teacup.)

Other elements on display include a gold wedding ring, set into a groove cut in the gallery’s marble mantelpiece — a perfect wedding of two materials; and a three-wall enclosure tailored to the gallery’s lighting system — a square of fluorescent ceiling lights — that intensifies the hygienic effect of the gallery as white cube. A revolving metal rack displays four sets of black-and-white photographic postcards free for the taking: one shows the gallery’s ceiling, which has a center circle remaining from its original light, as well as the fluorescents. The other three document a series of monochromatic wall pieces by Ms. Rodriguez titled “Standing O” installed in the homes of three collectors. Round, with pronounced drips, these pieces may summon the old Sherwin-Williams logo of a globe dripping paint and the phrase “Cover the Earth,” which has a new resonance in today’s global art market. That Henry Sherwin (1842-1916) patented the first resealable paint can should probably not be ignored.
158 2013-09-06 The same poll showed Labor trailing the opposition coalition 54 percent to 46 percent. That result would prove disastrous for Mr. Rudd and deliver a resounding majority in Parliament for Mr. Abbott.

“Maybe our Lord will materialize and touch the forehead of Kevin Rudd and anoint him his chosen representative on earth,” said Rick Kuhn, a professor of politics at Australian National University in Canberra. “But short of that, I don’t think it’s going to happen.”

Saturday’s election will end the longest campaign season in modern Australian history. The contest, although officially declared by Mr. Rudd last month, has effectively been under way since January, when Ms. Gillard announced, unusually early, that the vote would be held in September. That opened an acrimonious nine-month political slog during which Ms. Gillard’s popularity, and support within her own party, collapsed.

Mr. Rudd came back into office promising a kinder, gentler brand of politics in place of the adversarial relationship between Ms. Gillard and Mr. Abbott. Indeed, Mr. Abbott is perhaps best known outside Australia for a blistering speech Ms. Gillard delivered in Parliament last year, in which she called him a misogynist and a sexist with “repulsive double standards.”

A former Roman Catholic seminarian with socially conservative stances on abortion and gay marriage, Mr. Abbott is closer ideologically to the American Republican Party than to European conservatives like Prime Minister David Cameron’s Tories in Britain.

He has made the repeal of a carbon-trading plan passed by Ms. Gillard the centerpiece of his campaign, and as recently as 2009 he denied the existence of climate change caused by humans.

Opinion polls show that Australians overwhelmingly support both abortion rights and legalizing same-sex marriage and accept the majority scientific opinion that human activity has contributed to climate change.

Owing at least in part to his conservative views, and because he is not known as a naturally gifted speaker, Mr. Abbott has struggled to connect with voters.

Still, Mr. Abbott’s hard-nosed political skills have allowed him to capitalize on the perception that Labor has lost its way as a party, said John Wanna, a political science professor at Australian National University.

“I think one of the big messages from this time, when we look back in history, will be that Labor spent four years tearing itself apart, and I think the electorate has gotten tired of that,” Mr. Wanna said.

Despite Mr. Rudd’s stated intention of running a positive campaign focused on the issues, this election cycle has stood out for the level of negativity deployed not just by the rival political parties, but also by the news media.

Mr. Rudd in particular has come in for unusually pointed criticism from publications owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation.

Last month, The Daily Telegraph, Mr. Murdoch’s tabloid in Sydney, ran a series of anti-Rudd editorials on its front page, including one in which he was depicted as Colonel Klink from the 1965-71 American television comedy series “Hogan’s Heroes,” wearing a Nazi uniform and a monocle.

On Thursday, Clive Palmer, a mining magnate who founded his own center-right party that is likely to peel away some votes from the opposition coalition, said he would sue Mr. Murdoch over a front-page article in his flagship national paper, The Australian. The article in question called Mr. Palmer “a buffoon” and said he posed a threat to democracy.

“It’s time this fellow was brought to account, this foreigner who tries to dictate what we do,” Mr. Palmer said in an interview with Channel 7 TV; Mr. Murdoch is a native of Australia who holds American citizenship.
159 2013-09-06 “The thought of them being dug up just sends me into tears,” Ms. De Clercq said, crying as she spoke. “I don’t even know if I’m going to live through this. I’ve just been so devastated.”

The cathedral was the creation of Dr. Schuller, the founder of the Sunday “Hour of Power,” which for more than a decade was the most-watched religious television broadcast. But by the time his organization filed for bankruptcy protection, the church had become overburdened by debt from vanity building projects, changes in the religious broadcasting industry and a deep rift in the church leadership over the line of succession.

Just a few years ago, before the church’s financial woes became public, few members might have imagined that the memorial stones would have such a short life.

A Crystal Cathedral brochure urging churchgoers to buy the stones promised that most of the money from their purchase would go into a “perpetual endowment fund” that would “keep the gardens blooming, the Cathedral glass sparkling and the waters flowing. The principal will never be depleted.”

The Walk of Faith “silently speaks through the centuries,” the brochure said.

But the money dried up long before a century had passed. Crystal Cathedral filed for bankruptcy protection in October 2010, the church’s 10,664 windows went unwashed, and ultimately the campus was sold.

The diocese has worked to reassure former Crystal Cathedral churchgoers that they will continue to be welcome on the grounds, which many of them consider sacrosanct. Church officials have pledged that a cemetery on the campus will remain nondenominational.

“We have tried to honor the legacy of those who donated to the building of the campus,” said the Rev. Christopher H. Smith, who oversees that campus for the diocese and has held several events in conjunction with Crystal Cathedral Ministries.

But he added, “Perhaps their legacy won’t be preserved in exactly the way it was originally there, in the case of the stones.”

When the sale was announced, Donna Atkins and others who had purchased stones were glad to learn that the cathedral would remain a place of worship. (The other major bidder for the property was a nearby university.) But then they received letters informing them that their stones could soon be removed. The next day, the diocese’s voice mail filled with calls from former Crystal Cathedral members.

“I think they’re disgraceful for doing what they’re doing,” said Ms. Atkins, who paid $2,500 for a memorial stone for her husband’s parents, who are not buried in the area.

“We were happy to have a place to go,” she said last week. “We often took relatives to see it. It was very meaningful to us.”

Other longtime Crystal Cathedral churchgoers consider the loss of the stones as a lesson in letting go of the past.

“It’s a betrayal,” said Marni Reed, 64, who bought a Walk of Faith stone two decades ago. “It’s a really crummy feeling. But it’s in the past and we have to move forward.”

Still, Ms. Reed put most of the blame on the leaders of Crystal Cathedral who led the congregation into bankruptcy, not with the Catholic diocese.

“Like, wow, where did all that money go?” she said. “The bottom line is that somebody really screwed up big time dealing with Crystal Cathedral’s finances, and that is what has led to all the upheaval.”

The diocese has announced that those who purchased stones would be able to come and claim them. But at 100 pounds each, they will not be easy for someone like Ms. De Clercq to take home.

She now questions whether the cemetery where her husband and son are buried will indeed remain ecumenical, despite the diocese’s assurances. The balloons and artificial flowers that she used to occasionally leave on their graves have been banned — only fresh flowers are permitted now. Even the American flag she put there on Independence Day was removed, she said.

Ms. Atkins called the Web site an insult. “How dare they think that would just thrill me to pieces?” she said.

She and Ms. De Clercq both said they would be satisfied if their stones were simply moved elsewhere on campus, after the construction was completed — an option diocese officials said they would consider, but would not commit to.

“We were told it would be forever,” Ms. De Clercq said. “I’m just so heartbroken about it. What else can I say?”
160 2013-09-06 Nonetheless, the suspicion that the network was at fault was particularly sensitive for the Bloomberg administration, which already suffered through a scandal-tarred upgrade: the CityTime project, an effort at modernizing New York’s payroll system that was undone by fraud and a lack of oversight, and resulted in criminal convictions and fines.

Now officials risked embarrassment from an even more expensive project: a 911 system upgrade that had already incurred delays, cost overruns and the replacement of a major contractor.

The City Council held a hearing in June to discuss the emergency system; the city comptroller began an audit around the same time. More glitches arose, and every issue about 911 response became a story about the failures of the new technology.

The complexity of the project, and the myriad systems underlying emergency calls, has created a perception, the mayor’s office said, of wide-scale problems that are in fact discrete issues, mostly unrelated to the upgrades. “It is such a fertile ground for deliberate mishmash where all glitches are created equal and every breakdown is a breakdown with the same thing,” Mr. Holloway said.

The debate lies largely in what constitutes an acceptable level of problems, because to be sure, problems have arisen.

Hewlett-Packard, which worked on integrating the back-end 911 systems, had the contract to upgrade the Police Department’s computer-aided dispatch system, but was replaced in 2008. A 2012 comptroller’s audit found inappropriate billing by the company and the potential for fraud; the comptroller, John C. Liu, referred the findings to the Manhattan district attorney’s office, which found no provable criminal conduct.

A new vendor, Intergraph of Huntsville, Ala., was awarded a $72.5 million contract. (The cost has since increased to $88 million.)

Intergraph introduced the new police system in May; soon after, about 35 of the new Intergraph-powered call-taker screens froze for about 16 minutes; the next day, 45 were frozen for 18 minutes. In each case, police officials opted to take the system off-line to fix the problem. Since then, they said, there have been no similar problems, though individual screens have occasionally frozen, requiring a 60-second reset.

For a brief time, two addresses were appearing on about 4,000 calls over several days. City officials blamed the way a third-party Verizon vendor was handling its database of primary and secondary addresses associated with calls.

There were also numerous complaints of dispatchers receiving the code “PD-Lost,” which appeared when the new police system transferred some bits of call information to the emergency medical service computer system ahead of other portions. City officials said no information or calls were lost.

And in the case of the girl’s death, the Fire Department said there had been a four-minute delay in dispatching the ambulance, and blamed human error.

“We believe there has been a lot of squandering of taxpayers’ money,” said Henry Garrido, associate director of District Council 37, which represents 911 operators. “When you’re being told that this is operator error, we take that very seriously. We’ve got to defend them.”

New York’s emergency call system is really a densely tangled nest of new and aging computer systems, whose vulnerability was exposed after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the 2003 blackout. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg moved in 2004 to tackle the nettlesome project, then priced at $1.3 billion.

The mayor’s office breaks down the $2.03 billion project, officially known as the Emergency Communications Transformation Project, into three large chunks. The first, mostly completed, brought together fire, police and emergency medical dispatchers under one roof while upgrading some of their disparate systems to better communicate with one another. Cost: $708.9 million.

The second major phase, already under way, involves building a nearly identical backup call-taking center in the Bronx at a total cost of $649.9 million. The final bit — scheduled to be completed by the end of 2015, and costing $672.9 million — will outfit the center and replace the fire and emergency medical service computer systems, both from the early 1980s, with a single system.

Pleased with the work of Intergraph on the police upgrades, city officials said the company would also provide that system.

“There are rigorous performance standards in the Intergraph agreement that so far have been met across the board,” said Kamran Mumtaz, a mayoral spokesman. (The contract calls for the system to be fully functional 99.99 percent of the time, which translates to about 53 minutes of unavailable time per year.)

Officials in Boston, which is also overhauling its 911 system with Intergraph, are planning to meet with New York officials this month over the reported issues.

The calls flow from cellphones and landlines, fire boxes and private alarms to screens arrayed in tight clusters across an expansive third-floor space in Downtown Brooklyn.

There, by digital maps of responding police cars or under big boards of data — fire engines and ladder trucks by borough, ambulances en route or at a patient’s side — the men and women on the other end of 911 act as air traffic controllers, managing the city’s emergency response.

At the Brooklyn call center on a recent morning, a pair of newspaper articles critical of the city hung on a white board near a big digital screen tracking Fire Department vehicles in Brooklyn and on Staten Island. The desks there were mostly quiet; a few calls popped up on screen, including a pedestrian struck.

But nearby, the center of the sprawling room, known as the Public Safety Answering Center, hummed with the voices of Police Department operators who first answer 911 and triage the emergencies based on urgency and type.

Standing amid the banks of screens, Deputy Chief Charles Dowd, head of the Police Department’s communications division, asked one operator, who gave her name only as Ebony, to briefly explain those she was using: one screen displaying caller information, another for entering basic information into the Intergraph system, and a third on which the caller’s location appears on a real-time map, with outlines of nearby buildings and locations of active police jobs.

Meanwhile, the debate persists. Stephen Cassidy, president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said the problems with the network began as early as 2009, when the city moved to unified call taking — essentially having Police Department operators take on more calls and responsibility that had been borne by the Fire Department. “We were being dispatched to the wrong borough,” he said. “We had Fire dispatched to what they thought were medical calls and found themselves in the middle of a shootout.” (He could not immediately provide details of that episode.)

City officials counter with response time data: During a week in August, for example, firefighters on average arrived at the scene of structural fires in 4 minutes 34 seconds, a slight improvement from the average of 4 minutes 51 seconds for the same week in 2012. Paramedics reached New Yorkers with life-threatening injuries in 9 minutes 11 seconds, down from 9 minutes 25 seconds. Police responses also did not appreciably change. (In the case of the Bronx fire, seized upon by union officials, the response time was grossly miscalculated because of a dispatcher’s working on a screen with information from an earlier call, city officials said.)

The new data, which the city plans to make fully available in the coming weeks, reflects response times from the beginning of the 911 call to the moment emergency workers arrive, and breaks down how much time is spent taking the call, dispatching units and traveling to the scene. In that August week, operators spent less time taking calls, suggesting that despite its initial problems, the new computer interface rolled out in May was working as designed.

“This is a complicated system and issues like this are going to arise,” said Bruce Gaskey, the director of the Office of Citywide Emergency Communications. “The issue arising doesn’t mean that the system is broken. The issue arising means what is your procedure in place to identify it and fix it.”
161 2013-09-06 HONG KONG — A court in northwest China sentenced a former provincial safety official on Thursday to 14 years in prison for graft, a year after he became a symbol of a callous and corrupt bureaucracy when Chinese Internet users circulated photographs suggesting he had been living beyond his means.

The Xi’an Intermediate People’s Court issued the sentence after convicting Yang Dacai, a former safety inspection official in Shaanxi Province, on charges of taking bribes and possessing assets of unclear origin, Chinese state-run news outlets reported Thursday morning. Phone calls to the court in Xi’an seeking confirmation of the sentence went unanswered Thursday.

Mr. Yang’s case is one of many in China in recent years to demonstrate how local officials can be held accountable to public opinion, as ordinary citizens frequently turn to microblog posts and other online social networks to vent complaints against rampant corruption or other abuses of power.

However, such complaints against senior or national-level officials remain taboo and are actively scoured from the Internet by government censors and employees of the companies that operate online forums.

At the same time, the Chinese government has started a nationwide campaign in recent weeks against the spreading of so-called online rumors. Celebrity bloggers have been told to be careful what they say in online comments, dozens of microbloggers have been arrested and several Web sites and other Internet companies have been shut down.
162 2013-09-07 Scenes from the New York fashion week photo diary of Barbara Anastacio....
163 2013-09-07 T plucks the best shoes right off the runway. Today’s pick: candy-apple-red patent stilettos....
164 2013-09-07 The show was kind of cool and weird and also suggested a deeper meaning, which may be equally elusive....
165 2013-09-07 Go to next slide
166 2013-09-07 The weekend is when New York Fashion week really starts warming up....
167 2013-09-07 A rematch of the 2012 United States Open women’s final will pit Victoria Azarenka and Serena Williams against one another for Sunday’s championship.
168 2013-09-07 In the men’s semifinals, Richard Gasquet is seeking an upset against Rafael Nadal, and Stanislas Wawrinka is looking to knock off top-ranked Novak Djokovic....
169 2013-09-07 A major route into Yosemite National Park that was closed because of the giant Sierra Nevada forest fire has reopened. Park officials say State Route 120 from Groveland to the park reopened around 12 p.m. Friday. The road is the main route to the park from the San Francisco Bay area. The Rim Fire has burned 385 square miles.
170 2013-09-07 Ariel Castro, the Cleveland man sentenced to life in prison for holding three women captive in his home for a decade, said he called the mother of one of them and told the woman her daughter was alive and had become his wife, according to interrogation videotapes. Mr. Castro, 53, who hanged himself in his prison cell on Tuesday, says in the video, obtained by NBC News and first disclosed Friday on the “Today” show, that he used Amanda Berry’s cellphone to call her mother. He said he recalled saying “that I have her daughter and that she’s O.K., and that she’s my wife now,” he told investigators. Mr. Castro also said there were other missed chances when he could have been found while he held the victims, who were 14, 16 and 20 when captured. He said the cameras at the school of another victim, Gina DeJesus, should have shown him there 15 minutes before she was abducted. “You could have broke the case right then and there,” he said.
171 2013-09-07 Pictures From the Week in Business
172 2013-09-07 At a forum last month, typical of the scores of such events around the city over the course of the campaign, candidates fiddled ceaselessly with their phones, though they were onstage before an audience of over 1,500 and the event was televised.

The phenomenon is in part a fact of contemporary life — people everywhere check their cellphones constantly — and in part a tacit acknowledgment of a reality of campaigning: It can be boring to listen to the same rival candidates saying the same things day after day, night after night.

“I’ve probably done about 50 of these forums,” said Peter F. Vallone Jr., a councilman from Astoria who is seeking the Democratic nomination for Queens borough president. “And when you’re finished with your answer, if you have a choice between arranging your daughter’s ride home and listening to the answer for the 20th time — I’m going to go with your daughter.”

A self-styled social-media savant, Mr. Vallone is inseparable from his iPhone (and his Twitter account, and his Facebook account), and he makes no apologies, saying, “If you can’t multitask, you can’t do this job.”

But Mr. Vallone ran into trouble at a forum in July, when an opposing candidate, State Senator Tony Avella, accused Mr. Vallone and others of using their phones to get answers to questions. Mr. Vallone said he was actually arranging a ride for his college-age daughter, and checking constituents’ e-mails and Facebook messages, because he was bored. Mr. Avella has since dropped out of the race.

That was not the first time such an accusation was made in Queens. Last year, before a special election for Congress, Councilwoman Elizabeth S. Crowley, a Democrat, was filmed checking her phone over 20 times during a forum. Her competitors claimed that she was being fed answers; Ms. Crowley said that she was taking notes.

The phone addiction is apparent not just during forums.

Mr. Catsimatidis, a Republican, halted in the middle of a recent stump speech, to the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, when his phone rang. He pulled out the phone and paused, as if searching to recognize the caller, and decided not to answer. The crowd laughed, and then he completed the point he was making, pledging to protect the city’s elderly.

On Friday, Mr. Thompson, a Democrat, was at a senior center in the Bronx, scrolling through e-mails on his cellphone as he was being introduced. Earlier in the summer, as Assemblyman Karim Camara of Brooklyn was extolling his virtues at an endorsement news conference, Mr. Thompson stood beside him checking his phone behind a manila folder.

The obsessive BlackBerry-checking of Christine C. Quinn, a Democrat who is the City Council speaker, is well known at City Hall, and Kim M. Catullo, her wife, said recently that her spouse’s BlackBerry use was her most annoying habit.

In an interview, Ms. Quinn acknowledged, “Certainly at home I’m bad.” In public, Ms. Quinn said, she tries to rein in her BlackBerry use, sometimes leaving the device behind during events. “I know if I have it,” she said, “there will be an urge to look at it.”

In an interview, Mr. de Blasio said that “from time to time, I’m checking e-mails if there is something pressing.”

“I think I’ve been exceedingly focused,” he added.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Liu, the city comptroller and a Democratic candidate, defended his behavior, saying he “communicates near-constantly with his smartphone as well as keeps track of speaking time at debates with the stopwatch function.”

A spokesman for Mr. Lhota, a Republican candidate, took a more defensive approach, arguing that fidgeting with phones was not the same as using them.

Mr. Weiner, whose career has twice been derailed by electronic communications, appears to have reformed his public phone behavior since an incident less than two weeks after he began his campaign, when he was spotted repeatedly scanning his BlackBerry onstage. At the forum in August at which so many of the candidates were hunched over their phones, Mr. Weiner notably leaned far back in his chair. The message seemed to be, “Look, no phone.”

As a matter of policy, the Democratic candidates are largely pro-phone. All of the party’s main contenders, including Mr. de Blasio, support lifting the ban on cellphones in public schools, and all but one, Sal F. Albanese, acknowledged having texted while driving.

As a matter of social skills, etiquette experts and campaign veterans say, looking at a smartphone while wooing a voter is ill advised.

“I don’t care if you’re bored,” said Patricia Napier-Fitzpatrick, the founder of the Etiquette School of New York. Focusing on a phone while with company, whether at the dinner table or in an auditorium, is bad manners, period, she said.

“Isn’t that the price of running for office?” Ms. Napier-Fitzpatrick said. “You have to meet people you’d rather not meet, attend events you’d rather not attend and hug lots of babies.”

George Arzt, who was an adviser to Mayor Edward I. Koch and is an experienced communications professional, said politicians today were torn because so many people — their staff, their constituents — expected instant responses to communication.

“It puts the candidates into a real quandary,” Mr. Arzt said. “On one hand, they do not want to look distracted to the audience, but on the other hand, if there are important messages coming through, you want to be sure that you answer them.”

Mr. Arzt, although he said that one quick glance at a phone might be forgivable, tends to fall back on advice he has been giving for decades: “If you are on TV, wear blue. Sit on your suit jacket. Don’t swivel in your chair. Don’t click your pen.”

And, Mr. Arzt said, these days he adds one more: “Don’t check your e-mails.”
173 2013-09-07 President Obama is scheduled to address the nation Tuesday on his plans for using military force in Syria. He will have a hard time persuading a skeptical Congress and an equally skeptical American public.

There are numerous reasons that so many Americans are opposed to or ambivalent about bombing Syria, even when they can agree that the provocation — a poison gas attack by President Bashar al-Assad’s regime that killed more than 1,400 people last month — was a barbarous act that violated international treaties. At the top of the list: the concern that the United States will inevitably become mired in another costly Middle East war.

There are good reasons to worry, particularly with Pentagon planners possibly moving to broaden military options and targets.

Speaking at the conclusion of the Group of 20 meeting in Russia on Friday, Mr. Obama again said that any military action would be limited. The aim, he said, is to deter and degrade Mr. Assad’s ability to use chemical weapons; it is not to force him from power. But as The Times reported on Friday, the administration may already be engaging in mission creep by asking the Pentagon to expand the list of potential targets in Syria beyond the 50 or so previously identified.

The targets include military units that have stored and prepared the chemical weapons and carried out the attack as well as the headquarters overseeing the effort; rockets, artillery and long-range missiles that can deliver the weapons; and air defenses. There are no plans to strike the chemical stockpiles themselves because that would risk a potential catastrophe. Mr. Obama said the reports of an expanded list were “inaccurate,” but he declined to elaborate.
174 2013-09-07 Italian officials have given the go-ahead for an ambitious attempt to set upright the Costa Concordia, the cruise liner that went aground near an Italian island last year, killing 32 people. The national Civil Protection agency said Friday that the operation would be carried out this month, once final safety certificates are issued. If engineers and crews succeed in righting the Concordia, it will be towed to a port for dismantling.
175 2013-09-07 Re “Gay Marriages in All States Get Recognition From the I.R.S.” (new article, Aug. 30):

The Treasury Department made the right decision by vowing to treat all legally married same-sex couples equally regardless of where they live. This decision brings our nation one step closer to full equality for gay and lesbian Americans. Yet it brings citizens of New Jersey another bittersweet reminder that our state treats gay and lesbian couples as second-class citizens.

Civil unions — the only option available to loving and committed same-sex couples in the Garden State — do not offer the same federal protections as marriage. For the 13,000-plus New Jerseyans who have entered into civil unions since 2007, the Treasury Department’s decision only highlights the glaring inequality between civil unions and marriages.

It is time for the New Jersey Legislature to follow the will of the majority of New Jerseyans and provide marriage equality to same-sex couples. Until this happens, the Garden State will continue denying gay and lesbian couples the protections that all families deserve.

The writer is the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey.
176 2013-09-07 LONDON — Stung by a reported slight to Britain by a Russian official at the Group of 20 summit meeting, Prime Minister David Cameron abandoned diplomacy and opted for oratory on Friday, lauding the country’s historic role in the fight against slavery and fascism and its artistic, literary and even sporting heritage.

Mr. Cameron’s paean came after Dmitri S. Peskov, press secretary to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, reportedly dismissed Britain as a “small island no one pays attention to.” Mr. Peskov later denied making the comment.

While Britain has ruled out taking any military role if there is a strike on Syria, the government has held the Syrian government responsible for a chemical attack on Aug. 21, putting it at odds with Russia, which has blamed Syria’s rebels. The two countries have had strained relations since the poisoning death of a former K.G.B. agent, Alexander V. Litvinenko, in London in 2006.

Mr. Cameron had an awkward two days at the summit meeting in St. Petersburg, largely sidelined in discussions over whether and how to punish Syria for a chemical attack. The British Parliament’s surprise decision last week against a military strike, and Mr. Cameron’s pledge to adhere to its wishes, prompted soul-searching in Britain about its global role and the risk to the country’s “special relationship” with Washington. The British press noted that, at the Group of 20 gathering, President Obama was scheduled to meet President François Hollande of France but was too busy to see Mr. Cameron one on one.

So, when the BBC reported the “small island” comments on Thursday, Mr. Cameron’s office called for a clarification.
177 2013-09-07 ATLANTA — The winners of the Truscott/United States Playing Card Senior Swiss Teams here last month at the Summer North American Championships were Dee Adams and Alvin Stone of Memphis; Fred Hamilton of Palm Desert, Calif.; Mark Itabashi of Murrieta, Calif.; Dan Morse of Houston; and John Sutherlin of Dallas.

With one round to go, they trailed Ed White of Grand Blanc, Mich.; Cam Doner of Richmond, British Columbia; and Kazimierz Omernik and Jan Zadroga from Poland by 12.59 victory points.

These two teams met in the last round, with Adams scoring a near blitz, 19 to 1 in victory points. The diagramed deal occurred during this match.

At both tables, South was in three no-trump. At the first table, careful defense defeated the contract by two tricks.

When Hamilton was the declarer, he won the first trick with his heart king and took three rounds of diamonds, ending in the dummy. (West threw a heart.) Hoping for some luck in clubs, South played dummy’s deuce to his king. But when West dropped the queen, declarer decided to assume that the suit was 3-1, not 2-2. (South was guided by the principle of restricted choice. When a player has touching cards, he may play one or the other — here, the club queen or club jack. But if he has only one honor, his play is restricted to that card. So assume that he started with only that card.)

East won with his king and cashed the diamond jack (South discarded a club, and West a heart) and club jack. (West pitched a third heart.) However, when East took his club ace, West erred by throwing a spade instead of another heart.
178 2013-09-07 As punishment for engaging in an e-book price-fixing conspiracy, Apple will be forced to abide by new restrictions on its agreements with publishers and be evaluated by an external “compliance officer” for two years, a federal judge has ruled.

But the judge, Denise L. Cote of Federal District Court in Manhattan, rejected some of the measures sought by the Justice Department, including extensive government oversight over Apple’s App Store.

In a filing this week, Judge Cote issued her final ruling on the penalties to be imposed on Apple after the long-running lawsuit against the technology giant filed by the Justice Department in April 2012.

The government accused Apple, along with five major book publishers, of illegally colluding to raise the price of e-books and of trying to curb Amazon’s influence in the publishing industry as Apple prepared to introduce its iPad in 2010.

All five publishers, Macmillan, HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster, Hachette Book Group and Penguin Group USA, have since settled, while saying that they did nothing wrong. Random House, which was not named in the lawsuit, merged with Penguin earlier this year.
179 2013-09-07 According to Mr. Strigl, Verizon’s strategy was always to create a coast-to-coast network. To compete with AT&T’s then-popular nationwide calling plan, Verizon started paying its customers’ roaming charges in areas where it did not offer service. “That wasn’t sustainable,” Mr. Strigl said.

But Bell Atlantic dropped out of the AirTouch bidding at $45 billion — $85 billion less than it is now paying just for AirTouch’s former cellular assets in the United States. (Air Touch also owned extensive international assets that were not part of the Verizon Wireless venture.) Vodafone, based in Britain, snagged the company for $62 billion, in what will now be seen as one of the best deals ever.

Of course, it is easy to say with the benefit of hindsight that Verizon missed the opportunity of a lifetime when it let AirTouch slip from its grasp. In 1999, the year of that deal, cellular service was erratic, cellphones were clumsy and mostly limited to voice calls, and customers were coping with roaming charges by turning off their phones except when making calls.

Vodafone’s chief executive then, Christopher Gent, now looks like a visionary. But he was criticized at the time for overpaying for AirTouch (and other acquisitions that transformed Vodafone into a global giant) and was excoriated in the British news media in 2003 for his £10.4 million pension. (Mr. Gent is now chairman of the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline and a senior adviser at Bain & Company.)

According to an investment banker working on the deal at the time (who did not want to be named because he is involved in the current deal as well), Verizon may have underestimated Vodafone’s determination to hold on to the wireless assets because it thought Vodafone was mostly interested in AirTouch’s international assets. “We did bid, but they didn’t want to sell,” Mr. Strigl said. “At least, they didn’t want to sell except at a very high price.”

Perhaps Verizon should not have been surprised. In its annual report that year, Goldman Sachs, which advised Vodafone, extolled the benefits of the AirTouch deal and quoted Mr. Gent as saying that Vodafone wanted to move to “global leadership in mobile communications” and that “gaining a strong footprint in the U.S. market was a requisite.”

Still, Vodafone agreed on the need for nationwide coverage. So Verizon settled for the joint venture, which was forged in 2000, just a year after the AirTouch deal closed. Vodafone had a 45 percent stake in the joint venture. Even though Vodafone appointed three members of the Verizon Wireless seven-member board and named the chief financial officer, the venture was run by Verizon, with Mr. Strigl as chief executive of the venture until 2007. He, in turn, reported to Verizon’s chief executive, Ivan Seidenberg.

Mr. Strigl said he agitated to buy out Vodafone from the start. “Ivan was frustrated,” he said. “So was I. We thought the partnership with Vodafone would bring benefits for both companies. We thought there would be economies of scale, international roaming, better telephone equipment deals. They never happened. We’d have good conversations, but they never picked up any steam.”

Verizon came tantalizingly close to getting the Vodafone stake in 2004, when Vodafone thought it had reached a deal to buy AT&T Wireless, a move that would have required it to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless, with Verizon the likely buyer, at a price estimated at the time at about $30 billion. But a last-minute bid by Cingular, while Vodafone directors were sleeping in London, snatched the deal from Vodafone’s grasp, and Vodafone dropped out of the bidding. (Cingular was a joint venture between AT&T and Bell South, and returned to the AT&T fold when AT&T bought Bell South in 2006.) “A few hours made all the difference,” said the banker, who was also involved in that transaction. “It changed history.”

Under Verizon’s and Mr. Strigl’s leadership, Verizon Wireless grew to be the largest wireless operator in the United States. (Mr. Strigl distilled his experiences into a 2011 book, “Managers, Can You Hear Me Now?”) Growth exploded after the introduction of the iPhone in 2007 and the rapid spread of Android-powered smartphones. As Mr. Strigl noted, the paradox for Verizon was that the better Verizon Wireless did, and the bigger the dividends it paid Vodafone, the less Vodafone wanted to sell, at least at any price Verizon would consider paying. “We could never really get them to the table,” Mr. Strigl said.

With the benefit of hindsight, Verizon should simply have paid whatever Vodafone wanted, since it was so much less than what it is paying now. “Verizon was always looking for a bargain,” said Jeff Kagan, an independent wireless and telecommunications analyst who has followed the two companies even before the AirTouch deal. “They didn’t want to pay retail. So they waited. If they had just swallowed their pride five years ago they would have saved billions.”

The multiyear standoff could have ended much differently. The investment bankers I spoke to this week said that both Verizon and Vodafone had at times considered merging the two companies, and had even considered bids for the other, hostile if necessary. “Both sides thought about it many times over the years,” the banker said. “It was too obvious not to think about it. But the reality is that after you reach a certain scale, you don’t gain anything by getting bigger. A wireless network is really a local tower and the end-user devices near there. When the two companies thought of getting together and tested the logic of globalization, it didn’t produce many benefits.”

So why now? Vodafone has said it needs to focus on its core European markets, hard hit by the financial crisis there, and will now have the cash to expand in other regions. With interest rates rising and stocks volatile, the opportunity for Verizon to meet Vodafone’s demands with an attractive package of cash and stock might not have lasted much longer. But perhaps most important, a new chief executive at Verizon — Lowell C. McAdam, who had succeeded Mr. Strigl at Verizon Wireless, took over as Verizon Communications’ chief executive in 2011 — was willing to pay what Vodafone would accept, which turned out to be $130 billion. (Bankers on the deal said Vodafone initially asked for $130 billion plus tax liability, which Vodafone said would be about $5 billion.)

Both Mr. Kagan and Mr. Strigl praised the deal, even at $130 billion, with the proviso that it should have been done sooner. “With a new chief executive, with interest rates going up, and with the way the industry is heading, Verizon finally jumped on it,” Mr. Kagan said. “It was the right thing to do, but it was awfully late.”

Mr. Strigl added: “I’m very pleased with the deal. I have the same philosophy I had from the beginning: do it now or it will cost you more later.”
180 2013-09-07 WASHINGTON — The Food and Drug Administration announced Friday that it had found no evidence that current levels of arsenic in rice pose an immediate health risk.

The finding comes two months after the agency proposed new limits on arsenic in apple juice. A public outcry had caused the agency to look at the issue more closely.

The agency tested more than 1,300 types of rice and rice products, like rice cakes and infant cereals, and found that arsenic levels ranged from 3 to 7 micrograms per serving, amounts that the agency said were not hazardous to human health in the short term.

Most rice contains much higher levels of arsenic than apple juice does, said Keeve Nachman, a scientist who studies arsenic in food at the Center for a Livable Future at Johns Hopkins University, but because there is such a wide variety of products made with it, and because it is present at such different levels, the analysis for rice is more complicated.

Arsenic is a carcinogen when consumed in large enough quantities. It occurs naturally in the environment, but it can also be an effect of industrial contamination.
181 2013-09-07 Kansas City Fed President Esther George, a consistent hawk who has argued for a tapering in bond purchases all year, said reducing purchases to $70 billion a month could be “an appropriate next step toward normalizing monetary policy.”

Such a reduction would be in line with expectations that have been falling in the last few months.

“Tapering is going to happen but there is a wide range of opinions in terms of how much the Fed is going to taper,” said Joseph Tanious, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in New York.

“The market is comfortable with the idea (of winding down stimulus) as it is justified by economic growth,” he said, pointing to recent data including an almost eight year high in the pace of growth in the U.S. services sector.

Investors are continuing to assess the possibility of a U.S.-led strike against Syria in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack against its civilians.

Putin made clear on Friday that Russia did not want to be sucked into a war over Syria, signaling that Moscow would maintain ongoing support to Damascus in the event of foreign military intervention.

Tanious said, getting clarity on Russia’s point of view helps ease some concerns about the implications of an attack on Syria, but any U.S. intervention is likely to impact oil and other markets.

“The (equities) market is jittery and that is understandable,” he said.

Energy prices have been among the most volatile on the issue, with investors concerned that military action in the Middle East will weigh on oil supplies. U.S. crude oil has spiked almost 4 percent over the past two weeks and was up 1.7 percent on Friday.

Facebook shares rose 3 percent to $43.95 after hitting $44.56, its highest since the stock’s debut on Nasdaq more than a year ago.

American Tower Corp rose 4.6 percent to $71.91 after the company agreed to buy Global Tower Partners for $4.8 billion.

E*Trade Financial shares jumped 4.6 percent to $16.26 after Goldman Sachs upgraded the brokerage’s stock to “buy” from “neutral” two days after the company received approval to use capital from its bank subsidiary for broader corporate purposes.
182 2013-09-07 Hayao Miyazaki, the acclaimed director of 11 animated features that have won global prestige and popularity for Japanese animation, has put down his pencil for the last time.

“I’ve mentioned that I would retire many times in the past, so a lot of you must be thinking ‘Oh, not again,' ” Mr. Miyazaki said on Friday at a packed news conference in Tokyo. “But this time I am quite serious.”

Mr. Miyazaki’s latest film, “The Wind Rises,” took him five years to complete, which is one year more than it took him to finish 2008’s “Ponyo.” The director, who is 72, said that he would rather pursue other endeavors than labor into his 80s on another feature film, adding that he will not work on short films or scriptwriting during his retirement.

“My work is really about sitting at the desk and drawing,” he said. “And at my age, you just reach a point when you have to put down the pencil a bit earlier each day and go home.”

“The Wind Rises” will be Mr. Miyazaki’s final film for Studio Ghibli, the company he co-founded in 1985 with a fellow director of animated films, Isao Takahata. The studio, which produced Japan’s all-time highest-grossing film, Mr. Miyazaki’s “Spirited Away,” which won the 2003 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, will remain in operation, with two projects currently in production, according to its chief executive, Koji Hoshino.
183 2013-09-08 HOCHHAUSER--Joyce Isseks (51/1932 - 9/10/2010) and Marshall (12/18/1924 - 9/25/1982) We live our lives guided by your spirit, generosity and love. We walk in your honored paths and marvel at our good fortune, understanding our time together was to...
184 2013-09-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
185 2013-09-08 A look at the United States Open men’s final on Monday between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal....
186 2013-09-08 Ana Konjuh, 15, of Croatia outlasted Alicia Black, 15, of Boca Raton, Fla., 3-6, 6-4,7-6 (6), to win the U.S. Open girls’ singles championship Sunday, and Konjuh’s countryman Borna Coric, 16, won for the boys’ singles championship....
187 2013-09-08 Serena Williams, in a rematch of last year’s women’s final, defeated Victoria Azarenka, 7-5, 6-7 (6), 6-1, to win her 5th United States Open singles title and her 17th Grand Slam singles title....
188 2013-09-08 The annual iPhone unveilings draw fans, entrepreneurs and technology executives who are praying that a new function does not make their company obsolete....
189 2013-09-08 The women’s final on Sunday is a rematch of last year’s final between Serena Williams and Victoria Azarenka, and Williams appears ready to defend her title....
190 2013-09-08 Novak Djokovic defeated Stanislas Wawrinka to advance to the United States Open final where he will face Rafael Nadal, who defeated Richard Gasquet on Saturday.
191 2013-09-08 Nascar will have a new champion as the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship will go on without Brad Keselowski, the reigning champion. Keselowski failed to make the 12-driver Chase on Saturday at Richmond International Raceway in Virginia, where he finished 17th. The race was won by Carl Edwards, who darted past Paul Menard on a restart. Kurt Busch finished second to make Furniture Row Racing the first single-car organization to make the Chase. Kasey Kahne and Martin Truex claimed the two wild-card berths.
192 2013-09-08 Syria created a network of front companies to import innocuous, legally exportable materials to manufacture deadly chemical weapons, according to American diplomatic cables and declassified intelligence records.
193 2013-09-08 “We have gone from a situation where five years ago everyone was saying, ‘There’s too many lots,’ to today, builders are literally crying on our shoulder saying, ‘There’s not enough lots. We can’t find any,’” said Bradley F. Hunter, the chief economist at MetroStudy.

The shortage of lots is slowing the housing recovery, the National Association of Home Builders said last week. In August, 59 percent of builders surveyed said lot supply was low or very low, the association said. Housing is a critical driver for the economy, not just because of the jobs and supplies needed to build homes but also the appliances and furnishings that new occupants buy.

At the peak of the housing boom, builders were finishing more than 1.6 million single-family houses a year. That number plunged to less than half a million during the recession. This year, the industry is on track to complete more than 570,000 homes, still substantially below the level considered necessary to replace aging homes and provide for new households. A return to more normal rates of construction would substantially lift the economy’s anemic growth rate of about 2 percent over the last year.

Mr. Carlston said some cities in the Twin Cities area had adjusted their rules to allow fewer parking spaces or smaller lots. Otsego has lowered some of its development fees and allowed a developer to change an approved plan so that a partly built town house project could be finished with more salable detached homes. Rick Packer, a land development manager for Centra Homes, said some suburbs were relaxing requirements that homes be made of brick or stucco.

Even the Sierra Club, which once placed Minneapolis among the top 10 sprawl-threatened cities, has backed off a bit. An annual bike ride by the local chapter, once known as the “Tour de Sprawl,” has been given a less pejorative name and refocused to include not just threatened green space but what the group considers model development and transportation projects.

Mayor Mike Maguire of Eagan, a co-chairman of the Regional Council of Mayors Housing Initiative, said one reason his city had approved a land use change for the golf course was that so little new housing was built in the last few years. “When there’s no new development, you have stock that’s increasingly out of date and that tends to bring your home values down,” he said. “That was one of the things we were hearing back from Realtors, was they had people who wanted to move to Eagan but couldn’t find the home they wanted.”

Last year, Hunter Emerson agreed to pay $8.6 million for the golf course, wagering that the city would approve the land use change. The partnership sold the property to a national home builder for $13.1 million, Mr. Carlston said. The houses will cost from $400,000 to $700,000, he said.

The excess left from the boom — land in various stages of development ranging from untouched to what builders call PVC farms, named for the hard plastic plumbing pipes that, with electrical lines, were virtually all that was on the lots — is quickly being absorbed. Developers have gone from buying foreclosed acreage from banks to buying from farmers, family trusts, manufacturers and even homeowners with outdated homes on single lots.

“What we’ve seen is the inner ring of the suburbs, all those areas have come back,” said Rod Just of Key Land Homes, a Twin Cities builder. “The outer ring, they’ve taken just a little bit longer because of gas prices, but they’re going to come back.”

For builders, there is even a sense of déjà vu. “The new lots that are coming out,” Mr. Just said, “are almost the prices that they were in 2005 when everything crashed.”
194 2013-09-08 In its 15th season, the campground has become so popular that the owners are in the process of tripling its RV capacity, adding more spaces for tents and installing a second pool.

Most surprising, perhaps, is the way local residents generally react to the camp nowadays: with a shrug, or maybe an awkward grin. Once the target of notable harassment — gunshots, vandalism and runoff from a strategically placed hog farm — Cactus Canyon now enjoys a much more peaceful existence.

“Live and let live,” said Jim Luellen, 68, who owns a convenience store in nearby Gentryville.

His sister, Kathy Haynie, 72, said: “It’s not right for men or women being homosexual or whatever you call it. But it’s their lives. It isn’t bothering us.”

Nearly a decade ago, Missourians voted overwhelmingly for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, and there is no sign of a serious effort to overturn that anytime soon. Still, the story of Cactus Canyon offers one example of the evolving gay experience in this country.

After vacationing in the region, a gay couple, Chaz Franzke and Jim Thideman, became so enamored of the scenery that they left their jobs in Wisconsin, bought property and opened the campground in 1999. They sought to establish the delicate balance of engaging with the community while not being bold about their lives. They started a Yahoo Group, Out in the Ozarks, that organized various gatherings for gay people, like breakfasts at a local diner. They had a stand at the farmer’s market. They let in a local television station to do a news story.

Some in the community did not take too kindly to them. Neighbors fired guns around the camp to scare them. Someone posted threatening signs on trees and painted a message with a derogatory term on their front sign.

“I couldn’t leave here without feeling I was going to be gunned down,” Mr. Franzke said.

The last straw was when some people put hogs on an adjacent hill and carved out channels in the land so runoff from the site would trickle into the campsite.

Mr. Franzke and Mr. Thideman, who broke up as romantic partners a decade ago but continue to run the business together, quickly got the hogs removed with a lawsuit. It was settled in 2009, and Mr. Franzke said the harassment had since ceased because, he thinks, opponents finally got the message that they would stand up for themselves.

For the campers lounging by their RVs and the pool on a recent Saturday, concerns extended little beyond whether they were getting the sun to hit all the right places. Here, campers said, they do not have to answer questions about why two men are sharing an RV or endure funny stares.

“I feel a lot more comfortable around gay people than I do around straight people,” said Craig Nelson, 62, sitting beside his 32-foot camper on a plot decorated with elephant ears, weigelas and other plants.

Although Mr. Franzke and Mr. Thideman said their primary concern was providing their campers with an enjoyable experience, they acknowledged that the campground’s presence might play some role in easing concerns that locals had about gay men and lesbians. Businesses are generally welcoming, Mr. Franzke said, and one liquor store even offers the campers a discount.

In each of the past two election cycles, Mr. Franzke even got both sheriff’s candidates to do a forum at the campground, after one of them wanted to rebut a rumor that he had once said he would run gay men and lesbians out of the county if he was elected.

“For a place that, before, people used to hide and not be out, it’s now a community,” Mr. Franzke said. “The gays and lesbians are out in the community and proud of it. We’ve come a long ways.”
195 2013-09-08 Murray completed 17 of 23 passes for 309 yards and 4 touchdowns, and his biggest pass plays came with Clowney chasing him toward the sideline.

The Bulldogs led by 27-24 late in the third quarter and were playing without their best offensive lineman, Kenarious Gates, who left the game with an injury, when they lined up for a third-and-goal at the South Carolina 8. Clowney, at left defensive end, tried to shoot inside under the block of right tackle Kolton Houston, who is 280 pounds, very light for an SEC tackle.

“I was playing that inside move, just waiting on him,” Houston said. “We saw that a lot on film, so we wanted to block inside out on him.

“We had a missed assignment on the one sack he had. Kenarious thought I had his inside help, and he went in for the sack, but most of the time, we just tried to let him go up field. On that one, he tried to go inside.”

Murray had to hold the ball, and he scrambled right and had enough time to throw for the touchdown to running back Todd Gurley, who was open in the end zone, with 18 seconds left in the third quarter.

After a South Carolina touchdown and missed extra point, Georgia led, 34-30. Murray came to the line on third-and-13 from the Bulldogs’ 15. Clowney, who was lined up at right defensive end, ducked inside left tackle Mark Beard. Clowney started chasing Murray, but Beard was able to get a brief block on him. Murray completed an 85-yard throw to Justin Scott-Wesley.

“Our coaches preach every day, ‘Finish the drill,’ and on that play, he beat me,” Beard said. “He jumped straight inside, and Murray rolled to the same side and tracked Clowney back to me, where I was able to get a chip on him, and Murray threw for 6.”

It was not just pass protection that won the game for Georgia. The Bulldogs also ran for 227 yards, which further helped keep Clowney from charging after Murray. Gurley, a 232-pound sophomore, had 132 yards rushing.

Georgia Coach Mark Richt insisted it was not a game plan designed to reduce the mayhem produced by Clowney. Richt said that Murray would come to the line of scrimmage with two run plays, but that he would not lock eyes on Clowney.

Murray would read the safety spinning down into the tackle box, an imaginary area near the line of scrimmage, and direct the run away from that safety and the superior number of defensive players to that side of the field.

The decisive defensive player on the field was Georgia linebacker Amarlo Herrera. He charged into South Carolina running back Mike Davis, who finished with 149 yards, on fourth down from the Georgia 1 with 8 minutes 28 seconds to play. The Bulldogs still led, 41-30, after the goal-line stand.

“I pretty much knew what play they were going to run,” Herrera said. “We saw it a lot on film.”

Josh Harvey-Clemons, a safety, said: “They scored with that play. We all knew it was coming.”

Herrera also forced a fumble from South Carolina quarterback Connor Shaw on fourth down at the Georgia 34 in the third quarter. The score was tied, 24-24, and Georgia took the ball and moved downfield for a 37-yard field goal from Patrick Beless to take the lead for good with 8:03 remaining in the third.

“The game was tied then; who knows what would have happened if he had held on to the ball?” said Steve Spurrier, the South Carolina coach. “Maybe we could have scored. Who knows? He did fumble, though.”
196 2013-09-08 If Azarenka, a Belarussian, can beat her a third time Sunday, she will become the first player to beat Williams three times in a year since Justine Henin did it in 2007.

“I don’t know,” Azarenka said of the key to her recent success against Williams. “I just really try to play my best tennis, you know. When you play against Serena, you have to play your best. She makes me play my best.”

She added: “I think I kind of do the same way to her, you know. I think we kind of raise each other’s level all the time and, as I say, take each other to the limit.”

Asked if she agreed with Azarenka’s statement that they brought out the best in each other, Williams said she believed she brought out the best in Azarenka, but that was as far as she went.

“I definitely feel like when she plays me she plays her best, by far,” Williams said. “I have seen her play other players, and when I play her, I’m playing a totally different player. Obviously, she brings her best game, yeah.”

But Patrick Mouratoglou, Williams’s coach, did not see a difference in Azarenka’s performances against Williams versus other players.

“I think she plays the same against Serena,” Mouratoglou said. “She plays her game. She moves well, she brings a lot of balls back, she dictates or she tries to every shot she hits. And I think she feels that she can beat Serena, which not all the players feel.”

Sam Sumyk, Azarenka’s coach, said he believed Azarenka prepared for matches in a way that did not allow Williams’s powerful presence and previous accomplishments to intimidate her.

“We don’t really pay attention about Serena, and whoever is in front of us,” he said. “Vika is just trying to do her own thing, and do it the best as possible. And if that ends up to be a good match and a win, well, great.”

Williams insisted, though, that there was a significant difference between playing her in a Grand Slam final and playing in locales like Qatar and Ohio where she had lost to Azarenka this year.

“Different energy, different opportunities,” Williams said. “This is for a Grand Slam.”

Sumyk asserted that the wins against Williams had been well earned, even on the tour’s smaller stages.

“I think it’s hard to beat her anywhere,” Sumyk said of Williams. “I don’t think Serena wants to lose against anybody. I think she always wants to make a statement. So it doesn’t matter where it is, really. She never wants to lose against anybody else.”

Based on form in this tournament, Williams would seem to enter this match as a very heavy favorite. She has lost only 16 games in her six matches at the tournament, while Azarenka has lost 40, and has frequently struggled to hold serve.

Mouratoglou, however, warned against reading too much into either player’s form leading to the final.

“I agree that she’s playing really good tennis,” Mouratoglou said of Williams, “but we have to be really careful not to be overconfident, especially before playing Victoria.”
197 2013-09-08 PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — Thousands of supporters of Cambodia’s opposition rallied against the authoritarian government of Prime Minister Hun Sen on Saturday, calling for the United Nations to help lead an investigation into accusations of cheating in the July 28 national elections that the governing party says it won.

Protests by farmers and strikes by garment workers are relatively common in Cambodia, but Saturday’s demonstration by a newly unified political opposition was one of the most potent symbols of defiance against Mr. Hun Sen in recent years.

The leaders of the opposition, Sam Rainsy and Kem Sokha, told demonstrators that they would stage additional protests until their demands were met.

“We want a leader who is full of dignity, not a leader who steals votes,” Mr. Kem Sokha, the vice president of the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, told the crowd on Saturday. “We will not stop until there is a solution.”

Analysts question how long opposition supporters will remain passionate about the issue. The three-hour protest, which was peaceful and largely confined to a public square, seemed relatively unthreatening to the 28-year-long rule of Mr. Hun Sen, who in addition to the apparent loyalty of the army and the police has a praetorian guard of thousands of soldiers. His party machinery is firmly entrenched throughout the country, its domination stretching from national institutions to village patronage networks.

But the usually demonstrative and garrulous prime minister has been relatively quiet in recent weeks, leaving analysts guessing about his next moves. The opposition says it will not attend National Assembly sessions until the election irregularities are addressed, but some members of Mr. Hun Sen’s party say they plan to form a new government with or without the opposition’s attendance.
198 2013-09-08 Mr. Malkin is all too right in pointing out the intelligence failure that allowed the atrocity of 9/11. It is all the more reason not to abandon current attempts at using intelligence to stop terrorism. The post-9/11 intelligence apparatus must be maintained to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.

Compared with America’s capabilities during historical events that Mr. Malkin lists, agencies like the National Security Agency now have more media (like e-mail) to collect intelligence from, greater government funding, larger data storage and smarter algorithms to find suspicious behavior. These factors are the reason jihadists have been unsuccessful in attacking the United States since 9/11 on anywhere close to the same scale as those attacks in spite of their increased antagonism over Afghanistan, Iraq and the drone wars.

Nevertheless, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court overseeing these surveillance programs must be more than a rubber stamp for the intelligence community’s desires. Therefore, its members should be appointed by the president (and confirmed by Congress) like any other part of the federal judiciary, rather than appointed by the chief justice.

Furthermore, a real public commission with journalists, civil libertarians and legal experts would demand that the rule of law be applied to government surveillance but would also validate the existence of the programs.

I agree that Congress is sorely in need of something akin to the Church Committee, which documented decades of law enforcement abuses against civil liberties groups. However, I don’t agree that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court needs more secret judges.

The FISA court was specifically tailored to provide a check and balance between Fourth Amendment principles and the government’s authority to use electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes. Instead, this secret court, which hears from only one side (the government’s), is basically a rubber stamp of whatever the executive branch wants to do.

In fact, we wouldn’t be having this debate at all but for the brave disclosures of Edward J. Snowden. The court issues secret orders containing secret interpretations of law and has far exceeded its jurisdiction by deciding that indiscriminate mass domestic surveillance is consistent with a democracy and constitutional norms.

Any investigative body tasked with evaluating the damage done by the still-expanding surveillance state will need more than whistle-blowers and journalists. It will need meaningful investigative authority, teeth to force powerful executive agencies and corporations to cooperate with its investigation, and the ability to impose consequences for wrongdoing.

Meanwhile, both whistle-blowers and journalists are facing criminal consequences; the United States has branded whistle-blowers as spies and accused journalists of being criminal co-conspirators. Protecting those who exposed government lawbreaking is as necessary as holding the lawbreakers accountable.

The writer is the director of national security and human rights at the Government Accountability Project.

It is impossible to prove a negative. American intelligence may have stopped (and most probably did stop) numerous “major events” that, thus, did not happen. Pointing out events that were not foreseen or stopped by such intelligence does not negate the probability of successful use of information gathered. It merely shows that there are weaknesses in the intelligence collected.

I don’t dismiss the concept of a commission exploring just how this vast intelligence network works — but I certainly deplore whistle-blowers who weaken the infrastructure of the intelligence agencies in the country and give information to other countries regarding intelligence gathering.

I am a liberal Democrat, but still enough of a pragmatist to believe that there is a limit to what the public deserves to know.

Mr. Malkin makes a strong case for having many more whistle-blowers, and not fewer. The excesses of the Vietnam War, Watergate, Iran-contra and the global war on terror have contributed to a national security state and a culture of secrecy.

As a result of the imbalance in the process of foreign policy decision-making, we have come full circle from President Woodrow Wilson, who wanted to make the world “safe for democracy,” to Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, who find the world too dangerous to honor constitutional democracy.

Whistle-blowers can help all of us decide whether the ends justify the means regarding recent excesses.

The writer, a senior fellow at the Center for International Policy, was a C.I.A. analyst from 1966 to 1990.

It is gratifying that readers generally favor more rather than less public oversight of our huge intelligence establishment. Ms. Radack’s proposal would enhance accountability for the judicial guardians of those who guard our security in secret.

Every country needs a secret service, but citizens must have enough information about its reach into their private lives, although not its specific methods, to give it their trust and collaboration. Ms. Rosen is content to do so on faith in their unreported successes, but based on long personal experience with spooks motivated by ideology and acting on poor information, I am not.

Alert members of the public foiled the deadly plots of the shoe bomber, the underwear bomber and the Times Square bomber after they slipped through the net of secret intelligence. The English invented the modern secret service four centuries ago to protect the Crown and Parliament from plotters like Guy Fawkes, but they also invented the Official Secrets Act to hide their mistakes.

The secret British intelligence report confirming that the Bush administration was bending the facts to justify the invasion of Iraq was leaked in defiance of that act. Since then, the electronic reach of all intelligence services has expanded beyond imagination. That is the principal reason for a full-scale re-examination by a respected public body.

I agree that we don’t need more secret judges, but a wider variety, chosen more transparently and aided by a larger staff to track the huge electronic hoard of personal data that can be misused.

Take a lesson from our defunct former enemies: Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet leader, ordered the invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 on the advice of his generals and intelligence chiefs, confident that “it’ll be over in three to four weeks.” That happened in a country whose people were under total surveillance and had no access to a free press. Is that the kind of security we want in our country?
199 2013-09-08 Mr. Tabor said he had no qualms about contributing his anonymized data. “I’m happy they use the data for research and to make their services better,” he says.

Intuit began its research in 2004 on small businesses and has expanded its scope, including many more companies and becoming more fine-grained in its data tracking as it has added products, services and customers.

Researchers at the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the government’s statistical scorekeeper of economic activity, are now experimenting with the Intuit data, seeking to tap it to improve the official estimates.

“The promise of new data sources, like Intuit and others, is more accurate, more timely and cheaper data for monitoring the economy,” says Steve Landefeld, director of the bureau. “That could be a really big step forward.”

National income accounting emerged in the Great Depression, in an effort to bridge the economic information gap of its day. In June 1930, based on scattered reports available to him, President Herbert Hoover declared, “The Depression is over,” when in reality conditions were quickly worsening.

The main tool for government statistics remains telephone and in-person surveys of households and businesses — surveys that are costly and time-consuming.

Tracking behavior online can pull in far more data, more quickly — so that governments should be able to see signs of inflation, deflation and employment trends sooner and adjust policy faster.

For example, the Intuit monthly employment data, based on online monitoring, is current. That is eight months to a year ahead of the government’s best statistical look at the health of small business, which is culled from quarterly surveys, state unemployment records and tax returns. The monthly Intuit survey data have also proved accurate, almost mirroring the government results when they are finally reported, according to Susan Woodward, a consulting economist for Intuit.

“Whatever is happening, it is better to know sooner,” Ms. Woodward says.

Yet whether more data, collected faster, will improve economic forecasting is uncertain. So far, the results are mixed. An encouraging study, begun in 2009 and repeatedly updated, has used Google searches to predict home sales and prices three months into the future. In the study, the higher the frequency of search terms like “house prices,” “real estate agent” and “mortgage rates,” the more likely the national housing market would heat up.

The results of the study, “The Future of Prediction,” by Lynn Wu, an assistant professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, have held up over time. In the most recent version, their model using search data predicted future home sales 24 percent more accurately than the forecasts by experts from the National Association of Realtors.

But another major project using Google search terms points to the limits of such techniques: Google Flu Trends uses the same methods as Big Data-style economic prediction, although it focuses on public health.

The service monitors flu-related search terms and seeks to predict the incidence of flu, ahead of official statistics based on doctors’ reports to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2009, with the outbreak of H1N1 flu, Google Flu Trends was prescient.

Yet this past flu season, Google’s algorithms stumbled. As an article in the science journal Nature noted in February, Google Flu Trends estimated that nearly 11 percent of Americans were ill at the January peak — nearly double the 6 percent reported later by the C.D.C. Apparently, the Google algorithms were unable to sift out news reports and social media messages warning of a harsh flu season, which sent flu-related searches spiking.

Google is tweaking its algorithms accordingly. But experts say the episode underlines why the new technology will most likely supplement official economic statistics rather than replace them for the foreseeable future.

“The potential is extraordinarily exciting, but I worry that the expectations are way ahead of the likely reality for the next several years,” says Mr. Landefeld of the Bureau of Economic Analysis.

THE economics profession is gearing up to exploit new sources of digital data. In a recent paper, “The Data Revolution and Economic Analysis,” two Stanford economists, Liran Einav and Jonathan Levin, concluded that “there is little doubt, at least in our minds, that over the next decades ‘big data’ will change the landscape of economic policy and economic research.”

At Intuit, the small-business data portray a sector that was “hurt much more than big business by the recession and its recovery has been far worse,” says Ms. Woodward, the economic consultant. Over the last three and a half years, payroll employment for all companies has increased 6.9 percent, while small-business employment has risen far less, just 1.9 percent. Hiring among the small companies, though still sluggish, has inched ahead in the last three months.

In West Virginia, Mr. Tabor’s company did better than many, but his story echoes the national trend. He bought his home-inspection business in 2007, when times were good. But later, when the economy slowed, hours would go by without the phone ringing. “I thought, ‘Oh dear, what have I done,’ ” he recalls.

Mr. Tabor modernized the business, shifting from paper to laptops and smartphones, and expanded into doing valuations for insurance companies and serving as an engineering expert in litigation. Revenue, he said, is up 15 percent this year.

“We are going to be looking to hire, probably next year,” he says.
200 2013-09-08 An aggressive program intended to foster female success brought improvements, but also resentment and uncertainty....
201 2013-09-08 And CBS, ESPN, Fox and the NFL Network want to make the most of their contracts to televise games. So does NBC, which has its pregame show at 7 p.m. before “Sunday Night Football,” but nothing N.F.L.-related Sunday mornings on NBCSN.

“Sunday mornings are virtually prime time for football fans,” said David Berson, the president of CBS Sports, who runs the CBS Sports Network. “There’s a tremendous audience that craves football, from looking back at the college action the night before and teeing up your day of N.F.L. football. The time slot is screaming out for enhanced coverage.”

Other networks are doing what the CBS Sports Network is doing, only more modestly.

Fox Sports 1, now three weeks old, is starting “Fox NFL Kickoff,” from 11 a.m. to noon. But this Sunday, it will end at 11:30 a.m. because “Fox NFL Sunday” will have an expanded show, from Manhattan’s Times Square, from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.

And ESPN2 is adding “Colin’s New Football Show,” starring Colin Cowherd, from 9 to 10 a.m.

ESPN is largely responsible for building the rationale for more regular-season N.F.L. pregame programming. And the broadcast networks continue to make the case for excess with their overlong, rarely good, supersize Super Bowl pregame heaves.

“Sunday NFL Countdown” (originally “NFL GameDay”) started at an hour. It expanded to 75 minutes for most of the 1995 season and then to 90 minutes in its final weeks. It settled at 90 minutes in 1996, stretched to two hours in 1998 and went to three hours in 2012.

In casting “That Other Pregame Show,” the CBS Sports Network did not follow the standard hiring route. The show will not be filled with a half-dozen former players, coaches or general managers. The only person on the show fitting that description is Bart Scott, who is an interesting selection. Scott, a former Jets and Baltimore Ravens linebacker who was known to the news media as a bright player, threatened to punch a reporter last year and boycotted reporters for a month. But then, antimedia transgressions are not always deterrents to securing a network job. Deion Sanders, now at the NFL Network, once poured ice water over Tim McCarver’s head.

Besides Scott, and the show’s host, Adam Schein, “That Other Pregame Show” will feature Brandon Tierney, a radio talk-show host; Allie LaForce, a co-host of a late-night show on the channel; Nathan Zegura, a fantasy sports analyst; and Amy Trask, a former Oakland Raiders executive.

Trask resigned earlier this year as the chief executive of the team, a role in which she talked to beat writers and columnists, but not about football issues, and avoided television crews.

“Having spent almost the last 27 years assiduously running away from cameras, it is not without irony that I am embarking on a venture where I am voluntarily going in front of the cameras,” said Trask, who is quite loquacious. Unlike former general managers who have been on pregame shows, Trask worked on the team’s business side.

“I can weigh in on football topics from a different perspective because I’ve viewed them from a different prism,” she said.

The show will try to benefit from visits by members of “The NFL Today” group. But it will avoid competing directly with its pregame sibling during their hourlong overlap, from noon to 1 p.m., by making fantasy football the focus of that hour.

Eric Weinberger, the executive producer of the NFL Network, said there was no trouble filling the hours.

“We started with two hours, then went to three, then four, and last year we went to six,” he said. “It’s hard to keep the stamina up, but as far as content, there is no problem.” He added, “The audience is definitely there.”
202 2013-09-08 HONG KONG — The former basketball star Dennis Rodman left North Korea on Saturday after visiting with the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and unleashed an expletive-laced tirade while rejecting calls that he push for the release of an American missionary who has been detained by North Korea since late last year.

The trip was Mr. Rodman’s second to see Mr. Kim, whom he has called a friend. In May, Mr. Rodman had asked on Twitter for Mr. Kim to “do me a solid” and release the missionary. He also had said he planned to return to the North to try to gain the man’s release, according to a video posted on the celebrity news Web site TMZ.

Mr. Rodman was met Saturday by reporters at the airport in Beijing after arriving from North Korea and was asked about using his influence with Mr. Kim to urge the release of the American, Kenneth Bae, who is serving a 15-year prison sentence in a labor camp after being arrested while in the country where he has done Christian missionary work.

“Guess what? That’s not my job to ask about Kenneth Bae,” Mr. Rodman said, according to The Associated Press. Then, referring to President Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, he added, “Ask Obama about that. Ask Hillary Clinton.” Then he criticized the two with an expletive.

American officials have been working recently to obtain the release of Mr. Bae as tensions have eased between the countries. North Korea is believed to be using Mr. Bae as a potential bargaining chip, but North Korea rescinded its invitation to Robert King, a senior American diplomat who had been planning to travel to the country last weekend to try to secure Mr. Bae’s release.

Mr. Rodman has developed a relationship with Mr. Kim, whose government just months ago called for the nuclear annihilation of the United States if North Korea was threatened and has a record of egregious human rights abuses.

Mr. Rodman defended his friendship with Mr. Kim on Saturday. “He’s my friend for life,” he said. “I don’t care what you guys think about him,” emphasizing his point with an expletive.
203 2013-09-08 New bars and parties are synonymous during Fashion Week....
204 2013-09-08 Mr. Bonilla’s zeal for such an unremarkable model might puzzle car enthusiasts who look down on Corollas of any vintage as prosaic. His devotion to Toyotas, he says, is rooted in their reliability and the ease of modifying them for much more power and performance.

“They’re also part of my heritage,” he said, referring to the popularity of Toyotas — and people racing them — in Puerto Rico, where he was born. His family left the island in 1979, when he was 7.

Mr. Bonilla said he inherited his love of cars from his father, who did body repair work, and his uncle, who always drove an older Cadillac and still drives a 1980 Toyota Corolla in Puerto Rico.

“I just shipped him a dashboard,” he said.

Mr. Bonilla’s family lived half a mile from a dragstrip, where, he said, there was an active Toyota racing scene. His mother, concerned about safety, would not allow him to go to the track, but he remembers when the motorcycle daredevil Evel Knievel came to do one of his famous stunts.

“I climbed a tree outside the track to watch,” he said.

Mr. Bonilla, who now lives in Stratford, Conn., and drives a tractor-trailer for a living, took up his Toyota hobby as a teenager, after seeing a friend’s car.

“It was a ’76 Corolla with a 3TC,” he said, using the carmaker’s code for the 1.8-liter 4-cylinder engine that is popular with Toyota hot-rodders.

Like a BMW or Porsche buff, Mr. Bonilla refers to his Toyotas by the manufacturer’s internal codes rather than their familiar model names. His favorite Toyota, the ’70s Celica coupe, is known as an RA21, and the 1969 Corona coupe belonging to his 21-year-old son, Luis Jr., is an RT43.

Mr. Bonilla said that in the 1990s he and his friends encountered anti-Toyota prejudice at car shows, where their efforts were ignored.

“No matter how good our workmanship, we could not get respect or awards,” he said. “They were never going to give a ‘best paint’ trophy to a Toyota over a Chevelle.”

His response was to start the Old School Toyota Car Club of Bridgeport in 2000. Its 11 members, many from nearby towns in Connecticut, own 25 cars among them.

Ten years ago, Mr. Bonilla began organizing his own shows. Although skewed to older Japanese models, the events welcomed any cars, including American muscle cars like his neighbor’s 1969 Chevelle SS396.

Mr. Bonilla took some inspiration from a big import car show he attended in Southern California, organized by a Toyota owners club run by Terry Yamaguchi and her husband, Koji.

“My shows offered a new playing field,” he said. “At the first one, we had 32 cars. At our tenth and final show this year, we had 330. Cars came from as far away as South Carolina.”

This year, Mr. Bonilla organized his club’s first drag racing track day, renting Lebanon Valley Dragway near Albany, N.Y., on a weekday in May.

“It was a family event,” he said. “The guys brought their wives and kids, and we grilled.”

Most of the 38 cars that participated were older Toyotas, Datsuns and rotary-engine Mazdas. Modifications to the cars include souped-up engines, bigger wheels and brakes and lowered suspensions — similar to what the owners of American models, who were also invited to participate, do to their cars.

“We used to not talk to each other,” said Mr. Bonilla of the muscle car owners. “Now we exchange ideas, we learn from each other.”

They could certainly learn something from Mr. Bonilla. The 1973 Celica that he drag races would impress even the most devoted fan of Detroit’s products. The turbocharged 3TC engine he built for it makes 462 horsepower, as measured on a dynamometer. The car has blazed down the quarter-mile in 10.2 seconds at 131 m.p.h.

Because there are few speed parts available for older Toyotas, Mr. Bonilla must adapt parts from other cars and even make some of his own. For his Celica, he bolted an aftermarket turbocharger to an exhaust manifold that he fabricated. The car’s 5-speed manual transmission came from a wrecked 1990s-vintage Ford Mustang GT.

“Old school” certainly doesn’t apply to Mr. Bonilla’s approach to engine technology. He does not bother with the carburetors that came on the older cars, but installs modern computer-controlled fuel injection.

“I incorporated everything I’ve learned into that car,” he said. He plans to make the Celica even faster by building a turbocharged 4-cylinder engine from a Toyota Tacoma pickup truck, which he estimates will produce 900 horsepower.

Mr. Bonilla also owns a second Celica, a 1972 model that he rescued from a scrapyard in Norwalk, Conn., 20 years ago, paying $200. He drove it for years and now he’s replacing its 4-cylinder engine with a 3-liter in-line 6 from a 1990s Lexus SC 300.

“When I finish, it will look like it came factory-installed,” he said. “I do that with all my engine swaps.”

A 1969 Toyota Corona that he is customizing with Luis Jr. has a 400-horsepower V-8 from a Toyota Tundra pickup. For now, the young man’s daily transportation is a mildly customized ’82 Corolla coupe with a 2RZ 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine from an older Tacoma truck.

Mr. Bonilla’s wife, Madeline, and the couple’s 16 year-old son, Jonathan, also enjoy the Toyotas. Mrs. Bonilla drives a 2006 Avalon, and a “fun” car for her, a 1985 Corolla GT-S, is in the works. It’s a rear-drive model with its own loyal following among Toyota buffs around the world, who know it as the AE86.

Organizing more drag race days is in Mr. Bonilla’s plans, with an eye toward growing participation. He cited the Pan American Nationals, an event held each July at Atco Raceway in southern New Jersey. That event, for older Japanese cars, began 19 years ago with a few dozen participants. It grew into one of the track’s two largest annual events, the other being Honda Day, according to Joe Sway, who owned the track until last December and remains a consultant there.

“We had to limit the number of racecars to 350,” Mr. Sway said. “Cars come from as far away as Aruba, Canada, Curaçao and Puerto Rico to race.”

Mr. Bonilla did not finish the engine work on his Celica in time to make this year’s race. Instead, he installed a turbocharged Tacoma 4-cylinder engine in his son’s Corolla for the race.

“Nothing crazy, a simple swap,” he said in an e-mail. The Corolla ran the quarter-mile in 12.07 seconds at 110 m.p.h., but driveshaft problems kept it from further competition.

Mr. Bonilla’s brand loyalty is not absolute. He tows his racecars to the track with the one vehicle in his family that’s not a Toyota, a Dodge Dakota pickup.
205 2013-09-08 COPS (Spike, Sept. 14) The drunken chases and pixeled nudity continue on a new network as this pioneering reality show begins its 26th season.

FOYLE’S WAR (PBS, Sept. 15) Arrested who? Breaking what? Some of us are saving our excitement for the return of Michael Kitchen as the awkward, punctilious, often silent detective Christopher Foyle, after a three-year hiatus. In the three episodes of Season 7, set in 1946, Foyle comes back from America and is recruited to work for MI5 in London.

SLEEPY HOLLOW (Fox, Sept. 16) A Connecticut Yankee wakes up in the land of food courts in this comic-book-style update of Washington Irving. Ichabod Crane (Tom Mison, who played the insufferable Potty Perowne in “Parade’s End”) is transported to modern-day Westchester County, where he teams with a young cop (Nicole Beharie) to stop that pesky Headless Horseman before he can bring on the apocalypse.

BROOKLYN NINE-NINE (Fox, Sept. 17) The squad-room comedy makes a comeback, but in a model closer to “Animal House” than “Barney Miller.” Andy Samberg plays a talented but juvenile detective and Andre Braugher, in his first sitcom, is the father figure, a stern new captain.

DADS (Fox, Sept. 17) The first of the season’s moving-back-in-together comedies (see “The Millers” and “Back in the Game”) has a lot of crowd-pleasing talent: Martin Mull and Peter Riegert as the deadbeat dads, Giovanni Ribisi and Seth Green as the put-upon sons. But this show from the Seth MacFarlane stable — its creators were his co-writers on “Ted” — has drawn attention mainly for its jokes about Asians and for putting Brenda Song, as the sons’ assistant, in a sexy schoolgirl-sailor outfit. (We won’t even get started on the mixing of Japanese fetish, Chinese character and Hmong actress.)

LATINO AMERICANS (PBS, Sept. 17) Benjamin Bratt narrates a three-night, six-hour history of the Latino experience, from the first Spanish explorers to the present. Beginning Oct. 22, PBS will also devote six hours to African-American history with the series “The African Americans: Many Rivers to Cross,” written by the ubiquitous Henry Louis Gates Jr.

THE MINDY PROJECT (Fox, Sept. 17) The first season of Mindy Kaling’s sitcom-romcom hybrid ended with her character, the continually lovestruck obstetrician Mindy Lahiri, heading off for a yearlong mission in Haiti with the wrong guy. But Ms. Kaling has assured her fans that Ms. Lahiri will be unattached again early in Season 2.

KEY & PEELE (Comedy Central, Sept. 18) A trailer for Season 3 of Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele’s uproarious sketch show promises sendups of “Les Misérables,” “The Walking Dead” and Mr. T as well as more of the Obama Anger Translator and Mr. Garvey, inner-city substitute teacher.

THE WATSONS GO TO BIRMINGHAM (Hallmark, Sept. 20) Kenny Leon directed this adaptation of Christopher Paul Curtis’s children’s novel about a black family from Michigan that takes a trip to visit Southern relatives in 1963. The cast includes Anika Noni Rose, Wood Harris, David Alan Grier and, as the Watson brothers, Bryce Clyde Jenkins and Harrison Knight.

THE BLACKLIST (NBC, Sept. 23) Not content to have the actual Hannibal Lecter on its schedule (in “Hannibal”), NBC adds a reasonable facsimile with James Spader’s Red Reddington, a supercriminal who turns himself in so that he can help a particular young F.B.I. agent (Megan Boone) track down a particular list of miscreants. Perhaps the logical conclusion of television’s preoccupation with eccentric law-enforcement consultants, the show has been deemed worthy of the coveted Monday-night slot following “The Voice.”

HOSTAGES (CBS, Sept. 23) Toni Collette takes on her first starring role in a broadcast network series in this high-concept thriller. She plays a surgeon scheduled to operate on the president (James Naughton); before the pilot is over, her family has been taken hostage by what appear to be F.B.I. agents and she’s been ordered to fatally botch the operation. It sounds like a mini-series, but the producer Jerry Bruckheimer is adamant that the show can be kept going past its 15-episode first season.

HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER (CBS, Sept. 23) One of the most successful — and unchanging — sitcoms of the century enters its ninth and final season with its first significant cast change: the addition of Cristin Milioti as the long-promised mother, finally revealed in the last moments of the Season 8 finale.

MOM (CBS, Sept. 23) Will Chuck Lorre’s Midas touch as writer and producer (“Two and Half Men,” “The Big Bang Theory,” “Mike & Molly”) extend to a comedy about the reunion of a mother and daughter who are both recovering alcoholics? The casting of Allison Janney and Anna Faris would seem to bode well. But neither one has ever carried a sitcom, and it’s possible that they’re both too good — too nervy, lacking the essential dollop of pudding at their cores — for this sort of thing.

THE GOLDBERGS (ABC, Sept. 24) Any reference to the ur-family-sitcom “The Goldbergs” (1949-56) is apt but coincidental, since this new show is an autobiographical series created by Adam F. Goldberg (“Breaking In,” “Aliens in America”) and set in the 1980s. The 11-year-old Adam, a videotaping fiend, is played by Sean Giambrone; Jeff Garlin and Wendi McClendon-Covey are the long-suffering parents and George Segal the wacky granddad.

KNIFE FIGHT (Esquire, Sept. 24) The first series from the new Esquire Network is a cooking competition hosted by Ilan Hall, a past winner of “Top Chef.”

LUCKY 7 (ABC, Sept. 24) Based on a British series called “The Syndicate” about five grocery-store employees from Leeds who share a lottery jackpot, “Lucky 7” is the only new fall series with Steven Spielberg’s name in the credits. Adapted by Jason Richman and David Zabel (“Detroit 1-8-7”), it moves the winning group to a Queens gas station and expands it but keeps the plot complications: a cheating husband, an assumed identity, an angry wife, an ill-timed robbery. The British actress Lorraine Bruce repeats her role as Denise, the overweight cashier with the shiftless spouse.

MARVEL’S AGENTS OF S.H.I.E.L.D. (ABC, Sept. 24) Joss Whedon’s production team is behind this closely guarded new show, a spinoff of Mr. Whedon’s “Avengers” film and the first television series set within the “Marvel Cinematic Universe.” Clark Gregg continues in the role of Agent Phil Coulson, supervisor of the S.H.I.E.L.D. team that investigates paranormal phenomena; other squad members are played by Ming-Na Wen (“ER”), Chloe Bennet (“Nashville”) and Iain De Caestecker (“The Fades”).

NCIS (CBS, Sept. 24) Prime time’s highest-rated series (even higher than NFL football) ended its 10th season on an almost comically exaggerated note: the entire naval investigative team resigned to protect the boss, Gibbs (Mark Harmon), and Gibbs was seen “four months later” pointing a rifle at his best friend, the F.B.I. agent Fornell (Joe Spano). Those details will be ironed out quickly, but one issue can’t be glossed over: the departure, after the season’s first two episodes, of the gentle assassin Ziva David (Cote de Pablo). A replacement in the deadly-ingénue role is expected around midseason.

PERSON OF INTEREST (CBS, Sept. 24) Jonathan Nolan’s ingenious and engaging mystery series ended its second season on a surprisingly poignant note, when the bad guys discovered the location of the Machine — the supercomputer that both tracks terrorists and predicts everyday murders — only to find that it had eluded them by having itself crated up and shipped to a new home. The show may not always transcend its cops-and-spies formulas, but it’s consistently worth watching for Michael Emerson’s Emmy-deserving performance as Mr. Finch, the Machine’s fastidious but increasingly adventurous monitor.

TROPHY WIFE (ABC, Sept. 24) Malin Akerman plays the hard-partying Wife No. 3 of an older lawyer (Bradley Whitford), doing comic battle with his former wives (Marcia Gay Harden and Michaela Watkins) and a menagerie of children.

BACK IN THE GAME (ABC, Sept. 25) This “Bad News Bears” facsimile features a crotchety former pro, a tough-cookie female pitching whiz and a Little League team of droll misfits, just like that 1976 film. But now the old guy (James Caan in the Walter Matthau role) is a grandfather who offers his brutal commentary from the stands, the woman (Maggie Lawson in the Tatum O’Neal role) is his daughter and the team’s reluctant coach, and she has a son (Griffin Gluck) who’s one of the misfits.

LAW & ORDER: SVU (NBC, Sept. 25) The big question was answered a few days after last season’s finale, when Mariska Hargitay tweeted that she would return for Season 15 of television’s longest-running current prime-time drama. At that point we knew that her Detective Olivia Benson would survive Season 14’s cliffhanger ending, in which a rapist was pointing a gun at her face. (Perhaps that’s when the producers knew, too, though holding off news of her contract renewal could have been a clever way to drum up interest in the episode.) Also returning will be Raúl Esparza as Assistant District Attorney Barba, now a full-fledged member of the cast.

THE CRAZY ONES (CBS, Sept. 26) David E. Kelley’s first half-hour show in 20 years — since “Doogie Howser, M.D.” — stars Robin Williams and Sarah Michelle Gellar as father-daughter advertising executives. Given the title, it’s hard not to see this as a sitcom response to “Mad Men,” an impression reinforced by the casting of one of that show’s recent regulars, James Wolk. The always-funny Hamish Linklater (“The New Adventures of Old Christine”) also stars.

GLEE (Fox, Sept. 26) The glee-club comedy begins its fifth season a week later than originally scheduled after the death of its star Cory Monteith. The show faces other challenges as well: the original cast members Amber Riley (Mercedes), Mark Salling (Puck), Harry Shum Jr. (Mike) and Heather Morris (Brittany) are gone, their characters having graduated from high school. And Jayma Mays, whose guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury finally married Will Schuester in the Season 4 finale, is leaving for the CBS sitcom “The Millers.”

THE MICHAEL J. FOX SHOW (NBC, Sept. 26) In what amounts to a real-time autobiographical comedy, Mr. Fox plays a television news anchor who left his job because of his Parkinson’s disease but decides to return. Having established in his guest appearances on “The Good Wife” that his condition could be not only acknowledged but used for clever comic effect, Mr. Fox, who last starred in a sitcom more than a decade ago in “Spin City,” will try to achieve the same here on a full-time basis.

BETRAYAL (ABC, Sept. 29) Solidly in ABC’s nighttime soap opera wheelhouse, this drama combines a murder mystery-conspiracy plot reminiscent of “Revenge” and “Dirty Sexy Money” with a glossy romantic melodrama that echoes the Diane Lane-Olivier Martinez-Richard Gere triangle in “Unfaithful.” Hannah Ware (“Boss”) is the Chicago photographer who doesn’t know how restless she is until she meets the high-powered lawyer played by Stuart Townsend (“XIII: The Series”); Chris Johnson (“Against the Wall”) is the square-jawed prosecutor husband.

EASTBOUND & DOWN (HBO, Sept. 29) Danny McBride’s comedy about baseball, testosterone and male vanity enters its fourth and final season, never having broken through despite the on- and off-screen involvement of heavyweights like Jody Hill, David Gordon Green, Matthew McConaughey, Adam McKay and Will Ferrell.

THE GOOD WIFE (CBS, Sept. 29) Alicia Florrick (Julianna Margulies) begins the fifth season of CBS’s gold-standard legal drama at a new firm — her own, in partnership with Cary (Matt Czuchry) and in competition with Will (Josh Charles), Diane (Christine Baranski) and, most ominously, Kalinda (Archie Panjabi) — and with a new role, first lady of Illinois.

HELLO LADIES (HBO, Sept. 29) Stephen Merchant breaks away from his constant writing, producing and performing partner Ricky Gervais (“The Office,” “Extras,” “An Idiot Abroad,” “Life’s Too Short”) to star in this fish-out-of-water comedy about a geeky British Web designer hitting the Los Angeles dating scene. Whether or not it’s funny, it’s almost certain to be the most excruciating and cringe-worthy new show of the season, which is worth something.

HOMELAND (Showtime, Sept. 29) A week after it tries for its second straight Emmy Award for best drama, “Homeland” returns for Season 3 as Carrie (Claire Danes) and Saul (Mandy Patinkin) cope with the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the C.I.A. and the hue and cry over the disappearance of Brody (Damian Lewis).

MASTERS OF SEX (Showtime, Sept. 29) Michael Sheen (“Frost/Nixon”) and Lizzy Caplan (“True Blood”) play the sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson in the most high-profile of the new premium-cable series.

THE SIMPSONS (Fox, Sept. 29) Television’s longest-running show in various categories — sitcom, animation, scripted prime time — opens its 25th season with a “Homeland” send-up.

WE ARE MEN (CBS, Sept. 30) Rob Greenberg, a writer and producer on “Frasier” and “How I Met Your Mother,” walks a fine line between leers and tears in his new sitcom about four divorced men, cheaters and cuckolds bonding at a swinging ’70s-style apartment complex. Tony Shalhoub plays a hyperconfident ladies man while Kal Penn stays in his comfort zone as a nice, sad guy who was caught cheating with a woman who wouldn’t have sex with him.

A YOUNG DOCTOR’S NOTEBOOK (Ovation, Oct. 2) Here’s something you don’t see every day, or at all, really: a series based on a collection of autobiographical short stories by the Russian writer Mikhail Bulgakov, with Daniel Radcliffe (you know him as Harry Potter) playing the young doctor posted to the boonies during the Russian Revolution and Jon Hamm (you know him as Don Draper) narrating as the doctor’s older self.

IRONSIDE (NBC, Oct. 2) The network revives a much loved series from its distant past (1967-75) with Blair Underwood playing Detective Robert Ironside, partly paralyzed after a shooting but determined to stay on the job. The scene has been switched from San Francisco to New York and the wheelchair-using Ironside (formerly played by Raymond Burr) promoted from special police consultant to actual detective. Another change: expect a lot more action this time around.

SUPER FUN NIGHT (ABC, Oct. 2) The popular Australian actress Rebel Wilson (“Bridesmaids,” “Perfect Pitch”) wrote and starred in this comedy of empowerment about three best friends and roommates who, after a decade of partying together every Friday night, decide to take the big step of leaving their apartment.

TOP CHEF (Bravo, Oct. 2) The 11th edition of this cooking competition is set in New Orleans, and at times it may seem as if an episode of “Treme” is being filmed: the local chef John Besh and the musicians Kermit Ruffins and Dr. John, all “Treme” veterans, are scheduled to appear.

THE MILLERS (CBS, Oct. 3) In a season where Michael J. Fox, Robin Williams, James Caan, Christopher Meloni and Sean Hayes are playing sitcom dads, the parent act everyone will be talking about is Margo Martindale’s portrayal of a liberated mom in this new show from Greg Garcia (“Raising Hope,” “My Name Is Earl”). Will Arnett plays the put-upon son and Beau Bridges the addled dad; the pilot was reshot after the roles of the sister and her husband, originally played by Mary Elizabeth Ellis and Michael Rapaport, were recast with Jayma Mays and Nelson Franklin.

THE ORIGINALS (CW, Oct. 3) Stepping firmly away from its roots in contemporary adolescent soap opera (and trying to attract more male viewers), CW has a slate of new shows that’s 100 percent science fiction, fantasy and costume drama. It starts with this “Vampire Diaries” spinoff, in which the “original vampires” Klaus and Elijah leave Mystic Falls for new adventures in New Orleans. You could ask whether there will be a Caroline Forbes crossover, if you wanted to admit that you watch “The Vampire Diaries” that closely.

SCANDAL (ABC, Oct. 3) Shonda Rhimes’s breathless roundelay of politics and sex enters Season 3 with Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington) newly outed as the president’s lover.

SEAN SAVES THE WORLD (NBC, Oct. 3) Since “Will & Grace,” Sean Hayes has focused on producing, and his name is on several lightweight but potentially addictive shows (“Grimm,” “Hot in Cleveland”). He returns to sitcom center stage in this new series created by Victor Fresco (“Better Off Ted”), playing a gay man named Sean whose 14-year-old daughter (Sami Isler) moves in with him. Like “Smash,” in which Mr. Hayes did a guest spot, “Sean Saves the World” has strong Broadway connections: the “Smash” star Megan Hilty plays Sean’s best friend and Linda Lavin, in her first regular television role since the 1990s, plays his mother.

WELCOME TO THE FAMILY (NBC, Oct. 3) Joey Haro of “Awkward” is the Hispanic boyfriend and Ella Rae Peck of “Deception” the white girlfriend who bring their families together in this Romeo-and-Juliet sitcom. The comically mismatched sets of parents are played by Justina Machado (“Six Feet Under”), Ricardo Chavira (“Desperate Housewives”), Mary McCormack (“In Plain Sight”) and Mike O’Malley (“Glee”).

MUHAMMAD ALI’S GREATEST FIGHT (HBO, Oct. 5) Not in the ring, but in the courtroom. Stephen Frears’s drama, which had its premiere at Cannes, is about Ali’s four-year fight against draft-evasion charges during the Vietnam War. Christopher Plummer, Frank Langella and Danny Glover play Supreme Court justices with varying sympathies; no one plays Ali, who appears only in archival footage.

DEAD LETTERS (Hallmark, Oct. 5) Eric Mabius (“Ugly Betty”) and Daphne Zuniga (“Melrose Place”) star in this story about the adventures of employees in a dead-letter office, a pilot for what could become Hallmark’s second original drama series. It was created and written by Martha Williamson, a long-time executive producer of “Touched by an Angel.”

THE PARADISE (PBS, Oct. 6) Having broadcast the ITV department-store melodrama “Mr. Selfridge,” PBS demonstrates its impartiality by showing the rival BBC show, set in a fictional store in northern England in the 1870s. The seven-week series, based on a Zola novel, opens the “Masterpiece Classic” season.

WITCHES OF EAST END (Lifetime, Oct. 6) Julia Ormond, Mädchen Amick, Jenna Dewan Tatum and Rachel Boston play members of a family of witches in a new series based on Melissa de la Cruz’s popular novel (no relation to John Updike’s “The Witches of Eastwick”).

SUPERNATURAL (CW, Oct. 8) The network’s longest-running drama begins its ninth season of brotherly love and demon hunting. If you don’t watch “Supernatural,” then you missed the only season finale that ended with all the angels in heaven falling to earth. Now that’s a cliffhanger.

AMERICAN HORROR STORY: COVEN (FX, Oct. 9) The third installment of Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk’s horror anthology series involves witches in New Orleans. Jessica Lange, Lily Rabe and Sarah Paulson return to the cast; new arrivals include Kathy Bates, Angela Bassett, Patti LuPone and Gabourey Sidibe.

FULL CIRCLE (DirecTV, Oct. 9) The playwright Neil LaBute created and wrote this 10-episode series, which sounds a lot like “La Ronde”: a succession of interlocking conversations about life and love, set in a restaurant. The actors portraying the tag-team talkers include Billy Campbell, Cheyenne Jackson, Minka Kelly, Ally Sheedy and Kate Walsh.

THE TOMORROW PEOPLE (CW, Oct. 9) This new drama is based on a 40-year-old British children’s show that anticipated the contemporary vogue for pretty young people with paranormal abilities. Here they include teleportation, accompanied by shimmering computer-animated effects. Robbie Amell, who stars as a newly awakened tomorrow person, will have his cousin Stephen Amell, star of CW’s “Arrow” at 8 p.m. Wednesdays, as his lead-in.

ONCE UPON A TIME IN WONDERLAND (ABC, Oct. 10) The creators of ABC’s fairy-tale drama “Once Upon a Time,” Adam Horowitz and Edward Kitsis, are responsible for this spinoff, which takes characters and settings from Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.” For ABC’s purposes, Wonderland and the Enchanted Forest exist in the same plane, allowing for future crossovers between the two shows.

THE WALKING DEAD (AMC, Oct. 13) The highest-rated drama in the history of basic cable keeps chewing its way through showrunners, entering its fourth season with its third lead producer, Scott Gimple. On screen, there’s a population explosion: the band of survivors is joined by the Woodbury refugees inside the prison and a growing, increasingly organized mob of zombies outside.

BURTON AND TAYLOR (BBC America, Oct. 16) Dominic West and Helena Bonham Carter play the Dick and Liz of 1983, as they prepare for a stage production of “Private Lives,” in this BBC movie.

REIGN (CW, Oct. 17) The CW formula — teenage sex and jealousy plus a ghostly mystery plus pop songs — is transferred to the mid-1500s and the story of Mary Queen of Scots in what promises to be the biggest hoot of the new season, for better or worse.

DANCING ON THE EDGE (Starz, Oct. 19) The British television veteran Stephen Poliakoff (“Gideon’s Daughter,” “Perfect Strangers”) wrote and directed this five-episode series about a fictional jazz band in London in the 1930s. Chiwetel Ejiofor plays the bandleader, Matthew Goode a music journalist and John Goodman a magazine mogul.

RAVENSWOOD (ABC Family, Oct. 22) A spin-off of the channel’s hit “Pretty Little Liars,” this new series is set in a nearby town afflicted by a “deadly curse” and features a “Liars” character, Caleb Rivers (Tyler Blackburn).

DRACULA (NBC, Oct. 25) A co-production with the British channel Sky Living, this series posits a Dracula (Jonathan Rhys Meyers of “The Tudors”) who poses as an American businessman in Victorian London and allies himself with the vampire hunter Van Helsing (Thomas Kretschmann) against a shadowy conspiracy of one-percenters.

ALMOST HUMAN (Fox, Nov. 4) J. H. Wyman of “Fringe” is behind this android procedural, which stars Michael Ealy (“The Good Wife”) as the sensitive robotic half of a buddy-cop partnership in 2048. Karl Urban plays the grumpy human partner and Lili Taylor is the no-nonsense captain. Think of it as Lennie Briscoe and Ed Green in “Blade Runner,” with heavy weaponry.

TONYA AND NANCY (ESPN, Nov. 5) As we approach the 20th anniversary of the knee whack heard ’round the world, ESPN’s “30 for 30” documentary series presents this re-examination of the Tonya Harding-Nancy Kerrigan kerfuffle, directed by Nanette Burstein (“The Kid Stays in the Picture”).

ENLISTED (Fox, Nov. 8) War isn’t a topic television has taken lightly over the last decade, but Fox has decided the time is right for a broad, silly home-front comedy. Geoff Stults (“The Finder”), Chris Lowell (“Private Practice”) and Parker Young (“Suburgatory”) play brothers — gung-ho, cynical and dopey, respectively — posted together at a sleepy Florida Army base in this “Stripes” knockoff.

JFK (PBS, Nov. 11) Over two nights and four hours, this “American Experience” documentary promises to take a full look at John F. Kennedy’s career and achievements. PBS’s commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Kennedy’s assassination continues on episodes of “Nova” and “Secrets of the Dead” on Nov. 13.

THE WRONG MANS (Hulu, Nov. 11) Two very funny British actors, Matthew Baynton (“Spy”) and the inimitable James Corden (“Gavin & Stacey,” “The History Boys”), wrote and star in this dark comedy-thriller, a BBC-Hulu production. They play a pair of working stiffs who stumble onto a kidnapping plot and have to save the day.

FAR FROM FINISHED (Comedy Central, Nov. 24) Robert Townsend directed this Bill Cosby concert film, shot at several stand-up appearances earlier this year and billed by Comedy Central as Mr. Cosby’s first television concert production since “Bill Cosby: Himself” in 1983.

BARBRA STREISAND: BACK TO BROOKLYN (PBS, Nov. 29) Ms. Streisand’s ballyhooed concert at the Barclays Center in 2012 was recorded for this episode of “Great Performances.”

MOB CITY (TNT, Dec. 4) Two years after he left “The Walking Dead” under murky circumstances, the writer and producer Frank Darabont returns to television with this six-episode series about the Los Angeles Police Department and its controversial chief, William Parker, in the 1940s. Treading Southern California noir territory similar to that in “L.A. Confidential” and “Gangster Squad,” it stars Neal McDonough as Parker and Jeremy Luke as the mobster Mickey Cohen.

DOWNTON ABBEY (PBS, Jan. 5) Can television’s hottest soap opera survive without its heartthrob, Dan Stevens, whose character was dispatched in a car accident at the end of Season 3? A number of new faces will join the cast, including well-known British actors like James Fox, Julian Ovenden and Harriet Walter, but the most interesting addition couldn’t be more American: Paul Giamatti, as the brother of Elizabeth McGovern’s Lady Grantham.

THE 100 (CW) A voiceover tells us that human life on earth has been wiped out by nuclear war and a colony of survivors is stranded on a spaceship waiting for the radiation to dissipate. Which is just an excuse for the best CW premise ever: 100 delinquent teenagers are sent down to the surface and have the planet to themselves to fight, scream and procreate. Among the adults still in orbit are Henry Ian Cusick (“Lost”) and Isaiah Washington (“Grey’s Anatomy”).

SURVIVING JACK (Fox) Christopher Meloni started out in sitcoms over two decades ago — “1st & Ten,” “The Fanelli Boys,” “Misery Loves Company” — before going grim, and becoming famous, in “Oz” and “Law & Order: SVU.” He returns to comedy as a dad who has to suddenly pay more attention to his children when his wife starts law school. Imagine Doctor Seaver in “Growing Pains” (Mr. Meloni’s Jack Dunlevy is an oncologist) as a witheringly sarcastic ex-Marine and you’ve just about got it.
206 2013-09-08 ROGER FEDERER CAN STILL GET HIS GAME FACE ON

Why can’t Roger Federer enjoy a long career as No. 7 or No. 12 or even No. 30? Who says life has to end if you’re not in the top three anymore? I wish the press would back off and let him gracefully play out his career. It’s a lot better to wind down over a few years than to quit and come back a few years later to give it one more try because there’s still gas in the tank. JOEL LESKO, Ashland, Ore., posted on nytimes.com

There is too negative an undertone in this article about how changes have “slowed down” the game and made power-baseline tennis, à la Lendl, the norm. Remember how boring tennis was in the mid-to-late ’90s during the fast-paced, attacking, serve-dominated era? I can admire Sampras, but I really can’t remember one moment when he was pushed to a sublime place. All I remember of his matches is a blur of aces and service winners. JEREMY KAYE, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com

Michael Steinberger fails to note that the so-called baseline grinders have developed a much more wide-ranging, adaptable game in the post-Federer era. High-risk, shot-making tennis has become the standard. The Djokovic-Nadal match at the Australian Open that Steinberger refers to was not so much a slugfest in the mode of, say, Williams-Sharapova, but rather a full-scale epic that combined tactical moves complete with cunning traps and numinous shot-making — a true test of strength and fitness. GREATIDEA, New Orleans, posted on nytimes.com

I loved that Connors acknowledges players who came before him. His pressing style owes its heritage to Jack Kramer in the 1940s. The scowl, the attitude, the street-fighting mentality was first written by Pancho Gonzalez. Even Bill Tilden was an influence — he felt that the most dangerous but surest way to beat a player was to play to his strength. Watch a tape of Connors, and see how often he demoralizes an opponent by doing this. Other than Federer, today’s players live outside of history. RICHARD POLLARA, Tampa, posted on nytimes.com

Lost in the focus on the Chinese government’s influence on Li Na is the observation that true excellence often comes from forced sacrifices imposed by authority figures — parents, coaches, governments. Look at the fathers of Andre Agassi and the Williams sisters. YU CHEN, New York, posted on nytimes.com

I attended Mandy Patinkin’s 2002 performance of “Celebrating Sondheim,” and he stopped the show 20 minutes in and started the entire performance over. From that moment on, the program was more beautiful, and Patinkin’s voice was subtly but deeply improved. So although we now know that this rebooting of the show was caused by Patinkin’s medication, we want to reassure him that his artistic radar was intact and that his performance thrilled us. ROSEANN FORZIANO, Rocky Point, N.Y.
207 2013-09-08 Mack Real Estate secured the building’s lot in 2007 but didn’t close the deal until 2011 because of a contract dispute with the previous owner, according to the company. The opportunity to build on such a large lot is rare and was part of the draw for Mack. “The industrial base has allowed for the creation of a new neighborhood,” Mr. Mack said. “We wanted to be part of that.”

Williamsburg once attracted young artists looking for affordable loft space, but now draws families with young children and young professionals. Many artists and long-term residents have been pushed out by rising rents and new development. This building is designed to have broad appeal, said David J. Maundrell, the founder and president of Aptsandlofts.com, which is marketing 50 North 5th.

The building will have 229 studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments, 46 of which will be affordable units reserved for low-income tenants. The apartments have quartz stone countertops and large closets; every unit has a washer and dryer and a dishwasher. The interiors were designed by Cl-oth Interiors of Williamsburg.

“When you walk in from the outside, we want this to feel like a restaurant or a nice boutique hotel,” Mr. Mack said.

This is the first building to be completed by Mack Real Estate (which worked with Urban Development Partners on the project), though it has plenty of experience in real estate. Richard Mack and his father, William L. Mack, founded AREA Property Partners, which took over the troubled Apthorp condominium on the Upper West Side. The company has invested more than $14 billion in equity in more than 600 transactions. AREA was recently acquired by an investment company.

Mack Real Estate has a number of projects under way, many of which are on the West Coast. Mr. Mack said he was interested in creating rentals in Williamsburg because he is bullish on the neighborhood. “We believe there is long-term value being created here over the next 10 to 20 years,” he said, “and we want to participate in that.”

Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, says that upscale rentals in Williamsburg make sense. According to Mr. Miller, Brooklyn median rents were up 5.1 percent in July over the previous year and the borough’s luxury market — the top 10 percent in price — was up 11.8 percent over the same period. At the same time, many potential buyers have been shut out of the market, because not only have sales prices climbed while inventory remains low, but credit remains tight.

Rents at 50 North 5th are high for Williamsburg — two-bedrooms, averaging 976 square feet, are $4,500 a month and up — where the average in the neighborhood is $3,625. But they are not unusual for Manhattan; the average rent for a two-bedroom is $4,794, according to Mr. Miller. Mr. Maundrell said he expected that about half of the building’s renters will come from Manhattan.

Eric Hantman, the founder of Prime NYC, which handles sales and rentals in Brooklyn and Manhattan, said that the success of amenity-rich rental buildings in Manhattan like 8 Spruce Street, the Ashley and MiMA have proved that some people are willing to pay high rents for lots of perks. And, he said, “there are people living in Manhattan making good money that want to live in Williamsburg. And they are willing to pay Manhattan prices.”

Another luxury rental building, 101 Bedford, which abuts McCarren Park, also offers numerous amenities, including an indoor pool, a hot tub and sauna, spa treatment rooms, a wine vault, a recording and photography studio and a yoga room, as well as a roof deck with cabanas. There are fees for accessing these perks.
208 2013-09-08 Great performers have always been one of the signal attractions of the theater, and in our star-besotted era they are undoubtedly the biggest draw. But nobody wants to watch even an able actor perform in a void. Pick up a stage memoir from almost any era, and the writer will likely opine that he or she did the best work when acting with equals, or with actors whose particular personas created an instant, indefinable spark when they were onstage together.

There are, of course, celebrated acting pairs — Ellen Terry and Henry Irving, Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy — who made careers, or at least minicareers, of their chemistry. But sometimes it’s unexpected or unlikely pairings that also entice: performers you wouldn’t think to put together but whose affinities elicit new facets of their gifts. Looking ahead to this fall, on Broadway and off, I was struck by several savory twosomes appearing in shows together, some natural, some decidedly not.

The no-brainer of the season’s tasty twosome is obvious: the prestige pairing of Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart in two productions in repertory: Samuel Beckett’s “Waiting for Godot” and Harold Pinter’s “No Man’s Land.” But as eager as I am to see that luminous duo performing in classic rep, I’m almost equally excited — and rather more intrigued — by the startling matchup of Taylor Mac and Mandy Patinkin in a new workshop production from the Classic Stage Company, “The Last Two People on Earth: An Apocalyptic Vaudeville,” beginning in December.

Mr. Mac and Mr. Patinkin may not be the last two people I’d expect to see sharing a stage, but they are certainly close to it. Both are tremendously talented musical-theater performers with megawatt stage presences, but they come from radically different worlds. Mr. Mac is a downtown performer who often appears in drag, as he will earlier this fall reprising his bright, audacious turn as the title character in Lear deBessonet’s ebullient production of “Good Person of Szechwan” at the Public Theater. Mr. Patinkin probably needs no introduction to readers of the theater pages. He’s best known for his signature Broadway roles in “Evita” and “Sunday in the Park With George,” but has also proved to be an adventurous forager in other musical realms, as in his solo show of Yiddish songs, “Mamaloshen.”

The fanciful notion behind “The Last Two People” is that a mighty flood has washed humanity off the planet, except for two bedraggled survivors whose only common language, they discover, is song and dance. Keeping each other company, they chronicle the rise and fall of civilization through music of eclectic, not to say eccentric, variety: Rodgers & Hammerstein and Stephen Sondheim, but also Queen and R.E.M. (Here’s hoping we get to hear Mr. Mac take on a little Sondheim, and Mr. Patinkin tackle Queen.) Helping these distinctive performers find a mutual groove is the Broadway veteran Susan Stroman, who choreographs and directs.

The most distinguished cast assembled Off Broadway this season rivals anything to be seen on Broadway. (Apologies to those fancy movie folk in yet another production of Pinter’s “Betrayal.”) “The Jacksonian,” the latest play by Beth Henley, being presented by the New Group in a production directed by Robert Falls, headlines one of the country’s most accomplished (if rarely marquee-topping) acting couples: Ed Harris and Amy Madigan, who’ve been married since 1983. Both Mr. Harris and Ms. Madigan have lately pursued careers mainly in film and television, but they have stage roots stretching back several decades.
209 2013-09-08 Nearly 40 years ago, a great white dorsal fin sliced through American cinemas with its ominous, minor-second-interval leitmotif, and a new business model was born. which cost $7 million to make, was deemed a good fit for a June release in 1975 partly because it took place at a beach around Independence Day. But its extraordinary success — the movie went on to earn $471 million at box offices worldwide — subsequently helped spawn Hollywood’s now-conventional wisdom that if you’re going to make a blockbuster, then summer, when kids are out of school and people are in search of industrial-strength air-conditioning, is the best time to release it. After became a huge hit two summers later, all the big studios seemed to take notice.

In the years since, those studios have crammed more man-eating marine life, aliens, pirates, superheroes, robots, dinosaurs and car chases (and their exploding iterations) into an increasingly crowded season. A decade ago, there were 22 films that each ran on 3,000 screens during the summer. This year, there were 31, the most ever. A lot of them, however, bombed. “Lone Ranger,” and all cost more than $100 million, only to tank at the domestic box office. After a bit of soul searching, several explanations have been suggested — ’s inability to open a movie, why anyone would want to see the “Lone Ranger” in 2013 and so forth. But a number of economists are coming around to a more unsettling idea: The summer-blockbuster strategy itself may have tanked.

From an economics perspective, this summer schedule is baffling. The studios are choosing to release all of their big films precisely when they know their competitors are doing the same thing. “There’s rational behavior and there’s, well, other behavior,” says Peter Broderick, a film-distribution strategist who runs Paradigm Consulting. “Decision-making in Hollywood, perhaps more than anywhere else, is driven by conventional wisdom and inertia and a whole lot of things that are more complicated than just being rational.”

There are three main reasons big studios may not be behaving optimally. The first has to do with a poor understanding of statistics. Movie executives see that box-office revenues have been higher in the summer and conclude that there is something inflationary about a summertime release. Yet this thinking is inherently flawed. The summer was never actually as profitable as it seemed. The official season, which lasts about a third of the year (at least the way Hollywood divides the calendar), generates around 40 percent of annual ticket sales. Furthermore, box-office revenue may be higher in the summer precisely because that’s when studios have chosen to release their most popular movies. The expected box-office appeal of the film may be driving the release date, in other words, rather than the release date enhancing the box-office performance.

Economists refer to this chicken-and-egg problem, in which cause and effect become entangled, as “endogeneity.” It’s a problem that muddies all sorts of statistical analysis when you don’t have controlled experiments. (Does higher campaign spending win elections, for instance, or does the more popular candidate simply attract more financing?) Liran Einav, an economist at , has developed a model that tried to get rid of this endogeneity problem by figuring out a way to control for film quality, which he defined as mass appeal, not Oscar-worthiness. Einav concluded that there was indeed a bigger audience available in the summer; but even so, he determined, a large portion of the seasonal swings in box-office revenue comes from the fact that the biggest crowd-pleasers ( ) are reliably released on the same handful of weekends each year. In the five decades leading up to “Jaws,” the year’s top-grossing movie was released in the summer only 20 percent of the time. In the decades since, the figure shot up to 63 percent. In the last decade, it has been 80 percent.

Why do studios chase an ever-diminishing share of what is only a slightly larger market? It probably has to do with overconfidence. Economists tend to think that companies trade off between larger customer demand and competition, but Hollywood studios behave as if the competition doesn’t actually exist. Studios, Einav told me, probably have a systemic tendency to overestimate how well their own films will do relative to competitors’. “When a studio green-lights a big blockbuster movie, they’re expecting it to work,” said Peter Schlessel, the former president of Columbia Pictures, and currently the chief executive of FilmDistrict, an independent distribution company. “By definition they’re not expecting it to not work.” To some extent that overconfidence can be wielded strategically. Studios claim release dates years in advance in the hope that their rivals will cede the weekend, a tactic economists call deterring entry. Columbia Pictures, for example, is opening on May 2, 2014. That’s followed by “The Amazing Spider-Man 3” on June 10, 2016; and finally “The Amazing Spider-Man 4” on May 4, 2018.
210 2013-09-09 An emotional U.S. Open win for Rafael Nadal, who outlasted his new archrival, Novak Djokovic....
211 2013-09-09 A California judge on Monday dismissed two music executives from the wrongful death suit filed by Michael Jackson’s mother, but ruled that the case could continue against the concert company the two men work for, A.E.G. Live.

Katherine Jackson filed the suit in 2010, a year after her son’s death, arguing that A.E.G. Live and its executives were negligent in hiring and supervising Jackson’s personal physician, Conrad Murray, as the pop star prepared for a series of comeback concerts in London.

A.E.G. Live, a music company controlled by the billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, denies any wrongdoing, and contends that Jackson hired Dr. Murray. The doctor was convicted of involuntary manslaughter for giving Jackson a fatal dose of propofol, a powerful anesthetic the singer was using as a sleep aid.

The judge, Yvette M. Palazuelos, of Los Angeles Superior Court ruled on Monday that Mrs. Jackson’s lawyers had not shown enough evidence that Randy Phillips, chief executive of A.E.G. Live, and Paul Gongaware, another top executive of the company, could be held liable for Jackson’s death. But she ruled that a jury could still determine whether A.E.G. Live had hired the doctor.

The case has been at trial for more than four months. Lawyers for A.E.G. Live have said they intend to conclude their defense next week, and Mrs. Jackson’s lawyers are expected to then call several rebuttal witnesses. Jurors could begin deliberating by the end of the month.

Mrs. Jackson seeks damages equivalent to what her son might have earned had he lived. That amount has been disputed at trial, but according to witnesses called by her lawyers, it could be worth $1 billion or more.
212 2013-09-09 Monday’s selections from around the Web include a question about how a potential feature of the new iPhones, biometric unlocking, could be hacked. Plus, a profile of Gen. Keith Alexander as his not-so-secret N.S.A. programs are increasingly expo...
213 2013-09-09 Voters in New York share their views on gaps in income and housing prices in the city.
214 2013-09-09 Voters in New York share their views on stop-and-frisk policing.
215 2013-09-09 No. 2 Rafael Nadal defeated No. 1 Novak Djokovic, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1, to win his second United States Open singles title. Nadal and Djokovic played for the Open title for the third time in four years....
216 2013-09-09 Anthropologie’s canine busts appeal even to T’s design editor, Pilar Viladas, a self-proclaimed “not an animal person.”...
217 2013-09-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
218 2013-09-09 Celebrity Cruises, part of Royal Caribbean Cruises, Miami, selected Grand Central Marketing, New York, for a new assignment, to handle its experiential and public relations campaigns. Billings were not disclosed.

Donald Ciaramella, executive vice president for corporate communications at the Lippin Group, was promoted to a new post, president for corporate communications. He will continue to manage the agency’s New York office.

Alan Cohen, United States chief executive at OMD, New York, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of the Omnicom Group, is leaving to start an agency named Giant Spoon, with offices in New York and Los Angeles; the Omnicom Group will be a minority investor. Mr. Cohen is being joined at Giant Spoon by three colleagues: Trevor Guthrie, East Coast director at the Ignition Factory unit of OMD; Jonathan Haber, chief innovation officer at OMD; and Marc Simons, West Coast director at the Ignition Factory. Succeeding Mr. Cohen at OMD will be Monica Karo, who had been United States chief executive at another Omnicom Media Group agency, PHD. Robert Habeck, executive director for global accounts at the Omnicom Media Group, succeeds Ms. Karo at OMD.

Carrie L. Cullen, advertising director at HGTV Magazine, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation, was promoted to a new post, associate publisher for advertising.

Joost Dop joined the London office of Project WorldWide in a new post, chief executive for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. He had most recently been chief operating officer at Team HSBC, London, the consortium of WPP agencies that work for HSBC.

Pete Favat joined Deutsch L.A. as partner and chief creative officer. He assumes duties from Mark Hunter, chief creative officer, who left in March. Deutsch L.A. is located in the Marina del Rey section of Los Angeles and is part of the Deutsch unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Favat had been chief creative officer for the Boston operations of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas. At Arnold, Mr. Favat’s duties for Boston are being assumed by Wade Devers and Pete Johnson as creative lead partners. Mr. Devers, executive creative director, is adding the title of creative lead. Mr. Johnson is being promoted to executive creative director and creative lead from senior vice president and group creative director.

GolinHarris, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is opening an office in Milan, to be led by Franco Ricchiuti, as president, and Diego Ricchiuti, as managing director; they will continue their duties at Draftfcb Italy, part of the Draftfcb unit of Interpublic, where Franco Ricchiuti is president and Diego Ricchiuti is executive vice president and chief growth officer.

Janine Gordon Associates, New York, was acquired by Peppercomm, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. The agency will operate as JGAPeppercomm, a specialty unit of Peppercomm, to be led by Janine Gordon, with the title of president. The nine employees of Janine Gordon Associates will become employees of JGAPeppercomm.

Bob Ivins joined Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, in a new post, chief data officer. He had most recently been vice president for the Comcast Business Intelligence Group at Comcast.

Maria Lopez-Knowles joined Pulpo Media, Berkeley, Calif., in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had most recently been president at the GlobalHue Latino unit of GlobalHue.

Mekanism promoted two executives at its two offices. Michael Zlatoper, director for client strategy, who is based in the San Francisco office, becomes managing director, and Eric Zuncic, director for brand strategy, who is based in the New York office, becomes head of strategy.

Roman Paluta joined Solve, Minneapolis, in a new post, director for business development. He had most recently been vice president and brand director at Periscope, Minneapolis.

Pinnacle Entertainment, Spring Valley, Nev., named DiMassimo Goldstein as agency of record for two properties in Louisiana, L’Auberge Casino and Hotel Baton Rouge and L’Auberge Casino Resort in Lake Charles. Billings were not disclosed. The account had previously been handled by SK&G Advertising, Las Vegas.

Blair Robertson joined Cambridge BioMarketing, Cambridge, Mass., in a new post, chief strategy officer. He had been chief commercial officer at Cambrooke Inc., Ayer, Mass.

Mark Rosenthal joined the Katz Radio Group, New York, the advertising sales representation unit of the Katz Media Group, in a new post, chief executive. Mark Gray will remain president of the Katz Radio Group, reporting to Mr. Rosenthal. Mr. Rosenthal had most recently been chief executive at Current Media and also held senior posts at the Interpublic Group of Companies and MTV Networks. The Katz Media Group is part of the Clear Channel Media and Entertainment division of CC Media Holdings.

R/West, Portland, Ore., hired four employees in Portland and its New York office. They are Nicole Farin, public relations account coordinator; Jackie Hensel, media supervisor; Ryan Ramage, senior interactive developer; and Alison Schweickert, social media specialist.

Alan Sexton joined Burson-Marsteller, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP, as New York market leader and a member of the United States leadership team. He succeeds Tony Telloni, who left to join GolinHarris, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as managing director of the New York office. Mr. Sexton had been executive vice president for communications at the Global Strategy Group.

Siegelvision, New York, hired four executives. They are Irene Etzkorn, chief clarity officer; Nancy Frank, senior vice president; Christine Mauro, creative and digital strategy director; and Charlene Raytek, strategy director.

Rob Thorsen joined Big Spaceship, Brooklyn, in a new post, executive vice president for client services. He has worked agencies that include MRY and the New York offices of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, BBDO and Mother.

Two marketers that have advertised during previous Super Bowls said they would buy commercial time from Fox Broadcasting to advertise during Super Bowl XLVIII on Feb. 2, 2014. They are Hyundai Motor America, which is buying two 30-second spots, and the Dannon Company, which will buy a 30-second spot for its Dannon Oikos Greek yogurt. Super Bowl XLVIII will be the seventh in a row for Hyundai and the second for Dannon Oikos, which sat out this year after advertising last year. Hyundai and Dannon Oikos join a roster of Super Bowl XLVIII sponsors that also includes Anheuser-Busch, Chevrolet and Intuit; about 85 percent of the commercial time during the game is already sold, Fox recently said.
219 2013-09-09 The financial crisis was, among other things, a data failure. Now the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research is trying to use data to create an early warning system for risk....
220 2013-09-09 Secretary of State John Kerry suggested that Syria surrender its chemical munitions within one week.
221 2013-09-09 Try Combonoku — an original challenge by world puzzle champion Palmer Mebane....
222 2013-09-09 Small consulting firms feel the impact. Fifteen brands that have figured out how to use Vine. The Ramen Burger....
223 2013-09-09 A screening of “Dallas Buyers Club” seals the return of Matthew McConaughey....
224 2013-09-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
225 2013-09-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
226 2013-09-09 At a time when many people in business believe the number of products at Microsoft should be getting smaller, it is about to become a lot bigger....
227 2013-09-09 The moral obligation for the killing of four men on Saturday in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir lies on the shoulders of German Ambassador to India Michael Steiner, Mr. Pervez says....
228 2013-09-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
229 2013-09-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
230 2013-09-09 Opening Ceremony put an exclamation point on its first runway show at Fashion Week, while Zac Posen reminded those in attendance that he is a designer who wants to make a statement....
231 2013-09-09 Serena Williams won her 5th U.S. Open title, and her 17th Grand Slam title overall, one behind Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova for fourth on the career list.
232 2013-09-09 Part 10: The comedian talks about working with Netflix.
233 2013-09-09 Credit: Ben Solomon for The New York Times
234 2013-09-09 The internal investigation into the Jackson medical center, completed in June, was prompted by concerns raised by hospital employees with the Office of Special Counsel, which handles federal whistle-blower complaints. The whistle-blower who complained about the primary care unit, Dr. Phyllis Hollenbeck, is scheduled to testify on Monday.

Among the most serious accusations made by Dr. Hollenbeck were that nurse practitioners without proper federal certification were writing narcotics prescriptions, and that the hospital asked doctors to write prescriptions for patients they had not seen. The investigators corroborated those accusations.

The department’s investigators called on the hospital to “aggressively work to hire permanent full-time physicians” for the primary care unit. It also said the hospital should conduct an external quality-of-care review of all primary care at the medical center.

Although the internal investigation corroborated many of her accusations, Dr. Hollenbeck sent a scathing 35-page response to the report saying the department had failed to discipline any of the senior executives who allowed problems in the primary care unit to fester for years.

One senior official at the hospital, Dorothy White-Taylor, the associate director for patient care services, was removed from her position last year, but only because she was arrested on charges of fraudulently obtaining a prescription painkiller. Those charges have been dropped.

Ms. White-Taylor, who remains a department employee, received $61,250 in performance bonuses between 2003 and 2011, hospital records show.

“I do not believe that any of the people in leadership would tolerate going to a medical practice that ran like this — so once again, why do they think it is acceptable for the veterans?” Dr. Hollenbeck asked in her response.

In a statement, the Department of Veterans Affairs said that it welcomed the report’s recommendations and that executives at the Jackson medical center were working on a plan to put them into place.

The department also recently conducted a second internal investigation into accusations raised by a former employee at the same hospital that a radiologist had failed to examine numerous radiological images but nevertheless marked them as “read.”

The investigators failed to corroborate that accusation, the report says. It also did not find evidence supporting a related accusation by the same whistle-blower: that the radiologist’s incomplete reading of images led to missed diagnoses of serious, often fatal conditions, including cancers and neck fractures.

But the report said that an independent review of 58 cases handled by the radiologist found that other practitioners might or would have handled 31 of those cases differently. Of those 31 cases, 8 were identified as having “moderate or high impact to patients.” The investigators recommended that the hospital review those cases more closely and notify patients as appropriate.

The department’s investigation additionally recommended that an external group review a broader cross section of the radiologist’s cases between 2003 and 2007 to determine whether his error rate was high.

The investigators also said there was no evidence that hospital management tried to protect the radiologist when questions arose about him during a civil suit alleging gender and racial discrimination by the hospital.

In that lawsuit, other doctors in the radiology department submitted evidence alleging that between 2005 and 2007, the radiologist misread dozens of images that involved cancers or broken bones. The plaintiffs, all women, won their lawsuit in 2010.

Dr. Charles Sherwood, the whistle-blower who raised concerns about the radiologist, called the internal investigation “smoke and mirrors” in his response sent to the Office of Special Counsel.

In that response, Dr. Sherwood, a retired ophthalmologist who was active in the Jackson hospital’s union, said the investigators’ conclusion that the radiologist had spent enough time reviewing images was based on “spurious” data. Dr. Sherwood called on the hospital to review all of the radiologist’s cases, not just a portion.

The radiologist in question has left the veterans hospital, and Dr. Sherwood says the department seems to be much better managed now. But he asserts that the Department of Veterans Affairs’ unwillingness to find fault with radiological practices a few years ago is motivated by the desire to avoid malpractice suits.

“The V.A.’s response is so well contrived to avoid the obvious ‘intentional medical negligence’ and culpability of its most senior management officials that I am now cynical about the culture and collective moral and ethical compass of the agency,” Dr. Sherwood wrote in his response.

The complaints filed by Dr. Hollenbeck and Dr. Sherwood were among more than five whistle-blower complaints filed with the Office of Special Counsel about the Jackson hospital in recent years — a higher number than usual, the office has said.

The Office of Special Counsel is now incorporating the Department of Veterans Affairs reports with the responses from Dr. Hollenbeck and Dr. Sherwood into a letter that will be sent to the White House, possibly in the coming week.
235 2013-09-09 “Good beardsmanship builds fraternity, camaraderie and friendship,” Olsen said in an e-mail. “My unscientific observation: The Red Sox’ record improves with the length of Dustin Pedroia’s beard.”

The Red Sox’ fun with facial follicles started innocently enough when Napoli and outfielder Jonny Gomes grew beards during spring training. It became something more than a fad when Pedroia, a second baseman and one of the team’s most popular players, joined Napoli and Gomes in taking a sabbatical from shaving cream.

There was suddenly the sense around the clubhouse that beards were not merely a fashion accessory but a way to build stronger bonds after the Red Sox’ struggles last season, when they lost 93 games, finished last in the A.L. East and bid adieu to Manager Bobby Valentine.

Valentine was replaced by Farrell, who was part of the Red Sox’ coaching staff when they won the World Series in 2007. Farrell took the job with an understanding of Boston’s unique clubhouse dynamics — as a team that had a carefree spirit. That was most apparent in 2004, when a band of self-described “idiots” won their first World Series in 86 years.

Designated hitter David Ortiz, who played a starring role in 2004, has cited the similarities between that the team and the current one: the same go-for-broke approach, cohesive attitude and rebellious streak. If the Red Sox adopted “Cowboy Up” as a nonsensical catchphrase to sum up their bizarre brotherhood in those years, the franchise’s latest iteration treasures its assortment of pointy beards.

“It just sort of happened,” pitcher Clay Buchholz said after Sunday’s 4-3 loss. “We’ve got a good group of guys here. Guys who are pulling for each other.”

Max Baehr, a Red Sox fan from Brooklyn, is a member of the Gotham City Beard Alliance, a New York group that aims to “promote tolerance and acceptance of all facial hair.” Beards, Baehr said in telephone interview, are a tremendous way for co-workers to build rapport, at least in part because they require commitment. Baehr, 27, said he put up with years of “weird looks from young mothers” and unmitigated jaw sweating before he finally shaved in 2007. He now has a handlebar mustache.

As far as the Red Sox go, Baehr surmised that the players’ beards were a sign of solidarity and a way to further separate themselves from the Yankees, their clean-cut division rival. The Yankees, of course, have long barred their employees from growing facial hair. The Red Sox encourage it.

“It’s a visual signal, more to each other than to anyone else,” Baehr said. “It’s the idea that they’re having a lot of fun and support each other.”

Athletes with facial hair is not a new phenomenon. Hockey players have long championed the beard as a postseason superstition. Mustaches have made a handful of cameos in baseball, most notably with the 1972 Oakland Athletics, who became known as the Mustache Gang. Beards, though, have never had much staying power.

Allan Peterkin, a physician and the author of “One Thousand Beards: A Cultural History of Facial Hair,” said the dearth of bearded ballplayers was a reflection of cultural standards throughout the 20th century. The clean-shaven look was more or less mandatory for American men, Peterkin said, and for baseball players in particular, who were considered “icons of all-American boyishness.” Many teams, like the Yankees and the Cincinnati Reds, imposed beard bans.

In fact, Peterkin said, the last “really bushy era” was the second half of the 19th century, when everyone from British nobility to Confederate generals grew mutton-chop sideburns and beards with their own weather patterns. They were celebrated as a symbol of masculinity, Peterkin said.

The beard’s popularity waned, though, as fads usually do, and facial hair was eventually co-opted by the disenfranchised — by beatniks in the 1950s and hippies in the ’60s. It was not until the 1990s that mainstream society discovered the goatee, which worked as a sort of gateway drug for facial-hair enthusiasts.

“It opened up a whole new era of permissiveness,” Peterkin said. “It used to be these marginalized pockets. Now, college kids are growing everything under the sun.”

Miller, the pitcher, was actually ahead of the curve when he decided to grow a beard as he joined the Red Sox for the 2011 season.

“It was the first organization that didn’t really have a facial hair rule,” Miller said. “It was just a chance to not have to shave for a while. Trust me, I don’t think I was the one who set the trend or anything.”

Daniel Mitchell, the president of the Gotham City Beard Alliance, lauded the Red Sox’ effort but said the team’s beards, as a whole, were substandard.

“Their beards are not great,” Mitchell said, “and I’m not just saying that because I hate the Red Sox. Some of these guys look like they can’t even grow facial hair.”

It is true that some of the players’ beards are thicker and lusher than others. Will Middlebrooks, for example, whose beard is more wheat stalk than Brillo Pad, would not have fared particularly well over the weekend at the Coney Island Beard and Moustache Competition, where Mitchell placed third.

The judging at these contests is typically based on categories like color, thickness, style and overall appearance, Mitchell said, though it sometimes depends where the competition is being held. “Some of the Ohio guys will use a flashlight to see how dense the beard is,” Mitchell said. “There’s also the pencil test: does it stick?”

For the Red Sox, none of the aesthetics matter all that much. They just want to keep winning, beards and all.
236 2013-09-09 Only about 50,000 Republicans are expected to vote in Tuesday’s primary, and polling has been minimal, making the race hard to predict. Mr. Lhota, who most recently worked as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, is favored by many to win, but he has been outspent by Mr. Catsimatidis, who is self-financing his campaign.

Mr. Catsimatidis has been relentless in attacking Mr. Lhota with television commercials and mailings, and he ventured into provocative territory in the debate, criticizing Mr. Lhota for communication problems among first responders on Sept. 11 and the city’s decision to locate its emergency operations headquarters at the World Trade Center.

Mr. Lhota said he “got the City of New York back up and running” after the terrorist attacks, and responded firmly when he was questioned on the subject.

“I stand by everything I have ever done,” he said.

Mr. Lhota criticized Mr. Catsimatidis for campaign contributions two decades ago to Mayor David N. Dinkins, a Democrat whom Mr. Giuliani defeated in 1993. Mr. Catsimatidis responded by noting that Mr. Giuliani’s 2008 presidential campaign still owed him money: $210,000, according to his campaign, for using his 727 as a campaign plane.

Mr. Catsimatidis is known for his candor and stream-of-consciousness campaigning, and was asked to elaborate on his comment in the last televised debate that if his son were stopped and frisked by the police, he would ask him if he had been “dressed funny.”

“Well, you know, if he had his pants half down with his underwear showing, if he had his hat turned backwards,” Mr. Catsimatidis said. He later insisted that he had a “love factor with the minorities,” adding, “They all give me hugs.”

The back-and-forth offered reminders of how different Mr. Lhota and Mr. Catsimatidis are from many Republican officeholders across the country. Mr. Lhota described himself as a “Brooklyn Republican,” who supports same-sex marriage and abortion rights, but he said that although he supports legalizing marijuana, he would not lobby the State Legislature to take that step.

Mr. Catsimatidis described himself as a “Republican with a heart.” He contrasted himself with Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican vice-presidential nominee last year, saying that he, unlike Mr. Ryan, was concerned about people over 65.

The candidates split over whether the United States should take military action against Syria. Mr. Lhota said yes; Mr. Catsimatidis said no, and added, “Any side that we pick in Syria, both sides are against us, so why make a move right now?”

Both men professed to love animals after Mr. Lhota was questioned about his much-publicized declaration, made after part of the subway system was briefly shut down last month to protect two lost kittens, that he would not support stopping transit service for kitten safety.

“I’m not the anti-kitten candidate,” Mr. Lhota said Sunday, adding, “We have thousands of cats — literally thousands of cats — that are in the subway system every single day, day and night, scurrying across the tracks, and they don’t get killed.”

“I never said I wanted to kill a cat,” Mr. Lhota insisted.

Mr. Catsimatidis seized the opportunity to differentiate himself, saying, “I love animals, I love cats, I love dogs.” He said that Mr. Lhota’s stance against the kittens reflected his “inner emotions.”

Before and after the debate, Mr. Lhota campaigned with Mr. Giuliani, who argued that Mr. Lhota was best suited to follow in his and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s footsteps. Clasping hands with his former deputy, Mr. Giuliani declared Mr. Lhota the city’s “only hope” against what he deemed “career Democratic politicians.”

It was not long before the topic of 9/11 came up. “When I got out of my van and arrived at ground zero, the first person I saw was Joe Lhota,” Mr. Giuliani said, recalling Mr. Lhota as calm.

“I looked in Joe Lhota’s eyes,” Mr. Giuliani recalled. “I saw eyes of steel.”
237 2013-09-09 Earlier this year the French marveled when Mr. Hollande, inexperienced in foreign policy, weighed down by economic woes and often seen as vacillating, executed a swift and successful military strike in Mali. They rewarded him with an increase, though fleeting, in his usually dismal approval ratings.

This time around, so far at least, he has not received even that brief benefit.

Mr. Hollande is facing an avalanche of sometimes contradictory criticism from left and right: that he is acting rashly in committing France to military action; that he is being too timid in awaiting the go-ahead from the United States and the United Nations; that he needs to heed public and parliamentary opinion and that he needs to assert the traditionally broad powers of the French president to employ the armed forces without parliamentary approval.

Perhaps most of all, he is being criticized for failing a basic test of French politics — protecting the country’s pride. Having quickly agreed to join in a military action, France is now forced to wait on the sidelines while Congress debates whether to give its approval. Mr. Hollande’s critics say he looks like a lackey.

Even some who have endorsed a military strike have taken Mr. Hollande to task for his handling of the issue. A front-page editorial in Le Figaro by Paul-Henri du Limbert said that no one could criticize Mr. Hollande for wanting to face down barbarity, but nonetheless his strategy left something to be desired. The president, he said, had somehow managed to “throw a spotlight on his own powerlessness.”

“It is a singular situation,” Mr. du Limbert concluded. “but no one can expect that France will come out of it looking stronger. “

To some degree, Mr. Hollande’s decision to stand with the United States and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain in calling for a military strike against Syria to “punish” the Assad government for a chemical weapons attack is well in line with French tradition.

French troops were gassed in World War I and France has been long been active in trying to ban such weapons. Mr. Hollande’s Socialist Party is generally sympathetic to humanitarian intervention in the case of atrocities.

Under President Nicolas Sarkozy, Mr. Hollande’s predecessor, France sought closer ties with Syria, and invited President Bashar al-Assad to Bastille Day celebrations at the Élysée Palace. As a result a number of business agreements were forged between the two countries, most of which have dissolved since the violence erupted.

France has other reasons to care about what happens in Syria, including protecting neighboring Lebanon, a former French mandate. It is also being pressed by allies including Saudi Arabia to see the conflict in Syria as part of a broader proxy fight over Iran. Mr. Kerry said Sunday that he had received assurances of Saudi support for a strike on Syria.

But for Mr. Hollande, as for Mr. Obama and Mr. Cameron, almost nothing on this issue has unfolded smoothly or quickly.

Under pressure to win more support from other European countries, Mr. Hollande has now said any action should await the completion of a report by United Nations weapons inspectors on the apparent gas attacks, which took place near Damascus last month and according to American intelligence reports killed more than 1,400 people. When he succumbed to pressure to hold a debate on the matter in Parliament, opponents across the ideological spectrum brought up many of the same concerns being discussed in Britain and the United States.

“There was a contagion effect from what was going on in the U.S.,” said Hubert Védrine, a former French former minister who is member of Mr. Hollande’s party. “And people became very aware that Syria is not Mali. And suddenly there were some very difficult questions being discussed. Can we do it? Is it legitimate to do it? Will it achieve anything?”

Mr. Hollande’s supporters say he could hardly have anticipated this turn of events, especially Mr. Obama’s decision to seek legislative approval.

“What we have seen in recent years is American presidents trying to get more powers for themselves,” said one former adviser to Mr. Sarkozy, who declined to be named because he did not want to look like he was meddling in Mr. Hollande’s affairs. “So, I think it natural that it surprised Hollande that Obama would do something like that.”

Nonetheless, Mr. Hollande now faces a Parliament empowered by public opinion, with some members, including his own supporters, still calling for a vote on the issue. Some have suggested that polling the Parliament could even present Mr. Hollande with a deft way of reasserting France’s independence.

Noël Mamère, a prominent member of the Green Party who supports Mr. Hollande’s stance, said he wanted the French Parliament to hold a vote on the same timetable as the United States Congress.

“I think that is a way to show that we are deciding on our own,” he said.
238 2013-09-09 Revis’s overriding concern was the condition of his left knee, which appeared to hold up very well. He was playing for the first time since he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in that knee Sept. 23, in a road game against the Miami Dolphins. He was dealt to the Buccaneers on April 21 after the Jets decided not make the financial commitment it would take to retain him beyond this season.

Revis, 28, agreed to a new six-year contract worth $96 million in joining Tampa Bay. Both sides accepted the risk involved in his recovery since none of the money was guaranteed. Revis did not compete in any preseason games for the Buccaneers, and he was limited in practice.

Revis said he did not know how many snaps he played. Suffice it to say it was far less than his usual heavy workload. He was credited with one tackle and two passes defended.

“I was fine,” he said. “If I felt in any way uncomfortable, I probably wouldn’t have played.”

Given the circumstances leading to Revis’s debut, Tampa Bay Coach Greg Schiano was not surprised that fatigue became a factor for him.

“He got gassed out there,” Schiano said. “It was a warm day on FieldTurf.”

Quarterback Josh Freeman said the Buccaneers accepted that Revis’s comeback would be a process.

“Darrelle is working his way back, and I think the way they’re going about it is handling it on his time,” Freeman said. “You don’t want to throw him back in. You don’t want to put too much on him. You want to make sure that, from a physical standpoint, he’s got his knee back where it needs to be.”

Dashon Goldson, a veteran safety who was another off-season acquisition by the Buccaneers as they looked to bolster a passing defense that last season was last in the league, noted the Jets’ unwillingness to challenge Revis. Santonio Holmes, recovering from a Lisfranc injury to his left foot, never tested him with a fly pattern.

“Guys didn’t want to try him,” Goldson said. “That’s a good sign. Guys know what he can do.”

Jets Coach Rex Ryan used to lavish the highest praise on Revis, often describing him as the game’s finest cornerback. Teammates, noting how often Revis held down the elite wide receivers the Jets faced, used to joke that the most skilled opponents got lost on Revis Island.

But, for one day at least, the Jets could take solace in the player they drafted when they secured the 13th pick from Tampa Bay as part of the Revis deal. Sheldon Richardson, a defensive end from Missouri, shared the team lead with seven total tackles to go with half a sack and a quarterback hurry.

“There’s no need to put pressure on yourself when you’ve been playing football since you were 5 years old,” said Richardson, displaying the same confidence Revis once brought to the Jets.
239 2013-09-09 Mr. Tyrangiel’s pursuit of Mr. Paulson began a year ago, when he took Mr. Paulson to lunch at BLT Steak. “I told him that the first draft of history closes after five years and this was an opportunity to be clear about why he did what he did and discuss the kind of emotions that he went through,” Mr. Tyrangiel said.

“I think that we have done a good job at the magazine of building up credibility, but we wanted to stretch that credibility into other forms of media,” he added.

Mr. Paulson wrote a book about the crisis in 2010, “On the Brink,” that was recently updated and reissued with a new prologue. He said he was initially doubtful about the film project.

“I had no intention of doing a documentary when Josh approached us and was very hesitant, but he was a good salesman,” he said. “I have been concerned that the passage of time would reduce the sense of urgency around reform.”

Eventually, though, he became convinced that a film might convey the story of that period in new and different ways.

Mr. Paulson said that other than his monotone speaking voice, which he makes fun of in the documentary, he was happy with Mr. Berlinger’s finished product. “I believe it does what it set out to do,” he said.

The film, which includes extensive interviews with Mr. Paulson’s wife, Wendy, will do little to satisfy Mr. Paulson’s critics, who believe that he propped up Wall Street at the expense of Main Street.

He did end up persuading one skeptic, Mr. Berlinger, the director, that the extraordinary measures he took were necessary.

“My last movie was ‘Crude,’ ” which was not exactly a pro-business movie,” said Mr. Berlinger, referring to his 2009 documentary about the battle over industrial pollution in the Amazon jungles. “I was very skeptical, but I came to believe that Hank was a national hero for his handling of the crisis.”

Mr. Berlinger said he was taken by the fact that Mr. Paulson got Congress to act not once, but twice, to save the financial system.

Mr. Tyrangiel said the deal with Netflix for the film was not indicative of a whole new line of business for Businessweek, but “the attention economy is so competitive and an anniversary has a way of focusing the mind.”

“By having Hank, who is an authentic guy, look into the camera and tell his story, we brought something significant to the anniversary,” he added.

The film’s premiere will be accompanied by an issue of the magazine that focuses exclusively on the anniversary. Daniel L. Doctoroff, the chief executive of Bloomberg, said the film “is not going to move the needle on the economics of the magazine, but we had a broader purpose.” He added, “The best way to tell a story is not the way that you have always told it and the film, and the partnership with Netflix, will help broaden our audience with business and financial influencers.”

In the film, Mr. Paulson acknowledges that some of the fixes, including further consolidation in the banking industry and the growth of government as the primary insurer of mortgages, may sow the seeds of the next crisis, which he sees as “unavoidable” in a free market. But the documentary did give Mr. Paulson the opportunity to strike back at the Wall Street banks that took bailout money, failed to make loans, but paid their leaders huge bonuses.

Near the end of the film, he said he was “infuriated” by the bonuses.

“Forgetting about whether they were legally entitled to them,” he said, “it just was such a graceless lack of self-awareness.”
240 2013-09-09 I object to how this essay characterizes the political environment at Yale-N.U.S. College, which opened last month in Singapore as a joint venture between Yale and the National University of Singapore.

The guiding principle has been that a campus life full of critical discussion and debate is a central part of the educational experience. Students are already actively engaged in discussion of controversial topics inside the classroom and throughout the campus. They are also free to join off-campus branches of political parties. They may gather freely within the college facilities to hear speakers and express views openly. Under Singaporean law, demonstrations in public outdoor spaces do require advance notice and a special permit.

Paradoxically, Mr. Sleeper says he supports cooperating with authoritarian regimes on technical and professional education, but would have us restrict undergraduate liberal education to societies meeting his political standards. How does he expect those countries to become more open if their students are denied the benefits of a liberal education and the attendant discussion of political issues on campus?

While Mr. Sleeper seems to want to keep a liberal education from any supposed contamination by contact with different political regimes, progress actually depends on encounters with the unfamiliar, which are at the heart of a liberal education.

The writer is president and a professor of humanities at Yale-N.U.S. College.
241 2013-09-09 Perhaps most striking is the vastly increased attention the mainstream news media have given the subject this year, with few exceptions. Television channels have dug up and broadcast previously unseen film footage from the years of the ousted socialist president, Salvador Allende; the coup; and the repression that followed. Special programs about dictatorship, dramatic series based on real events and extensive interviews have broken through previous self-imposed limits on what television channels would show or say.

“The wall of disinformation and lies in the media, especially on TV, has been knocked down,” said Alicia Lira, whose husband, Felipe Rivera, was one of four men killed by a secret intelligence agency in reprisal for an ambush against General Pinochet in 1986. “No one can be silenced anymore.”

In late August, a televised confrontation between a man who was orphaned at 2 when his parents were killed in northern Chile shortly after the coup and the military officer, now retired, who delivered him to a convent afterward led to the resignation of the officer from his current post as director of the country’s Electoral Service. The story had been told before, but the politically charged atmosphere and the fact that it was televised prompted his resignation.

Political figures from different parts of the spectrum have expressed regrets for their actions in 1973. Some Socialist politicians have apologized for contributing to Chile’s political polarization before the coup; Senator Hernán Larraín, who was one of General Pinochet’s most loyal supporters, apologized “for what I may have done or failed to do.”

Even so, the conservative parties now governing Chile, whose leaders flourished during the Pinochet years, remain reluctant to call his rule a dictatorship, and objected when the new municipal council of the Providencia district of Santiago voted that a street the Pinochet government had renamed 11 de Septiembre should be restored to its original name, Nueva Providencia.

Most notably, the National Association of Judges apologized for the failure by the courts, and particularly the Supreme Court, to protect victims of abuse. Of the thousands of petitions filed with the courts asking that the government be ordered to release or account for abducted opponents of the Pinochet government, all but one were rejected.

President Sebastián Piñera, a right-wing billionaire who says he voted against General Pinochet in a 1988 plebiscite on his continued rule, weighed in as well, saying that the courts should have “done much more” and that the news media “could have investigated the human rights situation more rigorously, more in-depth, instead of sticking to the military government’s official version.”

Mr. Piñera called on anyone with information on what happened to the disappeared to come forward. But the army insists it has no more information to provide, and judges who investigate human rights violations from the Pinochet era usually run into a wall when they try to obtain information from the military.

“Many people thought that time would quiet things down, but it’s been the other way around,” said Pamela Pereira, a human rights lawyer. “As more time goes by, the truth of what happened and the full dimension of the violence becomes even clearer, and the country’s institutions are forced to assume their responsibility.” Ms. Pereira’s father disappeared in 1973, when she was 20; his remains were identified in 2010.
242 2013-09-09 Apple declined to comment on the new products. But analysts expect the higher-priced model to be an improvement over the current iPhone, including a faster processor and better camera flash, as well as a fingerprint sensor for security.

The second iPhone is expected to be a cheaper version of the soon-to-be-outdated iPhone 5, coming in a variety of colors, with a plastic case instead of aluminum. Analysts expect the full price of the lower-cost iPhone to be $300 to $400, positioning it as a midtier product.

Apple has been enormously successful, with the iPhone driving most of its revenue. In the second quarter, the company took 53 percent of the profit in the global smartphone market, with Samsung Electronics, which uses Google Android software to run its smartphones, taking the rest, according to a survey by Canaccord Genuity, an investment bank.

But both Apple and Samsung face a common enemy: the tide of manufacturers that produce dirt-cheap Android phones. While they make all the profits, Apple and Samsung have seen their combined share of the worldwide smartphone market drop to 43 percent in the second quarter from 49 percent a year earlier. The makers of cheaper phones — including Huawei, Yulong and ZTE of China, and Micromax and Karbonn of India — are raking in sales in emerging markets where high-end smartphones are not popular.

“We’ve had several indications from the handset market that vendors are in real trouble,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst for Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm. “The biggest threat to all the companies seems to be the low-end Androids.”

In terms of sales, smartphones surpassed traditional flip phones this year. There are a few markets remaining where traditional cellphones are still outselling the smartphone, including India, Brazil and Russia. Data from Qualcomm suggests that Latin America, China and India are adding substantially higher numbers of smartphone subscriptions than North America, Japan, Korea and Europe.

China, with its huge population, is an attractive target for Apple. But Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said recently in a call with investors that the company was puzzled about why sales of its products were struggling in China. Sales there fell 4 percent in the second quarter compared with the same quarter last year. And Apple’s sales in Hong Kong were down about 20 percent.

A cheaper iPhone could help it gain traction in China, depending on its cost.

Analysts said the introduction of the cheaper iPhone would probably coincide with an expected partnership deal with China Mobile, which has about 700 million subscribers — about seven times as many as Verizon Wireless. Capturing even a small percentage of China Mobile customers would translate to tens of millions more iPhone sales.

Apple already sells its phones in China through China Telecom, a major network operator, but it slipped into sixth place among smartphone makers there in the second quarter, with a share of only 4.8 percent, according to Canalys, a research firm. Over all, China is the largest smartphone market in the world, accounting for one-third of worldwide shipments of smartphones in the second quarter; the United States is in second place, accounting for about 14 percent of shipments in the same period, according to Canalys.

Despite Apple’s efforts to keep its plans secret, clues about the new iPhones leaked out. China Telecom briefly posted a message last week on a blog platform soliciting early orders for the new devices. It identified the high-end model as the iPhone 5S, and the lower-cost one as the iPhone 5C. The post was later removed. A spokesman for China Telecom declined to comment, citing nondisclosure agreements.

In Japan, where Apple is much stronger but faces a renewed challenge from domestic smartphone makers like Sony, the company has struck a deal to sell the iPhone with the country’s biggest mobile phone carrier, NTT Docomo, two people briefed on the situation said Friday. Docomo has 60 million customers, but it has been losing market share to Japan’s other two main mobile operators, SoftBank and KDDI, which operates under the brand name au. Both have been marketing Apple’s phones aggressively, giving Apple a 40 percent share of smartphone sales in the first quarter, according to IDC, a research firm.

Historically, so that it can protect the quality of its products as well as profit margins, Apple has refused to make cheaper products just to get more customers. Therefore, a lower-cost iPhone would most likely be positioned as a midtier product, similar to the approach Apple took with the iPad Mini. At $330, the iPad Mini is cheaper than the bigger, $500 iPad, but not as affordable as the smaller Android tablets offered by Google and Amazon, which cost from $160 to $230.

Realistically, a lower-cost iPhone will be $300 to $400 at full price, Mr. Kuittinen, the Alekstra analyst, said, significantly less than the current iPhone, which costs $650. Overseas, many phone carriers charge full price because they do not subsidize the upfront cost of a smartphone the way carriers do in the United States. And while a lower-cost iPhone would drive up Apple’s revenue, it would probably not be a blockbuster hit in economically disadvantaged markets, Mr. Kuittinen said.

“Nobody is saying Apple should have a $130 iPhone,” he said, “but if they price this iPhone 5C at $400 or above, it’s just not going to be effective in countries like India, China or even Brazil.”

Still, even if the price is fairly high, a cheaper iPhone should appeal to a subset of people in developing countries who flaunt gadgets as status symbols, like jewelry. People who were on the fence about buying an iPhone might pay a little extra just to be able to show off, Mr. Sharma, the telecom analyst, said. “Consumers are willing to shell out money to own a brand,” he said. “I think a $300 price gives them a chance to own it.”
243 2013-09-09 The opposition has claimed it would have won a majority of seats had the election been fair, but its legal challenges were rejected. About 20,000 opposition supporters gathered Saturday in Phnom Penh, the capital, to cheer their leaders’ demands for an investigation of what their leaders said was vote tampering and widespread voter disenfranchisement.

“As long as the ruling party does not accept the truth to be exposed, and does not accept to render justice to the Cambodian people through voting, we will not participate in any form of government or any form of arrangement with the ruling party, because it is a matter of principle,” Mr. Sam Rainsy said Sunday. “We’re never going to compromise our principles.”

He suggested that if Mr. Hun Sen’s party proceeded to rule with a single-party Parliament and no investigation of the election results, it would be rejected by the Cambodian people and other countries, so that “Cambodia will be really headed for trouble, for instability.”

It was not clear how long a boycott of Parliament would last. A deputy opposition leader, Kem Sokha, said it would apply to the opening day of the new National Assembly, while Mr. Sam Rainsy’s remarks implied that it would be open-ended.

After previous elections, opposition members have boycotted initial assembly sessions and later been admitted into the body. But a boycott could mean the opposition loses out on parliamentary leadership positions like committee chairmanships.

While the opposition previously seemed to hope it could invalidate some of the election results, it now may be seeking a show of strength mostly to press Mr. Hun Sen’s party to give up some of the leadership positions.

David Chandler, a leading Cambodia scholar, said it would be wise for the opposition lawmakers to simply take up the 55 seats they won rather than risk losing their say in the government.

“I can sympathize with the C.N.R.P., but I think they’re being very unrealistic in their demands for power,” he said.
244 2013-09-09 Microsoft already has a video game console, the No. 2 Internet search engine, a major Web portal, an enormous corporate software business, an operating system for personal computers, cloud computing services and applications software. The company is a mash-up of the businesses in which competitors like Google, Yahoo, Oracle, Apple and Nintendo specialize, putting an enormous burden on the company’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, who has announced plans to retire within the next 12 months.

Microsoft’s complexity will make its search for a replacement for Mr. Ballmer more challenging, since the job will require a person with an uncommon array of skills, including fluency in corporate and consumer markets, hardware, software and Internet services. Mr. Ballmer recently announced a sweeping reorganization of the company intended to improve its agility, though its huge portfolio of products will remain intact.

“It makes it harder to manage, which is a challenge for Microsoft no matter who the successor is,” said Mr. Yoffie. Long before Mr. Ballmer announced his retirement, he and Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman and co-founder, had both quietly acknowledged that identifying a new leader for Microsoft would be hard. A person who spoke to Mr. Gates several years ago on the subject of succession recalls the Microsoft chairman saying he would support replacing Mr. Ballmer if he could think of someone who could do a better job.

Similarly, another person said Mr. Ballmer himself said a few years ago he would step aside if a better chief executive could be found. These people spoke on the condition that they not be named because the conversations were private.

Larry Cohen, a spokesman for Mr. Gates, did not respond to a request for comment. Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft, also declined to comment.

In 2000, when Microsoft’s business was simpler than it is now, Thomas Penfield Jackson, a federal judge, ruled that because of violations of antitrust law, Microsoft should be split into two companies — one focused on Windows and the other on applications. An appeals court later threw out the breakup order after deciding Judge Jackson had tainted the legal proceedings by making comments to the press about the case.

Pundits, business professors and alumni of Microsoft have spent years pondering whether, in hindsight, such a breakup might have given the resulting “Baby Bills” the agility to compete better. Several of Microsoft’s businesses would be substantial stand-alone companies, with Windows accounting for $19.2 billion in revenue for the fiscal year ending in June, and its business division, dominated by its Office applications, at $24.7 billion. A third business, servers and tools, had revenue of $20.3 billion in the period — compared with the $27.5 billion in software revenue at Oracle in its latest financial year ending in May.

One argument in favor of such a situation is what some people inside Microsoft call the “strategy tax,” a tendency for the company’s product groups to make decisions that favor other Microsoft products, whether they’re the best decisions or not.

An oft-cited example of this is the reluctance of the Office applications group to release complete versions of Word, Excel and other software for iPads and Android devices. That decision, in theory, could help Microsoft tablets that run Windows, though it hasn’t yet.

Vivek Wadhwa, a fellow at Stanford Law School, has advocated for a Microsoft breakup because he doesn’t think its consumer and corporate businesses can coexist harmoniously. “The strategy for each of those needs to be completely different,” he said. “Because it’s trying to protect its enterprise market, it can’t act freely in the consumer market.”

While there are many successful conglomerates, including General Electric and Berkshire Hathaway, there are fewer that perform well in technology. I.B.M. is often held up as an example of a technology conglomerate that has adapted well to the times, in part by shedding its personal computer business nearly a decade ago. While it has many products and services, Mr. Wadhwa said, the company’s focus on corporate customers has made it easier to manage.

An even broader conglomerate is Samsung, which is in areas as varied as electronics, life insurance and petrochemicals. But each of those businesses is run with a high degree of independence from the others. The company supplies screens and semiconductors for Apple, even though Apple is the main rival to Samsung’s mobile phone business.

Investors have clamored for Microsoft to get rid of its money-losing or less profitable businesses, seeing them as a drag on the stock price. Richard Sherlund, a longtime Microsoft analyst at Nomura Securities, believes the Xbox video game business and Bing search engine are good candidates for spinoffs.

Mr. Sherlund has speculated that Microsoft could give Facebook, with which Microsoft has an existing partnership, control of Bing, in exchange for a share of revenue from the additional traffic it would drive to Facebook’s site. Mr. Sherlund estimates that Microsoft has accumulated losses of more than $17 billion in the search and online business.

Still, while it has sold off or spun out smaller businesses in the past — the travel site Expedia originated at the company in the late ’90s — Microsoft has shown no interest in jettisoning major products.

In its defense, Microsoft notes that its long line of products yields many synergies. Xbox uses a variation of the Windows operating system, while Bing provides search services that are tightly integrated with Windows, Xbox and the Windows Phone mobile operating system.

Further, it could be argued that Microsoft’s competitors are recognizing that, like Microsoft, they need to develop products in areas once considered outside their expertise. Google bought Motorola Mobility to help it get into the hardware business. Apple has been on a start-up acquisition binge to improve its online mapping service. And Amazon, once entirely focused on consumers, has become an important supplier of cloud services to businesses.

Even with those changes, Mr. Yoffie of Harvard said Microsoft’s big rivals are still more focused than it is. “I think the fundamental question for the next C.E.O. of Microsoft,” he said, “is, what is his vision of Microsoft?”
245 2013-09-09 In Mr. Barofsky’s tenure of a little over two years, the inspector general reports tracked fraud in the program and recommended how the government could protect taxpayers from losses. The reports also underscored Treasury’s lackluster efforts to help distressed homeowners and shed light on bailout specifics that the government did not seem eager to publicize.

A report on the $182 billion bailout of the American International Group, for example, was especially illuminating in describing the failure by the Federal Reserve Board to wrest concessions from the giant insurer’s trading partners on what they were owed by the company. As a result, these trading partners, which included foreign banks and United States investment banks, were repaid in full in the rescue, far more than they would have received had the insurer failed. The report irked government officials by calling the deal a “backdoor bailout” for the major banks on the other side of A.I.G.'s trades.

Mr. Barofsky’s eight years as a prosecutor in the Southern District of New York made him well suited to tackling the mortgage crisis and other financial malfeasance related to TARP. During his time as a prosecutor in New York, he headed the office’s mortgage fraud group and oversaw the Refco case, involving the collapse of a major commodities firm. Overseeing TARP in Washington, his office won convictions in significant mortgage fraud cases and investigated various improprieties growing out of the financial crisis, an approach others in Washington were more hesitant to take.

By joining a firm that takes on big banks, Mr. Barofsky appears to be taking a different tack from other regulators or top law enforcement officials who join firms that defend the same institutions they previously oversaw or policed. For example, in July, Robert Khuzami, the former director of enforcement for the Securities and Exchange Commission, joined Kirkland & Ellis, one of the nation’s biggest corporate law firms.

Jenner & Block, a firm founded in 1914 with offices in Los Angeles, New York and Washington, is perhaps best known for its report on the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy five years ago. In January 2009, Anton R. Valukas, the firm’s chairman, was appointed examiner in the bankruptcy by James M. Peck, the judge overseeing the case. Asked to investigate the causes of Lehman’s collapse, Mr. Valukas and his colleagues published a 2,200-page report just over a year later that was filled with revelations about the company’s questionable practices. The details disclosed in the report were the subject of Congressional hearings; Judge Peck called it “the most outstanding piece of work product ever produced by an examiner.”

Other notable cases handled by Jenner & Block include its representation of the bankruptcy trustee in the matter involving Sentinel Management Group, a cash management firm that froze customers’ redemptions and collapsed in 2007 with $100 million in liabilities. Jenner & Block sued Sentinel’s insiders and received a court order freezing most of their assets. The law firm has also sued the Bank of New York in the case, seeking more than $500 million in damages for aiding and abetting fraud by Sentinel executives.

Jenner & Block also won a record $431 million arbitration award in 2009 after suing Credit Suisse on behalf of STMicroelectronics, Europe’s largest chip maker and a client of the bank. Credit Suisse had promised to invest the chip maker’s money in safe securities but instead placed the company in far riskier instruments, STMicroelectronics contended. The arbitration panel agreed, but Credit Suisse contested the award in both the district court and the appeals court. Jenner & Block prevailed in both instances.

In an interview last week, Mr. Valukas said Mr. Barofsky would bring many skills to his new position. “He is a person of absolute integrity, which in this day and age is important,” Mr. Valukas said. “He is a skilled and accomplished trial lawyer and in terms of understanding the landscape in New York and Washington, he has enormous expertise for a number of our clients.”

Neither Mr. Barofsky nor the firm would disclose his compensation. But a person briefed on the negotiations said the annual figure was far less than the $5 million a year that Mr. Khuzami reportedly received when he left the S.E.C. for Kirkland & Ellis.

“Looking back on the financial crisis, one area where you’ve seen some degree of accountability is in civil litigation,” Mr. Barofsky said. “Jenner has helped bring transparency to some of the darkest corners of Wall Street.”
246 2013-09-09 President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who has denied that his government attacked civilians with chemical weapons on Aug. 21, reiterated that denial to the American people on Sunday morning via the television interviewer Charlie Rose.

“He denied that he had anything to do with the attack,” Mr. Rose said on the CBS program “Face the Nation,” hours after interviewing Mr. Assad at the presidential palace in Damascus. “He denied that he knew, in fact, that there was a chemical attack, notwithstanding what has been said and notwithstanding the videotape. He said there’s not evidence yet to make a conclusive judgment.”

No clips from Mr. Rose’s interview were released on Sunday. The interview, which was arranged in the last few days amid a Congressional debate about whether to authorize a limited military strike against Syria, will be broadcast on Monday by CBS and PBS, the same day that President Obama is scheduled to make his case for the strikes in interviews with anchors for six American networks.

CBS described Sunday’s interview with Mr. Assad as his first with an American television network since December 2011, about nine months into the Syrian uprising and civil war, when he spoke with Barbara Walters of ABC. By agreeing to speak to Mr. Rose, Mr. Assad all but assured that his remarks would receive widespread attention from the American news media. The columnist Jeffrey Goldberg commented on Twitter that Mr. Rose “just got the biggest get of the year.”

Mr. Rose previously interviewed Mr. Assad in 2006 and 2010 for “Charlie Rose,” which is broadcast on PBS stations. He and many other Western journalists have been lobbying Mr. Assad for an interview since the Syrian uprising started in early 2011.
247 2013-09-09 “This will determine whether the laws and regulations of the past — the pre-Internet age — will apply to the Internet’s future,” said Scott Cleland, the chairman of NetCompetition, a group sponsored by broadband companies, including Verizon. “It will determine the regulatory power and authority of the F.C.C. in the 21st century.”

Susan Crawford, a supporter of the F.C.C.’s position who is co-director of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard and a professor at Yeshiva University’s Cardozo School of Law, called the showdown “a moment of grandeur.”

“The question presented by the case is, does the U.S. government have any role to play when it comes to ensuring ubiquitous, open, world-class, interconnected, reasonably priced Internet access?” Ms. Crawford said. “Does the government have good reason to ensure that facility in America?”

European countries are similarly struggling with whether and how to regulate Internet service. The Netherlands has some wireless regulations in place, and France this year introduced strict anti-discrimination measures. But while European Union officials have voiced support for what is known as net neutrality, a recent proposal gives Internet providers great leeway. In December 2010 the F.C.C. issued its “Open Internet Order,” an 87-page set of instructions directing Internet service providers not to block or to unreasonably discriminate against any type of Internet traffic deemed not harmful to the system. The only exception to the open access principle is for “reasonable network management,” a loosely defined term that allows a company to do what it takes to keep its network up and running.

Internet service providers also were ordered to disclose how they manage their networks and how their systems perform — like how they handle congestion when a large portion of users are, for example, downloading high-definition video.

The order was necessary, the F.C.C. said in court papers, because “there were significant threats to openness, and thus to the engine that has driven investment in broadband facilities.” In the past, the F.C.C. said, “several broadband access providers had blocked or degraded service.” One was Comcast, which in 2008 was punished by the F.C.C. for blocking access by some of its users to the file-sharing service BitTorrent, which was often used for the unauthorized exchange of movies or music.

“Other providers have the technological capability and the economic incentive to engage in similar acts,” the commission said. “And with the majority of Americans having only two wireline broadband choices (many have only one), market discipline alone could not guarantee continued openness.” The F.C.C.’s rules generally are more strict for wireless carriers, because those networks are more susceptible to congestion.

In the Comcast case, the cable company appealed the F.C.C. ruling, and the D.C. federal appeals court — the same court hearing the Verizon case — said in 2010 that the agency had overstepped its bounds, failing to show that it had the authority to regulate an Internet service provider.

It is in fact far from easy for the F.C.C. to demonstrate that it has such authority. That is because in 2002 the commission, then led by Michael K. Powell, a Republican, voted to classify Internet service as an information service rather than a telecommunications service.

The difference meant that Internet providers were not subject to regulation like a telephone company. Instead, they were free of restrictions on rates and exempt from regulations that would require them to open their networks to allow competitors to offer lower-cost service over the same pipes.

The judge who wrote the Comcast decision, David S. Tatel, is one member of the three-judge panel that will hear Verizon’s appeal. Many industry experts view the two other judges as highly likely to take opposing sides, leaving Judge Tatel as the swing vote.

Verizon argues that the F.C.C.’s Open Internet Order should be struck down because it is arbitrary and capricious, and aims to prevent activity that is not taking place. It argues in its court filings that the F.C.C. has documented only four examples, over six years, of purported blocking of Internet content by service providers.

During those six years, the company said, “end users successfully accessed the Internet content, applications and services of their choice literally billions of times.”

More broadly, Verizon argues that the F.C.C., as in the Comcast case, “fails to identify any statutory authority for the rules.” And in fact, Verizon said, the F.C.C. order is so broad that it would give the commission the power “to regulate all sectors of the Internet economy without limit.”

The court is likely to take several months to issue its decision, lawyers involved in the case say — perhaps before the end of the year, but more likely in 2014. When the ruling comes, many people will be waiting. More than 400 organizations or individuals weighed in at the F.C.C. when the rules were being considered. More than 60 signed legal briefs supporting the F.C.C., while at least a dozen did so backing Verizon.
248 2013-09-10 The world’s largest maker of semiconductors just bid goodbye to the world of PCs and servers, and made a real bid for the cloud....
249 2013-09-10 Lawyers for Jon S. Corzine, the former New Jersey politician,  are contesting charges brought by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulated MF Global before its demise in 2011....
250 2013-09-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
251 2013-09-10 Tuesday’s selections from around the Web include reactions to Apple’s announcement of two new iPhones. Plus, the tale of a family that has been shunning all technology introduced after 1986....
252 2013-09-10 Apple Is Challenged to Innovate Its Flagship

Apple has grown too big for just one iPhone. It is releasing two new iPhones this month instead of just one, including a cheaper model aimed at less wealthy countries where new Apple phones haven’t saturated the market. Nick Bilton, technology columnist for The New York Times, examined some of the implications of the updates and changes coming to Apple’s flagship smartphone.
253 2013-09-10 A fingerprint reader and an improved camera are among the new features in Apple’s new iPhone 5S....
254 2013-09-10 Jill and Wayne Spencer of Indio, Calif., worked as line judges in more than 70 matches at the United States Open over more than two weeks, but when the finals came along this weekend, they watched from the hospital....
255 2013-09-10 In this lesson students will decide, through research and discussion, how the United States should respond to the use of chemical weapons in Syria, and then write a position paper or persuasive letter detailing their argument....
256 2013-09-10 The British wireless giant says it won’t tweak its $10 billion offer for Kabel Deutschland, even as Elliott Management builds a possible blocking stake. That’s sensible, the author contends....
257 2013-09-10 The New York Times answers your questions about Apple’s newest product announcements....
258 2013-09-10 While Congress was preoccupied with Syria on Tuesday, more than 100 businesses, including some of the nation’s largest companies, sent a letter to leaders of the House of Representatives reminding them not to forget about immigration....
259 2013-09-10 Nick Bilton, technology columnist for The Times, on how Apple is competing for smartphone sales in emerging markets in Brazil, Russia, India and China.
260 2013-09-10 Nick Bilton, technology columnist for The Times, on how Apple’s new iPhone may allow the company to compete with less expensive Google Android phones.
261 2013-09-10 Nick Bilton, technology columnist for The Times, on changes to Apple’s new mobile operating system.
262 2013-09-10 Apple introduced two new iPhones, including a lower-priced model that will be available in a variety of colors....
263 2013-09-10 Integrating Twitter and television. Managing technical and creative types. Restaurant sales decline. And why you need a nap!...
264 2013-09-10 When Chance turned 2 he became aggressive. He growled at other dogs and bared his teeth. He flattened puppies under his heavy paws. He chased children and cyclists, clamped down on their ankles and knocked them over. He even bit Tilly in a scuffle over my bed.

When I tired of apologizing for him, I hired a trainer. She told me his aggression was set off by fear. She said to keep him away from unfamiliar dogs and people, for their sake and his.

I fled when other dogs approached. If I was distracted and we crossed paths with another dog, I ordered Chance to sit and rewarded him with meaty treats if he stayed calm. Most days he preferred the fight. He hurled himself at the other dog, barely restrained by the leash. He barked furiously, drowning out my attempt to explain to the other dog’s owner, “Chance doesn’t like to socialize.”

I didn’t know when I adopted Chance that puppies need to interact with other dogs to learn social cues. A well-socialized dog employs a soft growl to tell another dog “you’re in my space.” A puppy who interacts with a variety of other dogs learns to roughhouse in a playful, rather than a threatening, way. Chance had Tilly for company and I mistakenly thought that was enough. I was depressed and in a bad marriage. Nothing got me off the couch. By the time I started taking better care of myself and walking the dogs every day, it was too late.

I divorced my first husband and the dogs took care of me. Chance made me feel safe in a large, empty house. Tilly shared my bed, resting her head on my ex-husband’s pillow. But I hated being the owner of a bad dog. I felt ashamed turning away someone whose dog wanted to play and telling a schoolchild she couldn’t pet Chance. I lived in constant fear of him attacking someone.

Yet in some ways, I am the perfect owner for Chance. An introvert, I identify with his desire to be left alone. I empathize with his feelings of jealousy. When Steve and I married and Tilly transferred her loyalty to him, lying at his feet instead of mine, I could hardly suppress my rage.

It’s easy to love a well-behaved dog. It’s harder to love Chance, with his bristly personality and tendency toward violence. Yet in the end, I measure the success of my relationship with Chance by its challenges, because if I can’t love him at his most imperfect what use is love?

A few years ago, an old yellow Lab got loose. The dog lunged at Chance, sinking his teeth into the soft flesh of his throat. He bit his head and tore at his face. The Lab foamed, reveling in the attack. I kept hold of Chance’s leash and screamed at the owner, but she was frozen. I didn’t see how Chance could survive multiple, vicious bites.

Finally, the owner pulled the Lab off by his hind legs. Chance whimpered. He hadn’t fought back. What saved him were the other dog’s teeth, so worn by age they were mostly ineffective. Chance’s teeth were sharp and he was young and strong. Why had he held back? Perhaps he wasn’t such a bad dog after all.

In his old age Chance has mellowed. When we walk, he attends to what is directly in front of him, a flagpole or a mailbox, barely sensing other dogs. It takes us 40 minutes to go around the block, but when I look at him he grins. It’s his favorite time of day and mine.

I try to be gentle with Chance, hoping when the time comes others will be gentle with me. When I catch myself tugging his leash, I remind myself these are his last days and to enjoy them. The night before Tilly died she tried to get my attention, resting her muzzle on my keyboard. I moved her aside. I was busy writing and I thought there would be time to play, not knowing her cancer would take a dramatic turn in the morning and we would have to euthanize her.

I often think back to that night, wishing I had cuddled and cradled my girl. I hope not to make the same mistake with Chance. Steve scratches his belly every night before we go to bed. Chance deserves at least as much from me.

He is, after all, my good dog.
265 2013-09-10 Members of a Federal Appeals Court expressed skepticism over a government requirement that Internet service providers treat all traffic equally....
266 2013-09-10 Rafael Nadal defeated Novak Djokovic to win his second U.S. Open championship and the 13th Grand Slam title of his career.
267 2013-09-10 Allowing businesses to depreciate the cost of capital investments makes good economic sense, if enacted with a long-term view rather than an eye on stimulus, an economist writes....
268 2013-09-10 Earlier this year, The New York Times asked each of the leading candidates for mayor where they stood on seven issues. This week, we took to the streets, asking voters around the five boroughs how they felt about these issues and how it might affect their choice of mayor.
269 2013-09-10 “It’s hard. It’s an art and a science,” said Milton Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute, a research firm. “It’s hard to know you’ve gone over the line until you do it.”

Makers of luxury cars have long struggled with how to increase their market share with less expensive models, while still retaining the brand’s cachet and exclusivity.

The marriage of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler failed partly because German engineers developing Mercedes sedans were opposed to sharing parts with mainstream Chrysler models made in the United States. While that preserved the integrity of the Mercedes brand, the company missed a golden opportunity to cut overall costs. Still, Mercedes is taking another stab at lower-cost models, introducing the CLA sedan later this year.

Toyota’s Lexus brand stumbled some when it introduced lower-priced IS sedans that lacked the high-end features and overall glitz of its signature models. Lexus has since addressed the issue by making its entry-level cars more powerful and sporty.

The fashion industry has also experimented with going more mainstream. Ralph Lauren offers lower-priced lines while also having a high-end product. But a partnership with Neiman Marcus and Target was a major failure.

Even the travel industry has tried extending luxury brands, like Starwood’s Aloft line of hotels, which is promoted as “a vision of W Hotels,” a top Starwood brand, and “style at a steal.”

Of course, many retailers try to drive up sales by lowering prices, and that effort has become only more prominent in the Internet era, when consumers have technology tools to browse an entire industry and compare prices in nanoseconds.

“This cheaper iPhone is just one part of a whole trend that is going on that is epically changing the face of this industry,” said Robin Lewis, chief executive of The Robin Report, a retail strategy newsletter. “It’s devaluing the definition of the word ‘value.’ And it’s going to affect every premium brand.”

Still, many analysts believe that if Apple can get consumers — particularly those in China and India — to buy a cheaper version of the phone, those people would be more likely to buy Apple’s premium products in the future.

“It’s going to be the TV, it’ll be the wrist watch, it’ll be the integration in your BMW — all these things later down the road that still carries the premium brand,” said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares.

Apple has crossed over into pushing nonpremium products before, and failed. In the 1990s, after Steven P. Jobs had been ousted from the company, Apple started a program offering its software to makers of generic personal computers, and some of those manufacturers were able to build computers faster and cheaper than Apple could. The company, having lost its value to consumers as a premium brand offering an exclusive product, almost went bankrupt.

After Mr. Jobs rejoined the company, Apple reverted to offering premium, higher-priced hardware packaged with exclusive software. And it has carefully walked the tightrope of catering to as large an audience as it possibly can, without shipping dirt-cheap products and falling back into the category of commodity hardware.

Five years ago, Mr. Jobs described the company’s strategy to investors who were asking him about whether Apple would ship a netbook: miniature notebooks that could be bought for as little as $200. His answer was, in short, no.

“There are some customers which we chose not to serve,” Mr. Jobs said.

Now that Apple is under a new leader, Timothy D. Cook, who is facing pressure from investors to increase the company’s profit growth, the question is whether Apple’s strategy will change with a cheaper iPhone.

Signs suggest that the strategy will not change much. Analysts expect Apple to take the current, soon-to-be-outdated iPhone 5 and replace its back with plastic. And they predict it will cost between $300 and $400 at full price — significantly cheaper than the current iPhone, at $650, but still more expensive than some of the dirt-cheap Android phones offered in China and India.

Still, offering a lower-cost iPhone will be more challenging than just reducing its cost. Apple will need to distinguish its high-end iPhone from a lower-end one. For one thing, Apple is expected to introduce the ability to unlock a phone by scanning a fingerprint, a feature that could be available on only the more expensive model.

And once a cheaper offering is made, Apple will likely have to face a similar predicament every year. For every phone with new features, the company will need to introduce a second phone without some of the same capabilities.

Greg Portell, a partner of A.T. Kearney, a global management consulting firm, said that could detract from Apple’s brand proposition of being a provider of easy-to-use products that all work together seamlessly.

“The challenge for Apple is going to be to identify the element of functionality they can strip away without decaying the brand promise of ease of functionality and connectivity,” Mr. Portell said. “They’re reintroducing the barriers that they’ve already taken away.”
270 2013-09-10 The Prison Rape Elimination Act, signed into federal law 10 years ago this month, requires correctional facilities receiving federal money to develop intensive programs for preventing the sexual violence that has long been endemic behind bars. A crucial provision of the act requires that new programs be audited by examiners who are trained and certified by the Justice Department. But the department has certified nowhere near enough examiners required to inspect the thousands of prisons, jails and other institutions that need auditing.

The department’s regulations require all facilities covered by the act to adopt a zero-tolerance approach to rape, develop procedures for investigating allegations of sexual assault, and improve medical and mental health care for victims. One shortcoming of the rules is that they discourage, but do not forbid, sending young felons to adult facilities, where they are at greater risk of exploitation and harm. Congress needs to end this risky practice.

Despite these shortcomings, the act has already made a difference. Some prisons, for example, have taken the unusual step of allowing inmates access to rape crisis counselors skilled in helping victims through trauma. But, on the whole, correctional institutions are still falling short of what the law requires in terms of rape prevention.

Earlier this year, the Bureau of Justice Statistics released a study based on a survey of incarcerated people carried out between February 2011 and May 2012. An estimated 80,000 prison and county inmates experienced sexual abuse during the previous 12 months — about 4 percent of prison inmates and 3.2 percent of jail inmates nationwide. High rates of abuse were found among gay, lesbian and mentally ill inmates and inmates who had been abused before incarceration. The study also found that more than 40 institutions — including two military facilities — were particularly dangerous, with rates of sexual abuse at least twice the national average.

All this argues for strong and timely inspections. The overall system is unlikely to change until correctional facilities throughout the country are audited several times over, provided with constructive feedback and, when necessary, threatened with the loss of federal funds unless they comply with the law.
271 2013-09-10 The battle has become so heated that it even drew in the Republican governor of , , who traveled to Missouri a few weeks ago and has run advertisements here declaring, “Vetoing a tax cut is the same thing as raising your taxes.”

Mr. Nixon, 57, who is barred by law from seeking a third term, seems to be reveling in the fight. “We cannot move the economy forward by dramatically defunding education in this state,” he said in an interview on Friday before two events where he spoke out against the bill. “And the reason why I have put myself and my administration and my body and my mind on the line on this one is that I am fully convinced that it’s the wrong policy for our state.”

As of Monday afternoon, House Republicans had not garnered the 109 votes they need to override the veto of the bill, which slashes taxes for businesses and decreases the state’s income tax rate for the first time since before landed the Spirit of near Paris in 1927.

Many in the party accuse the governor of fear-mongering. They point to Mr. Nixon’s withholding of $400 million in revenue for schools and other services. The governor said that he needed to hold back the money to have reserves in case the tax cut became law, and that he would release it if his veto is sustained.

Representative Timothy Jones, the Republican speaker of the House, equated the move to a bribe to get education officials across the state to lobby lawmakers against the cut.

“It’s an artificial crisis Jay Nixon has created,” Mr. Jones said, adding that the governor has changed in this, his second and final term. “It’s a much more partisan, militant attitude that I, frankly, do not understand.”

Representative T. J. Berry, the Republican sponsor of the bill, said his party cared deeply about making sure that school systems were financed. He noted that financing for kindergarten through 12th grade had remained fairly consistent over the past five years, even in the midst of the recession. He also said the bill required the state’s economy to grow before any tax cuts were implemented. “This argument that Republicans are against public education and we don’t care about kids, it’s hogwash; it’s garbage,” Mr. Berry said.

Mr. Nixon says he has tried to avoid emotional, politically charged comments on the tax bill, though that does not seem to be the case when discussion shifts to Mr. Perry. During a visit to the state a couple of weeks ago, the Texas governor made a video for Grow Missouri, urging people to join the override fight for a bill that he said would make Missouri more competitive. “The message across this country is, ‘Don’t mess with Missouri,’ ” Mr. Perry said in the video.

Asked about Mr. Perry during an event here last week, Mr. Nixon broke from his conversational tone. He wagged his right index finger in the air. “The challenge for jobs that we’re in, if you’re thinking it’s between Texas and and , you’re missing the whole picture,” he said, his voice thundering. He then held his hands on either side of his head and shook his palms. “The competition for jobs for us is, like, between us and and us and . I mean, it’s a worldwide economy.”

Speaking about Mr. Perry during the interview, Mr. Nixon started, “Three things,” breaking into laughter as he mimicked Mr. Perry’s infamous flub during a Republican presidential debate last year when, under questioning, he failed to remember the third federal agency he had proposed to eliminate.

“I think when he jumped inside a veto override fight,” Mr. Nixon said, pausing to choose his words carefully, “that’s not the way governors deal with each other.”

Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry, said: “The governor believes competition will make every state and our nation stronger, and that we should all be pushing each other to be better stewards of taxpayer dollars.”

Despite his optimism on the tax bill, Mr. Nixon suffered a setback this year when he failed to get the Legislature to expand in accordance with ’s Affordable Care Act. Lawmakers also seemed poised to override his veto of a bill that nullifies some federal gun laws.

Overcoming a veto requires override votes from two-thirds of the members of each chamber. In the House, that means 109 votes, the number of Republicans in the chamber. The tax cut bill had passed 103-51, with six Republicans absent and three voting against it. Of the three who voted against it, one was a teacher for more than three decades, and the other served on a school board.

The former teacher, Representative Elaine Gannon, said she had an acute appreciation for the impact of budget cuts on schools — “just being there the years that we had our salaries frozen and just trying to do the best job as educators with what we had.” Ms. Gannon said she planned to hold firmly against the tax cut.

“There’s ways that our districts could improve more if they had more access to funds,” she said, “and the last thing we need to do is take away from what we’ve already got.”
272 2013-09-10 But Nadal, perhaps the most relentless competitor in the sport’s long and talent-rich history, is nothing if not resilient; nothing if not competitive. He plays, by his own confession, not just to win titles but for the puritanical pleasure of working for each and every point.

“I am a positive player, not a negative player,” Nadal said.

It is the process more than the destination for Nadal, but he still looked more than satisfied when he had finally finished off Djokovic on a night with a sliver of moon visible in the sky and more than a few tears visible in his eyes and the eyes of those closest to him.

“Grande, grande, grande, grande, grande,” came the shouts from his camp after he had picked himself up off the court and eventually jogged to the edge of the court to commune with them.

This victory, more grueling than the score line would suggest, gave Nadal a second United States Open title to go with the first he won in 2010 with another four-set victory over Djokovic. It also gave him a 13th Grand Slam singles title that seemed anything but unlucky.

“Thirteen is an amazing number,” Nadal said.

But perhaps the most remarkable statistic after a victory that generated a mother lode was that it preserved Nadal’s perfect record on hardcourts this season.

He is 22-0, a figure that would have seemed unthinkable in the years when Nadal’s most emblematic rival, was winning five straight titles at the Open.

For now, Federer remains the career leader with 17 Grand Slam singles titles, but Monday’s victory thrusts Nadal ever more into the conversation about who deserves to be called the greatest player of this era.

“Let me enjoy today,” Nadal said with a grin, resisting the place-in-history questions. “For me is much more than what I ever thought, what I ever dreamed. I said that when I had a few Slams less, but is true.”

Nadal has won eight French Opens, two Wimbledons, two Opens and one Australian Open. He also holds a winning record over every one of his major rivals, Federer of course included.

Djokovic, a 26-year-old Serb, has given him plenty of trouble: never more than in 2011 and early 2012 when he reeled off seven straight victories against the Spaniard and seemed to have extinguished some of Nadal’s self-belief and competitive fire.

But Nadal, a great tennis player as well as athlete and fighter, has now won six of the last seven. By the epic standards of their nearly six-hour final at the 2012 Australian Open, Monday’s match was a sprint at 3 hours 21 minutes. It also gave Nadal a huge payday: $2.6 million in prize money and an additional $1 million for winning the U.S. Open Series.

“Thirteen Grand Slams for a guy who is 27 years old is incredible,” Djokovic said. “Whatever he achieved so far in his career is something that everybody should respect, no question about it. I was saying before, he’s definitely one of the best tennis players ever to play the game.”

Djokovic, who has faced him 37 times and trails, 15-22, is particularly well placed to know his strengths and weaknesses. They have played more than any men in the Open era, though less than rivals from earlier eras like Rod Laver and Ken Rosewall, the Australians who played more than 100 times.

Laver, the only man to complete two Grand Slams by winning all four major titles in a calendar year, was on hand to flip the coin before the start of the match.

Nadal concurred that he had rarely played better than he did in the opening set, breaking Djokovic twice and striking the ball with consistent venom and precision. When it ended after 42 minutes, Nadal said he went to his chair and thought that the match was beginning “now” because he believed there was no chance of  sustaining that level and that edge for two more sets in a row.

That proved true, as Djokovic began taking greater risks with his forehand in the second set and pushing Nadal back from the baseline to a position more familiar to those who watched Nadal play on quick hardcourts in the early years of his career.

Djokovic finally broke Nadal’s serve in the sixth game to take a 4-2 lead, although it required him to win a 54-shot rally. “I played especially against Rafa on different surfaces and different occasions points like this where you feel that there is the last drop of energy you need to use in order to win the point,” Djokovic said. “Sometimes, I was winning those points; sometimes him. It’s what we do when play against each other, always pushing each other to the limit. That’s the beauty of our matches and our rivalry, I guess, in the end.”

It should thus have come as no surprise that Nadal, instead of letting his shoulders slump, came right out and broke him back in the next game. As Djokovic sat in his chair on the changeover, he screamed in frustration and anger, his lean body shaking. He then slapped himself on both thighs and proceeded to go back out himself and take the next two games and even the match at one set apiece.

That could have been the cue for another marathon final, but Nadal had too many answers this time, and although Djokovic carried his momentum into the third set, taking a 3-1 lead and a 0-40 lead in the next game on Nadal’s serve, the Spaniard willed and hustled his way free.

A set that looked as if it belonged to Djokovic was soon repossessed by Nadal. The No. 1 ranking presumably will come next later this year.

But numbers are not the heart of the matter with Nadal.

“During the match, the thought that kept coming to my mind was that I was watching a genius,” said Wojtek Fibak, the former Polish player hired by Djokovic as a coaching consultant. “It’s like Chopin who was born to compose music. Nadal was born to win tennis matches.”
273 2013-09-10 This is a case of “be careful what you wish for.” The Chamber of Commerce and businesses that give to far-right, extremist candidates have helped create a Congress that eschews moderation and common sense. Among the results are — surprise! — radical positions like imposing sequestration, capping the debt ceiling, opposing immigration reform and shutting down the government. These wreak havoc on orderly commerce.

It is in business’s interest to support moderates, whatever their party.

The writer is a principal in DeRosa Advisers, which provides strategic and transaction consulting in the energy industry.
274 2013-09-10 LONDON — A little more than two years after a far-right, anti-immigrant militant killed 77 people, many of them teenagers, Norwegian voters ousted their center-left government on Monday, paving the way for the conservative leader, Erna Solberg, to assemble a governing coalition that may include an anti-immigration party.

Ms. Solberg, 52, a former Girl Scout leader nicknamed “Iron Erna,” will be Norway’s first conservative leader since 1990 and its second female prime minister.

“We will give this country a new government,” Ms. Solberg said after Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg conceded defeat.

The campaign had been centered largely on economic issues, like extending already generous welfare payments (Labor) versus cutting taxes and privatizing hospitals (Conservatives). But the massacre on the island of Utoya, where Anders Behring Breivik attacked youth members of the Labor Party on July 22, 2011, was never far from the surface.

Mr. Stoltenberg, whose pledge after the attack for “more democracy, more openness and more humanity” won him praise at the time, saw his party’s standing decline after a commission on Norway’s preparedness for terrorist attacks reported last year that the massacre could have been avoided if security protocol had been followed properly.

In a twist that is causing unease in parts of the country, the Progress Party, to which Mr. Breivik once belonged, could be a kingmaker in the coming coalition talks. The party could enter government for the first time.
275 2013-09-10 “The scrutiny that this is going to come under because of the stock market deal with SFX, it’s like a magnifying glass that’s unfair,” said Amy Thomson, the manager behind Swedish House Mafia, one of the genre’s most successful acts.

Robert F. X. Sillerman, the chief executive of SFX, said in an interview that his company was committed to providing a safe environment, and that as dance music “has grown from uncontrollable rave parties to professionally run festivals and events, it in fact provides the opportunity to provide health and safety guidance.”

He declined to discuss business details, citing the mandatory “quiet period” before the I.P.O. But TomorrowWorld, a festival near Atlanta this month in which SFX is a majority partner, is working with DanceSafe, a nonprofit group, to provide educational information about the dangers of drug use, said Shawn Kent, one of the executives behind the event.

SFX seemed to anticipate the need for greater medical care when it appointed to its board Dr. Andrew N. Bazos, an orthopedic surgeon with experience in “comprehensive medical coverage for large-capacity venues,” according to its prospectus.

Drugs have been linked to the mythology and slang of dance culture for decades, and the current ecstasy scare reflects an earlier wave in the 1990s when cities around the country cracked down on illegal raves. Today, stars like Miley Cyrus and Kanye West allude to molly in songs, and the term turns up repeatedly at festivals, on T-shirts, banners or body paint.

Among the deaths in recent months is that of Matthew Rybarczyk, a 20-year-old from Staten Island, who collapsed with a 107-degree temperature at a Governors Island rave on July 14.

When Mr. Rybarczyk’s grandmother saw him in the hospital the next morning, he was contorted unrecognizably and was bleeding from his nose and mouth; he died 14 hours later. The medical examiner found methylone in his system, an ecstasylike drug sometimes sold as molly.

“It was the saddest thing of all to watch him die,” his grandmother, Peggy Rybarczyk, said. “He went to have a good time and he never came home.”

A growing history of drug-related deaths has not slowed the genre’s popularity. In 2010, a 15-year-old girl died from an overdose of ecstasy at Electric Daisy Carnival in Los Angeles, but the festival has since spread around the country and even to London. This year, Live Nation Entertainment, the world’s biggest concert company, bought half of Insomniac, the company behind the festival, for a reported $50 million.

In an interview, Pasquale Rotella, Insomniac’s founder, defended his company’s security measures, and said that dance promoters, to some degree, “inherit societal problems.”

But he and others in the industry admitted that the negative perceptions had kept away sponsorship money.

“If you look at dance festivals in general, you don’t typically see a ton of branding yet,” said Edward H. Shapiro, a lawyer who works with dance acts. “Part of that has been this notion that it isn’t an environment that is ripe for really big brands to participate in.”

Many of the most prominent branding deals in the electronic dance music world have been tied to artists, including Absolut Vodka with Swedish House Mafia, and Pepsi with the D.J. Calvin Harris. But for even the most popular dance festivals, the sponsor rosters are dwarfed by those of comparable rock and pop events, like Lollapalooza or Coachella.

The sponsors of Electric Zoo this year included Coors Light and Blue Moon beers, owned by Molson Coors; Vita Coco, a coconut water drink; and Hi-Chew, a fruit-flavored snack. Constellation Brands, whose Pacifico beer was also a supporter, said in a statement that its sponsorships “are focused on providing a peaceful, safe and responsible environment for fans 21-and-older to enjoy our product, and are made on a case-by-case basis.” Other sponsors have not commented.

Most major festival promoters have zero-tolerance drug policies, and their sites have security checks, free water stations, first-aid tents and ambulances on call. Such measures are essential for insurance purposes and are often required by state law for any large gathering.

No promoter can prevent all drugs from entering a festival site, nor can do they do anything about drugs consumed before an attendee walks through the gate. Yet many in the dance world think promoters and stars need to do more to discourage it.

“I don’t think we should be scared of saying ‘don’t do drugs,’ ” said A-Trak, a top D.J. “There is this sort of elephant in the room, where people are scared to say, ‘That stuff is dangerous and don’t mess around.’ ”

But Armin van Buuren, another popular D.J., said that Electric Zoo was one of the better-run festivals he had attended, with plenty of security and medical personnel.

“For some reason we have the stamp of drug misuse and I think that it’s unfair,” he said. “It ruins the party for a lot of other people.”
276 2013-09-10 The American men’s wear industry has witnessed a major revival in recent seasons. But there are risks, as with just about everything about the runways lately, that designers here are becoming victims of their own success.

Coming two months after their counterparts show spring collections in Europe, they tend to get a little lost. And there’s only so much you can do within the confines of men’s wear without looking weird. Michael Bastian complained on Twitter this week that if men’s designers do not get more love, then “why bother?” Some of the bigger names (Tommy Hilfiger, Rag & Bone, Band of Outsiders) now show only women’s wear in New York.

But Mr. Bastian should know the value of patience. He belongs to that camp of men’s wear that approaches brand building in the tradition of Ralph Lauren: purposefully, slowly, precisely designing a recognizable look. His is luxurious, masculine prep with a bit of sex appeal, an affinity for intarsia sweaters, tightfitting trousers, an occasional risk (pineapple-printed pants for spring). But the downside, if only for critics, is that his shows tend to look the same.

Actually, much of American sportswear looks the same. Fastidiously scruffy, hyper-preppy sportswear is so ubiquitous that at one show, Ernest Alexander, a model wore navy shorts with a print of white anchors. As it happens, a similar look was available for less than $50 at J. Crew Factory this summer.

This is not to suggest that the clothes are not good, only that looking at the shows as a whole is beginning to feel like shopping. Plenty of designs are perfectly desirable, like the slick, slightly shiny, retro suits at David Hart; the cotton suits with the ankles bared at Todd Snyder; the cool short-sleeved sweatshirts at Bespoken; and the witty camo coats (painted with a target on the back) at Mark McNairy. The Public School designers Dao-Yi Chow and Maxwell Osborne stood out from the pack with their streamlined charcoal sweatshirts and a mean black leather jacket with a zip up the back. But generally speaking, why should a customer choose this designer over that?

Three designers — Robert Geller, Patrik Ervell and Daisuke Obana of N. Hoolywood — made especially strong cases this season. Mr. Obana’s collection was a hoot, both a sendup of vintage westerns and a treasure trove of good clothes, including narrowly tailored khakis, light-wash denim and a camp shirt of patchwork plaids.

Mr. Geller’s sleeveless trucker vests in neoprene, one color blocked and one shiny black, picked up on this week’s popular scuba trend. He is a romantic (nostalgic this season, it would seem, for the youth of Russia coming out of communism in the 1980s), and sometimes his designs come across as willfully antiquated. This collection seemed less abstract.

Mr. Ervell also happened to show neoprene layers under outfits that were inspired by sailing. Ahoy, sporty-looking technical coats can actually work in a collection that also includes a wicked double-breasted suit with shorts.

The other camp of men’s wear designers approaches brand building in a more organic sense. Weird is not a problem for the Duckie Brown designers Steven Cox and Daniel Silver, who seem to have given up the pretense of wearability altogether and sent out models in burlap sacks. And Shayne Oliver, the designer of Hood by Air, presented a wide-ranging and perplexing collection that included dress shirts printed with a mug-shot image of Marilyn Manson, denim jackets and possibly pants with multiple zip-away panels, and, why not, a dress.

You can’t say they looked the same.
277 2013-09-10 Since preferred shares are sensitive to interest-rate movements — their prices fall when rates climb — you need to be vigilant about their volatility. They can mimic the downside of bond price movements.

When Federal Reserve officials mentioned this year that the central bank might be backing off its bond-buying program, share prices of both bonds and preferred shares sank.

Since the Fed “taper” talk first roiled income markets, the S&P Preferred Stock Index, which tracks a basket of the stocks, has reacted negatively. It was down 1.3 percent year-to-date through Aug. 26, compared with an almost 18 percent gain for the S.& P. 500-stock index.

Because of their proximity to the bond market, preferred shares proved somewhat less volatile than bonds, which fell more than 5 percent for the same period, as tracked by the S&P/BGCantor 7-10 Year U.S. Treasury Bond Index.

“Preferreds act much like bonds,” said Abby Woodham, an analyst for Morningstar, the investment research firm based in Chicago. “They are quite sensitive to interest-rate changes.”

Why own preferred shares if they can be churlish in a rising-rate environment? Because they offer such high yields, the income component of the stocks still keeps you in the black if share prices lose money during small interest-rate spikes.

While buying individual stocks is certainly the riskiest way to invest in preferred stocks — you will need specialized expertise to analyze them — you can buy them in nine exchange-traded funds and several actively managed and closed-end mutual funds.

Ms. Woodham said the major exchange-traded index funds, which hold baskets of preferred stocks at a low cost, included the iShares S&P U.S. Preferred Stock Index ETF, which yields just under 6 percent, and the PowerShares Preferred ETF, which yields about 6.6 percent. Both funds charge annual expenses of 0.5 percent or less.

Although these funds are worthy additions to any income portfolio, their main drawbacks are their heavy concentration in financial sector stocks. For more diversification, consider the Cohen & Steers Preferred Securities and Income I Fund, offering a 6 percent yield. In addition to financial stocks, the fund also holds shares in insurance and real estate companies. It comes at a steeper price: 0.75 percent in annual expenses.

Michael Dubis, a financial planner based in Madison, Wis., said he recommended the Cohen & Steers fund for his clients because “I believe you’re better off going active” — that is, choosing an actively managed fund — in addition to the iShares fund for those who want preferred shares.

“For clients seeking preferred stocks in their portfolio, I use the Cohen & Steers fund for half my preferred positions, which is really no more than 3 percent to 10 percent in a portfolio,” Mr. Dubis said.

If you are an active investor trading income securities, you will need to keep a close eye on the Federal Reserve. If the economy continues to heat up, the Fed may suspend its $85 billion a month bond-buying program, which could lift interest rates and hurt bond and preferred prices.

When asked if the Fed might back off its easing program before the end of the year, Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said on Aug. 6, “I clearly would not rule that out.”

But most buy-and-hold investors probably need not be so attuned to the Fed’s vacillations. If preferred stocks occupy a small portion of a diversified portfolio containing United States Treasuries, money market funds, corporate bonds, municipal bonds and real estate investment trusts, this kind of diversification offers much less volatility than piling into a single class of high-yield securities.
278 2013-09-10 As millions of baby boomers reach retirement age (and in many cases care for elderly parents), families and the retirement industry have reworked old lifestyle formats and created hybrids.

“We used to think that a person lived in their own home, and if they got frail they moved in with a relative or to a nursing home,” said Jon Pynoos, a professor of gerontology, policy and planning at the University of Southern California. “People need more choices.”

The first choice of most people, like Nancy Monblatt, is to stay put. When AARP surveyed 2,000 Americans in late 1999, 89 percent of those age 55 and older said they would prefer not to leave their current residences.

But staying put no longer means staying with the same living arrangement.

Amy Goyer, the home and family expert at AARP, recommends that a geriatric case manager, social worker or other professional analyze the older person’s needs to find the best option. AARP and the National Association of Home Builders in 2002 developed “aging in place” certification for home modifications, to teach contractors how to adapt homes. Among typical improvements are widened doorways for wheelchair access and safety features like grab bars in bathrooms.

Still, some houses cannot be realistically remodeled. The biggest problem, said Dan Bawden, owner of Legal Eagle Contractors in Houston, who helped write the certification, is not having a full bathroom or usable bedroom space on the ground floor.

But if such drawbacks are not an issue, almost anything can be brought to an existing home. The number of health workers who make house calls has been rising steadily since 2005, and about 3,000 primary care physicians and other health practitioners now make house calls full time, typically charging about 12 percent more than for office visits, according to the American Academy of Home Care Physicians, a Maryland-based professional association. Meals on Wheels programs are widely available, with fees based on a sliding scale and averaging $6.50 for a daily meal.

At first, home health aides are usually hired for a few hours a day to provide companionship and run errands, experts say. Older people then move on to more intensive assistance, if needed, with bathing, dressing and, where it is permitted, basic nursing care.

Emma Dickison, president of Home Helpers, based in Cincinnati, said she would replace an aide if the personalities did not click, or even for something as simple as: “Does the caregiver make the toast the way the client likes it?” However, she urged clients to give their aides a couple of weeks.

Increasingly, machines can keep electronic tabs on people at home, and the elderly apparently are not bothered by the idea. A 2011 AARP study predicted that around one-fourth to almost one-half of those over age 65 “may be willing to use” electronic devices that remind them to take medicine, check blood pressure or alert caregivers if they are not following their normal routines.

“The cohorts who are moving into their 60s and 70s are used to smartphones and Skype,” said Melissa Hardy, a professor of sociology and demography at Pennsylvania State University.

In a new approach, called villages, neighbors band together to arrange support services like transportation and home repairs, often hiring a manager to coordinate things. According to Lori Simon-Rusinowitz, interim director of the University of Maryland’s Center on Aging, about 80 villages have been established nationwide since 2002 and at least 120 more are planned, “primarily in white, middle-class communities.”

Eventually, such home-based arrangements may need to be rethought. “What usually shakes up the family is a health crisis,” said Larry Minnix, chief executive of LeadingAge, an association of nonprofit providers of services to the aging, based in Washington.

Moreover, the ties that bind people to their homes weaken. “Your friends can leave, or die. Your doctor can retire,” pointed out Professor Pynoos of U.S.C.

For Sharon Goldzweig, that moment arrived five years ago, when her mother, Shirley Shulman, now 92, was found to have Alzheimer’s disease. Ms. Shulman left her Boston apartment to live with her daughter and twin granddaughters, now age 16, in New York.

“The parts I love are when we sit in front of the TV together,” said Ms. Goldzweig, 59, a benefits lawyer.

Not everyone can take parents in. But for those who worry that group housing arrangements are cold, experts say they can actually be more nurturing, “When people move into a community, they thrive,” Mr. Minnix said.

The dividing lines between types of living arrangements can be amorphous, but at the youngest end are so-called active adult communities that typically set minimum age limits of 55 or so. They may offer swimming pools, classes, excursions and meals, but little medical support. For more care, the next step is usually an assisted-living facility. Aides and nurses help with basic functions but do not provide 24-hour nursing. Residents — generally in their 80s — are mobile enough to eat in the dining hall and join activities.

Moving into a skilled nursing home usually means that constant monitoring is required. The person may be on a respirator or need to be fed.

The Green House Project, started in 2003 and now in 32 states, tries to create a “familylike” version of nursing homes. About a dozen people live in a house, with private bedrooms and bathrooms but shared meals.

Many of these choices are brought together in continuing-care retirement communities. In a single location, residents can transfer among independent living homes, assisted-living homes and nursing homes. A 2010 report by the Government Accountability Office found over 1,860 such communities.

If it seems impossible to pick among this variety, one deciding factor is usually cost. But staying at home is not cheap. Widening a door costs about $2,500, and a full bathroom renovation might run $20,000, Mr. Bawden, the contractor, said. Some federal tax breaks are available.

Some of the special villages charge annual fees of a few hundred dollars. Then an older person might pay around $2,200 a month for an aide for four hours daily, according to Genworth Financial, an insurance provider.

By contrast, Genworth reported, the average monthly cost is $3,450 for assisted living and $6,210 for skilled nursing. The continuing-care facilities studied by the G.A.O. charged entrance fees of $80,000 to $750,000 plus monthly rent starting at $1,300.

Long-term care insurance, Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Affairs benefits cover only some of these charges.

Beyond price and their health needs, people should consider the weather, the locale, how much socialization they want, the availability of family and transportation, experts say.

Finally, Ms. Goyer of AARP said: “Be flexible. Just when you thought you’ve got it all figured out, it changes.”
279 2013-09-10 The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, based in The Hague, may play a role in any plan on the Syrian crisis....
280 2013-09-10 Many alumni from decades ago, including Suzy Welch, a former editor of The Harvard Business Review, said they were startled by the culture of spending that was depicted in the article, including the news that one student had lived in a penthouse apartment at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Boston. When Ms. Welch graduated in 1988, money mattered, she said in post on Twitter, “but conspicuous consumption events were rare.”

A reader named Ken H said that the tone at the school in the 1970s was downright egalitarian, and that anyone who “flashed money around” would have earned jeers. “Maybe what has changed isn’t so much H.B.S., but America,” he said.

The Harvard Business School student body is at least somewhat economically diverse, with 65 percent of students on financial aid, receiving an average grant of $60,000 over the two-year program, according to a spokesman. (Tuition costs more than $50,000 per year.)

The class of 2013 included former members of the military, children of struggling single mothers and a former butcher, among many others. But just as the school has made efforts in recent years to draw students from a wide array of economic backgrounds, the global elite has been accumulating far more wealth and the American income divide has been growing.

The result is a school that mixes students of relatively modest means with extremely wealthy ones, including in recent years the children of Leon Black, a private equity investor, and Gerald D. Hines, the founder of one of the world’s largest real estate firms, among many others. In interviews, some students mentioned the Instagram feed of Michael Hess, a member of the class of 2013, who has posted photographs of Mick Jagger close-up in concert, courtside seats at a Knicks game and stops on his trips around the world.

Many Harvard business students and readers were especially troubled by Section X, and the idea that even within the extremely elite confines of one of the nation’s premier business schools, the ultrawealthy are segregating themselves.

“There is this underbelly at H.B.S. of extremely wealthy individuals — spoiler alert, I am not one of them,” said Brooke Boyarsky, who delivered a triumphant speech at graduation about social change at the school.

According to students, the members are mostly male and mostly international students from South America, the Middle East and Asia. They organize “the real parties, the parties where it’s a really limited list, the extravagant vacations — I mean really extravagant,” she said. (No students interviewed admitted to being members of the group, though some said they had attended its parties.)

“More than once I heard that ‘the only middle-class students here are the Americans,'” another recent graduate said.

Even though Section X is hard to pin down — some students said they did not believe it existed at all — it causes enormous resentment on campus, starting with its name. Every Harvard Business School class is organized into 10 sections labeled A through J, and the name Section X implies a pulling away from the wider community.

“The Section X dynamics really deteriorate the section togetherness,” said Kate Lewis, a 2013 graduate who edited the school newspaper. By the end of this academic year, Section X had become an adjective on campus for anything exclusive and moneyed, with one student talking about a “mini Section X dynamic” within her real section.

Asked in an interview about Section X, Nitin Nohria, the school’s dean, sounded crestfallen because he had hoped the group had disappeared. “I thought it had pretty much been on its fingernail edges,” he said.

After hearing complaints from students, the co-presidents of the class of 2013, Kunal Modi and Laura Merritt, worked to introduce less expensive activities, including trivia nights, visits by food trucks and coffee hours. They persuaded administrators to install lawn furniture on campus so students would have another setting where they could relax without spending money.

To help bring the school’s culture back down to earth, Thomas J. Peters, a co-author of “In Search of Excellence” who has spoken at the Harvard Business School and has been a frequent critic of business education, suggested that the school apply a simple admissions rule: anyone from an ultraprivileged background needs to have done something of significant social value to be admitted.

“If you’re 27 years old and you’ve been given a lot of money, that’s plenty of time to have done something,” he said, adding that he and many of his friends at Stanford Business School in the 1970s were veterans. “Why can’t that be in the admissions criteria flat out?”

For their part, students suggested that the school draw on its enormous resources — its endowment is over $2 billion — to supply financial aid for basic extracurricular activities like section events.

As dean, Mr. Nohria has been known for fostering frank conversations about social issues, but it is hard to say if Harvard Business could ever mount a true effort to resolve class issues on campus along the lines of the one on gender.

Many of the school’s top donors and alumni are members of the same ultramoneyed culture that some students criticize. And because many students attend business school in the specific hope of building a network of influential contacts, they tend to fear offending anyone, especially wealthy classmates who might one day provide connections and financing.

“The No. 1 thing you should take away from the comments section on this post is that no one is putting their real name,” one member of the class of 2013 wrote on nytimes.com, citing fear that strong opinions “could limit future options.”

“Without strong opinions, backed by passion, it’s unlikely that anything will change at H.B.S. in the near term,” the commenter said.
281 2013-09-10 The Open final was Williams’s 71st singles match this year, of which she has lost four, a heavy schedule for someone who usually plays a limited schedule between the Grand Slam events. She has done it, she said, because her goal was to reach No. 1 again, and playing too infrequently was often the reason she slipped from that spot over the years.

“I’m having a lot of fun,” she said. “I still don’t play as many as everyone else, but I do play more. I don’t want to get to that place where I’m not happy in my work.

“Honestly, I wanted to be No. 1. In order to get that, you have to play a lot of tournaments.”

What she found out along the way was that playing more had benefits beyond the lofty ranking. She said it helped her win the French Open and the United States Open this year.

“Sometimes, to win those big ones, you have to win the little ones,” she said.

She said that she did not know if she would continue her heavier schedule, that it would depend on how she felt and if she kept enjoying it. Either way, she does not sound like someone winding down her career.

If anything, her success with a heavier workload bodes well for continuing even further into her 30s. She said that she had not changed much about her training regimen or conditioning, and that she believed she had held off the waves of younger and faster players who had come up largely on the strength of her game alone.

“My game was actually built from a solid foundation,” she said. “My dad gave my sister and I a game that could always grow, one we could always improve. We had a power game, but we could develop bigger serves, we could develop more speed. There was just always more that we could do. He was just really a genius in developing that.”

But what became clear in this Open final is that despite all her success, she still battles her own nerves in the biggest moments. In fact, Williams said she was often more nervous now than when she was younger. Against Azarenka, she nearly came unglued in the second set by unpredictable wind at Arthur Ashe Stadium and her own mental battles.

“Some matches, I don’t even think, I just start playing,” she said. “When you’re playing for something different, you start to think. I think that’s what happened to me in the second set. I started to think way too much. But in the third, I didn’t care.”

When Williams gets to that point, it does not matter that her career now qualifies as an era, that another horde of young players is rising up the rankings and threatening to topple the woman at the top.

“I haven’t thought of a number or an age when I want to stop,” she said. “I can tell you this: I don’t see myself retiring anytime soon.”
282 2013-09-10 Time Inc. is in talks to purchase the publishing subsidiary of American Express, which includes luxury publications like Food & Wine and Travel & Leisure, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations.

The deal would add American Express’s consumer magazines and magazines dedicated to its card holders, like Departures, to Time Inc.'s portfolio, which already includes magazines like People and InStyle, according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

American Express and Time Inc. have had a working relationship since 1993, when they formed a management services agreement to partner on advertising deals and back-end operations, like lobbying jointly for postal reform. For example, the Time Inc. title Fortune Small Business had an agreement with American Express to send the magazine to select card members.

The talks are good news for Time Inc., which has undergone several years of internal management upheaval as well as external pressures from a rapidly changing media market.

Jack Griffin, who was hired as the first chief executive outside of Time Inc. in 2010, lasted just six months before Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief executive of the parent company Time Warner, asked him to leave in early 2011. Mr. Bewkes publicly rebuked Mr. Griffin for his management style.

After nearly nine months without a chief executive, the role was filled by Laura Lang, who stepped into a tough magazine market that forced her to cut costs. In January, she reduced Time Inc.'s global work force by 6 percent. The following month, Time Warner was in talks to sell off most of Time Inc.'s magazines to Meredith Corporation.

In March, just hours after confirming that the deal with Meredith was off, Time Warner announced that it planned to spin off its struggling Time Inc. magazine division into a separate publicly traded company and that Ms. Lang would resign. People with knowledge of the deal say that the negotiations have been stretching on for months.
283 2013-09-10 Sunday was also essentially the first time in 25 years that I would not be on a football team for the opening game of the season.

I woke up unsure of what emotions might come over me during the day, but open to whatever the experience might bring. And there were a lot of things that I just didn’t expect.

This was my first time entering a football stadium as a fan with a ticket, and I felt lost, in more ways than one. This is a place I once considered home, and I couldn’t even figure out which door to enter or how to get to where I needed to go. For years, I knew exactly where to find my parking space, how to get to my locker and where the field was. Now, that comfort level was gone.

I finally asked security if they could point me in the direction of the home team’s locker room. I thought that once I found a familiar place, I could figure out the rest.

But when I made my way to the locker room, I actually felt more out of place.

Lost and found at the same time, I guess.

I passed by the locker room where I used to dress, and almost out of habit, I felt compelled to enter. From the hallway I could even smell the locker room. It was so oddly familiar.

There was a chill in the stadium, as there can be before the fans fill it up, and it actually gave me the shivers, as it had so many times before. It was as if my body was returning to its normal game-day biology, and I knew that once bodies filled up the stands, I would warm up in response.

When I approached the field to watch pregame warm-ups, I entered through the same tunnel, exchanged pleasantries with the same security guard and heard the welcoming cheers of the same early-to-arrive fans as I had countless times during my playing days.

I was wearing jeans and a T-shirt, but I instinctively began to bounce gently on the balls of my feet. I shook out my arms and legs, one limb at a time. Preparing for action, with no action to come.

Then I noticed myself digging the top of my shoe deep into the turf, almost ritualistically, as I stepped across the white line from the sideline to the playing field. I imagine I’ve done this unconsciously every time I’ve taken the field, since I was 8 years old.

When the players were introduced to the crowd, I couldn’t help feeling intimately connected to the moment but utterly detached from what was about to take place. I also didn’t realize until Sunday how much I had taken the national anthem for granted all these years. It felt like the proverbial nightmare before the first game, when you know where you’re supposed to be but just can’t seem to get there.

When I saw the Saints’ defense gather near the 30-yard line before running onto the field to begin a new season, I experienced an unexpected urge to move in that direction, while also feeling a huge disconnect between what my life was and what it is now.

And I never imagined I would have been nearly moved to tears the first time I heard the crowd roar.

It’s easy to tell people I’m not a football guy. I say it all the time. Football doesn’t define me. It’s actually a very small part of who I am.

But it’s inside me. I imagine it is the same for anyone who has played this game for a long time. And as much I try to deny that reality, Sunday I realized something that I didn’t think was possible: I miss it.

I know I can never play football again. I accept that the game has passed me by. Physically, I’m a shadow of my former self.

And I don’t know if that makes it easier or worse.

Lost and found at the same time.
284 2013-09-10 China has the world’s biggest diabetes epidemic, and it continues to get worse, according to the latest study of the disease’s devastating effects on the world’s most populous country, which has risen from poverty to become an economic superpower in 30 years.

Previous studies had found rapidly rising rates of the disease, and the newest, published last week by The Journal of the American Medical Association, shows that China has just passed the United States: 11.6 percent of Chinese adults have the disease, compared with 11.3 percent here; in 1980, prevalence was below 1 percent.

The total — 114 million people — means China has about a third of the world’s diabetes sufferers, who are at greater risk of heart disease, stroke and kidney failure. That will put enormous strain on the country’s public health system, the authors said.

Perhaps even more alarming, the study, which involved testing almost 99,000 people, found that half had “prediabetic” blood glucose levels.

For unknown reasons, weight gain leads to Type 2 diabetes in Asians at even lower body-mass indexes than it does in whites or blacks.  The average body mass index in the study was 23.7, which is considered normal.

But obesity is increasing rapidly in China. Experts have blamed many factors: the introduction of high-calorie Western diets and fast food, more travel by car, sedentary factory jobs replacing farm labor, and families who spoil the one child that most are allowed to have.
285 2013-09-10 JAKARTA — The finals of the annual Miss World pageant are in jeopardy following a decision by the Indonesian government to relocate the competition because of opposition from radical Islamic groups, with local organizers saying Monday that it might not be possible to move the globally televised event on short notice.

The 2013 pageant kicked off Sunday night with a gala opening show on the Hindu-majority resort island of Bali, and later rounds were scheduled to take place in the capital, Jakarta, before the grand finale on Sept. 28 at an international convention center in West Java Province, just outside the city.

But after a meeting Saturday between Vice President Boediono and officials from the national police and the welfare and tourism ministries, the government announced that the entire pageant could only be staged in Bali, where radical Islamist groups have less of a presence, for public order reasons.

Nana Putra, project director for programming and production at MNC, the Indonesian media conglomerate that is organizing the 63rd annual competition, said that logistically it was probably not possible to relocate the upcoming segments and grand finale to Bali given the shortage of time. She noted that many banquet facilities and hotel rooms had already been booked for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, which will be held in Bali early next month and attended by President Barack Obama of the United States, President Xi Jinping of China and numerous other world leaders.

“The pageant has different programs, and that requires booking venues, rooms, equipment far in advance,” Ms. Nana said, adding that organizers had been working on hosting the competition since 2010. “It’s just difficult for us to change all these things that we were preparing for a long time. We cannot just change it overnight.”
286 2013-09-10 GENEVA — As Secretary of State John Kerry pursued efforts to mobilize international support for military action against the Syrian government, the United Nations’ top human rights official spoke out firmly against it on Monday and urged global powers to find ways to bring warring parties to negotiations to end the conflict.

The appalling suffering in Syria “cries out for international action,” Navi Pillay, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said on Monday in a speech in Geneva. Employing chemical weapons was “one of the gravest crimes that can be committed,” Ms. Pillay said, and their use in Syria “seems to be in little doubt,” even if the circumstances and the party responsible remained to be clarified.

While the United States is calling for a limited punitive strike to punish the Syrian government, Ms. Pillay warned that “a military response or the continued supply of arms risk igniting a regional conflagration, possibly resulting in many more deaths and even more widespread misery.”

Ms. Pillay chastised the international community for being “late, very late” in acting to stop the violence in Syria, which has killed more than 100,000 people. “This is no time for powerful states to continue to disagree on the way forward,” she said, “or for geopolitical interests to override the legal and moral obligation to save lives by bringing this conflict to an end.”

There is no easy or obvious route out of Syria’s crisis except negotiating immediate steps to end the conflict, she said, and countries, together with the United Nations, had to find a way to make that happen.

Reviewing an array of international rights issues, Ms. Pillay also voiced alarm at violence in Iraq and Egypt.
287 2013-09-10 In Mr. Hartnell’s 1955 autobiography, “Silver and Gold,” (published by Evans Brothers), the British couturier asserts that “poetry and pageantry are England’s greatest arts.” The films shown at the palace — even in grainy black and white — prove that point.

Mr. Hartnell’s book describes the intense work leading to the big day, including his horror in finding that the common leek, not the pretty daffodil, was the emblem of Wales and his struggle to comply with the new ruler’s request that the flowers of the Commonwealth countries also should appear on her dress.

The exhibition’s most extraordinary elements are the queen’s 6.5-meter, or 21-foot, violet velvet train, which was held up by her six maids of honor, and the peers’ costumes tipped with ermine tails.

Looking at the gorgeous gowns in the abbey on the great day, Mr. Hartnell said he had asked a rhetorical question: “Why didn’t everyone, every day, dress like this at breakfast time?”

• The purple velvet Robe of Estate was embroidered with wheat ears and olive branches by 12 embroiderers using 18 different types of gold thread. The effort took 3,500 hours.

• In addition to the floral symbols of Great Britain, the queen’s dress also was embroidered with symbols of Commonwealth countries, including the maple leaf of Canada, Australia’s wattle, the fern of New Zealand, the lotus of India, a South African protea and the wheat, jute and cotton of Pakistan.

• The 4-year-old Prince Charles wore a cream-colored outfit with a lace jabot and buckled black patent-leather shoes. Princess Anne, who was 2, wore a cream silk and lace dress with ballet pumps.

• The Imperial State Crown, which the queen wore to leave the abbey, was remade for the coronation of the queen’s father, King George VI, in 1937 and is set with more than 3,000 gems. It is displayed with the coronation jewels and a re-creation of the white flower bouquet that she carried.

• The photographer Cecil Beaton built a set to recreate the aura of Westminster Abbey for the official portrait of the new queen, taken in the Green Drawing Room at the palace.

• The number of ermine tails worn by the peers was determined by their rank: two for a baron, two and a half for a viscount, three for an earl, three and a half for a marquis and four for a duke.
288 2013-09-11 Ms. Sui used glittering, iridescent fabrics on her traditionally trippy, bohemian fashion....
289 2013-09-11 The administration’s plans for a missile attack to punish the Assad regime’s alleged use of chemical weapons has been frozen after Russia and Syria proposed international inspection, removal and destruction of the arsenal.

But is such a plan realistic? Could Syria’s chemical weapons be found and eliminated?
290 2013-09-11 Wednesday’s selections from around the Web include professional hackers working for the government or as private contractors, and how Motoroloa moved the assembly of its newest smartphone to the United States....
291 2013-09-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
292 2013-09-11 William A. Ackman expanded his campaign against Herbalife on Wednesday, questioning the independence of its auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and warning of “serious accounting” issues at the company....
293 2013-09-11 After Apple extended sales of the iPhone to new foreign markets and offered a less expensive iPhone, some analysts downgraded the company’s stock while others came to its defense....
294 2013-09-11 Google’s settlement of a shareholder lawsuit will most likely clear the way for the company to issue new nonvoting Class C shares. The move will perpetuate the control of Google by its co-founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, but may not be in s...
295 2013-09-11 New airport vending machines from 3floz.com offer travelers beauty and wellness products in sizes approved by the T.S.A....
296 2013-09-11 Josh Skolnick, who has demonstrated a knack for building and selling businesses, is trying to decide the best way to grow his latest venture....
297 2013-09-11 A report dated Aug. 16 and released Sept. 11 by a commission of inquiry on Syria, attributes eight massacres to government forces and one to rebel fighters.
298 2013-09-11 Retailers look to the holidays. A money-back guarantee. Twenty-three graduates of the Goldman Sachs small-business program. And an iPhone spoof....
299 2013-09-11 Suffering must not be alleviated!...
300 2013-09-11 Large numbers of foreign troops would almost certainly be needed to safeguard inspectors working in the midst of the civil war....
301 2013-09-11 The Obama administration on Tuesday eased longstanding restraints on humanitarian and good-will activities between Iran and the United States, including athletic exchanges. It was at least the second American government relaxation of Iranian sanctions this year and came as Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, has signaled his desire to improve relations.

The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which oversees the sanctions on Iran, said in a statement that it had cut the bureaucracy for obtaining exemptions in order to expedite the provision of health services, disaster relief, wildlife conservation and human rights projects in the country. Also authorized are “activities related to sports matches and events, the sponsorship of sports players, coaching, refereeing and training, in addition to other activities.”

The Treasury statement said the action, which eliminates requirements for special exemption licenses on a case-by-case basis, reflected what it called “this administration’s commitment to reinforcing ties between the Iranian and American people.”

Advocacy groups welcomed the step. The National Iranian American Council, which is critical of Iran’s government but opposes the sanctions, said it had been working for years to loosen the restraints on humanitarian and athletic exchanges.

“Today’s action is critical in helping prevent broad sanctions from isolating ordinary Iranians and ensuring that humanitarian needs of ordinary people do not fall prey to political disputes between the U.S. and Iranian governments," the group’s policy director, Jamal Abdi, said in a statement. “In lieu of formal diplomatic relations between the two governments, people-to-people diplomacy and athletic exchanges are crucial for bridging divides between the American and Iranian people."
302 2013-09-11 Jason Kenney, the multiculturalism minister, said in Ottawa that if the charter were approved, the federal government would order a review by its Justice Department. “We would challenge any law that we deem unconstitutional, that violates the fundamental constitutional guarantees to freedom of religion,” he told reporters.

All major federal political parties condemned the plan, with the exception of the Bloc Québécois, another separatist group.

Tom Mulcair, a Quebecer whose New Democratic Party dominates the province federally, called the proposed charter “state-sanctioned discrimination,” and another Quebecer, Justin Trudeau, the leader of the Liberals, accused Quebec’s prime minister, Pauline Marois, of playing “divisive identity politics.”

The charter’s critics include some prominent supporters of Ms. Marois’s party, as well as teachers’ unions, religious leaders and human rights groups.

Ms. Marois’s comments after the leak of her charter plan intensified the debate by suggesting that Britain’s tolerance of religions and different cultures had led to terrorism.

“In England, they get into fights and throw bombs at one another because of multiculturalism, and people get lost in that type of a society,” she said in an interview with Le Devoir, a Montreal newspaper, last week.

Passage of the charter is not guaranteed because Ms. Marois’s party does not hold a majority of the votes in the Legislature. While the Liberal Party opposes it, there are indications that a third party may back the plan, which would allow it to pass.

If it fails, Ms. Marois is expected to call an election immediately that would effectively become a referendum on the charter.

Most immigrants to Quebec live in Montreal, whose City Council has already passed a motion against the plan and where there is little other apparent support for it. But concern that immigrants could erode French-speaking Quebec’s culture and undermine efforts to maintain a secular province is common in many rural areas where immigrants are scarce or nonexistent.

Chantal Hébert, a political columnist with The Toronto Star, wrote that the perception of a threat from other cultures and religions has more to do with news media reports than the personal experiences of the residents of rural regions.

“With the help of a fair amount of sensationalist reporting, the sense that Quebecers could somehow be dispossessed of their identity or that the provincial’s social order could be threatened unless that plurality is reined in is latent,” she wrote.

Many of Ms. Marois’s opponents have noted that while her party promotes secularism, it refuses to remove a large crucifix that hangs about the speaker’s chair in the province’s legislative assembly.

How to handle religious symbolism, particularly with immigrants, has long been a fraught issue in Quebec, which went from being dominated by the Roman Catholic Church to becoming among Canada’s most secular locations. Earlier this summer, the provincial soccer federation was suspended by the national soccer association for banning turbans and two other types of religious head wraps on players. After holding hearings throughout the province on “reasonable accommodation,” a commission issued a lengthy report in 2008 that found there was a “crisis of perception” on the issue of religion’s impact.
303 2013-09-11 The country’s foreign minister acknowledged for the first time on Tuesday that the Syrian government possesses chemical arms, while fighting continued around the country....
304 2013-09-11 Parliament voted Tuesday to allow officials in Bucharest to capture and kill tens of thousands of stray dogs in the city. The chamber approved the measure 226 to 23. The mayor of Bucharest, the capital, who had planned a referendum on the issue, said he would seek to cancel the referendum. In recent years, a Bucharest woman was killed by a pack of strays, and a Japanese tourist died after a stray severed an artery in his leg. Last week, a 4-year-old boy was fatally mauled. The bill must be signed by the president.
305 2013-09-11 A decade ago, Apple transformed the music business with its iTunes store. Now what the music industry expects from Apple is less of a revolution than a helping hand.

Apple’s newest music feature, iTunes Radio, will be released on Sept. 18 as part of its iOS 7 system update, the company announced on Tuesday. The service is a sleek take on Internet radio, and Apple’s ability to place the app on millions of its devices gives it an enormous potential audience from Day 1.

“It’s a huge opportunity on a global basis to accelerate the transition of radio listeners and advertising dollars from terrestrial to digital,” said Stephen Bryan, the executive vice president for digital strategy at the Warner Music Group, which releases music by Green Day, Bruno Mars and hundreds of other acts.

The service is a threat to Pandora Media, which dominates Internet radio. But music and advertising executives say that the magnitude of that threat is unclear, given Apple’s relatively late entry into streaming music and Pandora’s strong market position. Both offer free streams of music tailored to a user’s taste and supported by advertising. In August, Pandora had 72.1 million active users — almost all in the United States — who streamed 1.35 billion hours of music, according to data released by the company.

“At this point Pandora is one of the leading recipients of mobile advertising revenue, and is one of the most popular apps, period, across devices,” said Clark Fredricksen, a vice president at eMarketer, a research firm. “It’s tough to see it getting killed.”
306 2013-09-11 After a two-decade-long relationship between the magazine giant Time Inc. and American Express, Time Inc. plans to close quickly on its purchase of American Express’s publishing division.

“This 20-year courtship is finally being consummated in matrimony,” said Ed Kelly, president and chief executive of the American Express Publishing Corporation. He joked in a phone interview that after such a long engagement, there was no reason to delay the wedding; Time says it expects to close the deal by Oct. 1.

On Tuesday, both companies announced that Time Inc. would buy for an undisclosed sum all of American Express’s publishing titles, which include Food & Wine and Travel & Leisure along with magazines sent to selected American Express card members, like Departures and Black Ink. Time Inc. is adding these magazines to its lifestyle group, with magazines like Sunset, Real Simple and Southern Living.

American Express and Time Inc. have worked together since 1993 through a management services agreement that let them team up on advertising and back-office deals. More recently, the two companies worked on a marketing campaign for the hotel chain Westin that involves Time Inc. magazines like Fortune and Real Simple and American Express magazines like Food & Wine and Travel & Leisure.

Since 2008, when American Express changed its status to a bank holding company, it has been constrained from engaging in any businesses that are considered nonfinancial activities. That has prevented its magazines from experimenting with new sources of revenue as its competitors have.
307 2013-09-11 The result, disappointingly, is a scattershot work that is, by turns, entertaining and wearisome, energetic and hokey, delightfully evocative and cheaply sensational; dead-on in its conjuring of zeitgeist-y atmospherics, but often slow-footed and ham-handed in its orchestration of social details. All the author’s familiar trademarks are here: a multitudinous cast with ditsy, Dickensian names; shaggy-dog plotlines sprouting everywhere, like kudzu; large heapings of coincidence; and a plethora of jokes, ditties, dead-end digressions and trippy, playful asides about everything from Benford Curve anomalies to Beanie Babies to the mysteries of the “Deep Web.”

And yet, for a novel concerned with Sept. 11, “Bleeding Edge” is weirdly Pynchon Lite, not as breezy as his 2009 novel, “Inherent Vice,” perhaps, but an uncomfortable hodgepodge of genres that vacillates among chick lit (with a heroine who visits an “emotherapist” and shops at Loehmann’s), the private-eye procedural and Tom Wolfe-ian satire, stopping now and then to dispense some nastier spoonfuls of existential nausea and terror.

The novel’s default mode is weirdly sophomoric in tone, much like its recently released trailer, which features a young man wearing novelty sunglasses and a T-shirt that reads, “Hi, I’m Tom Pynchon,” wandering around Zabar’s on the Upper West Side and buying smoked salmon, which he later drapes over his face as a “natural exfoliant.”

There are moments in “Bleeding Edge,” when Mr. Pynchon uses his hefty arsenal of talents to capture the churning anxiety of New York at the turn of the millennium with gorgeous sleight of hand, but there are also embarrassing sequences with characters nattering on and on about “false flag” capers, insinuating possible United States government or Mossad involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks. There are some razzle-dazzle descriptions of various computer programs — including one that transports users to vividly realized virtual paradises — but there are also lots of tired complaints about “sewers of greed” and consumerism in millennial Manhattan.

Like most Pynchon books, “Bleeding Edge” uses the detective story as a flimsy armature on which to build a huge, teetering Rube Goldberg-esque narrative. The detective story genre concerns the finding of clues and the search for hidden designs, and its very form underscores Mr. Pynchon’s obsession with conspiracies and the existence of systems too complicated to understand. In this case, his heroine, Maxine Tarnow, a fraud investigator and Upper West Side mom — who turns out to bear more than a passing resemblance to Oedipa Maas, the housewife heroine of “The Crying of Lot 49” — begins looking into a suspicious computer security company called hashslingrz and its evil, insanely rich chief executive, Gabriel Ice.

Portentous events and lots of huggermugger quickly proliferate, as they always in Pynchon-land: a dead body turns up near the pool in a famous Upper West Side building; men with shoulder-fired missiles are videotaped on the roof of what seems to be the same building; children are rumored to have been kidnapped, tortured and trained to become “military time travelers” at a boot camp possibly on eastern Long Island; a hidden tape appears to show “young men of Arab background” building a “virtual-cathode oscillator” that may be used to set off a “citywide electromagnetic pulse” in New York or Washington or someplace else.

Gabriel Ice — who is married to the daughter of a crusading left-wing blogger, who happens to be friends with Maxine — is suspected of using his tech company to funnel money to the Emirates: there is speculation that he was helping to finance the attack on the World Trade Center, or maybe working with “the C.I.A., pretending to be jihadist.”

With the exception of the wonderful title characters in “Mason & Dixon,” who emerged as deeply felt, genuine human beings, Mr. Pynchon’s people have always verged on the cartoonish, but those in “Bleeding Edge” are especially poor specimens, neither resonant nor satiric in any memorable way.

Gabriel Ice is supposed to be an “amiable geek” whose greed and success as a tech entrepreneur have turned him to the dark side, but it’s hard to believe that this kid billionaire and his wife would choose to live in “deep hairband country” on the Upper East Side, in a grand dwelling boasting a Bösendorfer Imperial in the corner of one of its public rooms, “at which generations of hired piano players have provided hours of Kander & Ebb, Rodgers & Hammerstein, Andrew Lloyd Webber medleys.” It’s equally hard to see this ambitious nerd as a Bond-like villain with a secret computer server farm in deep underground caves near a lake in upstate New York.

Other details in this novel also ring false or feel unworthy of a writer with as prodigal an imagination as Mr. Pynchon’s. It’s absurd that Maxine — who is more convincing as a nice Upper West Side mom with two young sons than she is as a Beretta-packing investigator — would have sex with a scummy suspect, who’s “a torturer, a murderer many times over.”

And the Tom Wolfe-ian status details Mr. Pynchon sprinkles over Maxine’s life are frequently off-key as well: Maxine seems to think that a matronly Longchamps handbag can provide a critical boost to one’s “hipness rating,” and she attends an Upper West Side Halloween party that features “treat assortments from Dean & DeLuca and Zabar’s, and gift bags stuffed with high-end digital tchotchkes, Hermès scarves and free airplane tickets to places like Tahiti and Gstaad.”

As for Mr. Pynchon’s conjuring of millennial New York, it’s a total mishmash. One moment, he’s serving up trite gripes about Times Square’s becoming “Disneyfied and sterile” under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The next, he’s giving us some genuinely harrowing glimpses of Sept. 11: “a rush of blackness and death” sweeping the streets around the trade center, “a bitter chemical smell of death and burning” infecting the city air. Clichés about the “Yupper West Side” and Andy Rooney-esque whining about DIY Ikea furniture jostle for space with evocative meditations about the surreal turns that an ordinary subway ride or walk around the block can take in Manhattan.

In many ways, Mr. Pynchon’s New York City, circa 2001, is a dark mirror of America today: anxious about government surveillance and tracking by the Internet giants, a world in which not just the paranoids, but regular people, too, worry that their “every click, every cursor movement” is being tracked by unseen forces that know what they want before they do.

Maxine’s father explains that the Internet, her generation’s “magical convenience,” grew out of Defense Department research during the cold war, and he rants that it “creeps now like a smell through the smallest details of our lives, the shopping, the housework, the homework, the taxes, absorbing our energy, eating up our precious time.” He adds, darkly, that “as it kept growing, it never stopped carrying in its heart a bitter-cold death wish for the planet.”

“Here in the capital of insomnia,” Maxine thinks, this is “what innocent father-daughter conversations can drift into.” Outside the windows, “they can hear the lawless soundscape of the midnight street, breakage, screaming, vehicle exhaust, New York laughter, too loud, too trivial, brakes applied too late before some gut-wrenching thud. When Maxine was little, she thought of this nightly uproar as trouble too far away to matter, like sirens. Now it’s always too close, part of the deal.”
308 2013-09-11 Han Chiang, known for his fiery Sichuan fare served up with strong opinions in several Philadelphia area restaurants, is now in New York. Mr. Chiang, a native of Taiwan whose father is from Sichuan, came to the United States as a teenager and worked his way into the restaurant business, opening his first little place six years ago. More recently, he attended a culinary school in Chengdu in Sichuan Province in China. The entrees are listed by styles of cooking, like spicy pickled chile, hot pot or dry pot style that diners can order with fish, chicken, tofu or other proteins. The chef, Luo Hong Bin, is also from Chengdu. “What I’m trying to do is be authentic but also to innovate,” Mr. Chiang said. He’ll also serve fried Taiwanese sausage. “I’d like to offer the Taiwanese street food I grew up eating.”: 90 Third Avenue (12th Street), (212) 390-8685, handynasty.net.

APARTMENT 13 You’ll find touches of Japan (miso butter on the halibut) and Latin America (chimichurri) from John Keller, the chef and an owner. He has worked with Steve Olson and Leo DeGroff, drinks experts, to recommend a cocktail, beer and wine with each dish: 115 Avenue C (Seventh Street), (917) 475-1213, apt-13.com.

DOMAIN NYC The owners of Vareli have revamped their restaurant, with Derrick Styczek in the kitchen. Mr. Styczek, who won a Michelin star at the now defunct Etats-Unis on the Upper East Side, has a menu of American fare with global touches (scallops in Peking duck broth): 2869 Broadway (111th Street), (212) 678-8585, domainrestaurant.com.

PICNIC The Midwest has inspired the chef Nicholas Nostadt, who has given some classics like cheese balls, pulled pork, turkey legs and deviled eggs a modern spin. There’s bresaola in the cheese ball, for example: 117 Second Avenue (Seventh Street), (212) 777-3600, picniceastvillage.com.

QI ESARN THAI KITCHEN The name, referring to Northern Thai food (also called Isan), reflects the new direction for the formerly pan-Asian Qi. Pichet Ong and Claire Handleman will be in the kitchen. (opens Thursday): 31 West 14th Street, (212) 929-9917, qirestaurant.com.

SEäSONAL What was a fairly bland room has been redecorated and now combines hardwoods and forest green leather chairs so it more closely resembles the East Village wine bars owned by Eduard Frauneder and Wolfgang Ban. They have also added dishes like gin-cured oysters with cucumbers to their Austrian menu. (Wednesday): 152 West 58th Street, (212) 957-5550, seasonalnyc.com.
309 2013-09-11 Investor reaction to the new iPhones was muted. Apple’s stock price finished the day down 2.3 percent.

The new iPhones represent a shift in strategy for Apple.

For years, Apple has offered multiple flavors of each of its products other than the iPhone. It offers many Mac notebooks, multiple desktop computers, several iPods and two sizes of iPads.

Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, recently said that each iPod model had a reason to exist, like the iPod Mini, a tiny device that did not have much storage. It turned in surprisingly strong sales, attracting athletes and people who listened to music occasionally. The classic iPod, with more storage, eventually shifted to become a music player for hard-core audio fans who wanted all their albums on one device.

“The Mini proved that people want something lighter, thinner, smaller,” Mr. Cook said at a technology business conference in May. “My only point is that these products all served a different person, a different type, a different need.”

Clearly, Apple thinks there is a reason for a cheaper iPhone. With Apple’s profit growth slowing, and smartphone sales surging in countries like China, India and Russia, the cheaper iPhone is meant for what analysts call “aspirational consumers” in those countries — the top 10 to 20 percent who are slightly uncomfortable about spending more money on a fancy brand, but might be convinced at the right price.

Apple especially hopes to be big in China, now the largest smartphone market in the world, where the company is being beat by Chinese manufacturers of low-cost smartphones running Google’s Android software system. Sales of Apple products in China were down 4 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period last year.

Apple was careful to not make the iPhone 5C sound cheap. It emphasized that many key parts were made of a high-quality polycarbonate material, and underneath the plastic is steel reinforcement. Apple added networking parts that make the phone compatible with global cellular networks.

“When you pick up and hold the iPhone 5C for the first time, you’re going to be blown away by the quality of it, and how rich and rigid it feels in your hand,” said Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president for worldwide marketing, to a full house of about 300 members of the news media in the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. Apple also scheduled satellite events in Tokyo, Berlin and Beijing, where it rebroadcast the product event for journalists.

The more expensive phone, the iPhone 5S, will be the first Apple device to feature a faster processor called A7. It also includes a chip called M7, a processor dedicated to sensors that detect movements, which will enable the iPhone to support smarter health and fitness apps. The iPhone 5S comes in three metallic colors: silver, gold and dark gray.

The iPhone 5S’s fingerprint scanner, located on the button below the screen, is the newest feature. The phone’s main button is made of a sapphire crystal on the outside, with a steel detection ring and the fingerprint sensor underneath. An iPhone owner can simply touch the button to bypass the phone’s lock screen. The fingerprint scanner can also be used to buy apps.

Other new features of the iPhone 5S include improved battery life of 10 hours talk time or 250 hours on standby. It also has an improved camera.

Along with the new iPhones, Apple announced that a major upgrade for its mobile software system would be available Sept. 18. The software, iOS 7, introduces thin typography and more vibrant colors. It removes textures that made some apps mimic real-life objects in the previous operating system — the leather in the Calendar app is gone, and the shelves in the iBookstore app are no longer wood grain.

Some investors have worried that Apple has lost its ability to innovate since the death of the visionary Steven P. Jobs, and the new iPhones’ addition of colors and a fingerprint sensor might not persuade them otherwise.

But Laurence Isaac Balter, the chief market strategist for Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares, said he thought the iPhone 5C was just a stopgap for Apple so that it could take in more sales while it worked on more compelling products, like a television and a connected wristwatch.

“We need to let Apple go after their market share and then bring in innovation for the next wave,” Mr. Balter said.

Even though the iPhone 5C came in at a higher price than expected, Mr. Walkley of Canaccord Genuity said Apple was still in a strong position going into the holiday quarter. Many consumers seem excited about the fingerprint technology of the iPhone 5S, and Apple’s new partnership with NTT Docomo, the No. 1 carrier in Japan, should drive up sales, he said.

The addition of a cheaper iPhone raises the question of whether Apple will introduce a third model. The company has reportedly been experimenting with an iPhone with a larger screen, similar to the bigger smartphones offered by its main rival, Samsung Electronics.

Milton Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute, a research firm, encouraged Apple to take that route and market a bigger iPhone as a higher-end model. A big-screen iPhone could cater to Apple’s older, wealthier customers, and it would protect the company’s status as a luxury brand.

“Lots of people need a bigger screen,” Mr. Pedraza said. “Their vision is going, and their fingers are not as dexterous. Duh.”
310 2013-09-11 “We will give this country a new government,” Ms. Solberg said late on Monday night after Mr. Stoltenberg conceded defeat. She has said that she is prepared to form a coalition with the Progress Party, which has recently tried to tone down its anti-immigrant oratory. But persuading two other smaller center-right parties to join such a coalition might be difficult.

The campaign was centered largely on economic issues, like extending already generous welfare payments (Labor’s platform) versus cutting taxes and privatizing hospitals (the Conservative platform). But the massacre on the island of Utoya, where Mr. Breivik attacked young members of the Labor Party, many of them children, on July 22, 2011, was never far from the surface.

Mr. Stoltenberg, whose pledge after the attack for “more democracy, more openness and more humanity” won him praise at the time, saw his party’s standing decline after a commission on Norway’s preparedness for terrorist attacks reported last year that the massacre could have been avoided if security protocols had been followed properly. Thirty-three Utoya survivors ran for Labor seats and several of them lost.

The Conservative, Progress and two small center-right parties, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, ended up with 96 seats in Parliament, 11 more than needed for a majority. Mr. Stoltenberg and his Green and Socialist allies won 72 seats.

Monday’s outcome, while perhaps puzzling to outsiders who are inevitably struck by Norway’s wealth, was broadly expected inside the country. “The wealth is also a problem for politicians,” said Bernt Aardal, professor of politics at the University of Oslo. “Every time there is a headline about health queues or deficiencies in health care for elderly people, everyone says that this shouldn’t happen in a country as rich as this one.”

Despite solid economic growth, thanks in no small part to North Sea oil, and one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, voters also simply seemed to crave change, analysts said. “Norway is very rich,” said Frithjof Jacobsen, chief political commentator at the tabloid newspaper Verdens Gang, known as VG. “We have hardly any unemployment. So it must be strange to see the government changing from the outside. But eight years is a very long time.”

Mr. Stoltenberg has been prime minister since 2005. Last month, he sought to revive his chances of another term by driving a taxi in Oslo, the capital, to “hear what people really think.” The stunt was at least partly staged, as some of the passengers had been recruited in advance and told to wait at a certain spot for Mr. Stoltenberg.

But Marianne Kiaer, a 45-year-old teacher who said she supported Labor in the last two elections but switched to the Conservatives this time, appeared to speak for many when she said, “Maybe eight years with Labor is enough.”

In Stavanger, Norway’s oil capital, Kjell Gamlen, 54, said he voted for the Progress Party because “we need something altogether new in Norwegian politics.”

Shara Ali, 20, a student and refugee from Iraqi Kurdistan who arrived in Norway in 2002, placed blame for the growing influence of the Progress Party on mainstream politics for delays in getting her citizenship. “We are all contributing,” she said of the immigrant population. “We are working and paying taxes.”

As some feared a harder line on immigration in a future coalition, some political observers said any impact of the Progress Party as a junior partner in a governing coalition would probably be minor.

“The Progress Party cannot be compared to the Front National in France or the Danish People’s Party or German neo-Nazi groups,” said Frank Aarebrot, a professor of comparative politics at the University of Bergen and a prominent political commentator. “Its libertarian streak is as strong as its anti-immigrant streak. The current leader is much more concerned with privatizing hospitals and schools than with immigration.”
311 2013-09-11 The stock market rose on Tuesday and oil prices fell as the prospect that the United States would attack Syria appeared to fade.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index posted its sixth consecutive gain, its longest winning streak since July.

Investors were relieved that Syria said it was ready to cooperate with a proposal to put its chemical weapons under international control for dismantling. The possibility of resolving the crisis between the United States and Syria without a military attack was also a factor in the stock market’s gain on Monday.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 127.94 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 15,191.06. The Standard & Poor’s 500 rose 12.28 points, or 0.73 percent, to 1,683.99, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 22.84 points, or 0.62 percent, to 3,729.02.

Crude oil, which settled above $110 a barrel on Friday, lost $2.13, almost 2 percent, to settle at $107.39 a barrel. Even though Syria is not a big oil producer, the possibility of a wider conflict in the Mideast drove oil prices to two-year highs last week.
312 2013-09-11 TOKYO — Japan has not ruled out stationing government officials on islands at the center of a territorial dispute with China, the top cabinet secretary said Tuesday, as a fleet of Chinese patrol ships entered disputed waters amid tensions in the year-old maritime standoff.

The fight over the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, has tainted relations between the two countries even as they continue to depend on each other for trade.

On Tuesday, seven Chinese patrol ships entered waters around the islands, the latest of many such incursions into the area administered by Japan, according to the Japanese Coast Guard. A day earlier, the Japanese spotted a drone aircraft in the islands’ vicinity and scrambled fighter jets. Japan has not confirmed what nation controlled the drones but has approached China over it, the government said.

The episodes prompted a stern response from Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, who told reporters that Japan stood prepared to make “a calm but resolute response to defend our territory.”

Asked whether Japan might station officials on the islands to defend Japanese territory, Mr. Suga said the move was “one option” under consideration.

“Our country will never make a concession on the matter of sovereignty,” he added.

An effort by either country to forcibly control the islands could lead to an escalation of the conflict, analysts have warned. They also worry that a small, unintended episode at sea as Japanese and Chinese boats chase each other near the islands could lead to a wider conflict. Open hostility between China and Japan, an important American ally in the region, also risks drawing in the United States.
313 2013-09-12 The Securities and Exchange Commission asked the nation’s stock exchanges to implement “kill switches” and other changes after the latest in a line of computer problems scrambled stock trading....
314 2013-09-12 As contestants gather in Atlantic City to see who will be crowned Miss America 2014, we are reminded of the famous “bra-burning” demonstrations, 45 years ago this month, in which hundreds of women gathered on the boardwalk to protest the pageant, proclaiming it racist and bad for women.

So, what’s the verdict? Has anything changed?
315 2013-09-12 The company, which has more than 200 million active users, announced that it had filed paperwork with regulators to eventually sell shares in an initial public offering....
316 2013-09-12 Judge Sean H. Lane approved the carrier’s plan nearly two years after its bankruptcy filing, contingent on Justice Department approval of its merger with US Airways....
317 2013-09-12 David Bowie’s first album in a decade, “The Next Day,” is among the nominees for this prize honoring British or Irish performers....
318 2013-09-12 New home sales soften. “Phablets” take off. Are higher wages actually good for a fast-food business?...
319 2013-09-12 Bob Corker said Volkswagen would be a “laughingstock” if it let the U.A.W. set up shop in its Chattanooga factory....
320 2013-09-12 With the decline of print publications, the founder of one start-up said she wouldn’t even consider advertising....
321 2013-09-12 Antoine Arnault, the LVMH titan Bernard Arnault’s son, has turned heads with his success in making Berluti a growing force in luxury men’s wear after just three years as the company’s C.E.O....
322 2013-09-13 A mistake by the payroll center that serves 23 federal agencies meant that paychecks were not deposited into bank accounts on Friday as they usually are....
323 2013-09-13 The host of “Raising McCain” talks about digital regrets and why she will never run for office....
324 2013-09-13 A team within Nokia had Android up and running on the company’s Lumia handsets well before Microsoft reached a deal to buy Nokia’s phone business, according to people briefed on the effort....
325 2013-09-13 Times film critics on “Blue Caprice,” “Mother of George” and “The Family.”...
326 2013-09-13 For many, it can be a very tempting strategy for all sorts of reasons....
327 2013-09-13 Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel....
328 2013-09-13 New research suggests that cheerleading accounts for 66 percent of catastrophic injuries in female athletes. And the ones who are being injured are not accurately reporting their symptoms....
329 2013-09-13 Rainbow Loom is battling a competitor. Twelve questions to ask yourself before firing an employee. A toilet-fan scam....
330 2013-09-13 You want to believe that the buyers will treat your employees, customers and vendors with the same respect you did. But they probably won’t....
331 2013-09-14 A wall of paper windmills, an Escher-like stairway to nowhere and the world’s largest lava lamp make the list of sites to see this year....
332 2013-09-15 WEXLER--Melissa Ann. May 9, 1958 - September 12, 1981. Sweet Missy, you are a lost treasure never to be forgotten. Love, Mommy Arline Joachim, Eddie, Sheri & Larry...
333 2013-09-15 A recent poll showed that 70 percent of people aged 18 to 34 thought Edward Snowden “did a good thing.” Has the younger generation lost its moral compass?...
334 2013-09-15 Yasmin de Soiza and Charles John Cremeans were married Saturday at the Highlands Country Club in Garrison, N.Y. The Rev. Jim Rooney, a Roman Catholic priest now affiliated with CITI Ministries, officiated.

Ms. de Soiza, 34, is keeping her name. She is the manager of online music education programs at Carnegie Hall in Manhattan. She graduated from Hunter College, from which she also received a master’s degree in music education.

She is a daughter of Andrew A. de Soiza of Mount Ivy, N.Y., and the late Anna H. de Soiza. The bride’s father, now retired, worked in Purchase, N.Y., as a vice president for cash management with Morgan Stanley. Her mother, who worked in Haverstraw, N.Y., was a clinical social worker for the East Ramapo School District.

Mr. Cremeans, 35, is a social studies teacher at Frank Sinatra School of the Arts, a high school in Astoria, Queens. He graduated from Villanova and received a master’s degree in education from St. John’s.

He is the son of Julie and Charles Cremeans of Pearl River, N.Y. The groom’s mother retired as an English teacher for South Orangetown Middle School in Blauvelt, N.Y. His father retired as a sales representative in Hackensack, N.J., for International Harvester, selling commercial trucks.
335 2013-09-15 Bevin Young Kenny, a daughter of Marsha Petersen Kenny and Steven T. Kenny of Southampton, N.Y., was married Saturday to Edward Johnson Gilliss Jr., a son of Barbara Stultz Gilliss and Mr. Gilliss Sr. of Towson, Md. The Rev. Dr. Charles M. Cary, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Old Field Vineyards in Southold, N.Y.

The couple met at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., from which they graduated.

Ms. Kenny, 28, is keeping her name. She is pursuing an associate degree in interior design at Parsons the New School for Design in New York. Until January, she was a marketing assistant at the USA Network, a cable division of NBC Universal in New York.

The bride’s father is an economics professor at Suffolk County Community College in Riverhead, N.Y., part of the State University of New York. He is a member of the Southampton Housing Authority in Southampton, N.Y., and from 1999 to 2007 was a Southampton councilman. Her mother is the director of marketing and public affairs at Southampton Hospital.

Mr. Gilliss, 27, is known as Ned. He is an industrials and materials specialist in the securities division of Morgan Stanley in New York. He is a liaison among the research department, traders and clients.

The groom’s mother is a physical therapist at Megan Rich Physical Therapy in Timonium, Md. His father is a partner in Royston, Mueller, McLean & Reid, a Towson law firm. He is the vice chairman of the University of Maryland St. Joseph Medical Center, where he was chairman from 2011 until July, and is on the Baltimore County School Board.
336 2013-09-15 Tomas Berdych and Radek Stepanek put Czech Republic, the defending champions, into the Davis Cup final by beating Argentina’s Carlos Berlocq and Horacio Zeballos in doubles on Saturday.

Berdych, the world’s fifth-ranked player, and Stepanek, who was part of the men’s doubles team that won the United States Open, defeated the Argentines, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2, giving the Czechs an unassailable 3-0 lead in their semifinal and a place in their third final in five years.

Czech Republic will face either Canada or Serbia on Nov. 15-17.

Berdych and Stepanek, the Czechs’ career best doubles pairing with a 13-1 record, were playing together for the first time this season but looked more at ease than the Argentines with the faster play on the hardcourt at the O2 Arena in Prague.

The Czech Republic also defeated Argentina in Buenos Aires in last year’s semifinals.
337 2013-09-15 But other market participants, including Thomas D. O’Malley, chairman of PBF Energy in Parsippany, N.J., identified JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions as being active sellers of the credits this year. He said the institutions had helped transform an environmental program into a profit machine, contributing to the market frenzy this year. “These things were designed to monitor the inclusion of ethanol in the pool,” Mr. O’Malley said. “They weren’t designed to become a speculative item. For the life of me I can’t see the justification for it.”

While banks are by no means the largest player in ethanol credits, Wall Street’s activity in this market reflects a larger effort by financial institutions to exert their influence over loosely regulated markets for basic commodities, from aluminum to oil. The opacity of the ethanol credit market makes it difficult to determine the extent to which large financial actors have profited.

The banks say they have far less influence in the market than others are suggesting, and are doing nothing wrong. But the activities, while legal, could have consequences for consumers. In the end, energy analysts say, the outcome will be felt at the gas pump — as the higher cost of the ethanol credits gets tacked onto the price of a gallon of gasoline. (The credits, which cost 7 cents each in January, peaked at $1.43 in July, and now are trading for 60 cents.)

The , a refiner that owns thousands of gas stations, says the squeeze in ethanol credits might cost it $800 million. PBF Energy, also a refiner, puts its bill at about $200 million. A review by The Times of a federal registry of nearly 1,500 businesses and individuals in the renewable fuel market found big Wall Street banks as well as a handful of people with troubled legal histories among the participants. Several high-profile cases of fraud have emerged.

Scott Mixon, the acting chief economist of the , said in an interview Friday that the issue of banks’ involvement in this market was something the agency was tracking and might look into more deeply because of the ethanol component. The commission regulates the commodities futures market, including trading in ethanol and gasoline.

Though the ethanol credits are traded by many major investment houses, they were created not on Wall Street but in Washington, on Capitol Hill and at the . At its inception, the so-called Renewable Fuel Standard was promoted as a means to reduce the nation’s reliance on foreign oil, fight global warming and provide a boost to farmers. The rules call for a set amount of ethanol, most of which is made from corn, and other renewable fuels to be blended with fossil fuels each year, with quotas assigned to individual refiners and importers.

Every time they mix ethanol into gas, or import fuel already blended with ethanol, energy companies get a from the government, and that credit can be sold to other companies that don’t blend ethanol to help them meet federal requirements. If refiners fall short of their obligation, they can face fines of $32,500 a day. To monitor compliance, each gallon of ethanol is assigned a 38-digit Renewable Identification Number, or RIN. Six billion of them were generated in the first six months of this year.

The E.P.A. makes sure participants comply with the fuel standard. But rules that apply to almost every other market — on transparency, disclosure and position limits, for example — are not imposed on the trade of RINs, making Wall Street’s role harder to gauge.

If Wall Street traders take a 5 percent stake in a public company’s stock, for instance, they are required by law to flag that they have acquired a sizable stake in a filing with the . There is no such obligation for traders buying RINs.

Like JPMorgan, other big banks downplay their involvement, contending that they are in the market primarily because their firms, through subsidiaries and other arrangements, have ownership interests in gasoline and other energy production and therefore are required to participate in the federal renewable fuels program.

Until 1999, regulations barred banks from owning nonfinancial companies like commodities operations. This was meant to keep banks from self-dealing or pursuing monopolistic practices in their financial operations that could benefit their nonfinancial affiliates. Separating these operations, regulators believed, would also protect a bank’s core lending and deposit-taking businesses from risky trading by nonfinancial units.  Those restrictions fell by the wayside with the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which struck down Depression-era banking laws. Now, however, the Federal Reserve is reviewing commodities ownership by banks.

In the case of JPMorgan, the industry executives familiar with its activities in the RINs market said they were told by a top banker in its commodities operation about the stockpiling. The executives said the banker maintained that one of JPMorgan’s traders had urged the bank to buy up every available credit. The executives spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of harming business relationships.

Through a spokesman, the banker denied that the conversation took place. Mr. Marchiony, the spokesman, characterized the report as a misunderstanding. He denied the bank had stockpiled the credits. He added that the bank mainly dealt in RINs as a byproduct of its joint venture with a refiner in . “The fact of the matter is, we simply don’t trade RINs, nor do we carry an inventory other than a marginal amount for compliance purposes,” the statement said.

Morgan Stanley also generates RINs through TransMontaigne, a subsidiary with 21 blending facilities, and it trades the credits via the Morgan Stanley Capital Group. According to regulatory filings, TransMontaigne’s biggest customer for its energy products is the commodities unit of the Morgan Stanley Capital Group, a trading operation that runs out of the former Texaco headquarters in Purchase, N.Y.

Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, said that the firm had not benefited from the increase in RIN prices in 2013. “The firm’s obligation to purchase RINs as part of our importing and blending of gasoline exceeded the RINs we have received from our wholesale business,” he said.

Mr. Lake declined to discuss Morgan Stanley’s holdings of RINs or to say whether the bank’s traders used market information received from TransMontaigne.

Trading on information gleaned from a subsidiary like TransMontaigne would be illegal in the stock market, but there are no rules against it in commodities. ( also holds a stake Heidmar Holdings, of Norwalk, Conn., which owns a fleet of oil tankers.)

Saule T. Omarova, an associate professor of law at the at , said Morgan Stanley’s overlapping activities illustrate how large financial institutions have become deeply entwined in every aspect of the commodities markets.

“In the trading chain between the oil well and the gas station,” Ms. Omarova said, “Morgan Stanley is clearly accumulating as many stakes along the way as possible because that is what gives them the most flexibility of control.”

The market in ethanol credits is exactly the kind Wall Street loves: opaque, lightly regulated and potentially very lucrative.

Officials at the E.P.A., which oversees the market, say they have seen no evidence of improper trading, like hoarding, in the market. But they do not police the RIN market as a financial regulator would.

“If there were any evidence now or in the future that that was happening, we have the ability to amend the regulation to constrain that,” said Christopher Grundler, director of E.P.A.’s office of transportation and air quality, which oversees the renewable fuels program.

It is difficult for outside groups, or even other regulators and law enforcement agencies, to keep tabs on the market, because the E.P.A. declines to disclose who actively trades the credits, or how much they trade, citing the confidentiality of refiners and other participants.

Trading is a private affair, usually conducted by phone, and just about anyone can participate. In creating the market, the E.P.A. says it did not limit the market for RINs to refiners and other energy companies because it wanted to encourage a free market.

Price movements on other commodities futures are limited by the exchanges on which they trade as a check on speculation. But the biofuel credits are not traded on an exchange: their prices are unbridled. And, unlike in the broader financial industry, no formal qualification or license is required before a broker can start trading.

“There is a RINs trading desk at any major brokerage now,” said Paul Niznik, bio-fuels manager for Hart Energy, based in . “There are people who are not refiners that are buying and selling RINs like a commodity. They treat it like something to be traded, to be day-traded.”

The RINs story began in 2005, when the Bush administration joined Democrats in Congress to pass an energy bill mandating renewable fuel standards. That law was broadened in 2007 to establish requirements for the amount of biofuel to be blended into gasoline annually through 2022. This year, refiners and importers are required to blend 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol, up from 13.2 billion last year. For 2014, the figure is 14.4 billion.

But the estimates Congress used about how much gas Americans would keep buying were wrong. When the biofuel credits were created, gasoline consumption was projected to grow 6 percent by 2013. But thanks in large part to the recession and more fuel-efficient cars, consumption has actually fallen.

As a result, refiners this year began hitting what is known as “the blend wall,” meaning that the amount of ethanol the government is requiring them to use is close to the maximum amount that can be blended into gasoline without creating problems for gas stations and motorists.

Distributing gasoline with greater levels of ethanol is more costly and corrodes gas station pumps and tanks. Raising the ethanol level in gasoline, therefore, would require gas stations across America to install new systems. Therefore, refiners have turned to RINs to meet their government obligations rather than blend more ethanol into gasoline.

Some say financial players saw it coming, and jumped into the market.

“When you see something change as rapidly as this, somebody’s hoarding them, somebody’s buying them, somebody’s making big bucks,” said Senator Thomas A. Coburn, Republican of , a big oil state. After his staff examined the run-up in prices this summer, he said he was concerned that “big moneyed interests” were gaming the credits.

For now, companies like Valero say that they are eating the cost of high RIN prices, which are still eight times more expensive than they were in January. But industry analysts, executives and even researchers at the investment banks predict the cost of the RINs’ surge will be passed along to consumers by increasing the price of gasoline, if not later this year then next year.

Mr. O’Malley, the chairman of PBF Energy, likens the outcome to a hidden on the public. Unlike other taxes, which go to the government, this one goes to the speculators.

Every day, RINs are born in places like , Fla., Chesapeake, Va., and Bainbridge, Ga. Across a network of 45 fuel terminals in the Southeast, and along the and rivers, Morgan Stanley’s TransMontaigne stores, blends and distributes gasoline and other fuels.

Even though it is based in , TransMontaigne sits at the center of a powerful Wall Street energy operation. It delivers 200,000 barrels of refined petroleum products each day, just under 2.5 percent of the total market, and plays a role in the RINs market in addition to any trading its parent, Morgan Stanley, might do. Morgan Stanley bought TransMontaigne in 2006.

For banks, trading RINs for clients can be lucrative. A big reason is that the credits are far more difficult to buy and sell because they are not traded on exchanges like stocks. As a result, the difference between the price at which one party is willing to sell and another is willing to buy is unusually wide. Those fat spreads mean big money for anyone serving as a middleman.

At a hearing in late July at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Mr. Mixon, the commission’s acting chief economist, estimated that RIN spreads were 4 percent of a transaction’s value. That is far more than the average stock commission.

In addition to Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase, other big banks, like and , are also registered with the E.P.A. to trade the credits.

Edward Westlake, an analyst at , said many big financial firms have gone beyond RINs trading and pushed into blending fuel to create them as well. “Building a tank and blending doesn’t cost a lot of money,” Mr. Westlake said, “and there are folks on Wall Street who own tanks who are benefiting from the RINs.”

Bank research departments are also trying to pique investor interest in this market. and recently published bullish reports on the market. In July, Morgan Stanley published a report predicting that RIN prices would keep rising — and eventually cause gas prices to spike later this year.

Officials at the E.P.A. do not see excessive influence by financial speculators. They suggest the price spikes in RINs this year reflect the expectation of a shortage of the credits because rising renewable fuel mandates are occurring as consumer demand for gasoline is falling. “The market is expecting this future scarcity as the statutory mandates continue to increase,” Mr. Grundler said.

Others say that prices are up mostly because the oil industry has refused to invest in renewable energy. For example, Jeremy Martin, a clean energy expert for the , said many of the complaints about the credits come from industry players who want to see the renewable fuels program killed.

“It was meant to change behavior, and it was understood that if it was to be binding, RIN prices would not be close to zero,” Mr. Martin said.

In fact even before RINs took off, they had become a contentious issue within the energy industry. Ethanol producers like the renewable fuel standards because they essentially guarantee a market for their product. But refiners — particularly those without operations to blend the fuel — regard the standards as an onerous and unnecessary business cost.

The Impact at the Pump

Margo T. Oge, who oversaw the creation of the ethanol credit program at the E.P.A., says that the rising price of RINs — no matter the cause — is good news and an indication that the program’s goals are being met.

As the credits get more expensive, she says, oil and gas companies have a financial incentive to add more ethanol to fuel rather than buy credits. That, in turn, reduces oil imports and emissions — which was the point of creating the system in the first place.

Ms. Oge, who retired from the E.P.A. last year and is now a visiting scholar at the International Council on Clean Transportation, a research group in Washington, said RINs were never supposed to affect the price of gasoline at the pump. If that is the result of the price run-up this year, as many energy analysts predict, it would be an unwelcome outcome, she said.

“The last thing we wanted in implementing this program is to get price increases for the consumer,” she said.

Even beyond the likely rise in gasoline prices, critics of the RINs market say it is deeply flawed, and they do not share Ms. Oge’s optimistic takeaway of this year’s market frenzy.

First, by allowing anyone to trade, including those with no real interest in energy, the E.P.A. encouraged speculation, the critics say. Second, the market operates largely in the dark, leaving it vulnerable to manipulation. Third, and perhaps most significant, the federal requirement for ethanol in gasoline means oil companies are captive buyers — meaning they are required to buy the credits when they do not or cannot blend their own fuel — a fact that savvy traders use to their advantage.

“The problem the E.P.A. had is they opened up the market on the trading side, but restricted it on the obligated side to refiners and importers,” said Lawrence J. Goldstein, the former president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a nonprofit bipartisan group.

Analysts and others say the market is vulnerable to questionable practices like short squeezes, where prices are pushed up by holders of the credits to benefit their positions.

“Anybody who’s participating in these markets has the opportunity to throw their weight around,” said David J. Hackett, president of Stillwater Associates, a transportation energy consulting firm. “Whether it’s a hedge fund or a refiner or ethanol producer, they would tend to drive the market in directions that are beneficial for whatever their goals.”

An examination by The Times of participants registered with the E.P.A. found several people with troubled pasts, including one who was accused of helping run a , and another who pleaded guilty to illegal storage of hazardous waste.

The RINs market has come off the boil recently, but at 60 cents apiece the credits still cost far more than they did at the beginning of the year. While the E.P.A. says the market is sound, W. David Montgomery, an economist at Nera Economic Consulting, a unit of , said the agency should install an overseer.

The E.P.A. disagrees, but said it was considering providing more data on who trades and holds RINs and had instituted a voluntary certification system for participants.

“We are exploring things like increasing the regularity of updating the transactional data system and providing more information about production volumes,” Mr. Grundler, the E.P.A. official, said. “All are aimed at increasing confidence in this market and increasing compliance, which is our major concern.”

But Tom Kloza, an analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, a leading source of petroleum pricing, said the potential for abuse will not disappear on its own.

“You could conceivably have a company in the middle holding millions of RINs,” Mr. Kloza said. “Any entity could have a 1, 2 or 5 percent market share in RINs and is waiting to sell them at some explosive gain. I wonder, who’s got the score card?”
338 2013-09-15 The Price of an Ethanol Credit

The Environmental Protection Agency requires gasoline refiners to use a certain amount of ethanol and other bio-fuels. Refiners can meet the requirement by buying biofuel and blending it into gasoline or by accumulating credits known as RINs. The price of the credits has skyrocketed this year.
339 2013-09-15 MADRID — Spain’s prime minister on Saturday rejected a request by the leader of Catalonia to approve a referendum that would allow the northeastern region to decide whether to secede from the rest of the country.

In a written reply, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy told Artur Mas, leader of the economically powerful region, that “the ties that bind us together cannot be undone without enormous cost” and that the two politicians should hold talks instead.

Mr. Rajoy’s answer officially rebuffed the pro-separatist request that Mr. Mas made in July. Spain’s Constitution says only the central government can call a referendum.

More than one million people showed support for Catalan independence on Wednesday by joining hands to form a 250-mile human chain across the region.

Opinion polls indicate about half of Catalonia’s 7.5 million inhabitants favor independence.
340 2013-09-15 The Bulgarian grandmaster Ivan Cheparinov ignored several principles of the game in a recent tournament, with widely different results....
341 2013-09-15 The author, illustrator, songwriter, music producer and entrepreneur has written more than 50 children’s books and created more than 4,000 greeting cards. Where She Is My office is in rural Connecticut, in a barn 60 yards from my house. It’s an echo of a barn that was here for 120 years. The original was termite-infested, so it’s a 20-year-old building the same size as the original. My husband works across the hall. I normally come to the office around 8:30 a.m., and aside from taking a long walk or yoga and eating, I will be at work until midnight or 1 a.m. I work all the time because I really love what I do, as trite as that sounds. My children are all grown now, and. in a sense, after years of raising four kids and working around when they were asleep, I now have this luxury of time that is exciting to me. I sew sock puppets, write, draw, color and do video editing. When I am designing plush toys, I tend to sculpt them out of clay. I am always coloring, cutting, measuring and pasting stuff.

I have a retro sensibility, and I love the odd intersection between form, function and quirkiness. The office is awash in old signs, old records, jukeboxes and other artifacts. I don’t like anything in my office to be rearranged by anyone else. At the same time, I’m not neat. I have my own quixotic organization, so I am in trouble if someone decides to come in here and “help” me by cleaning it up. I almost never play music while I am working because music affects me. There is no such thing as background music for me. When it is on, I have to listen to it and then my brain can’t work. For some reason, however, when I am painting in watercolors I don’t mind music. The harvest table under the window is for writing and laying out things. There’s a computer area with a standing desk and perching stool. I have a light table and a coloring table, where I can color and draw, although I increasingly color on the computer.

I love the “Great Dismal Swamp” sign. I used it in a music video I directed for a song in my book and country music CD, “Frog Trouble and 11 Other Pretty Serious Songs.” It’s the name of a real swamp and there’s a real sign, which I had copied by an artist in Italy. When I was a kid and there were pink phones around, I always felt that there should be pigs on them, since the cord always looked like a tail. Five years ago, I stumbled on one of these old pink phones and had a craftsman I know carve a pig for it. It’s one of a kind, and the phone works. I love my cash register. I am attracted to the mechanical rather than the digital as an interface. Paradoxically, I think mechanical objects are magic. You push the keys, you get a total, and the drawer pops open. I keep my spare change in the register. It makes me happy to hear it when it opens. We have terrible Internet here, because we live in a valley. So I often have to send things to people on thumb drives. I decorate the thumb drives with frogs. The frog looks upset and says, “data,” like he is yelling at you.
342 2013-09-15 The author, illustrator, songwriter, music producer and entrepreneur has written more than 50 children’s books and created more than 4,000 greeting cards. Where She Is My office is in rural Connecticut, in a barn 60 yards from my house. It’s an echo of a barn that was here for 120 years. The original was termite-infested, so it’s a 20-year-old building the same size as the original. My husband works across the hall. I normally come to the office around 8:30 a.m., and aside from taking a long walk or yoga and eating, I will be at work until midnight or 1 a.m. I work all the time because I really love what I do, as trite as that sounds. My children are all grown now, and. in a sense, after years of raising four kids and working around when they were asleep, I now have this luxury of time that is exciting to me. I sew sock puppets, write, draw, color and do video editing. When I am designing plush toys, I tend to sculpt them out of clay. I am always coloring, cutting, measuring and pasting stuff.

I have a retro sensibility, and I love the odd intersection between form, function and quirkiness. The office is awash in old signs, old records, jukeboxes and other artifacts. I don’t like anything in my office to be rearranged by anyone else. At the same time, I’m not neat. I have my own quixotic organization, so I am in trouble if someone decides to come in here and “help” me by cleaning it up. I almost never play music while I am working because music affects me. There is no such thing as background music for me. When it is on, I have to listen to it and then my brain can’t work. For some reason, however, when I am painting in watercolors I don’t mind music. The harvest table under the window is for writing and laying out things. There’s a computer area with a standing desk and perching stool. I have a light table and a coloring table, where I can color and draw, although I increasingly color on the computer.

I love the “Great Dismal Swamp” sign. I used it in a music video I directed for a song in my book and country music CD, “Frog Trouble and 11 Other Pretty Serious Songs.” It’s the name of a real swamp and there’s a real sign, which I had copied by an artist in Italy. When I was a kid and there were pink phones around, I always felt that there should be pigs on them, since the cord always looked like a tail. Five years ago, I stumbled on one of these old pink phones and had a craftsman I know carve a pig for it. It’s one of a kind, and the phone works. I love my cash register. I am attracted to the mechanical rather than the digital as an interface. Paradoxically, I think mechanical objects are magic. You push the keys, you get a total, and the drawer pops open. I keep my spare change in the register. It makes me happy to hear it when it opens. We have terrible Internet here, because we live in a valley. So I often have to send things to people on thumb drives. I decorate the thumb drives with frogs. The frog looks upset and says, “data,” like he is yelling at you.
343 2013-09-15 The owner of a clothing factory in Dhaka, Bangladesh, was at New York University last week to meet with clothing industry executives, labor activists and American and European government officials to talk about the Bangladeshi garment industry, the world’s second-biggest exporter of clothes after China.

The workplace disasters in this business have grabbed the world’s attention, and for the past year, Western retailers that outsource their clothing production to Bangladesh have tried to come up with reforms. But there are big obstacles to improving safety in an industry driven by low profits and constant upheaval.

I met with the businessman and another factory owner; both would speak only on the condition that they not be identified because they feared offending their customers. A central problem, the first owner told me, is the rapid turnaround big retailers like Walmart demand when they put in orders for tens of thousands of T-shirts or shorts. Since his factory isn’t able to make all the garments in time, he has to send some of the work to smaller producers. “I can’t do it officially,” he said, “but unofficially, I can.”

Unauthorized subcontracting to smaller, uninspected factories is not supposed to happen, but it remains an entrenched practice. It is a primary reason safety guidelines that apply to bigger contractors have not prevented the hundreds of worker deaths in fires and building collapses in facilities like Rana Plaza, which crumbled last April killing 1,129 people.

The factory owners admitted that what they were doing was wrong. But they said Western clothing companies were also culpable because they often award contracts to manufacturers that they know do not have enough machines and employees to do the job.

Every player has motives to look the other way. The retailers ignore the subcontracting because they would rather manage fewer big contracts, and the per-piece price of garments falls with bigger orders. Suppliers don’t turn down giant orders because they fear they will be shut out of future jobs. “Any vendor in Bangladesh thinks thrice before saying no,” the second owner said to me. And the subcontractors, the lowest on the ladder, are desperate for orders, compete brutally and cannot afford to upgrade their workshops.

Still, the two owners said there are ways to improve the system. Western companies should not award contracts that are so big suppliers cannot realistically fill them without subcontracting. “There should be a switchboard and the red light should go on,” one said. Both pointed to H&M, the Swedish clothing retailer that buys more clothes from Bangladesh than any other Western company, as a model for other firms to follow. They said the company establishes multiyear relationships with factories and keeps track of every subcontractor, including small workshops that might screen-print T-shirts and embroider clothes.
344 2013-09-15 Among the biggest participants that provide funding in this market are the money market mutual funds; they lend their cash to banks and other institutions, accepting collateral like mortgage securities in exchange. The money market funds accept a small amount of interest on these overnight loans in exchange for being able to unwind the transactions daily, if need be.

When markets are operating smoothly, most wholesale funding trades are not unwound the next day. Instead, they are rolled over, with both parties agreeing to renew the transaction. But if a participant decides not to renew because of concerns about a trading partner’s potential failure, trouble can arise.

In other words, this is a $4.6 trillion arena operating on trust, which can disappear in an instant.

Both Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers collapsed after their trading partners in the repo market became nervous and stopped lending them money. For decades, the firms had financed their holdings of illiquid and long-term assets — like mortgage securities and real estate — in the overnight repo markets. Not only was the repo borrowing low-cost, it also allowed them to leverage their operations. Best of all, accounting rules let repo participants set aside little in the way of capital against the trades.

“It was a very unstable form of funding during the crisis and it is still a problem,” said Sheila Bair, former head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and chairwoman of the Systemic Risk Council, a nonpartisan group that advocates financial reforms, in an interview. “The repo market is also highly interconnected because the trades are done between financial institutions.”

Some government officials have also voiced concerns recently about risks in the repo market. William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, referred to the issue in a February speech and Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, discussed the problems with wholesale funding in a speech in May. The Securities and Exchange Commission published a bulletin in July on the vulnerabilities in the repo market as they relate to money market funds.

Another problem in this market is that only two banks — Bank of New York Mellon and, to a lesser degree, JPMorgan Chase — dominate the business. There used to be a number of clearing banks, as the banks that stand in the middle of the trades are known, but the ranks have dwindled because of industry consolidation.

Unfortunately, these weaknesses remain. “A lot of things have been done to address a lot of specific problems but it doesn’t seem like anything has been done to address the overall problem of institutions losing access to financing,” said Scott Skyrm, a repo market veteran and author of “The Money Noose — Jon Corzine and the Collapse of MF Global.”

Mr. Skyrm said regulators appeared to be tackling the problem through a back door involving capital requirements. For example, new leverage ratios proposed by the international Basel Committee and United States financial regulators would require banks for the first time to set aside capital against the assets they finance in the repo markets. A recent report from J.P. Morgan estimates that under the Basel proposal, the eight largest domestic banks would have to raise $28 billion to $34 billion in capital relating to their repo business.

Banks are likely to consider an alternative: shrinking their repo operations. But the liquidity in this titanic market is essential for the government’s financing of its debt. As the J.P. Morgan report noted, trading volumes in the United States government bond market are closely linked to the amount of repos outstanding. So any contraction in the arena may reduce liquidity in the Treasury market.

SOME experts think that the answer to the repo problem lies in creating a central clearing platform that would allow all participants, not just the banks, to trade directly. Similar platforms have been mandated for derivatives under Dodd-Frank and could be constructed to support the wholesale funding market.

While such an entity would be a too-big-to-fail institution, so are the two banks now serving as intermediaries. And a central clearing platform could be set up as a utility, with officials monitoring transactions and requiring margin payments to finance bailouts in the event of a participant’s default.

Peter Nowicki, the former head of several large bank repo desks, is an advocate of this idea. “Repo is the last over-the-counter market that’s not headed toward central clearing and the Fed should mandate a change,” he said. “Should a large dealer have a problem or the clearing banks have an issue, the repo market could shut down.”

And that, five years after the Lehman collapse, would be an unconscionable failure.
345 2013-09-15 And that assurance underscored a different, unspoken reality: that to strike a blow is to light a fuse. You just don’t know. You can’t predict the moment or the shape of the explosion, and you can’t guess the size of the temptation to follow it up with just one more maneuver, one additional push. My fellow Americans, we’ve gone this far. We must seal the deal by going a little farther still.

And that’s why we should have been weighing, and should still weigh, some numbers in addition to those cited by the president in his address to the nation last Tuesday night. He mentioned the galling statistic that more than 100,000 people had been killed in the last two years of civil war in Syria. More than 1,000 of them, he said, had perished in the gas attack that prompted our current debate about whether to hit certain Syrian targets.

Here are some other relevant figures. Our country sent more than two million men and women to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan. More than 6,500 of them are dead. Tens of thousands were physically injured, including some 1,500 amputees. and Afghanistan were minefields, literally and metaphorically, rife with improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.’s. They were easy places to lose a limb.

Of the two-million-plus Americans who spent time there, “studies suggest that 20 to 30 percent have come home with ,” writes in his beautiful and heartbreaking new book, “Thank You for Your Service,” which was excerpted in recently and will be published next month. “ , anxiety, , memory problems, personality changes, suicidal thoughts: every war has its after-war, and so it is with the wars of Iraq and Afghanistan, which have created some five hundred thousand mentally wounded American veterans.”

Pause here for a few seconds. Take that in. Half a million Americans carry around a darkness they didn’t used to, because when our country went to war, they, unlike most of us, actually had to go.

“How to grasp the true size of such a number, and all of its implications, especially in a country that paid such scant attention to the wars in the first place?” Finkel asks in his book. That’s an essential question, not just in terms of Iraq and but in relation to our current crossroads and all that we need to take into consideration when deliberating war.

THERE’S the financial strain of military engagement. There’s the wrath of nations that disapprove of it and the possible repercussion from terrorists. With Syria, each of these has been discussed.

But there’s also a worst-case scenario of a point, down the line, when things get messier than we ever meant them to and when there’s a call for something more than aerial bombardment, for the presence — and the sacrifice — of American servicemen and servicewomen. And “boots on the ground” isn’t adequate acknowledgment of this.

“Thank You for Your Service” is. Together with its masterful prequel, “The Good Soldiers,” it measures the wages of the war in Iraq — the wages of war, period — as well as anything I’ve read.

For “The Good Soldiers,” Finkel embedded himself so deep in a battalion that he could evoke the blood, sweat and dread of the men around him. For “Thank You for Your Service,” he followed some of those men home, and got inside their therapy sessions, their homes, their heads. He chronicled all the pills they were taking to try to medicate themselves back into some semblance of normalcy. He chronicled the silences they fell into because they weren’t sure what to say.

He atones for our scant attention by paying meticulous heed. And he reminds us that it’s not just the warriors who suffer; it’s the family members who muddle on without them or who struggle to put them back together.

One of the people he follows closely in the book is a widow, Amanda Doster, whose friends, he writes, “began to lose patience with her inability to stop being so relentlessly heartbroken.” When she packs up the house that she and her dead husband shared, the very last thing she grabs, from a counter, is the wooden box with his ashes, and when she puts it in the car, she “buckles him in,” as if it’s not too late to try to protect him.

I mention Finkel and his books not just because they’re so gorgeously written, but because they fill in crucial gaps for the many Americans who have opinions about Syria but no firsthand experience of war.

The way that we can best thank our good soldiers for their service is to keep in mind, whenever contemplating the next military engagement, the ravages of the last one. To remember that there are spouses passionately loved, parents sorely needed, sons and daughters fiercely cherished in all of those pairs of boots.
346 2013-09-15 We are understandably drawn to cheaper correctives: posthumous pardons for the Scottsboro Boys in Alabama; plaques at the Birmingham city hall dedicated, in August, to Virgil Ware and Johnny Robinson, two other black children killed by whites on Sept. 15, 1963. If the structural changes achieved by these symbolic gestures are roughly none, their appeal is that they also cost nothing. To wit: the Congressional resolutions conferring the medal last spring passed unanimously.

Modern-day Americans seem loath to do the right thing unless it’s also the smart thing — even “compassionate release” has to be touted for its cost-saving virtues. Birmingham’s black-majority city government knew it had to sell the yearlong commemoration of 1963 as a big economic boon and named a co-chairwoman highly palatable to the business establishment, the native daughter Condoleezza Rice.

Likewise, when I spoke to the Birmingham Rotary Club a couple of years ago, I strategically stressed the practical benefits of a proposal I had been advocating: a fund that would offer a tangible “I’m sorry” to sufferers like Ms. Rudolph. Reminding the city elite of the relentless question they would be facing in 2013 — “How has Birmingham changed?” — I suggested that nothing would convince the world that they “got it” like cash.

As the Harvard law professor Charles J. Ogletree has written, even the most hostile critics of reparations for slavery raise little objection to payments for specific Jim Crow injustices — that is, “to identifiable victims where there is an identifiable harm,” as in the Tulsa race riot of 1921, for which the Oklahoma Legislature made limited restitution in 2001.

But despite the Birmingham Rotarians’ gratifying openness to a fund for victims (as well as heroes), follow-up discussions bogged down on how to define “eligibility.” My black advisers’ reservations reflected the continued friction between the activists who “shook the apple tree,” in the phrase of one civil rights leader, and those who stood on the sidelines and subsequently picked up the apples.

And the whites seemed to sense that our civic institutions were so criminally compromised by segregation as to render the eligibles virtually endless.

When 16-year-old Johnny Robinson was shot in the back by a Birmingham policeman hours after the 16th Street church bombing for allegedly having thrown rocks at “white” cars, his mother, already widowed by murder, went into a spiral of misery that resulted in institutionalization, orphaning the rest of her children. The family received no counseling or charitable assistance, let alone a settlement from the city. How do we calculate what they are owed today?

No wonder we prefer to celebrate the redemptive accomplishments of the younger, so-called Joshua generation of black leaders — like the Obamas or Terri Sewell, the Alabama congresswoman behind the girls’ medal, who was a “little sister” of Michelle Obama’s at Princeton and a student at Harvard Law with her husband.

Delivering the eulogy at a joint funeral for three of the girls 50 years ago, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. called them “heroines of a holy crusade for freedom” — the insistent message of Tuesday’s observance. Notwithstanding Ms. Rudolph’s point to the contrary, it was indeed their murder, in the defense of segregation, that kept the brutal truths of Jim Crow before the public, certainly as long as the killers went free. (Although the presumed ringleader was convicted in 1977, the two last living suspects did not stand trial until 2001 and 2002.)

In the wake of the attacks on the Boston Marathon and the World Trade Center, an outpouring of financial aid for the victims expressed a belief that their suffering was a sacrament of our democracy. Yet Sarah Collins Rudolph — maimed by native-born terrorists in our nation’s great internal freedom struggle — has been expected to deal with protracted medical and cosmetic issues, to say nothing of other forms of anguish, on a domestic worker’s wages.

Another martyr of 1963, President John F. Kennedy, commended Americans for their willingness to take on challenges “not because they are easy but because they are hard.” The project then under consideration, the moon landing, was patriotic pageantry backed by phenomenal ingenuity and money. We can put a man on the moon. Should it really be that difficult to find justice, if not a measure of security, for our black young — including, at long last, the “fifth little girl”?
347 2013-09-15 The United States and Russia reached an agreement on Saturday that calls for Syria’s arsenal of chemical weapons to be removed or destroyed by the middle of 2014.
348 2013-09-15 In Syria, the state news agency, SANA, voiced cautious approval of the Russian and American deal, calling it “a starting point,” though the government issued no immediate statement about its willingness to implement the agreement.

In any case, the deal was at least a temporary reprieve for President Bashar al-Assad and his Syrian government, and it formally placed international decision-making about Syria into the purview of Russia, one of Mr. Assad’s staunchest supporters and military suppliers.

That reality was bitterly seized on by the fractured Syrian rebel forces, most of which have pleaded for American airstrikes. Gen. Salim Idris, the head of the Western-backed rebels’ nominal military command, the Supreme Military Council, denounced the initiative.

“All of this initiative does not interest us. Russia is a partner with the regime in killing the Syrian people,” he told reporters in Istanbul. “A crime against humanity has been committed, and there is not any mention of accountability.”

An immediate test of the viability of the accord will come within a week, when the Syrian government is to provide a “comprehensive listing” of its chemical arsenal. That list is to include the types and quantities of Syria’s poison gas, the chemical munitions it possesses, and the location of its storage, production and research sites.

“The real final responsibility here is Syrian,” a senior Obama administration official said of the deal.

Speaking at a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart, Secretary of State John Kerry said that “if fully implemented, this framework can provide greater protection and security to the world.”

If Mr. Assad fails to comply with the agreement, the issue would be referred to the United Nations Security Council, where the violations would be taken up under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which authorizes punitive action, Mr. Kerry said.

Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia made clear that his country, which wields a veto in the Security Council, had not withdrawn its objections to the use of force.

If the Russians objected to punishing Syrian noncompliance with military action, however, the United States would still have the option of acting without the Security Council’s approval. “If diplomacy fails, the United States remains prepared to act,” President Obama said in a statement.

The issue of removing Syria’s chemical arms broke into the open on Monday when Mr. Kerry, at a news conference in London, posed the question of whether Mr. Assad could rapidly be disarmed, only to state that he did not see how it could be done.

Less than a week later, what once seemed impossible has become a plan — one that will depend on Mr. Assad’s cooperation and that will need to be put in place in the middle of a fierce conflict.

To reach the agreement, arms control officials on both sides worked into the night, a process that recalled treaty negotiations during the cold war.

Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov held a marathon series of meetings on Friday, including a session that ended at midnight. On Saturday morning, the two sides reconvened with their arms control experts on the hotel pool deck as they pored over the text of the agreement.

Obama administration officials say Russia’s role is critical since it has been a major backer of the Assad government, and the American assumption is that much, if not all, of the accord has Mr. Assad’s assent.

At the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general, pledged to support the agreement, and he announced that Syria had also formally acceded to the international Chemical Weapons Convention, effective Oct. 14.

In his statement, Mr. Obama called the use of chemical weapons “an affront to human dignity and a threat to the security of people everywhere.”

“We have a duty to preserve a world free from the fear of chemical weapons for our children,” he said. “Today marks an important step towards achieving this goal.”

Foreign Secretary William Hague of Britain issued a statement after a call with Mr. Kerry in which he welcomed the agreement on Syrian chemical weapons as a “a significant step forward.”

It was a British parliamentary vote against military action that dampened momentum by the United States, France and Britain to conduct airstrikes in the wake of an August chemical strike in Syria.

“The priority must now be full and prompt implementation of the agreement, to ensure the transfer of Syria’s chemical weapons to international control,” Mr. Hague said.

Under the agreement, titled “Framework for Elimination of Syrian Chemical Weapons,” an inspection of the chemical weapons sites identified by the Syrian government must be completed by November. Equipment for producing chemical weapons and filling munitions with poison gas must be destroyed by November.

The document also says there is to be “complete elimination of all chemical weapons material and equipment in the first half of 2014.”

A priority under the agreement reached Saturday is to take steps to preclude or diminish the Assad government’s ability to employ chemical weapons before they are destroyed.

An American official said such steps could include burning the least volatile component of binary weapons, a type of chemical agent that becomes potent only when separate elements are mixed. Another way to disable at least part of Syria’s stockpile, the official said, would be to destroy the equipment for mixing the binary component or destroying the munitions or bombs that would be filled with chemical agents.

An American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under State Department protocol, said the United States and Russia had agreed that Syria has 1,000 tons of chemical weapons, including sarin and mustard gas.

The United States believes at least 45 sites in Syria are associated with its chemical weapons program. Nearly half of these have “exploitable quantities” of chemical weapons, though the American official said the Assad government may have moved some of the agents.

The American official said there was no indication that any of Syria’s chemical stocks had been moved to Iraq or Lebanon, as the Syrian opposition had charged. “We believe they are under regime control,” the official said.

Russia has not accepted the American data on the number of chemical weapons sites. The difference may reflect the larger disagreement as to who was responsible for an Aug. 21 attack that the United States says killed at least 1,400 civilians, many of them women and children.

If the Russians were to agree both on the number of chemical weapons sites and that the sites are all in government-controlled areas, that would suggest that the Assad government was culpable for the attack, and not the rebel forces as the Russians have asserted.

The four-page framework agreement, including its technical annexes, is to be incorporated in a Security Council resolution that is to be adopted in New York.

One concern in carrying out the deal, however, involves how to protect international inspectors who go to Syria. There will be no cease-fire so the inspectors can carry out their work.

Asked whether rebels would aid the inspectors, General Idris, the Western-backed rebel military commander, called the issue “complicated,” saying, “If investigators come, we will facilitate the mission.”

He said there were no chemical weapons in rebel-controlled areas, adding: “I don’t know if this will just mean that investigators will pass through the regions that are under rebel control. We are ready.”

The sense of betrayal among nominally pro-Western factions in the opposition has grown intensely in recent days.

In the northern Syrian province of Idlib, a rebel stronghold, one commander said that the agreement on Saturday proved that the United States no longer cared about helping Syrians and was leaving them at the mercy of a government backed by powerful allies in Russia and Iran.

Maysara, a commander of a battalion in Saraqeb, said in an interview that he had paid little attention to the diplomacy on Saturday.

“I don’t care about deals anymore,” he said in an interview. “The Americans found a way out of the strike.”

He added: “The Russians did what they want. The Americans lied, and believed their own lie — the U.S. doesn’t want democracy in Syria. Now I have doubts about the U.S. capacities, their military and intelligence capacities. The Iranian capacity is much stronger, I guess.”
349 2013-09-15 At the top of a hill on the western edge of Saunders Farm in Garrison, three life-size concrete figures sit together on the ground. Their knees jut up toward their chests; their feet rest in the grass. Featureless, armless, their rough-hewed surfaces flesh-toned and blotchy, they seem timeless and serene. Behind them, in a vista through the trees, Storm King Mountain rises across the Hudson River.

This is “Huddled Figures,” an installation by Jo-Ann Brody that is part of “The Farm Project 2013,” an outdoor exhibition of 52 sculptural works placed throughout the 140-acre working farm. The show is the eighth annual “Farm Project” presented by Collaborative Concepts, a Putnam County-based nonprofit founded in 1999 with the mission of supporting and exhibiting professional art. As in prior years, the sculptures on view — and visitors who come to see them — share the grounds with a herd of Black Angus cows and a goat named Bob.

As a result, none of the pieces are fragile and many are large-scale. Some tower boldly in open fields, beckoning viewers to cross hilly terrain speckled with wildflowers and cow pies (appropriate footwear is advised). The arcing line of Chuck von Schmidt’s crimson “Nomme de Terre” shoots upward 16 feet or, perceived differently, plunges like an arrow toward the earth. The buoyant white curves in David Provan’s “Geometry of Light” explode into the air and rain down across 35 feet. Nearby, James Mulvaney’s “Integrity of Caring” evokes a weathered billboard, announcing in faded red lettering: “Why worry about it This shouldn’t have any importance.”

Other works are less conspicuous. Like Mr. Mulvaney’s piece, John Allen’s “Introduction to the Universe” offers a textual message, but his can be read only up close: a stone slab embedded in the soil like a tombstone, engraved with the sentence “This is it.” Visitors looking down may also discover Brook R. Maher’s “Bowling with Hendrick Hudson’s Half Moon Crew,” 10 bowling balls tiled with shards of pottery and glass and arranged on a patch of rock, while those looking up might spot Maureen McCourt’s “POM! POM! Extravaganza,” a stepladder covered in multicolored pompoms nestled upside-down in a tree.

Before proposing projects to Collaborative Concepts, the artists, who range in age from their 20s to their 70s, were required to visit the farm. “They come and look and get a feel for the site, and then they react to it,” A. Eric Arctander, one of the group’s founders, said. A quarter of the pieces are site-specific, and many are for sale.

Although the essence of “The Farm Project” has remained constant since its inception, the event has evolved, with the addition of performance art, music and “Arts in the Highlands,” a program of theater, dance and opera during the opening and mid-run receptions. This year’s mid-run will feature two performance artists amid the sculptures, followed by Dance Entropy’s family-friendly dance production “Wild Kingdom”; a series of Tennessee Williams one-acts from the Blue Horse Repertory Company; and “From Opera and Broadway to the Highlands,” operatic performances by five members of Career Bridges, an organization that coaches aspiring opera singers.

Over the years, Collaborative Concepts has been able to provide more assistance to “Farm Project” artists, including the use of a crane and, in some cases, financing. This year, a new collaboration with ecoartspace, a bicoastal nonprofit that supports artists who address environmental issues, enabled the Milwaukee-based artist Roy Staab to travel to Garrison and build his installation “Suspended Bow.”
350 2013-09-15 Sometimes it has seemed that feminism was consumed with achieving the same tedious manly traits it often derided: political power, coldblooded careerism, hard hearts and functional fashion. The baby (anything regarded as feminine, aesthetic, domestic or even ambivalent) was often tossed out with the bath water and bra.

In the last decade, many men and women have come to realize that gender is closer to polychrome than to black and white. The French writer and director Anne Fontaine has made that clear in films like “Coco Before Chanel,” “In His Hands” and “Dry Cleaning,” all of them featuring complicated, conflicted women. Her new film, “Adore,” which opened last weekend, has two of them: middle-aged best friends who have handsome college-age sons and who each embark on an affair with the son of the other.

It would all sound very French and racy and dated had the film not been based on a novella, “The Grandmothers,” written by the Nobel winner Doris Lessing just a decade ago, at the age of 84. Similarly, hearing a Frenchwoman sing the praises of French lipstick might sound very racy and dated, had it not come from Ms. Fontaine, a matter-of-fact talker not especially prone to flights of fancy over life’s sensual pleasures.

It still sounds very French, no getting around that. Ms. Fontaine was born in Luxembourg and raised in Portugal, but she is about as French as it gets, having arrived in Paris at age 16 to follow her girlhood dream of ballet stardom. Stints of modeling and acting followed, but in the end, screenwriting and directing suited her best.

It was around the time of her first big success, “Dry Cleaning,” in 1997, that Ms. Fontaine found something that made her feel fully composed behind the camera. It was a lipstick: a Guerlain that came in a clever metal compact with its own mirror inside. Ms. Fontaine described the color as a “deep violet pink.” Guerlain calls it grenade — in this case, French for pomegranate, not the weapon — and Sephora.com describes it as a “pearly raspberry,” priced at $49.50. (Sephora also maintains that the lipstick “creates a jaw-dropping pout of perfection.” Or heed the following wisdom from a 1912 New York Times primer on makeup, then becoming more widely accepted: “Touch the lips slightly with a lip-stick, but do not make your mouth look like raw beef.”)
351 2013-09-15 For some adults (including this reviewer), there are few more stressful words than “party.” Just being invited to one stirs up all kinds of anxiety: Who will be there? What should I wear? Must I attend? And of course: How long am I required to stay? Children, however, have no such ambivalence. For the under-12 set, all parties are equally wonderful. I have never met a child who expressed anything other than unalloyed enthusiasm when invited to one. They never ask who will be in attendance or what will be served. Except in the case of costume parties, sartorial questions are rarely fretted over.

For a child, parties follow a predictable sequence of events: They are invited, attend, consume too much junk food, possibly vomit, return home, collapse. Oddly enough, this is exactly how adults party; yet somewhere along the way the process becomes less fun, until for many of us the idea of a party is only slightly less repellent than a trip to the oxymoronically named amusement park. But my ire toward those torturous places will have to wait for another review.

Three new children’s books celebrate parties, drawing different lessons from their promise. The Newbery Medal winner Linda Sue Park offers a sweet lesson on multiculturalism with “Xander’s Panda Party,” a gentle rhyming story in which Xander, a panda (best pronounced with a slight Brooklyn accent, as in “Xander the pander”), decides to throw a panda party, “a dandy whoop-de-do,” but quickly realizes he is the only panda at the zoo. Because a party of one would not be any fun, he expands his guest list, first to all the bears at the zoo, then — quite illogically — upon learning that koala bears are actually marsupials, to all mammals, and eventually to every creature in residence. Although presents aren’t exchanged at Xander’s party, at book’s end he does receive an unexpected surprise. The book’s best present to its readers is Matt Phelan’s expressive and delightful watercolors, my favorite of which is a deadpan assembly of Xander with a waddle of blank-faced penguins.

Claudia Boldt’s “You’re a Rude Pig, Bertie!” explores the perils of the guest list from a different perspective, that of a boorish pig who has managed to offend nearly every animal in town. Bertie has never met anyone he could not insult: “Long time no see, Mrs. Breun. You look older!” is a typical greeting. Oblivious to hurt feelings, Bertie softens when he meets Ruby, “the cutest rabbit he had ever seen,” and he decides to throw a huge party to impress her. Predictably, nobody shows up. Miserable, Bertie retires to bed, where he is visited in a dream by a vision of his toothbrush, which gives him a Jacob Marley-esque dressing down. Properly chastised, Bertie attempts to make amends with the townsfolk. Although a touch ham-handed, “You’re a Rude Pig, Bertie!” offers young readers a lesson in the perils of porcine comportment and the power of love to change even the heart of a swine.

A different sort of rascal is the star of the silly “Secret Pizza Party.” Adam Rubin and Daniel Salmieri, the writer-illustrator pair behind the popular “Dragons Love Tacos,” team up again to tell the tale of a pizza-loving raccoon’s attempt to host a secret pizza party, the kind in which raccoons are considered guests of honor rather than disreputable pizza-stealing varmints. This laugh-out-loud story follows the unlucky raccoon through close calls with grumpy humans and broom-wielding robots alike. To my mind, picture books shouldn’t be too educational, and readers are unlikely to learn anything from this one, though they will be reminded of the undebatable fact that pizza is among our greatest foods, and far and away the very best party food. One thing that does not change from childhood to adulthood: The best parties are pizza parties. This raccoon may not have the best table manners, but he certainly knows how to have a good time.

From the whimsical to the absurd, young party animals will find much to enjoy in each of these books. Even I, as cranky a partygoer as ever there was, found myself inspired to strap on my dancing shoes after closing their final pages. These three beastly boys fight hard for their right to party, never questioning whether the effort is worth the trouble. Perhaps they believe that a good party is its own reward. It is a moral that certain adults would be well advised to take to heart.
352 2013-09-15 Ambition, curiosity, desire for meaningful work . . . these things are part of Amanda Lindhout’s explanation of the way she stumbled into Somalia, and they’re achingly familiar. I live in Kabul, where most of my friends tick with the same emotional clockwork. Many of us live as ordinary civilians but with the backing of major organizations that provide risk insurance and medical training. But there’s a growing cadre of people like Lindhout, scraping by with only meager savings and strong instincts. Such freelancers are now carrying much of the burden for coverage of Libya, Syria and other war zones. GRAEME SMITH, Senior Analyst, International Crisis Group, posted on theglobeandmail.com

There are places in the world that are known to be dangerous, like Somalia. Westerners who venture there, no matter how good their intentions, put themselves at risk. More important, they put their friends, families and countries at risk of being blackmailed or held hostage. They should think twice before venturing into hostile areas like Somalia, Iran or North Korea. TONY BAER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

When discussing Westerners’ travels into places that may be dangerous, implying that they should “know better,” or expect to be held prisoner, raped or beaten, strikes me as a form of violence itself. I was held hostage on a hijacked airplane for a week at age 13 because I visited a country in conflict, where a relative lived. Should none of us ever move beyond our own backyards? I pass no judgment on Amanda Lindhout’s choice to travel widely. She does not appear to have been trying to force her Westernism on the places she visited. CATHERINE HODES, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

My Somali friends were shocked, not by Amanda Lindhout’s troubles, but rather by her naïveté. They love Canada and returnto Somalia rarely and then only to certain places — never the wrong village, a foreigners’ hotel or a deserted road they do not recognize. They trust only family, clan members and friends. They return with stories of love amid the ruins. They are brave, but not naïve. They wept for the young white Canadian woman who was merely wonderfully brave. BOB SOLOMON, Edmonton, Alberta, posted on nytimes.com

Kudos to Wyatt Mason for his accessible piece about Norman and Elsa Rush. When I reached the last paragraph, in which Norman says a relationship involves “discovering how much you owe to the other person in a basic way,” I made my husband put down his newspaper and listen to me read it aloud. How many couples are reading it and silently assenting to the truth of it about themselves — if they are fortunate enough? PHYLLIS THEROUX, Ashland, Va.
353 2013-09-15 In the new paintings, the canvas’s surface is covered with hundreds of skulls modeled after Tibetan masks that look like grinning faces with bulging eyes and Cheshire cat smiles. From a distance, the canvases blur into misty fields of color, in white, pink and blue in one instance, and black, red and gold in another. Yet up close, you can see each face in the crowd, as if zooming into a packed stadium from outer space. “The paintings represent the hallucination of happiness and the hallucination of fear and loneliness in this life as well as the hallucination of happiness in the next life,” Mr. Zhang said.

Asked about his bright hues, he said, “If there’s no color in your hallucination, it won’t be heaven. It would be hell.”

Arne Glimcher, Pace’s founder, recalls a conversation two years ago in which Mr. Zhang told him that he was working on oil paintings. “I thought it was such a conventional medium for him,” he said. “But he told me, ‘I will make oil paintings that look different from any other oil paintings.’ ”

It was nearly as big a surprise as when Mr. Glimcher first visited the artist’s Shanghai studio in 2006. Mr. Zhang was primarily known then for his visceral performances of the late 1990s, first in the bohemian enclave of Beijing East Village and later, in museums around the United States. (One of his better-known works required him to sit motionless in a public latrine for 10 hours, covered in fish oil and honey, as flies gathered on his body.)

Mr. Glimcher was astounded to discover the scale of Mr. Zhang’s production line in a studio teeming with sculptures, paintings and installations. This time around, he was equally surprised that the artist could pull off the new paintings with minimal support from his assistants.

According to the dealer, Mr. Zhang started each work by creating a computer drawing, planning out the placement of each mask. Given that approach, the paintings look remarkably spontaneous, as if they had evolved organically.

Buddhism and death rituals have been abiding subjects for Mr. Zhang, who was ordained as a Buddhist monk eight years ago. During the antireligious oppression of the Cultural Revolution, Mr. Zhang, born in 1965, remembers watching his grandmother go to the temple and burn incense before a statue of a Buddha. In his adulthood, he went regularly to temples; even after moving to New York in 1998, he studied every weekend with the venerated monk Sheng Yen at the Dharma Drum Mountain Center in Queens and later donated statues to the Chuang Yen Monastery, designed by I. M. Pei, in Kent, N.Y.

In her catalog essay for “Altered States,” the 2007 retrospective at Asia Society, Melissa Chiu, the museum’s director, wrote, “Zhang Huan’s works from the past 15 years reflect one artist’s search for an artistic voice, first in Beijing, then in New York, and finally in Shanghai.”

Mr. Zhang has placed “a progressive emphasis on Chinese sources with which he finds great inspiration in the shared memory of symbols, stories, and materials of his homeland,” she noted. Yet it is his embrace of Tibetan Buddhism, a rare choice in Chinese contemporary art, that distinguishes him from other artists.

In 2005, a trip to Tibet irrevocably altered Mr. Zhang’s thinking and his art making. “One day in Lhasa, I got up at 4 a.m. and went to the Jokhang Temple, the biggest one in Tibet, and I saw men and women already lining up for miles,” Mr. Zhang said. He said he was amazed by the sight of pilgrims crawling to the site in the middle of traffic, in a seeming clash between modernity and ancient tradition. “I have been to the most famous museums in the world, and I have never seen a sight as striking as this,” he said.

He also witnessed the Tibetan Sky burial, in which a monk eviscerates the human corpse, leaving the flesh as food for vultures and smashing the bones into a grainy dust. The process is supposed to liberate the spirit from the body for peaceful transport into the next life. “Most people, when they see this ceremony, think it is gross and they cannot bear to watch,” Mr. Zhang said. “But, when I watch the ceremony, I feel this hallucination of happiness, and I feel free.”

He promises that at his death, the ritual will constitute his last performance piece.

Asked whether Americans would understand his “Poppy Field” paintings, Mr. Zhang said: “If they are alive, they will love these works. But if they are dead, they will buy them.”
354 2013-09-15 He sings, he dances, he acts, and he’s not afraid to get silly in self-mocking comedy shorts. Drawing a line from Frank Sinatra to Jay Z, Justin Timberlake has become this generation’s master of ceremonies....
355 2013-09-15 If everybody knows that test scores and grades aren’t the keys to success, how do we teach, and measure, the things that are?...
356 2013-09-16 MEANS--Betsy, Everyone at Association To Benefit Children is so grateful to have known Betsy Means, a friend, a colleague and a brilliant and talented champion for children, who sought justice for the most vulnerable. We have loved her very deeply...
357 2013-09-16 MEANS--Elizabeth Newberry, August 7, 1954 - September 13, 2013. Beloved wife of Stephen H. Gardner, mother of Elizabeth D. Gardner, Caroline H. Gardner, and David M. Gardner. Daughter of Nancy Means of New Canaan, CT, and the late David H. Means. ...
358 2013-09-16 The Praemium Imperiale awards recognize lifetime achievement in the arts in categories not covered by the Nobel Prize....
359 2013-09-16 Melissa Aldana, a tenor saxophonist originally from Santiago, Chile, has been a working bandleader in New York since 2009 and won the Thelonious Monk competition with the song “I Though About You” and an original work, “Free Fall.”...
360 2013-09-16 Sergey V. Lavrov insisted, even during negotiations in Geneva last weekend, that the chemical attack outside Damascus on Aug. 21 “was clearly fabricated” by rebels intent on provoking Western intervention....
361 2013-09-16 Suzuki’s recall covers a potential seat sensor defect, and Ford Focus E.V. and BMW 328i models are under investigation. Indian will recall 861 motorcycles for a rear wheel defect....
362 2013-09-16 Global authorities are preparing to levy more than $700 million in fines against JPMorgan Chase over the bank’s huge trading loss in London last year....
363 2013-09-16 Andrew Ross Sorkin remembers the day the economic collapse began and offers answers to three tough, lingering questions....
364 2013-09-16 The new fund will allow average stock and bond investors to get a taste of the exclusive world of hedge funds, traditionally reserved for pension funds, charities, big institutions and the ultra wealthy....
365 2013-09-16 Report on the alleged use of chemical weapons in the Ghouta area of Damascus....
366 2013-09-16 Rockets armed with the banned chemical nerve agent sarin were used in an Aug. 21 mass killing near Damascus, United Nations chemical weapons inspectors reported Monday....
367 2013-09-16 Another blow to dozens of businesses on the Jersey Shore. Updates on the looming financial crises. And a Home Depot wedding proposal....
368 2013-09-16 The writer discusses the questions raised by a seductive theory....
369 2013-09-16 It took a personal bankruptcy to get David Geslak, founder of the Exercise Connection, to change his mind about his prices....
370 2013-09-16 The British government agency in charge of managing the holdings in the country’s bailed-out banks has appointed James Leigh Pemberton, a former Credit Suisse banker, as its new chief executive....
371 2013-09-16 “Man, it’s been a long week for everybody,” Kenseth said. “So it feels great to finally race and be here in victory lane.” Of the restart, he added, “You let the leader go, and once he goes, you go.”

Perhaps best of all for Nascar, it was a clean race.

The unusual circumstances of the Chase — along with its credibility — dominated discussion last week. The Chase is in its 10th season, and this year’s field includes an unprecedented 13 drivers after Jeff Gordon was added late Friday. He was deprived of a place in the original 12-driver field after what Nascar deemed a curiously timed spin by Clint Bowyer, which helped teammate Martin Truex Jr. and influenced the outcome of last week’s race. Earlier this week, Ryan Newman, who was leading that race when Bowyer spun, replaced Truex in the Chase field.

Drivers joked about the number of official pictures taken for the Chase as cars were added and subtracted. The first was taken last Saturday, another during the week. And then a third including Gordon was needed over the weekend.

“It was probably one of the most up-and-down weeks,” Rick Hendrick, the owner of Hendrick Motorsports, said Sunday morning. “I’ve been doing this 30 years and I’ve never been to the hauler at the end of the race and had any decision reversed for jumping the start or whatever.”

The race began during the day under heavy cloud cover, but for the first 100 laps it looked as if it might beat the rain in the forecast. Then on Lap 109, Cole Whitt skidded and spun out, and the cars were called to pit row as the rain began to fall — heavily and with little interruption.

“The most rain we have had so far,” Kasey Kahne said during the delay.

When the green flag was waved more than five hours later, the lights were on and most of the fans were gone, creating a somewhat eerie scene. Before the rain delay, the race ran smoothly with only one caution, but it crawled for the next 100 laps under six cautions. The race included 25 lead changes among 16 drivers, both series records at Chicagoland Speedway.

Eight of the 13 Chase drivers finished in the top 10. Joey Logano and Dale Earnhardt Jr. did not finish because of car trouble. Logano ran 175 laps and Earnhardt 224 of the race’s 267. Logano said the change in conditions after the rain delay made for a difficult adjustment.

“When the temps outside go down and you are making more horsepower, you are going a lot faster on the racetrack,” he said.

The Chase continues next week at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway with the Sylvania 300. On Sunday, after a long week and a very long day, Nascar again had a race and a winning driver to talk about.
372 2013-09-16 Serbia reached the Davis Cup final after Janko Tipsarevic won the decisive singles match against Vasek Pospisil to clinch a 3-2 victory over Canada. Tipsarevic beat Pospisil, 7-6 (3), 6-2, 7-6 (6), to send Serbia into the final against the Czech Republic, which beat Argentina at home. By winning the doubles Saturday, Canada had moved one victory from reaching its first Davis Cup final. But in the opening singles Sunday in Belgrade, Novak Djokovic beat Milos Raonic, 7-6 (1), 6-2, 6-2, to tie the series at 2-2.
373 2013-09-16 Yet another branch of the family, the descendants of Elton’s elder brother Arthur, operates Kohr Brothers, a large company with dozens of stores from Massachusetts to Florida.

“My grandparents made it through the Depression, we made it through fires,” said Greg Kohr, 55. “You have to keep going.”

Mr. Kohr was talking about all the Kohrs, even those with whom he is no longer in business. The Original Kohr’s and Kohr’s Frozen Custard companies are still intertwined, with Greg Kohr ordering cocoa and chocolate chips in bulk for both cousins. He said he had offered Bruce Kohr help in rebuilding his company, including one of the patented barrel-size machines that produce the hard ice cream served in both cousins’ businesses.

After a stand was destroyed in a 1976 fire, Greg Kohr said, his grandfather enlisted two crews of workers to tear down the ruins and rebuild in 30 days, just in time for the summer season. Two generations later, Greg Kohr has rebuilt one of the three stands destroyed in the hurricane and opened new ones in the nearby towns of Ortley Beach and Lavallette.

Bruce Kohr has not announced plans to come back.

“What can we say? Our hearts are broken,” Bruce and his wife, Nancy, wrote on their Facebook page. “Not only did we witness our business being taken from us, right before our eyes, we also witnessed our family’s history go up in smoke.”

Despite a cool breeze on Sunday afternoon, there was a line outside a surviving Original Kohr’s on the Boardwalk in Seaside Heights, where the still-smoldering wreckage from the fire could be seen — and smelled — a block away.

Among Kohr’s loyalists, whether the stand is officially known as Original, Frozen Custard or Brothers seems to matter little, as long as it is named Kohr. Though the offerings at each may vary slightly, they seem to be thought of as one family business. (The news that “all four” of Bruce Kohr’s stands had burned down made for some confusion on the company’s Facebook page as customers pointed out that multiple Kohr’s stands — the Original variety — remained on the Boardwalk.)

Donna and George Flynn, who ordered the orange cream custard on Sunday, said they had been eating the frozen custard for 30 years, never discriminating among the different Kohr’s stands. “We went to whichever we were closest to when we got the feeling,” Mr. Flynn said.

For local teenagers, a summer job at Kohr’s has been a rite of passage for decades.

Joyce Megill, 79, whose preferred custard is a vanilla-raspberry swirl, began working at a Kohr’s stand in Asbury Park when she was 14, leaving the job to be married when she was 18. It was always busy, she recalled on Sunday, and Elton Kohr often came by in hat, blazer and tie.

He gave her a lace tablecloth as a wedding present, she recalled.

“They were such a nice family,” she said. “I hope they get the money from somewhere — they must be devastated.”

As the first anniversary of Hurricane Sandy approaches, Greg Kohr said he knows how his cousin Bruce feels.

“He’s just trying to get himself back together mentally. It really takes a toll on you,” he said. “We are an icon for the Jersey Shore, and when you see that going, it’s very hard.”
374 2013-09-16 These depressive syndromes are as different as chalk and cheese, and the neuroscientists and clinicians whose work Dr. Kandel favorably reviews will not move the neuroscience forward until they forget about “depression” and move on to a verifiable syndrome, the best defined being melancholia.

The writers are, respectively, professor emeritus of psychiatry and neurology at Stony Brook University and professor of the history of medicine and of psychiatry at the University of Toronto.

As the author of several books on biological psychiatry and depression, I respectfully disagree with Eric R. Kandel.

His limited focus on brain circuitry and genes as explanations for mental illness ignores the well-established facts that brain and mind are inseparable from a weblike matrix which, at the very least, includes the gastrointestinal, immune and hormonal systems; nutrition, toxicology, genetics and epigenetics; family and community structure and socioeconomics; and personal experience and spirituality.

Because mental illnesses are multisystem illnesses, neurocentric psychiatry alone can never provide the path to wellness.

The writer is the founder of the National Center for Whole Psychiatry.

Eric R. Kandel’s unified science of mind, informed by cognitive psychology, neuroscience and genetics, centers on the brain’s biology and leaves out the social environment, including systemic inequities that shape both the experience of mental disorders and their very definition. Race and gender biases, for example, profoundly influence psychiatric diagnoses.

Any science is only partial if it omits this important aspect of who we are as human beings.

The writer is director of the Program on Race, Science and Society at the University of Pennsylvania.

Eric R. Kandel elucidates the complexities of the interactions between brain and mind, and he notes that we have little control over and responsibility for the biological and genetic factors implicated in mental illness. But these issues are even more complex.

Research evidence indicates that these biological and genetic factors can be actuated, impeded or even transformed by interpersonal experiences throughout life, beginning in infancy.

And we do have some responsibility for and control over these actuating interpersonal experiences. Constructive interpersonal experiences, as can occur in psychotherapy, are also important factors in understanding the etiology and treatment of mental illness.

The writer, a psychologist, is professor emeritus of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine.

The new science of mind is fascinating and instructive, but also seductive. Learning about the moving parts of the brain is not the same as learning about the mind. That final goal is likely to remain out of reach.

Each time we cover half the distance between where we are and our goal, we make progress, but there is always the half that remains. To think that neuroscience, which talks about the conditions that make the mind possible, will eventually tell us about the mind itself is like believing that a wooden figure of a boy can become a living boy named Pinocchio.

In the end, neuroscience talks about itself, which is fascinating and instructive indeed, but not about the mind.
375 2013-09-16 I have no illusions about the Iranian regime. I was there for the disputed elections in 2009. I witnessed the savage suppression of the protests in Tehran, and fled the batons of the regime’s paramilitary thugs in the provincial city of Isfahan. I have little faith that Iran’s nuclear enrichment is purely civilian in purpose (though I am convinced that attempting to bomb the nuclear program out of existence would have the opposite of the intended effect.) And I don’t kid myself that the election of an Iranian president more genial than his hate-spewing predecessor means the ultimate authority, Ayatollah , has gone soft. Iranian politics are rarely as simple as our understanding of them.

has not exactly been a constructive presence in its neighborhood. Ray Takeyh, an Iran expert at the , compares Iran to the arsonist who sets buildings on fire and then shows up offering his services as a fireman. Iran has a strong interest in sustaining Assad’s rule. Syria is Iran’s only consistent ally in the region, the overland corridor for resupplying Hezbollah and a bulwark against Sunni extremists, who make up one growing faction of the anti-Assad rebels. Only the last purpose overlaps with American interests.

So with Iran at the Syria table there is no guarantee diplomacy will work. Without Iran at the table, though, failure is more likely, especially if we hope to go beyond the issue of chemical weapons and halt the “conventional” carnage that is claiming 1,000 lives a week. Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says our differences with Iran over may be irreconcilable, but he points out, “We really won’t know whether Iran can play a more constructive role in Syria unless we try.”

So what’s stopping us? There are several reasons Obama might be reluctant to include Iran in Syria talks, even though he came into office touting dialogue and fresh starts.

One is inertia. There has long been a debate among Iran-watchers between those who urge a single-minded focus on Iran’s flagrant violations of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and those who argue that a wider menu of discussions might build a bit of trust and help end the nuclear stalemate. American policy has been more or less firmly committed to the first view: keep our eye on the nukes. We are stuck in a policy rut. The price we pay pay for this pinhole focus is that America and Iran are not talking to each other about a range of issues where Iran has influence, including , , terrorism, as well as Syria. That has meant missed opportunities in the past, notably in the weeks after the U.S. attacked Afghanistan in 2001. Washington and Tehran share a common enemy in the Sunni fanatics of the . But a flicker of cooperation was snuffed out when President decided to include Iran in his “axis of evil.”

Another reason for not inviting Iran into the Syria conversation is . The Saudis don’t want their main regional rival to be seated at the grown-ups’ table. Although our interests do not always coincide, the Saudis have been important partners. They are essential enablers of the tough international sanctions that Obama mobilized against Iran’s nuclear enrichment; the Saudis stepped up supplies to countries that had been dependent on Iranian oil. The Saudis would also be needed for any armistice in Syria, since they and other gulf monarchies have been arming Syrian rebel factions. Russia and Iran together, if they choose, can probably persuade Assad to cease fire; getting the fractious bands of rebels to stop shooting will be much more difficult, and impossible without the Saudis.

And any conciliatory gesture toward Iran is politically risky at home. “There’s a real disinclination to do anything that might appear to be legitimizing Iran’s role in Syria,” said Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow at the Saban Center for Policy. “But the reality is, they’re part of the fight.”

Would there be a larger payoff to including Iran? Some experts, such as Trita Parsi of the National Iranian American Council, suggest that enlisting Iran as a partner on Syria and other regional troubles might help break the nuclear impasse; in this view, engagement would allay fears in Tehran that our real aim is to overthrow the theocratic regime. “If Iran is part of the solution in Syria,” Parsi contends, “then we also have a stake in assuring some degree of stability in Iran in order to make sure the solution does not fall apart.” Others say the official Iranian suspicion of America is too deep to be overcome by dialogue. Sadjadpour argues that the regime actually needs America’s hostility to justify its authoritarian rule.

Nonetheless, he recognizes that attempting to engage Iran “is a win-win.” If the Iranians help stabilize the situation in Syria, and if that in turn creates a better climate for a nuclear deal, then the world is a safer place. On the other hand, if we engage the Iranians and they don’t reciprocate then it becomes clearer than ever that the problem is Tehran, not Washington.

It is probably naïve to think reaching out to Iran in this immediate crisis would be a step toward rapprochement. But it could, at least, be a step back from the brink.
376 2013-09-16 “I know what I’m watching,” said David Ridpath, a professor of sports administration at and a member of the Drake Group, a network of professors who lobby for academic integrity in college sports. “I’m not pretentious about it. I’m not saying: ‘This is pure. This is amateurism. Look at those student-athletes.’ I know that’s pretty much all bogus.”

If you’re an Alabama fan or an A&M die-hard, you probably spent last week or last month shrugging off the allegations against your football program. The ones leveled at A&M, as first reported by , centered on whether Manziel sold his signature in violation of N.C.A.A. rules. The accusations against Alabama surfaced last week, when Sports alleged that two former players, along with players at other colleges, accepted impermissible benefits.

All the while, the big game loomed, the biggest of the early season. Football, the elixir of the actual games, would make the world feel right again. It had to. Nick Saban, the Alabama coach, stamped out of one news conference last week like a petulant child, all because reporters dared to do their jobs. He would talk about the football game, not the system of big-time college football, the system that made him rich and famous. Never that.

Fans of college football and fans of college sports and more casual observers are likely to react differently from alumni. They view a game like Saturday’s through different prisms. A sampling: Manziel is a flash point in the debate on amateurism; the investigations are an indictment of the sway football holds at some of the nation’s leading universities; the sport is no more than a farm system for the ; the N.C.A.A. is an obvious sham.

That is the backdrop to another season, and the sentiment feels stronger, the voices more numerous and louder than before. College sports, college football in particular, appear headed toward significant reform. The N.C.A.A. must defend against the Ed O’Bannon lawsuit, a potential tipping point in which universities could be forced to share revenue with players.

That was reinforced when Manziel spoke publicly Saturday, and an A&M spokesman bristled at reporters who asked about the autographs. Football only, the official said, even though Manziel’s story is about so much more than football now. He did not land on the cover of magazine because of how well he threw an out route.

The first problem, the first issue that must be addressed, Ridpath correctly argues, is the idea of amateurism, that college football is a system predicated on anything but raking in cash. Because fewer and fewer people accept that premise, when schools cheat, when they pay players and ignore drug use and allow stars to flout the rules, the reaction that follows exposés is often focused on the system and not the malfeasance it created.

“People are taking the ho-hum approach, even myself,” Ridpath said. “It’s pretty steady — like once a week it’s something, some sort of scandal. I don’t think that that will fundamentally change college football. The stadium is going to be packed, and not with pickets.

“One thing is abundantly clear: I don’t think anyone cares.”

Scandal fatigue is real, the product of volume and the ’s varied and botched responses. A partial list of programs in trouble recently — Alabama, , Auburn, , Mississippi State, , Miami, , South Carolina and — reads like a partial top 25.

These issues have become, as CBS Sports noted last week, the equivalent of speeding tickets. And while that is true, all the shrugs, all the blowback against the entities that investigate and publish the misdeeds of major college football programs, are misguided. All big business should be scrutinized, and major college football is no exception.

The games, then, should be enjoyed for what they are, not for what they are supposed to represent.
377 2013-09-16 Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, hired five employees for its creative department. They are Dustin Black, who becomes a group creative director; Kate Hartman, a digital production artist; Daniel Linnihan, an art director; Jaimi Novak, an associate creative director; and Curtis Peterschmidt, a junior copywriter.

Matt Creamer joined Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, associate creative director and executive editor. He had been editor at large at Advertising Age, New York, part of Crain Communications. Mr. Creamer will help in an expansion of the agency’s content operation, Content Labs, working with Jonah Bloom, chief strategy officer, and Tom Buontempo, chief business development officer.

DKC Public Relations, Marketing and Government Affairs, New York, and JCIR, New York, an investor relations firms, have made formal a joint venture under which the two agencies collaborated for almost 13 years. They will continue to operate independently as Jeffrey Klein, managing director at DKC, and Richard Land, senior managing director at JCIR, oversee their integrated offering of services.

Karina Dobarro, an account director at MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, joined another division of GroupM, Mindshare, as managing director for multicultural marketing at Mindshare North America, New York. She succeeds Ingrid Reyes, who left, the agency said.

Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, made several senior appointments last week after Carter Murray, who was named global chief executive in March, formally joined the agency. Jonathan Harries, who had planned to leave Draftfcb at the end of the year, will resume his duties as global chief creative officer. Vita Harris, who had been global chief strategy officer, becomes executive vice president for strategic planning; she is being succeeded by Nigel Jones, who is joining Draftfcb from the British operations of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, where he had been chairman and chief executive. And Elyssa Phillips, executive vice president and worldwide creative manager, was promoted to chief of staff, succeeding Peter Drakoulias, who left in June after the departure of the global chief executive for whom he worked, Laurence Boschetto.

Britt Peterson Fero joined Publicis Seattle as executive vice president and head of strategy. She succeeds Jay Picard, now group director for strategy at Hornall Anderson, Seattle. Ms. Fero had been a partner and director for growth strategy at Cole & Weber United, part of the United Network division of WPP. Publicis Seattle is part of the Publicis Worldwide in the USA division of Publicis Worldwide, which is owned by the Publicis Groupe.

Amy Jane Finnerty, director for public relations and communications at the New York office of NCM Media Networks, part of National CineMedia, was promoted to vice president for corporate communications, responsible for all corporate communications and public relations for both National CineMedia and NCM Media Networks. She succeeds Lauren Leff, who is now working with National CineMedia as a consultant.

Hunter Straker North America is being formed as the Acosta Mosaic Group, Norwalk, Conn., part of Acosta Sales and Marketing, consolidates its shopper marketing agency in the United States with Hunter Straker, North York, Ontario, Canada, which the Acosta Mosaic Group acquired in October 2012. Operations in the United States will be led by Soche Picard and operations in Canada will continue to be led by Matthew Diamond.

Look Cinemas, Dallas, a new theater complex, chose Moroch Partners, Dallas, to handle marketing, promotions and social media efforts. Billings were not disclosed.

Jeremy Male joined CBS Outdoor Americas as chief executive, assuming duties from Wally C. Kelly, chairman and chief executive, who becomes president and chief operating officer. Mr. Male had most recently been chief executive for Britain and Northern Europe at JCDecaux, another outdoor advertising company. The appointments are being made as the parent of CBS Outdoor Americas, the CBS Corporation, makes plans to spin it off as an independent company.

Juan Martinez joined Sesame Workshop, New York, in a new post, vice president for strategic communications. He had most recently been senior vice president for communications and public engagement at Teach for America.

Partnership for a Healthier America, a nonprofit organization of which Michelle Obama is honorary chairwoman, is expanding its efforts to encourage exercise and eating healthier foods into the area of advising Americans to drink water more often. The initiative, called Drink Up, has partners that includes marketers of bottled water, water filter makers, makers of reusable water bottles and groups like the American Beverage Association. There were complaints as the effort was introduced last week that it overemphasized the benefits of drinking water and that the participation of marketers of bottled water like Arrowhead, Dasani and Evian overlooked environmental issues associated with plastic bottles.

Purple Network, which handles print and online advertising sales for National Review and The Nation, will now also handle those tasks for CQ Weekly, part of the CQ Roll Call division of the Economist Group.

Joe Scartz joined the Chicago office of R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, managing director for client services. He had been vice president for marketing at Digital BrandWorks, Morton Grove, Ill.

SoftSheen-Carson Laboratories, New York, part of the consumer products division of L’Oréal USA, a division of L’Oréal, chose Maxus North America, New York, as its agency for media planning. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Aegis Media, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network unit of Dentsu. Maxus North America is part of the Maxus division of GroupM, owned by WPP.

Kingsley Taylor joined David & Goliath, Los Angeles, as director for new business. He assumes duties from Claudia Caplan, who had been chief marketing officer; she left early last year to join RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md., as chief marketing officer. Mr. Taylor had been director for client services at Mile 9, Calabasas, Calif., and before that was a senior partner and global business director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP.

Telemundo Media, part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, is joining with Tapestry – part of the SMG Multicultural division of the Starcom MediaVest Group, owned by the Publicis Groupe – and Information Resources Inc. for a study, to begin in the fall, that is intended to track the effectiveness of advertising in media aimed at Hispanics. The study will use data, provided by Information Resources, derived from stores where Spanish-speaking consumers shop.

TracyLocke, Dallas, part of the Omnicom Group, plans to mark the centennial of its founding with an event on Sept. 27 at the Dallas Museum of Art. Previous employees and clients are being invited to attend along with present ones.

Van B. Tran joined Doremus, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, associate director for digital production. She had most recently been associate director for project management at DigitasLBi, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Roger Williams, senior vice president for marketing at Maxifier, New York, was promoted to a new post, chief marketing officer.
378 2013-09-16 ■ Pizza Hut, Plano, Tex., part of Yum Brands, named the Chicago office of McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu, as its creative agency. Spending was estimated at $240 million. The assignment had been handled since 2009 by the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ Chobani, New Berlin, N.Y., hired Droga5, New York, as its lead creative agency and Weber Shandwick, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle tasks like public relations. Billings were not disclosed. Boathouse, Boston, had most recently created campaigns for Chobani, which is known for frequently changing creative agencies. FleishmanHillard, part of the Omnicom Group, had been the public relations agency for Chobani yogurt. Chobani is grappling with product problems centered on consumer complaints about mold and containers bloating and swelling; the company voluntarily recalled some yogurt made at its plant in Twin Falls, Idaho.

■ Lowe Campbell Ewald, Warren, Mich., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was awarded two creative accounts, from Atkins Nutritionals, Denver, owned by the Roark Capital Group, and the Detroit Lions football team. Atkins had previously worked with Goodness Mfg., Los Angeles, part of Trailer Park; the company has spent about $20 million a year on advertising but could increase its budget. Spending was not disclosed for the assignment from the Lions, which hired the agency for the 2013-14 season. The team has not previously worked with an agency for the tasks that Lowe Campbell Ewald will handle, which include brand strategy and enhancing the experience that fans have at the team’s stadium, Ford Field.

■ Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, known as BNY Mellon, chose TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, to handle its worldwide creative account. Spending was estimated at $30 million. The assignment had previously been handled by another Omnicom agency, Doremus, New York. The account will be run from the TBWA New York office and also use resources from the agency’s London office.

■ Katie Butler joined Eric Mower & Associates as director for EMA Insight, which specializes in search, strategy, planning and analytics. Ms. Butler, who is based in the Mower office in Charlotte, N.C., succeeds Dave Bulger, who left, the agency said, to start a marketing company. Ms. Butler had most recently been executive vice president for creative strategy and planning at JWT/OgilvyAction North America.

■ KSL Media, New York, a media services agency founded in 1981 that had been one of the largest independents in its field, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Sept. 11 with the United States bankruptcy court for the central district in California; the agency also has an office in Los Angeles. The petition listed the agency’s liabilities as more than $50 million and its assets as between $10 million and $50 million. Creditors listed in the petition with the most money owed them included the cable channels Comedy Central, ESPN and FX. KSL, which also operated subsidiaries that included TV10’s, specializing in 10-second commercials, worked for marketers like PetSmart; its largest client, Bacardi, which spent more than $130 million a year, left KSL in May for Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP.
379 2013-09-16 “Crayon,” which appeared on the EP “One of a Kind,” set an almost impossibly high bar. Nothing on the sometimes ambitious, sometimes comfortable “Coup D’Etat” bests that, although the album does show G-Dragon trying a range of styles. “Black” is mellow early-1990s R&B, and convincing. “R.O.D.” opens with roots reggae and ends up with neutered dubstep, the sort of song the reconstituted No Doubt could be making. “Runaway” has some of the shriek of 1980s arena rock. And “Niliria” samples a Korean folk song before shifting gears into fire-alarm-urgent club music.

Throughout, G-Dragon is a slithery presence — he doesn’t leave as much of a mark on the ear as the eye. He’s got a reedy voice that is typically made even more needling with digital manipulation. His singing is thin, verging on cute. His rapping, though, as with “Black” and “Niliria,” is nimble and bouncy, and has a faint outline of tension — his emphases fall in all the right places.

Whether K-pop needs American saturation is open for debate. It’s done relatively well here without much effort — top acts have begun to play arena shows, thanks to fan bases cultivated largely online. But “Coup D’Etat,” though largely in Korean, is perhaps the K-pop album with America most heavily on its mind and in its credits, thanks to a clutch of collaborations with American stars. Diplo and Baauer produced the title track, which has a couple of echoes of Baauer’s “Harlem Shake,” this year’s unlikeliest pop hit. Sky Ferreira sings on “Black,” a little blankly, as is her wont. And Missy Elliott continues her quixotic comeback campaign with a jubilant, slightly lazy verse on “Niliria.”

G-Dragon has no American male pop-star equivalent; the closest in recent memory would be Justin Timberlake from peak-era ’N Sync. His malleability is more reminiscent of female stars like Lady Gaga, Kesha and Nicki Minaj, all of whom are as much about the packaging as what’s inside. Ms. Elliott may be the inadvertent blueprint for K-pop’s polyvalent aesthetic, futuristic and borrowing widely. (She and G-Dragon performed “Niliria” at a convention in Los Angeles last month.)

Much of the time K-pop is importing pop ideas from here, although its splicing of them into something different is unique. It’s a surprise that the recent song interpolating Rick Ross’s “Hustlin’ ” doesn’t come from G-Dragon but rather his far tamer BigBang band mate Seungri, on “Gotta Talk to U,” from his less imaginative EP, “Let’s Talk About Love.”

Occasionally all that borrowing can reveal a glaring lack of context. A couple of months ago G-Dragon posted a photo of himself in black face paint to Instagram, causing a small firestorm; later, a representative said it wasn’t meant to be blackface, but was part of a photo shoot in which he wore several colors of face paint.

It was a rare misstep in presentation for G-Dragon, who appears far more mindful of how he looks than how he sounds. But he’s capable of exciting musical synthesis, and the more he lets his appearance inform his music, the better off he’ll be. Before long, it’s likely the borrowing will be going in the other direction, with the world learning from him.
380 2013-09-16 KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Cambodia’s political deadlock turned violent on Sunday as opposition supporters clashed with security forces in the streets of Phnom Penh, leaving at least one person dead and several injured, according to journalists and a Cambodian human rights organization.

The violence came during a day of mass protests in the capital of Phnom Penh led by Sam Rainsy, a former finance minister and the leader of the opposition to Cambodia’s authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen.

Security forces used tear gas and water cannons against protesters and fired their weapons into the air, according to Ou Virak, the president of the Cambodian Center for Human Rights. The circumstances of the death of the opposition supporter were still unclear, Mr. Ou Virak said.

The opposition is protesting alleged cheating in the country’s July elections and has vowed to step up demonstrations across the country unless an independent committee is formed to investigate the reports of widespread irregularities.

An effort to break the deadlock by King Norodom Sihamoni failed Saturday after Mr. Sam Rainsy and Mr. Hun Sen met for less than half an hour on Saturday.

Further meetings — and further protests — are planned for Monday.

The opposition’s first major protest on Sept. 7 proceeded without violence. In a country with a history of political violence, opposition leaders had gone to pains to emphasize the peaceful nature of their campaign.

On Sunday, protesters were angered when security forces tried to disperse them from one spot along a river in eastern Phnom Penh. According to The Associated Press, about 200 demonstrators had gathered there on one side of a barricade of barbed wire and roadblocks that had been erected to keep them away from the Royal Palace. They threw rocks and shoes at security forces, and one policeman was hit with a piece of metal, the news agency said.
381 2013-09-17 SCHNEEWEISS--Gary. The Department of Ophthalmology at Columbia University Medical Center mourns the passing of Gary Schneeweiss, beloved son of Joan and Michael. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. George Cioffi, MD, Chairman S...
382 2013-09-17 SCHNEEWEISS--Gary. Columbia University Medical Center mourns the passing of Gary Schneeweiss. All of us at Columbia extend our condolences to his parents, Michael and Joan Schnee-weiss, our friends and supporters of the Division of Cardiology; his...
383 2013-09-17 MEANS--Elizabeth Newberry, August 7, 1954 - September 13, 2013. Beloved wife of Stephen H. Gardner, mother of Elizabeth D. Gardner, Caroline H. Gardner, and David M. Gardner. Daughter of Nancy Means of New Canaan, CT, and the late David H. Means. ...
384 2013-09-17 To bolster his argument that Syrian rebels staged the chemical attack on Aug. 21, Russia’s top diplomat drew attention to an unusual source: a skeptical analysis of the online video evidence produced by a Lebanese nun who did not witness any par...
385 2013-09-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
386 2013-09-17 Both Netflix and HBO have expressed a more forgiving stance toward online piracy Web sites....
387 2013-09-17 A claim of gender discrimination filed by Margarita Aguilar, the former director of El Museo del Barrio, was dismissed after a state investigation....
388 2013-09-17 Sales of vinyl records increase. A guide for small businesses looking to hire I.T. project managers. Why you shouldn’t be loyal to your bank....
389 2013-09-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
390 2013-09-17 As Twitter prepares to sell stock to the public, the company is planning initiatives that will add complexity to its advertising business while also diversifying its revenue stream....
391 2013-09-17 But Dr. Fisk, a former president of the International Fetal Medicine and Surgery Society, said neurological research has convinced him that pain “is not possible at all” before 24 weeks.

Supporters of fetal-pain laws also say that surgeons’ use of anesthesia and painkillers when operating on fetuses in the womb proves fetuses feel pain.

“If the child who is waiting for surgery can feel pain, the child who is waiting for abortion can also feel pain,” said Mary Spaulding Balch, the National Right to Life Committee’s state policy director, who pioneered fetal-pain laws. She does not advocate performing abortions with anesthesia or painkillers “to have a painless death,” but rather wants those abortions prevented because a “member of the human family has reached a point where they are capable of feeling pain.”

But fetal surgeons say that the drugs are given for reasons other than fetal pain. Anesthesia is given to the mother, reaching the fetus, said Dr. Scott Adzick, a fetal surgeon at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Fetuses receive muscle relaxants and narcotics. The drugs are given to prevent maternal pain, immobilize the fetus, relax the uterus, and block harmful effects of a fetus’s hormonal stress response, he said. Asked if fetuses would feel pain without these drugs, Dr. Adzick said he did not know.

Dr. Mark Rosen, who pioneered anesthesia in fetal surgery, said if fetuses could experience surgery-related pain, it would be postoperatively, because during surgery anesthesia from the mother is so strong. Painkillers given to fetuses would prevent postsurgical pain if it exists, but the known scientific reason for them is “it promotes healing,” he said. “The fetus is going to go on and develop and live.”

Fetal-pain laws usually prohibit abortions at 20 weeks after conception, about 22 weeks gestational age as measured by scientists — from the last menstrual period, since conception cannot be pinpointed. By far most abortions occur before 24 weeks because the Supreme Court has said they may be performed until fetuses can be viable outside the womb, which doctors say is around 24 weeks.

So the laws banning abortions about two weeks before the 24-week threshold affect very few; 98.5 percent of abortions occur before 21 weeks, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights. Later cases often involve just-discovered birth defects.

Still, both sides consider the laws, which have been challenged and blocked in Arizona, Georgia and Idaho, broader efforts to narrow abortion options and build opposition.

Scientists with varying views of pain development said they did not consider their work applicable to fetal-pain laws or the highly charged abortion debate.

For example, one of the main scientists whose work is cited as support for the laws is Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand, a professor of pediatrics, anesthesiology and neurobiology at the University of Tennessee’s Health Science Center. Dr. Anand said he considered fetal pain likely at 18 to 24 weeks. But he added that the “issue of fetal pain does not have much relevance for abortion, since most abortions are performed before the fetus is capable of experiencing pain” and that for the “very few” abortions that occur after that time, techniques could be used that he believed would prevent pain.

Because so much about pain is undetermined, most scientific discussions eventually run into theoretical territory. Much research involves children or adults, making implications for fetuses unclear. Scientists say characterizing responses as pain is difficult; some fetal reactions are simply reflexes or stress hormones. Some researchers say pain-sensing ability depends on consciousness, which may itself emerge gradually.

“There’s far more we don’t know than we do know,” said Dr. Rosen, who in 2005 co-wrote an influential analysis of many studies, which appeared in the Journal of the American Medical Association. It concluded that fetal pain was unlikely before the third trimester, which begins at about 27 weeks. The report said pain sensation required neural connections into the cortex. The cortex begins emerging around the 23rd week, is not functionally developed until the 26th or later, and continues developing after birth, Dr. Rosen said.

In 2010, another large review, by a diverse panel appointed by Britain’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said “most neuroscientists believe that the cortex is necessary for pain perception” so “the fetus cannot experience pain in any sense prior” to 24 weeks.

In 2012, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists endorsed this reasoning, saying studies cited by fetal-pain law supporters were not persuasive “when weighed together with other available information.”

Fetal-pain law advocates argue the cortex is unnecessary to feel pain, and the thalamus, developed around 20 weeks, is sufficient. Ms. Balch, of the National Right to Life Committee, cites as a strong impetus for the laws a 2007 article in the journal Behavioral and Brain Sciences by Dr. Bjorn Merker, a Swedish neuroscientist. It included observations of five children with hydranencephaly, in which most or all of the cortex is missing, replaced with fluid. Dr. Merker wrote that they appeared to smile and cry, and theorized that “the tacit consensus concerning the cerebral cortex as the ‘organ of consciousness’ ” may “be seriously in error.”

Ms. Balch said this research, involving children ages 1 to 5, “is persuasive evidence that the unborn child feels pain at 20 weeks.”

But Dr. Merker said by e-mail that his research had only “marginal bearing” on fetal pain and “did not deal with pain specifically.” He added, “I was not aware that I had been cited in connection with the abortion issue,” and would not elaborate because politics has “infected” the issue.

Dr. Anand believes the cortex is not necessary for fetal pain, saying some adults have continued feeling pain after cortex tissue removal, and others have had pain eliminated when just thalamus nerves were removed. “It seems that the cortex is not that important even in the adult,” he said. “Why do you think it is so important in the fetus?”

But Dr. Rosen, a professor emeritus of anesthesiology, obstetrics and gynecology at the University of California, San Francisco, said pain involves “complex feedback loops between different structures,” so pain receptors must extend through the spinal cord and thalamus into the cortex. “You can make a telephone call, but not till wires that connect our phones exist,” he said. “You can say the wire now exists, but nobody’s turned the service on.”

On both sides, viewpoints continue evolving. Stuart Derbyshire, a psychologist at the National University of Singapore, is a leading voice against the likelihood of fetal pain. Appointed to the British panel, he strongly supports its main conclusion, but increasingly doubts another suggestion in the report, that the uterine environment may keep fetuses in “continuous sleeplike unconsciousness or sedation.”

That, he said, was “a really appealing argument, but unfortunately I don’t think it quite works.”

Dr. Anand’s fetal-pain theories grew from research he did with premature infants about 25 years ago showing that the practice of not anesthetizing infants undergoing surgery caused hormonal stress responses and impeded recoveries. This did not prove the infants felt pain, but it contributed to making anesthesia standard, because lowering stress responses helped babies survive. He said he thought the responses reflected pain, possible in infants as premature as 22 weeks.

Most premature infants are older than fetuses the laws refer to, with more-developed brains. But Dr. Anand said he believes fetuses may feel pain through different pathways, possibly the subplate, a way station for budding neurons, which later folds into the cortex. Dr. Rosen said the subplate theory was “unsubstantiated conjecture,” likely too simplistic for pain sensation.

In 2004, Dr. Anand testified about fetal pain in trials on laws banning late-term procedures, which opponents call partial-birth abortions. In 2005, he testified before a Congressional committee considering fetal-pain legislation.

Recently, he said he had intended to highlight science, not support anti-abortion views. Since 2005, “I’ve been asked to testify many, many times, and I’ve turned it down,” he said. “I feel it’s just gotten completely out of hand.”

He said women and their doctors should make abortion decisions case by case. “In the very few abortions where fetal pain could possibly occur,” he said, “consider what can be done to avoid inflicting a lot of pain on the fetus.” He said a common method used after 20 weeks — injecting amniotic fluid or fetuses with heart-stopping medication before removing the fetus — “would be fine, really, from a point of view of fetal pain,” a “compassionate way to do it.” Anti-abortion advocates disagree, equating the injections with heart attacks.

Dr. Anand said that if injections could not be done, he would recommend “some sort of fetal anesthesia.”

Dr. Daniel Grossman, vice president for research at Ibis Reproductive Health, who performs abortions, said that fetal anesthesia is rare, carrying risks to mothers, but that he would provide it, if asked, to patients who understood the risks.

Dr. Anne Davis, consulting medical director for Physicians for Reproductive Health, who performs abortions until 24 weeks, said publicity about the laws had prompted patients to ask about fetal pain. She tells them that “the best evidence is the fetuses are not feeling pain until pretty much into the third trimester.”

Some scientists say if fetuses feel pain, childbirth would seem to be particularly painful. Yet fetal-pain law supporters do not advocate fetal anesthesia or painkillers then. Ms. Balch said she believes “there is something that is produced that prevents pain” for babies being born.

Scientists say that is not so. “There are ways in which the pain of being born may help the fetus by producing activation in the pathways of the brain,” Dr. Anand said.
392 2013-09-17 “I love America, and I love to say that my family is American,” said James Spithill, Oracle’s Australian helmsman and skipper, who is married to an American. Spithill added: “But I tell you what, I’m not going to try to hide from the fact that we have different nationalities in our team, because I’m proud of every one of them and the ideas and creativity they bring.”

Dalton and Team New Zealand have a different vision. Nine of their starting crew members are New Zealanders; the other two are Australians with strong New Zealand connections.

“It’s a very homogeneous crew, while Ellison’s got an international free-agency crew,” said Gary Jobson, the American who won the 1977 America’s Cup as tactician to Ted Turner and is now a television analyst. “I strongly believe that the America’s Cup Deed of Gift was written as a friendly competition between foreign countries, and I think the American boat should have all Americans, the New Zealand boat ought to have all Kiwis, and the French boat should have all French. And if you did that, I think the America’s Cup would mean a lot more to a lot of people.”

New Zealand, with a population of about 4.4 million, has long punched well above its demographic weight in the sailing world. New Zealanders have been fixtures on nearly all the major teams in the past four Cup cycles. Oracle also has a strong Kiwi influence. Russell Coutts, the team’s chief executive and former skipper, is a New Zealander.

The imposition of nationality restrictions would presumably cost Kiwis some sailing jobs, as well. But Dalton says he is convinced that the event needs to tack away from the billionaire-versus-billionaire approach that has been back in vogue in the last decade.

“We stand for a strong nationality rule,” he said earlier this year in an occasionally testy onstage debate with Coutts in New Zealand.

The question is how strong a rule. Fulfilling Jobson’s vision and creating full Olympic-style national teams would probably discourage teams from emerging sailing nations like China and South Korea. Their home-country sailors simply could not be competitive against the established powers.

“Grant Dalton’s idea, from what I understand after talking to him, would be to have a weaker nationality rule for newcomers, for new countries, which seems fair,” said Bruno Troublé, a French former America’s Cup helmsman.

But established teams could also struggle with a new rule. Artemis Racing, which represents the Royal Swedish Yacht Club, had no Swedish sailor on its primary crew during this year’s Challenger Series.

The Cup’s governing document, the Deed of Gift, written in 1852, defines the Cup as a “friendly competition between foreign countries.” But there were no nationality restrictions on crews until 1980 when the New York Yacht Club, which held the Cup for more than a century, instituted a rule requiring crew members of an entrant yacht club to hold that club’s nationality.

The rule was a reaction to Andy Rose, an American sailor, joining an Australian team headed by Alan Bond in 1977.

“Being a national meant you were domiciled or owned a principal place of residence in a country for a certain number of years,” said Tom Ehman, a longtime rules adviser for Cup teams.

That led to some administrative creativity and quite a few empty apartments in the name of newly recruited sailors. Ernesto Bertarelli, a Swiss billionaire who is the head of the syndicate Alinghi, hired Coutts and other key New Zealanders for his successful challenge in 2003. He abolished the nationality restrictions for the 2007 Cup in Valencia, Spain.

Dalton made it clear then that he was against Alinghi’s move. But Spithill maintains that Team New Zealand is not as pure New Zealand as it portrays itself.

“The fact is, an America’s Cup team is more than a sailing team,” Spithill said. “It’s anywhere from sort of 80 to upward of 100 people; of designers, engineers, boat builders, an incredible group of people, and there are a lot of nationalities in New Zealand’s team.”

Ehman said that Oracle did seriously consider a nationality rule for this Cup and added that he personally supported a limited rule. Troublé said at least one-third of each crew should be home-country sailors. Both agree that whatever new rule is imposed should be more restrictive.

“You’ve got to have a rule that says you have to be Olympic-eligible for that country, and you should only be able to change nationality once,” Ehman said.

Dalton has yet to give specifics, but with his team’s 7-1 lead over Oracle, he may get the chance to do so very soon.
393 2013-09-17 Power chords and pizzicato. Cha-cha and chamber music. Funk and free jazz. Klezmer and cacophony. All of those, and many more, turned up during a marathon of John Zorn’s Masada works at the N.Y.U. Skirball Center on Sunday.

In four and a half hours of music by 13 ensembles and soloists, the concert celebrated Mr. Zorn’s 60th birthday, which was Sept. 2. He has been marking the occasion with concerts around the world that have reaffirmed his astonishing productivity and multifarious connections. Mr. Zorn was sampling and mashing up idioms long before computers made it easy; he was also, well before the Internet, setting up improbable but fruitful networks of musicians and ideas.

The concert drew on a fraction of Mr. Zorn’s Masada repertory: two sets of melodies, the first 200 of them from the 1990s and another 316 tunes he wrote in three months in 2004. (Nearly all of the program came from the second group, “The Book of Angels.”) The Masada pieces are based in klezmer, with its modal scales, odd meters and zigzagging melodies. And like klezmer itself — a fusion of what Jewish musicians brought with them and picked up in travels through Eastern Europe and then America — the tunes are flexible.

They were brittle, perpetual-motion jazz in Uri Caine’s piano solos; blistering psychedelic jams — powered by bass riffs plucked on a Moroccan gimbri — in the hands of Abraxas; and sleek bachelor-pad music as played by Bar Kokhba. Krakauer set David Krakauer’s clarinet wailing over funk vamps. Mycale, a four-woman a cappella group, turned them into intricate, ingenious, glowing pan-Mediterranean songs.

Much of Mr. Zorn’s music revolves around the idea of genres, investigating how they’re recognized, how they connect or contrast, how far they can be stretched, how they can be juxtaposed or intercut. He approaches genres as a connoisseur, a strategist, a trickster and sometimes a vandal; if a genre is seen as a set of rules, he might play by them, toy with them or tear them apart. Behind the musical elements are the associations of genres with eras, places and people; his music pulls free of them.

Erik Friedlander turned Masada tunes into impassioned cello solos recalling the techniques of Bach suites. Malphas, the duo of Mark Feldman on violin and Sylvie Courvoisier on piano, played them as splintered chamber music: a series of brief, precise, suddenly contrasting passages lasting only a few seconds each. The Roberto Rodriguez Octeto Masada mingled klezmer with Latin charanga, and invited the audience to dance. The Masada String Trio gave its tunes a hint of Gypsy music. Dreamers cast the melodies as smoothly shimmering jazz. Cyro Baptista’s Banquet of the Spirits charged into one melody as a kind of Middle Eastern surf-rock, and Secret Chiefs 3 cranked its tunes up to burly jazz-rock with klezmer violin interludes.
394 2013-09-17 So the guy who passed me on the 105 tapping his horn and waving to signal that my rear windshield wiper remained on, even though it was a sunny day, should know that hip-hop music also was blasting inside my car in maddening synchronization with the wipers that I couldn’t turn off. Once home, incidentally, I read that a J. D. Power report in June said one of the top complaints of new car owners this year was incomprehensible high-tech dashboard-control design.

Speaking of top complaints, the airport security hassle always ranks high. Again there was a peak and a valley on my trip. The peak was the Tucson airport, where the Transportation Security Administration screeners are invariably courteous and friendly. The valley was reached on my return flight at Los Angeles International Airport.

Thanks to my membership in Global Entry, I had the coveted PreCheck certification on my boarding pass for a fast-pass through security. But as I strolled happily through the metal detector without having to remove my shoes or take out my laptop, a glowering T.S.A. screener blocked my advance and told me, basically, not so fast, buster. I had been randomly selected to be swabbed down for explosives.

“Hold your palms out,” the screener barked at me as she tugged on rubber gloves.

“How about you say ‘Please’?” I replied. This displeased her mightily, but after passing the no-bomb-traces-on-palms test, I was allowed to proceed.

I later told David Castelveter, a spokesman for the T.S.A., that, while my encounters with screeners were usually pleasant and professional, this one bothered me, partly because it had clouded my first experience with PreCheck. “I can’t comment on the particulars, but the officers as part of their training are taught how to properly interact with customers. We hold them to a very high standard of customer interaction,” Mr. Castelveter said.

The T.S.A. had other worries last week, to be sure. The night before, I later read, a former T.S.A. agent was arrested on charges of making “unspecified threats” against the airport in an eight-page letter titled “The End of America, the End of Satan.” That same agent, according to The Los Angeles Times, had earlier resigned after reports that he had humiliated a 15-year-old girl at the airport in June for what he called her inappropriate attire.

Peaks and valleys! The night before my return home I had a peak, staying at the Four Points by Sheraton Los Angeles Airport, a good midlevel hotel close by the airport, where I had managed to score a nightly rate of $98.75 (taxes and fees included) through the Priceline Name Your Own Price blind-bidding service.

When I got home, I realized that I had left a single brown dress shoe behind in my room. I phoned the hotel and spoke with a friendly housekeeping manager, Juana Ortiz, who said, “I have your shoe and will send it to you.”

Then, alas, I spent an hour online and on the phone with FedEx, trying to update the expired American Express Platinum Card number on my account. My old card had been hacked during a previous trip, and I needed my FedEx account updated so that Ms. Ortiz could send the shoe. I don’t yet know whether that worked, because my FedEx account won’t let me see my details without approval from “the administrator,” who happens to be me.

As to the brown shoe that I stupidly forgot, one way or another I am confident that Ms. Ortiz will get it back to me. Which will be another peak.
395 2013-09-17 Two years after Chipotle Mexican Grill introduced to widespread acclaim an animated commercial with a pointed message about sustainable farming, the company is back with another animated spot on the subject of food production.

The new commercial, called “The Scarecrow,” has already amassed more than four million views on YouTube since it was uploaded last week. The commercial takes swipes at giant companies that treat food like another product to process and contrasts that with food made in sustainable ways that is fresh and wholesome.

There is a game that accompanies the commercial, which is available for free downloading at the Apple App Store.

The new commercial was created by Chipotle in partnership with the CAA Marketing division of the Creative Artists Agency and Moonbot Studios. The 2011 commercial -- created by Chipotle, CAA Marketing and Nexus Productions -- was introduced online and in movie theaters and was turned into a television spot in February 2012.

The previous spot featured a Willie Nelson rendition of the song “The Scientist” by Coldplay, which was available for downloading through iTunes. The song backing the current commercial — “Pure Imagination” performed by Fiona Apple — is also available on iTunes.
396 2013-09-17 Mr. Obama’s remarks followed his administration’s release of a report chronicling the actions taken since 2008 to encourage job creation, save the auto industry, revive and regulate banking, and expand education opportunities.

But he spoke at a time when the economy, as he acknowledged, is still struggling to create enough jobs and his agenda faces opposition mostly from Republicans but also from some Democrats increasingly emboldened against a second-term lame-duck president.

Still, on the budget fight, most Democrats in Congress support the president, and with his comments he sought to rally them and to set up Republicans for blame should the fiscal fights end badly.

Mr. Obama noted that in the past Republicans fought for more spending cuts to reduce deficits but that now, with annual deficits declining, they were making their fight over the health care law.

“The Affordable Care Act has been the law for three and a half years now,” Mr. Obama said. “It passed both houses of Congress. The Supreme Court ruled it constitutional. It was an issue in last year’s election, and the candidate who called for repeal lost. The Republicans in the House have tried to repeal or sabotage it about 40 times. They failed every time. Meanwhile the law has already helped millions of Americans.”

The president repeated his warning against “self-inflicted wounds” at the event, which was moved from the Rose Garden to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building because of rain. He proceeded with the event even as a shooting unfolded at a naval office building in Southeast Washington.

Mr. Obama was joined onstage by a group of people that White House officials said included “small-business owners, construction workers, homeowners, consumers and tax cut recipients.”

The president has struggled for years to balance the desire to claim credit for a slowly improving economy against the need to make sure he acknowledges the pain that many people still feel.

At the event on Monday, Mr. Obama recalled how close the country, and the world, came to another depression after the collapse of the investment bank Lehman Brothers in September 2008. The Lehman bankruptcy caused the credit markets to seize up, the unemployment rate to sour and economic activity to plummet.

Mr. Obama and his allies have for a long time said that the administration’s actions in early 2009, while extremely unpopular, were critical to holding off a worse collapse. Those include the decision to support President George W. Bush’s bailout of Wall Street, Mr. Obama’s own bailout for the auto industry and the passage of the economic stimulus program.

But while the unemployment rate has fallen to 7.3 percent — down from a high of 10.1 percent in late 2009 — millions of Americans are still struggling to find a job, and millions more are working at low-wage or part-time jobs and having trouble making ends meet.

That has been Mr. Obama’s message in the last several months as he has delivered speeches arguing for what he calls a “better bargain for the middle class.” In those speeches, he argues for investments in infrastructure, education, college aid and housing as a way to help middle-class Americans and those trying to get into the middle class.

The president is scheduled to deliver another one of his “better bargain” speeches in Kansas City, Mo., on Friday when he visits a Ford Motor Company assembly plant.
397 2013-09-17 Ms. Yellen was perceived by some in the financial markets as likely to maintain the current course, rather than move quickly to scale back the Fed’s years-long economic stimulus efforts.

Christian Schulz, an economist in London with Berenberg Bank, said investors’ concerns about Mr. Summers stemmed from the fact that he had not spoken much on the topic of monetary policy, while Ms. Yellen had a long track record of supporting Mr. Bernanke’s policies.

Mr. Summers “seemed less convinced that such a blunt instrument as quantitative easing was the right tool,” Mr. Schulz said. “It was clear he wasn’t as big a fan.”

“It seems likely that President Obama will choose Yellen, which is good in terms of the prospects of the Fed staying on hold for some time,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Rockwell Global Capital in New York, according to Reuters.

“Of course, there are always chances that the Fed may begin to announce the trimming on Wednesday, but that’s already been baked in the market,” Mr. Cardillo said.

Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive of the investment firm Pimco, said in a blog post that the Summers move would be seen “as bullish for U.S. interest rate curve trades, duration more generally, and risk assets (including credit and equities).”

The main Hong Kong stock index pushed ahead 1.5 percent, while Germany’s DAX reached a new high, gaining 1.1 percent.

But emerging markets were the most relieved by Mr. Summers’s retreat. Equity indexes in Indonesia (up 3.4 percent), the Philippines (2.8 percent), Argentina (2.1 percent) and Singapore (1.9 percent) were among the sharpest gainers.

Their rallies underscored the widespread belief that the “Bernanke bubbles” have helped bolster the emerging markets. Fears that the cheap money would dry up have prompted turmoil in recent weeks.

Still, many Fed watchers believed the policy differences between Ms. Yellen and Mr. Summers were not substantive. Both would be concerned about the sustained levels of high unemployment and likely to tap the brakes on stimulus slowly. In that sense, the market euphoria Monday was surprising to some.

The United States currency fell marginally against other major currencies, with the euro gaining 0.33 percent against the dollar, to $1.3338, and the dollar falling against its Japanese counterpart to 99.10 yen.

Analysts at BNP Paribas wrote that there had been a “knee-jerk sell-off” of the dollar on the Summers news, but that it would not last. By far, they said, the most important factor in the currency market was the Fed’s policy announcement on Wednesday.
398 2013-09-17 SEOUL, South Korea — In the latest sign of a thaw on the divided Korean Peninsula, hundreds of cars and trucks streamed across the border on Monday to take South Korean managers and raw materials back to a jointly operated industrial park in North Korea, where factories resumed production after a 166-day hiatus.

Operations at the factory complex in the North Korean town of Kaesong came to a halt in early April, when the North withdrew all 53,000 of its workers, blaming tensions with the United States and South Korea.

The two Koreas reached an agreement in mid-August to reopen the complex, following weeks of negotiations. Technicians from the South have since made day trips across the border to work on the long-idled plants. Separately, South Korean officials have been negotiating with their North Korean counterparts over changes that they hope will make the joint project less vulnerable to political tensions in the future, such as attracting non-Korean investment.

More than 800 South Korean factory managers and truck drivers entered Kaesong on Monday, as about half of the 123 South Korean-owned factories there began test runs or resumed production, with North Korean employees back at work. Officials from a South Korean lobby group representing the interests of Kaesong factory owners handed out roses to managers at the border crossing to celebrate the occasion. Many of the South Koreans will stay at the site to manage the plants, as they had until South Korea withdrew all of its personnel between late April and early May.

Since beginning operations in late 2004 as a test case for Korean reunification, the Kaesong complex has slowly grown in size, pairing South Korean manufacturing know-how with inexpensive North Korean labor. Last year, it produced $470 million worth of textiles, shoes, electronics parts and other goods.

North Korea has agreed to exempt the South Korean-owned factories in Kaesong from taxation this year to help them make up for the millions of dollars lost because of the five-month halt in production. It also agreed to allow more frequent border crossings for South Koreans working at the plants. The North previously opened the border only four times a day for those traveling to and from Kaesong.

The resumption of production at Kaesong was the most visible sign of easing tensions between the rival Koreas since they traded threats of war last spring, following the North’s latest nuclear test in February.
399 2013-09-18 The Broad, the contemporary art museum being built by the billionaire collector Eli Broad and his wife Edythe in Los Angeles, will be free to the public, Mr. Broad announced....
400 2013-09-18 The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup....
401 2013-09-18 Why women should skip business school. Consumer prices up 0.1 percent. A slew of tax breaks are set to expire....
402 2013-09-18 Doctors willing to heal themselves can help the medical profession recover from its own illness....
403 2013-09-18 Problems arising from money market mutual funds are viewed as a crucial channel through which the financial crisis spread from Wall Street to Main Street, and reforms are still needed, an economist writes....
404 2013-09-18 Research shows that big businesses may benefit consumers, and the harm from monopoly power may be exaggerated, an economist writes....
405 2013-09-18 But there still does not appear to be another winner-take-all formula quite as extreme as the America’s Cup in elite sport, and although the interviews on the dock were cordial and coherent Tuesday, the sailors and the big, specialized teams that support them all know that their jobs are likely to end if the Cup ends in defeat.

Oracle Team employees continue to talk comeback, citing Australia II’s rally from a 1-3 deficit against Liberty in the 1983 Cup, which ended the Americans’ 132-year winning streak.

But the odds remain heavily in Team New Zealand’s favor, and on Tuesday in the America’s Cup Park at Pier 27, the end felt near with 50 percent discounts on all America’s Cup apparel in the official store and with fans snapping up hats and shirts before snapping images of the two 72-foot catamarans as their crews prepared to dock out (to no avail).

With their huge wing sails, surprisingly thin in profile, mirroring the verticals of Coit Tower and the Transamerica Pyramid in the distance, it was an evocative scene. A peaceful scene, too, with the sunlight playing tricks with the undulations in the water.

But peaceful is far from the mood behind the scenes. Team New Zealand, with significant government money but no guarantee of more, needs the victory to guarantee its survival. Oracle Team USA, with Ellison surely hesitating about whether to keep lavishing many more millions on something he has already won, is in the survival business, too.

“He loves to be a challenger and he loves New Zealand,” said Bruno Troublé, the former America’s Cup helmsman turned Cup organizer. “But maybe if he loses, he will focus on his island now, on his new personal country.”

That would be the Hawaiian island of Lanai, which Ellison purchased nearly in its entirety last year. But for this week at least, Ellison remains on what Hawaiians call the mainland as his design teams and sailors explore and re-explore every possible tweak that might keep the momentum in their direction.

Asking for details on their work is usually about as productive as asking an N.F.L. coach what he learned from watching game film. What is clear is that Oracle has managed to narrow the gap in the last week, winning two of the last three races and getting a true point on the board after starting the Cup with a two-race penalty imposed by an international jury. The jury found that the team had broken rules in preliminary regattas in smaller boats.

Oracle’s leaders remain privately furious about that judgment, which also deprived them of their lead wing-sail trimmer, Dirk de Ridder, who was suspended. A post-regatta legal challenge from Oracle cannot be ruled out if it loses, particularly if the final score is close. Meanwhile, Oracle has narrowed the gap on the water — in large part — by improving its upwind speed significantly.

“There are probably four or five changes to the boat, all visible to the naked eye, so I’ll challenge you to find them,” said Dirk Kramers, a design executive for Oracle.

Team New Zealand apparently has not found them all yet.

“I’m at least three or four behind,” joked (perhaps) Nick Holroyd, the technical director for Team New Zealand, who sat next to Kramers at a news conference Tuesday.

What came through in that exchange was the techie thrill they and so many others have felt at being part of the newest and fastest generation of Cup yachts.

“I’m like a kid in a candy store here,” Kramers said.

The rules governing the candy store shifted significantly in May after Andrew Simpson, a sailor with the challenger Artemis Racing, died when the team’s AC72 capsized during training in San Francisco Bay.

This Cup, which has brought the venerable event into the extreme-sport era, was also supposed to allow the teams to compete in a wide range of wind conditions and avoid the cancellations that have hurt its appeal and marketability.

The original wind limit for the Cup match was 33 knots. But after Simpson’s death and extensive negotiations, Cup officials lowered the upper range to 23 knots, and the ebb tide lowered it further Tuesday.

“As frustrating as it may seem, I think the safety rules are in place for all the right reasons,” said Ken Read, a former Cup helmsman who is now a television analyst.

Team New Zealand was once the team pushing for higher wind limits, but with Oracle appearing to thrive in the upper ranges in the last few days, the New Zealanders are now all for extra caution.

Oracle officials made a request on Monday’s day off to raise the wind limits by one knot. They also proposed that races no longer be stopped once they have begun if the winds increase, which happened on Saturday.

“I think now the crews are so expert and the boats are hopefully very fit,” said Tom Ehman, the vice commodore of the Golden Gate Yacht Club and a key member of Oracle’s brain trust. “So you can do some things that maybe three or four months ago did not seem reasonable.”

Reasonable or not, Oracle’s proposal, which required mutual consent, was rejected by Team New Zealand, which should come as no surprise at this all-or-nothing phase of another America’s Cup when mutual consent is every bit as elusive as job security.
406 2013-09-18 The coal industry and its allies are angry about President Obama’s energy policies, and they have decided to take it out on his nominee to lead the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which regulates the interstate transmission of electricity, natural gas and oil.

The commission has no regulatory authority over coal. But that doesn’t matter to the industry. It has come out against Ronald Binz, the nominee, because he supported clean fuels when he was a state energy regulator.

As the chairman of the Colorado Public Utility Commission, he helped Colorado lawmakers tighten standards on coal-fired power plants, causing some older plans to shut down and be replaced by natural gas plants. Those new rules are helping to reduce emissions and improve the state’s air quality. One of the coal industry’s chief complaints against Mr. Binz is that he overstepped his authority in his Colorado post; they refuse to acknowledge that a court ruled against that claim.

Mr. Binz’s critics, which include the far right and some Senate Republicans, want to block his appointment because they say he would encourage the construction of transmission lines that will bring power generated by wind farms to urban areas.

They also argue that he would undermine conventional fossil fuels by standing in the way of new oil and gas pipelines. His record, however, shows he is no ideologue.

The coal lobby and the American Energy Alliance, which is partly financed by the Koch brothers, are hoping that their misleading campaign against Mr. Binz will convince some Democrats like Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana to oppose his nomination. Senators should ignore the attacks from vested special interests, many of whom deny the existence of climate change, and confirm Mr. Binz.
407 2013-09-18 In the 2009-10 season, Abreu rose to stardom when he hit .399 with 30 home runs, 76 runs batted in and a .555 on-base percentage. The next year he had one of the best seasons in the history of the Cuban league, batting .453 with 33 home runs and 93 R.B.I. in only 66 games (he missed 23 with bursitis in his shoulder).

His past two seasons have been similarly prodigious. At the World Baseball Classic this year, he was 9 for 25 with 3 home runs in 6 games.

Abreu is often called a four-tool player, missing only the speed of his countrymen Puig and Cespedes. Scouts have compared him to Ryan Howard because of his size and easy power. Peter Bjarkman, who covers the Cuban league for baseballdecuba.com, said Abreu had the look of a young Mark McGwire.

Adding to his value, Abreu will be part of a relatively thin free-agent class in the major leagues. So far, the San Francisco Giants have expressed interest, as have the Boston Red Sox, the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Baltimore Orioles. The Mets, still looking for an impact hitter at first base, would also make an intriguing landing spot.

Ike Davis, once thought to be the Mets’ first baseman of the future, spent time at Class AAA Las Vegas this season and was recently shelved with an oblique injury. Neither of his replacements, Lucas Duda and Josh Satin, inspires much confidence as a long-term solution. Abreu could be a quick — albeit expensive — fix should General Manager Sandy Alderson decide he is up for a somewhat risky bidding war.

But Abreu is hardly a guarantee at the major league level. An international scout for one major league team said that Alfredo Despaigne and Frederich Cepeda, outfielders on the Cuban national team, were more dangerous hitters.

An international scout for another team said that major league clubs could not afford to make a mistake when spending big on a first baseman, since it is a traditional power position filled by players who bat in the middle of the lineup. In other words, the scout said, the same money that could be used to sign Abreu might be better spent in the acquisition of one of the many established first basemen “you already know can hit big league pitching.”

Neither scout wanted to be quoted by name discussing a player his team might end up bidding on.

Bjarkman noted that Abreu’s prodigious numbers came in a league that is leaking talent, as more and more players leave the country. Some pitchers in Cuba, he said, throw between 80 and 85 miles per hour, which is almost akin to batting practice in the majors.

“His numbers in the Cuban league are great, but they came against some very mediocre pitching,” Bjarkman said. “For the national team, he dropped off a bit. If there is a question, it’s whether he can adjust as quickly to the better pitching as the Cuban players who have been so good in the majors.”

Sigfredo Barros, a baseball writer for the Cuban newspaper Granma, said: “Sometimes it can be very hard to tell with the Cuban players. Not everyone can be Puig.”

Right now, Abreu is working to establish residency in Haiti so he can legally work in the United States. If he came directly he could work immediately, but he would have been subject to the amateur draft and deprived of his lucrative free agency.

In addition, Major League Baseball’s new interpretation of regulations from the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control means Abreu will face a longer wait before he is cleared. In the past, Cuban defectors needed only to prove permanent residency in a country outside Cuba. Now baseball requires players to petition the Foreign Assets office, a process that can take several months.

Praver Shapiro Sports Management, which has handled other Cubans like pitcher Livan Hernandez, will represent Abreu. Last summer, the agency negotiated a nine-year, $30 million contract for another Cuban client, Jorge Soler, who signed with the Chicago Cubs.

Abreu is expected to have a showcase for scouts in the Dominican Republic this month, at which point the hype will probably grow. Where it leads remains to be seen.
408 2013-09-18 “A one-bedroom in East New York or the South Bronx is still $1,000 a month,” said Patrick Markee, senior policy analyst with the Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy and housing services group. “The jobs aren’t enough to get people out of homelessness.”

David Garza, executive director of Henry Street Settlement, which runs three family shelters and one shelter for single women with mental illnesses, said that five years ago his shelters were placing 200 families a year into permanent housing. Last year, he said, they placed 50.

“Without low-income housing, it’s a maze with no way out,” Mr. Garza said.

The employed homeless are constantly juggling the demands of their two worlds.

A 45-year-old woman named Barbara, who works part time as a public transit customer service representative, said she had to keep items like razors and nail clippers at a storage center because they were not allowed in the shelter for security reasons.

Sometimes she takes a tote bag filled with dirty clothes to work to take to the laundromat afterward, she said, because the machines at the shelter are always either broken or being used.

But, she said, there is no escaping the noise and fitful sleep of a dormitory shared with eight other women.

Like most homeless employed people interviewed for this article, Barbara did not want to be identified by her full name for fear of losing her privacy or her job. She has been homeless since 2011, she said, when her unemployment insurance ran out and she could no longer afford her apartment in Brooklyn. No one at work knows, she said.

“When it comes to the professional arena, I want people to think that I got it together, that I’m not living paycheck to paycheck, that my only option isn’t to buy secondhand,” she said.

Sometimes homeless workers discover one another.

Deirdre Cunningham, 21, who works two part-time jobs — as a bank teller and as a sales clerk for an electronics store in Manhattan, said that at one point a co-worker at the store invited her to an evening event. “I said, ‘I can’t go, because I have curfew,’ and this co-worker said, ‘What do you mean curfew?’ ”

“I said, ‘I live in a shelter,’ and she said, ‘I do, too.’ ”

Ms. Cunningham, who has a 4-year-old daughter, said she has always been open about her struggles. “A lot of people have problems, too,” she said.

She said she left her parents’ home in the South Bronx in 2011 because she did not want to expose her daughter to “family issues.” Two years and three shelters later, she moved in August into her own $900-a-month one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx with the help of a rent subsidy from the Coalition for the Homeless. But the aid lasts for only two years.

“Now that I got my living situation under control, now it’s time for me to go back to school, get a better job, be more of a mother,” said Ms. Cunningham, who has completed training as a medical assistant but aspires to be a journalist.

“My daughter wants to take ballet,” she said.

A city-commissioned study by the Vera Institute of Justice in 2005 found that “contrary to popular belief,” 79 percent of homeless heads of family had recent work histories and more than half had educational levels, up to college, that made them employable.

Most, the study found, had experienced “destabilizing” events before entering the shelter, most commonly the loss of a job, an eviction or the loss of public assistance benefits.

In 2004, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled an ambitious plan to reduce the city’s homeless population — then 38,000 — by two-thirds in five years. The plan envisioned shifting dollars away from the shelter system to create low-income housing with social services.

To make the shelter system less inviting, the city also stopped giving homeless families priority for public housing, and made it harder for those who left the system to return.

In 2011, when the state and federal support were withdrawn, the city ended a program that gave rent subsidies for up to two years to help families move out of shelters and into their own apartments.

Now the number of shelter residents hovers around 50,000, according to the city’s Department of Homeless Services. More than 9,000 are single adults and more than 40,000 other residents are in families, including 21,600 children. The average monthly cost for the government to shelter a family is more than $3,000; the cost for a single person is more than $2,300.

Linda I. Gibbs, Mr. Bloomberg’s deputy mayor for health and human services, said there were no local resources to keep up with demand for subsidized housing after both federal and state money dried up.

Advocates for the homeless say the city should restore housing assistance for shelter residents, including giving them priority for public housing.

But in an interview, Ms. Gibbs reiterated the Bloomberg administration’s long-held position that more benefits only attract more people to shelters. “That drives more demand,” she said. “It’s a Catch-22.”

Ms. Gibbs said officials were now exploring expanding a city program that helps families at risk of losing their homes to stay in place.

But those like Ms. Manzueta, the security guard, still need a way out.

She said she managed to hold on to her $8-an-hour positions and to take courses to learn new skills. But with an eviction marring her credit record and unable to afford more than $1,000 for rent, she has not been able to land an apartment.

“New York City,” said Ms. Manzueta, a native, “is the hardest city to live in.”
409 2013-09-18 CAIRO — Security forces on Tuesday arrested Gehad el-Haddad, a senior official of the Muslim Brotherhood who handled the group’s communication with the foreign news media, security officials said. His arrest was part of a continuing roundup of thousands of Brotherhood members in the two months since the military ouster of President Mohamed Morsi, an ally of the group.

Mr. Haddad is an aide to Khairat el-Shater, a Brotherhood leader who was arrested last month, and the son of Mr. Morsi’s top foreign policy adviser, Essam el-Haddad, who was detained with Mr. Morsi at the time of the takeover. The arrests have already swept up much of the group’s leadership, effectively crippling its organizational ability.

Mr. Haddad’s main role in recent months was speaking to the English-language media, and critics of the Brotherhood have often accused Mr. Haddad of misinformation and exaggeration, especially in comments posted on the Internet. Although he constantly repeated the group’s renunciation of violence to the news media, news reports said Tuesday that he would be charged with inciting violence.

Prosecutors have brought the same charge against Mr. Morsi, Mr. Shater and many others.

Mr. Haddad has lived as a fugitive since Aug. 14, when security forces broke up a Brotherhood-led sit-in against the takeover here, and he moved daily between apartments while avoiding telephones for fear of surveillance. He was educated primarily in Britain; before he began working full time for the Brotherhood he worked in Egypt for the Clinton Foundation, established by former President Bill Clinton.

The police appear to have targeted several Brotherhood spokesmen in recent weeks. Among others recently arrested was Mourad Aly, a volunteer consultant to the group’s political party whose main job for the last 10 years was as a marketing executive for the Danish pharmaceutical company Lundbeck.

Mr. Aly was apprehended at the airport trying to board a flight to a corporate meeting abroad. A company spokesman said Lundbeck was working with Egyptian lawyers and the Danish Embassy in Cairo to seek his release.
410 2013-09-18 WASHINGTON — Consumer prices barely rose in August, but rising rents and medical costs pointed to some stability in underlying inflation that could make the Federal Reserve more comfortable about trimming its bond purchases.

A Labor Department report on Tuesday showed inflation largely under control, and some details suggested that a downward drift in prices earlier in the year had probably run its course.

“This should give policy makers greater confidence that the inflation soft patch in the first half was indeed transitory,” said Joseph LaVorgna, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.

The Fed’s policy makers have been holding a two-day meeting on monetary policy. Most economists expect the central bank to announce on Wednesday that it is scaling back its purchases of $85 billion a month in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, which are aimed at keeping interest rates low and stimulating the economy.

The Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index edged up 0.1 percent last month as the cost of energy fell and food prices remained muted. The index rose 0.2 percent in July. In the 12 months through August, it increased at a slow rate of 1.5 percent after advancing 2 percent in the 12 months through July.
411 2013-09-18 REDMOND, Wash. — Microsoft said on Tuesday that its board had approved a 22 percent increase in the company’s quarterly dividend, to 28 cents, along with a new $40 billion stock buyback program.

The new dividend is an increase of 5 cents over its previous dividend and will be paid on Dec. 12 to shareholders of record as of Nov. 21.

The increase will cost Microsoft, the world’s largest software company, an extra $416 million a quarter, based on the 8.33 billion shares that FactSet says the company has outstanding.

The new stock buyback program has no expiration date and replaces Microsoft’s previous $40 billion stock buyback program, which was set to expire on Sept. 30.

Microsoft’s chief financial officer, Amy Hood, said the moves reflected the company’s continued commitment to returning cash to its shareholders.

The company has made a number of big moves recently, announcing this month a $7.2 billion deal to buy Nokia’s troubled smartphone business in hopes of catching up with the shift toward mobile computing.
412 2013-09-18 For many years, Dan Barber has served savory vegetable yogurts in his restaurants, Blue Hill and Blue Hill at Stone Barns. He is now producing them for retail sale. Made with milk from grass-fed dairy cows in the Berkshires and upstate New York, including at his family’s Blue Hill Farm, these yogurts are blended with fresh local vegetable purées like beets, carrots, tomatoes and butternut squash. They are brightly colored, smooth and a little tart. The beet and carrot are the most vibrant, and the squash has a hint of spice; the tomato is fairly subtle: Blue Hill Yogurt is $2.99 for six ounces at Whole Foods Markets; bluehillyogurt.com.

To Savor: For Connoisseurs of Very Small Fish

Those of us who like our anchovies rich and meaty are often disappointed by the ones sold at many supermarkets; while flavorful, they often tend to be flimsy or skimpy. Carlo Petrini, the founder of Slow Food, is an anchovy aficionado who likes his from Italy, hand-packed in olive oil. These are available for the next few weeks, either plain or seasoned with garlic and parsley: I Sapori del Mare anchovies are $22 for a six-ounce jar from (718) 389-0985 or heritagefoodsusa.com.

An apple corer seems to need no improvement. But in this version, a cylinder can be opened to release the core instantly, so you don’t have to pry it out with your fingers. It’s all done with the touch of a lever, which locks in place for coring and releases for the core to drop out: Casabella Apple Corer is $9.95 at Sur La Table stores, (800) 243-0852, surlatable.com.

To Read: Think You Know Apples? There’s More to Learn

Now that it’s apple-picking season, you may need a guide to the fruit and its abundant varieties. “Apples of North America” by Tom Burford (Timber Press, $29.95) is an illustrated directory of 192 types, and provides information on each one, including history, season, use and storage. Mr. Burford, an expert from a family of growers in Virginia, describes how cider, vinegar and other apple products are made. The take-away is in his introduction: “I painfully watched the disappearance of apple culture and the emergence of so-called beautiful apples. Eating with our eyes brought this tasteless object to the fruit bowls of America.” But there is hope, which goes by the term “heirloom.”

To Celebrate: Summoning Autumn the Chinese Way

In China, the midautumn festival is a major holiday. It is celebrated with mooncakes, delicate, fluted pastries with a dense, eggy filling. Buttery and the size of a biscuit, mooncakes are usually factory produced and sold in elaborate and expensive gift boxes that customers line up for. At the venerable Peninsula in Hong Kong, the chef, Yip Wing Wah, above right, makes them by hand. For the first time, he will be making them in the United States, at the Peninsula hotels in Chicago and New York, through Friday: $35 for two mooncakes packaged with six tea bags; a dim sum afternoon tea served with mooncakes and other desserts is $55 at the Peninsula New York Hotel, (212) 903-3923.

To Pour: It’s Come to This: Tattoos on Wines

Wine labels designed by artists are old hat. Now a tattoo artist from Brooklyn has added his mark. Scott Campbell of Saved Tattoo in Williamsburg, whose client list includes Johnny Depp and Jennifer Aniston, is also a wine lover. On a trip to the Central Coast of California, he hit it off with Clay Brock, the general manager of Wild Horse winery, and they decided to collaborate on two wines. Produced at Wild Horse, they are both called Saved and are etched with designs by Mr. Campbell that suggest tattoos of mystic symbols. There’s a robust but nicely balanced red blend based mainly on zinfandel and carignan, and a dry rosé with an alluring whiff of raspberries: Saved Red is $25, Saved Rosé is $15 at savedwines.com.
413 2013-09-18 PARIS — The Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, considered Europe’s top human rights award, has been bestowed on luminaries like Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and Nelson Mandela. This year, in a slap against Washington, the award could go to Edward J. Snowden, known as either the N.S.A. whistle-blower or a traitor, depending on one’s perspective.

The European Parliament, the European Union’s only directly elected body, nominated Mr. Snowden for the prize late Monday. The others in contention include Malala Yousafzai, a Pakistani girl who was 14 when the Taliban shot her in October but survived to become a potent voice in the struggle for education rights for women; Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, a former oil tycoon and Kremlin critic who is imprisoned in Russia; and Erdem Gunduz, who helped inspire the mass protests against the Turkish government’s perceived authoritarianism this year in Istanbul’s Taksim Square.

The nomination of Mr. Snowden is the latest in a series of rebukes from European lawmakers upset with the Obama administration’s foreign policies, including its surveillance program. More recently, the British Parliament refused to authorize the country’s participation in a military strike against Syria for a gas attack that killed more than 1,400 civilians. Only France, which does not require legislative approval of military actions, backed President Obama’s call to punish Syria for using chemical weapons.

While hardly as momentous as the Syria vote, the nomination of Mr. Snowden carries great symbolic weight. It glaringly illustrates the chasm the leaks have opened between the United States and its allies, not only European countries but also Brazil, Mexico and other nations that have been spied on by the National Security Agency.

In late June, after reports in Der Spiegel magazine that Washington was spying on the European Union and that the N.S.A. had tapped its offices in Washington, Brussels and the United Nations and gained access to internal computer networks, there was an angry outcry from European politicians.

Mr. Snowden, 30, who has received temporary asylum in Russia, has been charged in the United States with espionage and theft, after his leaks of N.S.A. materials showing the extent of American spying at home and abroad. But the leftist and Green party members of the European Parliament who nominated him for the award praised him for his courage.
414 2013-09-18 GENEVA — The United Nations experts investigating human rights conditions in North Korea said Tuesday that the “shocking” evidence they had collected from defectors and others suggested “large-scale” patterns of abuse that demanded an international response.

The Human Rights Council pushed for the investigation in an attempt to bring new attention to allegations of horrifying abuses at the North’s infamous gulags that have been trickling out for years as more people have escaped the brutal police state. Until now, world powers including the United States had focused instead on attempts to dismantle the North’s nuclear weapons program.

The chairman of the three-member Commission of Inquiry, Michael Donald Kirby, told reporters that the testimony he had heard in recent months evoked reactions similar to the discovery of concentration camps in Europe after World War II.

He cited the statements of a former prisoner who said she had seen another woman forced to drown her baby in a bucket, and the account of a man who said he had collected and burned the bodies of prisoners who had died of starvation. Experts say the number of prisoners in gulags has dropped in recent years — to an estimated 120,000 or fewer from a possible high of 200,000 — but that might be partly because so many had died from forced labor and a lack of food.

“The great value” of the report, said Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, United States ambassador to the Human Rights Council, is that it “has begun to shed light on the horrifying realities of life in North Korea and raise international awareness of the ongoing tragedy and barbaric conditions there.” She also said the findings represented a “small but significant crack” in the North’s “information blockade.”
415 2013-09-18 “Monday’s move was a test conducted to see what people would do if Facebook and Twitter were opened,” said one source close to the new government who asked to remain anonymous because of the secrecy surrounding the matter. “Apparently the test results have been unfavorable, because the sites have been closed again.”

That was echoed by Farshad Ghorbanpour, a political analyst close to the government. “It seems to me the authorities wanted to see what would happen if the Web sites were opened,” he said. “This is not uncommon in Iran.”

It was unclear exactly what the authorities would have been seeking to find out with such a test.

Conservatives tended to favor a technical glitch as the explanation for the unblocking of the Web sites. “God willing this has been a mistake,” Judge Abdolsamad Khoramabadi, a prominent hard-liner, told the semiofficial Mehr news agency. “But if this was done on purpose, we will confront those behind it.”

Judge Khoramabadi warned on Sunday that Facebook is destroying families, saying that it is the cause of one-fifth of all divorces in the United States. “Some officials seem to be unaware of the dangers of this Web site when they speak of unblocking it,” he told the Khabaronline Web news site.

On Tuesday, the semiofficial Fars news agency published a long article pointing out the dangers of social media, saying that Facebook was blurring the lines between private and public.

“Many women choose profile pictures without their Islamic scarves,” Fars wrote in an editorial. “Facebook is aiming to blur our cultural lines between private and public. There are no borders on Facebook. This is extremely dangerous.”

But in another sign that Monday’s unblocking was a test, a well-known TV anchor, Reza Rashidpour, who campaigned for Mr. Rouhani, congratulated Iranians on Monday for gaining unrestricted social media access but also cautioned them. “We hope our people will restrain themselves and our officials will be patient,” he said.

If indeed a test was conducted, it seemed to reveal a pent-up hunger for less restriction and more interaction. One Twitter message by this reporter — “Hello world, we are tweeting without restrictions from Iran” — was retweeted nearly 900 times, with many Twitter users welcoming Iran to Twitter and Iranians saying they could not believe what was happening.

But the window quickly closed. Rayaneh, a poet, said she tried to get online on Monday to post a message to the world. “1, 2, 3 ... 1, 2, 3 ... Can you hear us? We are testing if Facebook is running without VPN here,” she said. “But by that time, the filters were back on.”
416 2013-09-18 KABUL, Afghanistan — The top United Nations human rights official emerged from a meeting here with President Hamid Karzai on Tuesday without hoped-for assurances that he would reverse his decision to pack the country’s human rights commission with political appointees.

The United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, was also generally critical about progress on human rights in the country, saying it was endangered in part because officials were more focused on political concerns ahead of presidential elections next April.

“There have been some human rights achievements during the past 12 years, but they are fragile,” Ms. Pillay said during a news conference on Tuesday at the end of a two-day visit here. “And many Afghans are expressing fears that the overall human rights situation is deteriorating on several fronts.”

Human rights activists have been particularly alarmed by Mr. Karzai’s five new appointees to the nine-member Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. None of the five were on a list proposed by civic and human rights groups, and they included a former Taliban official; a polarizing politician from the country’s leading fundamentalist party, Jamiat-i-Islami; and a police general.

Ms. Pillay had already warned publicly that the appointments might lead to the commission being downgraded in its status internationally, which could in turn lead to its international financing being cut off.
417 2013-09-19 AJEMIAN--Warren H.,94, of Naples, FL formerly of White Plains, NY on September 16, 2013. Beloved husband of Anna Ambriola Ajemian. Loving father of Mary Anna Rose Ajemian and Christopher Warren Ajemian. Dear brother of Sonia Ajemian-Kelly. Cherish...
418 2013-09-19 FireEye, a provider of cybersecurity software, priced its initial public offering on Thursday at $20 a share, handily beating expectations....
419 2013-09-19 Rocket Fuel, an advertising technology company that relies on artificial intelligence, priced its initial public offering on Thursday at the top of its expectations, garnering $116 million in proceeds....
420 2013-09-19 The ideal candidate for the program, a spokeswoman said, is a company in business for two years, with at least four employees and from $150,000 to $4 million in annual revenue....
421 2013-09-19 Despite harsh criticism from some designers, developers and journalists about iOS 7, Apple’s redesigned mobile operating system, people are downloading the software in droves....
422 2013-09-19 Announcing its plans to build an affordable electric vehicle with a 200-mile range, General Motors appears to be answering the challenge leveled by Tesla’s proposed car of similar dimensions....
423 2013-09-19 Gender balance is good for business. Lessons from the death of a start-up. The Super Bowl’s first marijuana commercial?...
424 2013-09-19 “The Last Ship” will open in Chicago next summer, before a planned Broadway opening that fall....
425 2013-09-19 In the next few months, six hedge funds will each be able to raise $50 million from institutions in China to invest around the world as part of a pilot program in Shanghai....
426 2013-09-19 Gogobot and Mango Health emerged from the decline of Myspace but chose to locate in Silicon Valley....
427 2013-09-19 Senator of , the majority leader and a strong proponent of the failed Senate plan to expand the federal background check system, is resisting any move to advance the mental health provisions, fearing that it would be used as a fig leaf by those who oppose expanded checks while closing the door to weapons restrictions in the future. Both Ms. Ayotte and Mr. Begich opposed the gun control bill that failed in April.

Some gun rights advocates fear the opposite: that opening discussion on mental health could be a back door to a flood of new federal gun laws.

But several senators, like Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of , who has pushed for tougher gun laws since last year’s elementary school massacre in Newtown, Conn., see mental health policy as a way forward.

“ is really the key to unlocking this issue,” Mr. Blumenthal said. “I’ve become more and more convinced that we should establish the mental health issue as our common ground.”

But while state lawmakers have taken steps in recent years to make buying weapons harder for certain people showing signs of mental illness in places including New York, Connecticut and Florida, where the legislation won the blessing of the National Rifle Association, there is not yet serious discussion in Congress of doing so.

“If you’re having auditory , that’s a sign of ,” said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of , referring to reports that Mr. Alexis suffered from delusions. Though someone like that should not have a gun, Mr. Coburn said, he expressed little faith that Congress could come together to write a law to fix that.

“It’s all politics,” he said. The senator helped lead negotiations on a background check proposal that fell apart earlier this year.

Mr. Alexis appears to be only the latest gunman whose mental health issues did not reach the level at which he would have been prohibited from buying a firearm under federal law. And it is unknowable whether even the most drastic improvements to the nation’s mental health system would have caught and treated the symptoms of someone like Mr. Alexis. The same can also be said for laws that restrict gun ownership for people with histories of mental illness.

The said Wednesday that on the two times Mr. Alexis visited an emergency room in August, he seemed alert and denied being depressed or thinking of harming himself.

Similarly, , who killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Representative , in in 2011, and , who killed 12 people and wounded dozens of others in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater last year, were not barred from buying firearms under federal law, despite their own serious mental health issues.

In vivid contrast to what has happened at the federal level, some states have been much more aggressive about keeping guns out of the hands of those with mental illnesses. has long had a statute that bars people from buying guns for five years if they have been deemed a danger to themselves or others and placed by the authorities on a 72-hour or 14-day psychiatric hold. Such holds fall short of an involuntary commitment, which bars people under federal law from having guns.

After the Newtown shootings, lawmakers in New York passed a raft of stricter gun laws this year, including a provision that requires mental health professionals to report to local officials anyone who “is likely to engage in conduct that would result in serious harm to self or others.” If those officials agree with the assessment and the person owns a gun, law enforcement is ordered to confiscate it and revoke the person’s gun license.

Similarly, Connecticut lawmakers, as part of a larger package of gun restrictions passed this year, voted to require that hospitals report people who have been voluntarily admitted for psychiatric treatment to state authorities, who would then bar them from buying or possessing firearms for six months.

In Florida, the Republican-controlled Legislature passed a law this year that extended gun bans to people determined to be a danger to themselves or others, and who voluntarily admit themselves to a mental health facility. Strikingly, the measure won the support of the

Yet in Congress, that kind of compromise seems unlikely.

Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of , has introduced a bill with Republican co-sponsors, including of , that would set new federal mental health care standards like requiring 24-hour crisis care at community health centers. It is still waiting for a vote.

“People are losing their lives,” she said. “And we are seeing this pattern of it being tied to lack of treatment, lack of resources. We need action now.”
428 2013-09-19 Compared with gangs like the Bloods or the Crips, crews are more informal groups of teenagers and young men who are organized geographically, around a housing project, a block or a single building. Members are rarely involved in criminal enterprises beyond robberies or marijuana dealing, and there is frequently no initiation. Their conflicts, the police said, are mostly based on rivalries over reputation and turf.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly says the effort, called Operation Crew Cut, has helped drive murders down to new lows over the last year. Citywide, the police recorded 774 shootings through Sept. 8, down from 1,029 over the same period last year. In one of the most violent precincts, the 75th Precinct in East New York, shootings so far this year are down 30 percent.

“If I had to point to one reason why the murders and the shootings are down, it is this program,” Mr. Kelly said. “And I can tell you that there is a lot of positive feedback from cops.”

The strategy seeks to exploit the online postings of suspected members and their digital connections to build criminal conspiracy cases against whole groups that might otherwise take years of painstaking undercover work to penetrate. Facebook, officers like to say now, is the most reliable informer.

Operation Crew Cut melds intelligence gathered by officers on the street with online postings, allowing the department to track emerging conflicts in a neighborhood before they erupt into violence and, when shootings do occur, to build conspiracy cases against those responsible. But the scrutiny online has raised concern that idle chatter by teenagers might be misinterpreted by the police.

“Once there was a fight in the classroom, it was just you and that person who had a fight; now on social media, it’s 500,000 people looking at this fight,” said Erica Ford, the founder of Life Camp, a nonprofit organization in Jamaica, Queens, that works to defuse conflicts among teenagers. “Why are you creating a unit to incriminate and criminalize what they’re doing and lock them up?”

The police and prosecutors in New York have made no secret of their efforts, splashing arrays of arrest photos after big roundups in Brownsville and Bushwick in Brooklyn, and in East Harlem.

Other cities, like Chicago, have sought to create dialogues with gangs, intervening in disputes and brokering cease-fires. Los Angeles has long made a practice of obtaining court orders to prohibit gang members from appearing together in public, drawing criticism from civil liberties advocates who say that it criminalizes ordinary behavior. More recently, the police there have been working with former members to tamp down conflicts.

But the approach in New York has been squarely on enforcement; about 500 officers are involved in the department’s anticrew and antigang efforts. That includes a gang division that is doubling in size, to 300 officers, and about 75 officers in precincts across the city whose primary responsibility is to track and pursue crews. Many of them were veteran narcotics officers who were reassigned last year. Others work in the Community Affairs Bureau, which houses the department’s social media unit.

Several months ago, Mr. Kelly joked at a news conference that he would like to be Facebook friends with all the city’s criminal crews. The reality is not that far removed: much of the strategy’s success has been pinned to the police’s ability to comb through social media.

Officers follow crew members on Twitter and Instagram, or friend them on Facebook, pretending to be young women to get around privacy settings that limit what can be seen. They listen to the lyrical taunts of local rap artists, some affiliated with crews, and watch YouTube for clues to past trouble and future conflicts. Party announcements posted to social media draw particular attention: officers scour the invitation lists, some of which explicitly include members of opposing crews, beseeching them to “leave the beef at home,” said Assistant Commissioner Kevin O’Connor, who heads a police unit focused on social media and youth gangs.

The strategy is not the only way the department uses social media to bolster cases, but it has proved particularly effective despite being widely publicized, officials said, for the simple reason that an online persona is a necessary component of social life for the young crew members.

Veteran officers keep lists of teenagers believed to be affiliated with crews — 178 in Brownsville alone, by last count. On the street, the officers might pick them up for truancy or issue summonses for biking on the sidewalk, to reinforce the notion that the police are watching.

“These are not hardened criminals,” said Deputy Chief Michael Harrington, who oversees the program. “You lock one kid up, he’s going to tell you about everybody.”

At Brooklyn’s Finest Barbershop in Brownsville one day late last month, two young men recently indicted on felony conspiracy charges in a takedown of the Hoodstarz and the Wave Gang crews said the new approach by officers amounted to a virtual stop-and-frisk effort. “It’s just because we grew up in a certain place,” one of the men, Cuame Nelson, said. “If you was born on this block, you would have been Hoodstarz. Whatever block you’re from, that’s just what you are. And because of that, we have no privacy.”

Mr. Nelson, 21, who raps under the name Murda Malo and belonged to the Hoodstarz, a crew the police said was in a violent conflict with the Wave Gang, said he had received friend requests on Facebook from accounts he believed belonged to police officers. “I just could tell,” he said. “I don’t know you. You don’t know me. You’re having a weird picture of some weirdo on a page you made yesterday with no friends except for my friends — but we don’t know you?”

So far, Operation Crew Cut has engendered mostly praise, even from those most critical of the department’s stop-and-frisk tactic, including Mr. de Blasio and two city councilmen, Brad Lander and Jumaane D. Williams, who sponsored two new laws expanding independent police oversight. “I hope the next mayor and the next police commissioner will do more of these kinds of programs,” Councilman Lander said.

For years, crews did not receive the type of police attention given to more established gangs, and the police did not include them in their database of gang members.

For the Police Department, things began to change with the 2006 arrest of 15-year-old Desean Hinkson for numerous gunpoint robberies. His online activities piqued the interest of the police: on his page on Sconex, the now-defunct social media site aimed at high school students, he openly listed his affiliation with the Get Money Boys in Central Harlem and named 40 of its members.

Around the same time, officers began noticing three-letter strings — T.M.G. or A.I.O. — on buildings or etched into classroom desks. Each of the cryptic tags seemed to demarcate boundaries, each representing a crew: True Money Gang for T.M.G., or Air It Out for A.I.O.

Investigators now count 320 criminal crews, though their names and rosters are constantly shifting. Larger ones often include subsets divided by age. Because some claim allegiance to the Bloods or Crips, newer alliances have also formed, as hyperlocal crews find themselves mixing at Rikers Island.

Some pointedly avoid walking the streets in rival territory, taking buses or cabs to stay away from trouble, officers said. Carl Swift, 22, a former teenage crew member from Harlem’s Lincoln Houses, testified in court that merely seeing rival crew members in his area led him to suspect they were armed. “Because we have problems with their block, so why would they be on our block?” he said, describing events just before a shooting.

For the police, one of the goals of Operation Crew Cut is preventing the deaths of children like Antiq Hennis, the 16-month-old boy shot to death in Brownsville on Sept. 1 as he was being pushed in a stroller by his father. That killing was perhaps the most extreme example of how this back-and-forth violence — in this case, between groups of men from the north side of Livonia Avenue versus those from the south, the police said — can ensnare innocent bystanders. A 23-year-old crew member has been accused of aiming at the child’s father, a rival from the neighborhood, the police said.

The death a year ago of Ronald Wallace, known as Ron G, came during an escalating feud between two Brownsville crews, A.T.C. and the Bully gang, that had once been allied but split over a girl, the police said. Several young women were slashed; at least five young men were shot.

Police officials said the boy was “hanging out with A.T.C. members” on the night he was killed. Ronald’s mother, Tiffany Orr, described her son as a kind and popular boy who did well in school and spent all his free time playing basketball. “Everyone knows Ronald wasn’t in any gang,” she said.

As officers patrolled the streets on the anniversary of Ronald’s death, no episodes of violence were reported, according to the commander of Brownsville’s 73rd Precinct, Deputy Inspector Joseph Gulotta. “All was quiet,” he said.
429 2013-09-19 In the days when the twin towers were just two tall office buildings struggling to find tenants, long before the Sept. 11 attacks gave “World Trade Center” an unshakable emotional resonance, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey sold the rights to that three-word name to a nonprofit organization led by a former Port Authority executive. The price was reported to be $10.

The arrangement received almost no attention until last week. But now it has prompted Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York to ask for an investigation by the state attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, with Mr. Cuomo saying that the former Port Authority official, Guy F. Tozzoli, “received exorbitant annual compensation” from the nonprofit World Trade Centers Association. Mr. Tozzoli, who oversaw the design and construction of the World Trade Center in the 1960s and ’70s and watched as the twin towers collapsed on Sept. 11, 2001, was paid $575,156 in 2010 and $626,573 in 2011, his last year as president, according to the association’s tax documents for those years.

The documents said he worked an hour a week in 2011, on average, compared with 40 hours a week in 2010. One page in the filing for 2011 characterizes his compensation that year as “severance.”

Mr. Tozzoli, who died in February at age 90, served as the association’s volunteer leader from 1970 until he retired from the Port Authority in 1987, and became the association’s president. Within the Port Authority, he was an influential figure who was credited with bringing the architect Minoru Yamasaki to the project and with suggesting that dirt and debris from the trade center excavation be used as landfill for what became Battery Park City.

The association says its mission is to extend the World Trade Center brand. It has members in 330 cities, from Antwerp to Abu Dhabi. They pay the association thousands of dollars every year so they can use the words “World Trade Center” in their names, and the association has strict “brand guidelines” that they are supposed to follow, down to the logo and colors for items like letterheads and business cards.
430 2013-09-19 A federal appeals court on Wednesday upheld California’s transportation fuel standards, which are designed to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuel to 1990 levels by 2020. The district court in 2011 had ruled that the state’s low carbon fuel standards discriminated against fuels produced outside California, violating Congress’s power to regulate interstate trade. Wednesday’s appeals court decision lifted a partial injunction on the state’s program. The standards were the first of their kind in the country, and regulated the carbon emitted during the production, transportation and use of fuel. Other states have since considered adopting their own limits. American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, one of the organizations that challenged the law, said it was “evaluating its options.”
431 2013-09-19 BEIRUT, Lebanon — An extremist group linked to Al Qaeda routed Syrian rebel fighters and seized control of a gateway town near Syria’s northern border with Turkey on Wednesday, posting snipers on rooftops, erecting checkpoints and imposing a curfew on the local population.

The takeover of the town, Azaz, by fighters from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, reflected the rising strength of extremist fighters in northern and eastern Syria and their rapidly deteriorating relations with more mainline rebels.

By early Thursday, Islamist rebel leaders had intervened to stop the fighting, although most of the town appeared firmly in the hands of the extremists, opposition activists said. The extremists had not seized the nearby Bab al-Salameh border crossing with Turkey. Azaz sits just south of the border crossing on the road to Aleppo, Syria’s largest city, and has served as an important artery for the rebellion in northern Syria, allowing arms, fighters and supplies to move in and refugees fleeing the violence to leave the country.

Its seizure is likely to alarm Syria’s neighbors. Turkey, which has vocally supported the fight against forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and allowed fighters and arms to flow freely across its southern border, now faces a bold Qaeda affiliate.

Lebanon has sought information for more than a year about nine Lebanese Shiites held captive by rebels in Azaz. The town’s seizure by a group that considers Shiites heretics who deserve execution is sure to increase worries about their fate.
432 2013-09-19 “Hospitals are very sensitive to the fact that out-of-pocket costs for patients are increasing drastically,” said Craig Froude, chief executive of CarePayment. “They’re trying to figure out how to adapt.”

Details vary depending on the terms negotiated between the hospital and the payment company. In some cases, hospitals offer the plans as an option. Other hospitals automatically enroll patients who do not pay a bill within 90 days. Typically, the companies offer plans of as long as two years, and sometimes as long as five years, with no interest or fees for patients. Payments are usually based on a percentage of the total bill, with minimums around $25 a month.

The hospital pays a fee to the company in exchange for getting its payment up front. The company then collects the payments. Some offer automatic deductions, and let patients check their accounts online.

The benefit is that hospitals may get more of the money they are owed than they would otherwise, even after factoring in fees to the outside company. The patient gets time to pay a big bill, and avoids the damage to a credit record that would occur if the debt were sent to collection. That can still happen. If the patient does not pay, the company sends the account back to the hospital for review.

A patients who uses such a plan may receive a card bearing the names of the hospital and the payment firm, but it is not a credit card. The companies say they may conduct a “soft inquiry” on a patient’s credit report, which does not affect the credit score. A patient whose score falls below a certain level will still be put on a plan, but the company will not pay the hospital until the patient has made a few payments on time.

A patient’s payment record generally is not reported to credit bureaus. Mitch Patridge, chief executive of CSI Financial Services, which is based in San Diego and offers ClearBalance, said it gave patients the option of having their payment history reported to credit bureaus if they chose, to help build credit.

Jeff Costello, chief financial officer at Beacon Health System in South Bend, Ind., said it had tried offering short-term payment plans and even low-interest loans through a local bank, but “patients didn’t like paying interest for medical bills.”

The system began using CarePayment’s no-interest plan in 2009 and it has been well received by patients, he said; some who use it once ask for it up front when seeking additional care. Patients can add new bills to the account, he said, and have their monthly payment recalculated.

Here are questions to ask about medical installment plans:

■ Will I have to pay interest if I don’t pay off the bill by a certain date?

Some providers, including dentists and eye care outlets, offer true credit card financing. They may offer zero-percent rates, but the rate can skyrocket if you are late or stop paying. Hospitals say their plans are different and offer no (or, in some cases, very low) interest. But make sure you understand the details of any plan you accept and get a copy of the agreement in writing, so you know what happens if you cannot pay.

■ Can I still get financial assistance if I agree to a payment plan?

You should always ask first about financial help, to reduce your overall bill, said Mark Rukavina, a specialist on medical debt. Under the Affordable Care Act, nonprofit hospitals will have to develop written policies on their “charity” care and collection practices. Many for-profit hospitals have written policies, too. You should ask.

■ Should I use a no-interest plan, even if I can pay in full?

Some providers offer significant discounts if you pay in full within 30 days. If you can do so, that might be a better option.
433 2013-09-19 RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazil’s highest court on Wednesday allowed a new round of appeals in a trial over a vast vote-buying scheme, a decision that may allow senior political figures in the ruling Workers Party to maneuver out of hard jail time for their actions in what may be Brazil’s biggest corruption scandal.

Ending months of suspense, after defendants were found guilty and sentenced to prison by the same court in November 2012 in what had been celebrated then as a watershed moment, the justices ruled by 6-5 to reopen crucial aspects of the trial. So far, no one has gone to prison in the scandal, which emerged in 2005.

“The move sets a troubling precedent by raising concerns over a domino effect in many other corruption cases involving powerful figures,” said Ivar Hartmann, a professor of law at Fundação Getúlio Vargas, a top Brazilian university.

Even before the trial, it was remarkably rare for politicians in Brazil to go to prison after being found guilty of crimes like corruption, kidnapping and employing slave labor, partly because of the special judicial standing enjoyed by about 700 political figures, including senior cabinet ministers and all 594 members of Congress. This standing requires their cases to be heard only in the high court, which is already bogged down by thousands of other cases each year.

The system produces years of delays in judging politicians charged with serious crimes. Legal experts said such cases could now drag on indefinitely after a ruling by the high court justices on Wednesday, which allowed appeals of their own votes in these trials.
434 2013-09-19 A roundup of products for tans, teeth and talons. 



It’s going to take a few more weeks for summer’s tan lines to fade. Tanee (thetanee.com), a new tan-line corrector pen, may help ease the transition. The featured ingredient is DHA (dihydroxyacetone), a colorless sugar that reacts with amino acids on the skin’s surface. A colleague who had just returned from vacation recently tried it out, and gave the pen a positive review. Although press materials say the shading lasts for a week, our guinea pig reported that the color faded after one shower, but she was still quite pleased with the results. ($5.99, Walgreens.com and other retailers.)

These mints are like Pop Rocks for grown-ups. Developed by Dr. Thomas P. Connelly, a cosmetic dentist, the 32 Effervescent Breath Treatment with IsoVoxy is available in a 60-packet box for $29.50 featuring four flavors, honey mint, spearmint, lemon mint and the original peppermint. The sugar-free crystals, which you pour onto your tongue to produce the crackling effect, are made with toothpaste additives and zinc in addition to carbon dioxide, the ingredient that creates the party in your mouth (32oc.com).

Nail art refuses to die. For the do-it-yourselfers out there, NYX has a new nail jewelry line called Precious Pearls. Available in black, white and opal, each kit comes with a funnel for pouring the tiny “jewels” onto painted nails to produce a 3-D effect ($9.99, nyxcosmetics.com).
435 2013-09-19 In the basement of Galerie Perrotin, a powerhouse gallery from Paris that opened in New York on Tuesday night, a dollar bill shot out of a towering blue box and drifted onto a floor littered with bills and coins. A sign explained the work by Paola Pivi, an Italian artist: “Caution: Money is spit out everywhere.”

It seemed appropriate given today’s art market, not to mention the throngs of well-heeled collectors who came to inspect the city’s newest mega-luxe gallery, which occupies the lower floors of a landmark building at the corner of East 73rd Street and Madison Avenue.

“The whole neighborhood is a money machine,” said Ingrid Sischy, the Vanity Fair contributor.

Art world wheeler-dealers like Peter Brant, Simon de Pury, Jeffrey Deitch, Mike Ovitz, Beth Rudin DeWoody and Knight Landesman mingled on the first floor, under Ms. Pivi’s life-size garishly colorful polar bear sculptures. They were joined by a notably younger crew, artists like KAWS, J.R. and Max Snow, as well as the fashion designers Olivier Theyskens, Carly Cushnie and Michelle Ochs.

“The art world is the new music world,” said Swizz Beatz, the musician and artist, who wore sunglasses and a black T-shirt by YSL. He greeted Pharrell Williams, the writer of the summer’s two biggest dance hits, “Get Lucky” by Daft Punk and “Blurred Lines” by Robin Thicke.

“The art world is always super inspiring,” said Mr. Williams, who also makes sculptures. “All these super creative kinds know how to take it to the next level.”
436 2013-09-19 LYON, France — The buzz around Benjamin Millepied’s L.A. Dance Project is undoubtedly fueled by an aura of glamour that emanates from Mr. Millepied — former New York City Ballet principal, future artistic director of the Paris Opera Ballet, sought-after choreographer and husband of Natalie Portman. Only one year old, the L.A. Dance Project has already found international success, and on Tuesday night the troupe opened the Maison de la Danse’s season, filling every one of its 1,160 seats.

No one could accuse Mr. Millepied of coasting. As well as a recent piece of his own, there were premieres from the City Ballet dancer Justin Peck and by the Israeli choreographer Emanuel Gat. It was a riveting, rich evening of dance, tightly packed with a range of movement styles and influences, superbly performed by the small ensemble: Aaron Carr, Julia Eichten, Charlie Hodges, Morgan Lugo, Nathan Makolandra and Rachelle Rafailedes.

Mr. Peck has made three much-praised works for his home company in the last two years; a fourth will have its premiere on Thursday night at City Ballet’s fall gala at Lincoln Center. (As will a work by Mr. Millepied.) You don’t want to think about Mr. Peck’s travel schedule.

“Murder Ballads,” set to a quirky score of the same name by Bryce Dessner, shows what the fuss is about. It is Mr. Peck’s first piece for a contemporary dance ensemble, and he makes this immediately explicit as the curtain rises on a stage dotted by sneakers. Ms. Eichten runs on first and dons her pair, quickly followed by five more dancers in casual, bright clothes.

The mood is insouciant, recalling Jerome Robbins ballets like “Interplay” and “Moves.” Later there are echoes of “West Side Story” in the simultaneously approaching and retreating lines with which Mr. Peck ends the third section, and reminders of Robbins’s “Dances at a Gathering” in the way social groups form, occasionally excluding, then reabsorbing, a lone figure. There are other influences too: William Forsythe in the counterbalanced weighting of the partnering; even Pina Bausch, in a cumulatively urgent, thrilling series of solos toward the end.
437 2013-09-19 On my first visit, searching for a nice formal to wear to the Emmys rather than my typical vintage freak show, I was quizzed about budget by Marcus, a clerk on loan from the Beverly Hills store, and shunted quickly to the “collection” area, where there’s a small selection of gowns straight from the MGM playbook.

A single-strapped number with goddess draping ($740, less on eBay) recalled the one in that famous publicity still from “The Killers” with Ava Gardner posing on a table under a hanging lamp. In the movie, she wears it at a party while singing “The More I Know of Love,” and Burt Lancaster’s character is immediately a goner. Or, as his date says in resigned voice-over, “Right then I knew the boat had sailed, and I just got my things and went home.”

The only color in stock was purple, though, which made me look less like Ava in her prime than an uncooked late-summer eggplant.

“We can order it in sapphire,” Marcus assured, futzing with the bodice. “We can take it in here, and here, and” — giving my chassis a quick once-over — “Spanx. God’s gift to man. To woman!”

I was curious about the room on the far end of the store where the four-figure “couture” frocks are kept, their spirits doubtless freshened by a view of a lovely garden, but Marcus waved me away with a well-meaning “don’t even go there” sort of motion. (There is also a V.I.P. room upstairs; bridal is subterranean, swallowing a parade of modern Persephones.)

I went there again with a vengeance last Saturday, when the place was deserted, probably because it was Yom Kippur. Joan Rivers, a congregant at Temple Emanu-El a block away, caused a great ruckus when she swanned through Badgley Mischka’s fall show last year, and I imagined the Fashion Police would have no problems with the silver-and-gold strapless “mermaid deco” ball gown ($6,875) into which I was ever so cautiously ushered by a pair of saleswomen, Norvys and Angeline. Why was I swimming in a size two smaller than my usual? “That’s couture!” Norvys said with a twinkle. I gathered that when you are paying as much as a used car for a dress, a little ego-stroking is part of the deal. Any bourgeois concept of privacy also flies out the window.

“And here are the boobies,” Angeline said, hustling inside the (first-tier, plush-carpeted) dressing room with a pair of foam bust boosters known in the industry as “chicken cutlets,” and plunging her hands into the corset area with the enthusiasm of a teenage boy.

“When you get dressed for the evening, you shouldn’t have to work hard for it,” Mr. Badgley told People magazine in 1996. If I had invested in Apple stock then, I might have been able to spring for the next dress I tried, a backless Geoffrey Beene-esque gray flannel column with rhinestones at the collar and bobbing down the back of the neck ($4,495), obviating the need for a Harry Winston loaner. Instead I just got my things and went home.
438 2013-09-19 LONDON — This week, Tom Ford opened his 89th store, in London, where his company has its headquarters. “We’re in Baku,” he said, as he reeled off cities that, presumably, will carry his mirror-spangled dresses next spring. For its show, Burberry invited the impossibly cute Harry Styles of One Direction and the It girl Suki Waterhouse.

England is home to some world-conquering fashion brands that derive a lot of their success from retail expertise and so-called entry-point products like perfumes and sunglasses. As it happens, both Mr. Ford and Christopher Bailey of Burberry made strong statements on their runways. In fact, Mr. Ford said he was really into an athletic-looking woman — hence the exaggerated shoulders of his leather outfits, the tapered waists and the leggy skirts.

“I wasn’t thinking about ’80s supermodels,” he said.

Poured into evening outfits that looked as if they were shot out of a can of black Silly String and then seemingly baked with a girdle of foil, his models definitely were more molten than glamorous. Mr. Ford’s spring daywear, such as it was, consisted of buckled-tight brown or white leather jackets, cinched black pantsuits and a slinky leather mesh tank top with a black-and-white leather skirt in a bubble pattern. Those outfits echoed his days at Gucci.

But the evening clothes were in new territory, both in terms of style and technique. The ones paved with glittering fragments are a bit Elvis, or Rihanna, but they dissolve conventional lines between dressing up and performance. That’s not trivial when you consider how dull most red carpet fashion is. Mr. Ford said he got the idea for the mad squiggles and broken bits from the work of artists he admires, like José Parla and Mark Bradford. You’ll have to take his word for it that getting into a cobweb is a cinch.

Mr. Bailey’s collection was more accessible. For starters, he called it “English Rose.” Aside from the pink and custard tones, the clothes nicely combined tradition and modern styling; lace for pencil skirts was produced in Nottingham, England. He showed them with shirts or plain cashmere sweaters. And instead of reinventing the trench coat in a gazillion fabrics, as he has done before, he gave the audience a breather — with soft, roomy coats in all those melting English colors.

Of course, many people count on London for more than a garden party. Yet this was a tough season for young designers who once had a novel idea, like the ecstatic prints of Mary Katrantzou, and now seem to be toiling in the same path. Ms. Katrantzou created prints from blown-up images of shoes, but her fussy shapes held her back. I kept wondering why she didn’t try softer things like pajama pants and tunics. Erdem was another label determined to make a shrine out of couture; too many veiled garments.

As I went around London, to places and streets filled with ordinary people, I had the sense, more than ever, that fashion here was taking place in vacuum. Do they care about Christopher Kane’s naïve drapes and twisted flower dresses? Or J. W. Anderson’s broken-down skirts or dresses with panels arrayed with rows of what resembled tiny takeout boxes in fabric — what he called “avant-bland”? If the public doesn’t appear to be even remotely listening, whom are we talking to?

I actually blame the young stars. They are not being as innovative as they need to be. It’s that simple. You can fool the fashion press with a gimmick or a cool bit of styling, but you can’t fool ordinary people. And the public always recognizes heart-stopping fashion, as it did for designers from Chanel to McQueen.

Mr. Kane had some lovely things: pleated skirts in delicate, slightly shimmery fabrics, a black pantsuit and some pastel dresses with petal-shaped cutouts rimmed in silver. But he spread himself too thin. He showed sweatshirts with feminine skirts, a style similar to ones he has done in the past. Last year, it was a Frankenstein T-shirt with a lace skirt. But since Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy made a big statement for fall with the same sweatshirt look, maybe Mr. Kane should have moved on.

When I look back over his last four or five collections, there’s a clear, evolving body of design. This time, I saw too many tricks, like dresses with cord-suspended draping. He showed some shifts crowded with abstract flower appliqués and lace arrows. He has worked with lace and appliqué before. But again, is he advancing the idea or merely amplifying it? In May, Raf Simons created a Dior resort collection with floral embroidered lace.

Mr. Anderson owes a clear debt to the Japanese designers of the ’80s. And it’s O.K. to be inspired by them — who hasn’t been? — but he runs the risk of serving up avant-garde lite. Also, based on things I see of his in stores, he is quite a clever designer, so I don’t understand the need for all the runway craftiness, unless it’s just to get media attention.

Thomas Tait, by contrast, did a lot with a little. He used white leather, superfine knits, some feathers and athletic nylon, and created an elegant, thoroughly unpretentious collection. Though the fabrics are mostly practical, they’re beautifully cut. He, too, likes a skirt and a top, maybe with a lightweight coat, but he bends the look to his aesthetic. It’s not a ’50s pencil skirt; it’s loose, almost runny. If I saw a woman in these clothes, I’d be curious.

Also worth paying attention to next spring is Simone Rocha for her pretty, full-skirted dresses traced with pearls; Jonathan Saunders for a broader use of sporty separates, like boyish, tricolor suede jackets and satin shorts; and Paula Gerbase of the minimalist label 1205, who has an implacable eye for proportion. The Meadham Kirchhoff designers get a little kitschy with their Europa fairy tale, but they make gingham and white eyelet skirts look tempting. Their jackets are handsome, too.

Rounding out the shows was L’Wren Scott’s use of Tagasode (“Whose sleeves?”), 16th-century Japanese screens depicting garments draped on stands, as if waiting for their occupant to return. Well, there’s a sorcery quality in her femininity, too, and she brings it out with vivid reds, fan-patterned black lace and a crisp silhouette for daytime tweeds and cotton.
439 2013-09-19 The Syrians offered no such information to the United Nations chemical weapons inspectors before they left Syria with a trove of forensic samples on Aug. 31. The inspectors have said they will return to Syria to investigate other reported instances of chemical weapons use, but no dates have been announced.

Mr. Ryabkov spoke after meeting with Mr. Assad and his foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem. He did not disclose the precise nature of the additional information the Syrians had conveyed to him, but he was blunt about his criticism of the report presented on Monday at the United Nations.

“We are unhappy about this report,” Mr. Ryabkov said in remarks broadcast by the state television network, RT. “We think that the report was distorted. It was one-sided. The basis of information upon which it is built is insufficient.” He also said Russia needed “to learn and know more on what happened beyond and above that incident of Aug. 21.”

Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, has also questioned the United Nations report, though not as harshly. Mr. Lavrov, who brokered the deal with Secretary of State John Kerry to put Syria’s chemical weapons under international supervision, said Tuesday that there were still “serious grounds to believe” that the Aug. 21 attack was a provocation carried out by the rebels.

As he has many times, Mr. Assad, in an interview conducted Tuesday and broadcast Wednesday on Fox News, denied that his government was responsible for the attack. “We didn’t use any chemical weapons” outside Damascus, he said.

Mr. Assad also said Syria would comply with the chemical weapons agreement, which he estimated would cost $1 billion and take about a year.

Asked about the Russian criticisms, Martin Nesirky, a spokesman for Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, said it had been clear to everyone that the chemical weapons inspectors were focusing first on the Aug. 21 attack because of its magnitude and were planning to return to Syria to investigate other accusations, with a more comprehensive report to follow.

Mr. Nesirky also took issue with the Russian portrayal of the report as biased. “The findings in that report are indisputable,” he said at a midday briefing. “This was a thoroughly objective report on that specific incident.”

Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius of France, who had just visited with Mr. Lavrov, reacted angrily to the Russian accusations, saying they had surprised him. “Nobody can question the objectivity of the people appointed by the U.N.,” Mr. Fabius was quoted by Agence France-Presse.

Russia, which like the other permanent Security Council members has veto power, is resisting coercive language in the draft offered by the Western members that could lead to military intervention in Syria. The Russian position appeared intended to sow enough doubt to call into question additional pressure on Syria’s government, and perhaps to cloud evidence that at least some of the country’s arsenal was of Soviet origin.
440 2013-09-19 In a break from tradition that has already rankled purists, the Man Booker Prize will be open to all novels originally written in English and published in Britain, the administrators of the prize announced on Wednesday. Previously, the prize had been open to novels written by authors from Britain, the other countries in the Commonwealth, and Ireland. The change is planned to begin in 2014.

In a statement, the Booker Prize Foundation said that its members decided that the award, “which for over 40 years has been the touchstone for high quality literary fiction written in English, would enhance its prestige and reputation through expansion.”

Jonathan Taylor, the chairman of the trustees, said in a statement, “'We are excited by the opportunities that extending the Man Booker Prize will bring for readers and writers worldwide. The expanded prize will recognize, celebrate and embrace authors writing in English, whether from Chicago, Sheffield or Shanghai.”
441 2013-09-19 That it decided on Wednesday not to stop may relieve some companies, government leaders and economists who worried that rising interest rates in the United States would draw tens of billions of dollars out of emerging markets and cause local currencies to fall further against the dollar.

Investors have been moving money into dollar-based investments that offer higher yields.

But the Fed’s announcement Wednesday afternoon took currency traders by surprise, and the dollar plunged against major currencies. The dollar fell a little more than 1 percent against the euro and the yen after the announcement, giving companies in the developing economies a little more breathing room. On Thursday, currencies in Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia, which have fallen sharply in recent months, headed higher, with the Indonesian rupiah gaining about 1.5 percent against the dollar by late morning in Asia.

The economic slowdowns in the developing economies seem less severe so far than in other recent downturns. While previous exoduses by investors from volatile emerging markets have caused waves of bank failures, corporate bankruptcies and mass layoffs, the latest retrenchment has been much milder so far. That partly reflects the belief that when the Fed does move, it will scale back its bond purchases very gradually, business leaders and economists around the world said in interviews this week. The effects have also been limited partly because banks, companies and their regulators in many emerging markets have become much more careful about borrowing in dollars over the last two decades, except when they expect dollar revenue with which to repay these debts.

In 1997 and 1998, “the whole problem began with the banking sector. Now I think the banking sector is much better,” said Sofjan Wanandi, a tycoon who is the chairman of the Indonesian Employers’ Association and part owner of IGP.

Trading in currency and stock markets seems to suggest that some of the worst fears over the summer are starting to recede. The Brazilian real has recovered about 8 percent of its value against the dollar since Aug. 21 and a little over a third of its losses since the start of May, when worries began to spread about the vulnerability of emerging markets to a tightening of monetary policy. Stock markets from India to South Africa have rallied from lows in late August, with Johannesburg’s market up 14.7 percent since late June after a swoon earlier than most emerging markets.

“While the Fed hasn’t started the tapering process as yet, there has been a considerable withdrawal of money in the emerging markets and especially in India since May. In my opinion, the major effect has already taken place,” said Sujan Hajra, the chief economist at AnandRathi, an investment bank based in Mumbai.

One lingering question is how much inflation will accelerate in emerging markets. Many of their industries depend heavily on commodities like oil that are priced in dollars.

Weakening exchange rates this year for almost every emerging market’s currency have made these dollar-denominated commodities more expensive. That is starting to drive up inflation in a few countries that do not subsidize fuel prices, and it is adding to government deficits in many countries, like India and Indonesia, that do.

In Brazil, an increase in transportation fares set off street protests in June, leading to broad demonstrations over corruption and lamentable public services. Salomão Quadros, an economist at Fundação Getulio Vargas, a top Brazilian university, said inflation was expected to reach about 6 percent this year as imported goods become more expensive.

While that level exceeds the central bank’s inflation target of 4.5 percent, inflation in Brazil still remains much lower than it has been in other stretches of market turbulence, as in 2003, when inflation rose to about 15 percent. “Brazil is facing some difficulties, but we’re not in crisis territory,” Mr. Quadros said.

The most vulnerable companies are those that mostly sell domestically in their local currency but have debts or costs denominated heavily in dollars. One example is the plastics industry, which often relies on imported resins made to a large extent from high-priced oil.

Ahmet Nalincioglu, the managing director of Elektroplasmin, a plastic packaging company based in Istanbul, said many plastics producers would have to try to raise prices. Yet Elektroplasmin has yearlong contracts with clients that are hard to change.

“Our price hikes will automatically have a negative impact on their profit margins, which means they will be reluctant to negotiate,” Mr. Nalincioglu said. “If I can’t agree on a price, I get stuck with the stock for a year and suffer huge losses.”

The most vulnerable countries are those running large trade deficits they have been financing with dollars from overseas investors’ purchases of local assets like real estate, stocks and bonds. India is conspicuous on that list, as its poor roads and stifling bureaucracy have discouraged exports and resulted in its luring few of the factories now moving out of China in response to surging wages there.

A few emerging markets, still traumatized by the extent of their economic downturns during previous periods of capital flight, are taking drastic action to stabilize their currencies. Indonesia had one of the few emerging market currencies that was still falling through last week, but the central bank stopped the drop last Thursday when it unexpectedly raised its two benchmark interest rates by a quarter percent.

The interest rate increase made it more attractive for international investors to lend money to Indonesia, but at the risk of further weakening a domestic economy that is already decelerating.

Didik Rachbini, one of the 21 members of the presidential National Economic Council here, said the Indonesian government was also discussing delays in big investment projects by state-owned enterprises, to conserve foreign exchange. Work like road construction that requires few imports of equipment is likely to proceed, while capital-intensive projects that rely on foreign technology should face extra scrutiny and are starting to be reviewed, he said.

Most affected by the economic slowdown are workers in developing countries who were already scrimping. Hasan Qodri, a 22-year-old axle quality inspector at Indonesia’s IGP, said he regretted the disappearance of overtime — and the extra pay that went with it.

“Of course I would like more overtime,” he said, “so I’d have more money for my daily life.”
442 2013-09-19 “What I will not do is to create a habit, a pattern whereby the full faith and credit of the united states ends up being a bargaining chip to make policy,” he said.

“I’m tired of it,” he added. “And I suspect you are too.”

Congress will soon face two major budget deadlines. The stopgap “continuing resolution” that finances the federal government runs out at the end of September, and the Treasury Department has said that unless Congress raises the debt ceiling, it expects to lose the ability to pay the government’s bills in mid-October.

The Republican House speaker, John A. Boehner, has argued that the debt limit should be increased only as part of broader concessions by the president to reduce the deficit and make other spending reforms.

But a group of conservative Tea Party Republicans want to go further by explicitly refusing to raise the debt ceiling without repealing the health care law. Mr. Obama made it clear on Wednesday that he had no intention of negotiating over the debt limit.

Mr. Obama also raised the specter of another economic downturn if Republicans do not raise the debt ceiling, aides said, and he noted that in 2011 — the last time Washington clashed over a debt ceiling increase — the stock market dropped 17 percent, the country’s credit rating was downgraded and consumer confidence dropped.

So far, the two sides are far apart and barely talking. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said Tuesday that conversations between the White House and Capitol Hill were continuing. But he did not offer any concrete evidence of high-level efforts to reach a compromise on fiscal issues.

“We have made clear our willingness to be reasonable and compromise,” Mr. Carney told reporters. “What we haven’t seen thus far is anything from the Republicans that represents a similar willingness to compromise when it comes to a broader, more comprehensive budget agreement.”

Mr. Boehner said that presidents and Congress had negotiated over the debt limit for decades, mentioning agreements under several former presidents. He also noted that Mr. Obama himself reached a deal with Republicans to increase the debt ceiling in exchange for concessions.

“No one is threatening to default,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner. “The president only uses these scare tactics to avoid having to show the courage needed to deal with our coming debt crisis. Every major deficit deal in the last 30 years has been tied to a debt-limit increase, and this time should be no different.”
443 2013-09-19 Rick Casares, a fullback for the Chicago Bears in the 1950s and ’60s who bulled through defensive lines to become, for a time, the leading rusher in team history, and who once led the National Football League in rushing, died on Friday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 82.

Two decades before Walter Payton rewrote rushing records in Chicago and across the N.F.L. with dazzling, acrobatic performances, Casares, a former star at the University of Florida, pounded the way forward for the Bears, often scratching out 3 and 4 yards at a time. He frequently played injured and later in life had two knee replacements, shoulder surgery and other operations.

“He was the toughest guy I ever played with,” Mike Ditka, a former Bears tight end and coach, told The Tampa Tribune. “I remember him playing on a broken ankle.”

In 10 seasons with the Bears, from 1955 to 1964, Casares — who stood 6 feet 3 inches and weighed about 230 pounds — became the team’s career rushing leader, with 5,657 yards. (Payton, in 13 seasons, from 1975 to 1987, ran for 16,726.) In 1956, Casares led the league with 1,126 yards, at the time the second-highest season total in N.F.L. history. He also led the league that year in rushing touchdowns and total touchdowns scored.

He played in five consecutive Pro Bowls, from 1955 to 1959, and remains third on the Bears’ career rushing list. Neal Anderson is second, with 6,166 yards in eight seasons, from 1986 to 1993.

Despite his injuries, Casares wanted more carries than he was given in his later years with the Bears, and he once publicly questioned the team’s coach, George Halas, after Halas changed the Bears’ offense in 1961. Casares’s carries were reduced sharply the next year, and he was never again central to the offense.
444 2013-09-20 HIRDT--Armin (Emil), on September 18, 2013. Proud World War II Veteran, served in Central Europe. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte (nee Goeb), devoted father of Stephen (Karen), Peter (Mary) and Thomas. Proud grandfather of Kenneth (Kathleen)...
445 2013-09-20 Pictures From the Week in Business
446 2013-09-20 Federal securities regulators on Friday identified the employee inside Akamai Technologies who was the source of a tip to the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam of the Galleon Group....
447 2013-09-20 A ruling by a Delaware judge has thrown the sale by Vivendi of most of its stake in Activision Blizzard into turmoil, with the parties grappling with what to do next....
448 2013-09-20 Leading indicators post gains. Jobless claims hit a six-year low. Does your start-up have a chef?...
449 2013-09-20 At a party at the Swiss Embassy on Wednesday night in Washington, discussion about bank secrecy took a back seat to a celebration of other Swiss pursuits....
450 2013-09-20 Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund that was seeking to block Smithfield Foods’ $4.7 billion sale to a Chinese meat processor, dropped its fight on Friday, saying that it could not formalize an alternative takeover bid....
451 2013-09-20 Croatia beat Ukraine, 84-72, to reach the semifinals of the European basketball championship for the first time in 18 years. Croatia will meet Lithuania, which beat Italy, 81-77. In the other semifinal, also in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on Friday, the two-time defending champion, Spain, will face France.
452 2013-09-20 “We will respond to the threat of , knowing that the failure to do so would betray our children and future generations,” Mr. Obama said in January. But he acknowledged that “the path toward sustainable energy sources will be long and sometimes difficult.”

The limits to be unveiled Friday are a slightly more relaxed standard for coal plants than the administration first proposed in April 2012. Officials said the new plan, which came after the E.P.A. received more than 2.5 million comments from the public and industry, will give coal plant operators more flexibility to meet the limits over several years.

Still, environmental groups are likely to hail the announcement as an important step in targeting the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the country. Forty percent of all energy-related emissions of greenhouse gases in 2012 came from power plants, and most of that came from coal-burning power plants, according to the Energy Information Administration.

“We are thrilled that the E.P.A. is taking this major step forward in implementing President Obama’s climate action plan,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, a senior vice president at the League of Conservation Voters, in anticipation of Ms. McCarthy’s announcement. “It’s a great day for public heath and a clean energy future.”

But Republican lawmakers and industry officials have already attacked the expected proposal. Opponents of the new rules argue that the technology to affordably reduce carbon emissions at power plants is not yet available and will drastically increase the cost of electricity.

Senator of , the Senate Republican leader and a fierce advocate for coal in a coal-dependent state, said in an interview Thursday that he expected “the worst.” Although he had not seen the administration’s latest proposal, Mr. McConnell said it was likely to alarm people in his state.

“It’s a devastating blow to our state, and we’re going to fight it in every way we can,” Mr. McConnell said.

Scott Segal, the director of the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, which represents power companies, said the details he had heard about the rules suggested that the administration would drive investment away from a plentiful source of power.

“I’m afraid it’s going to be illegal, counterproductive from an environmental perspective and contrary to our long-range interest in creating jobs, holding down costs and producing reliable energy,” Mr. Segal said.

The rules on new power plants will soon face a 60-day public comment period, likely to be followed by intensive industry and environmental lobbying and possible court challenges. Officials said the rules could be finalized by the fall of 2014.

Once the rules are in place, coal power plants would be required to limit their emissions, likely by installing technology called “carbon capture and sequestration,” which scrubs carbon dioxide from their emissions before they reach the plant smokestacks. The technology then pumps it into permanent storage underground.

Industry representatives argue that such technology has not been proven on a large scale and would be extraordinarily expensive — and therefore in violation of provisions in the that require the regulations to be adequately demonstrated and not exorbitant in cost.

“I think the agency has real problems” meeting both of those standards, Mr. Segal said.

But E.P.A. officials argue that the carbon capture technology has been used in several locations and that a review of the industry over the past year proves that owners of new coal-fired power plants can meet the new standards as required by the act.

Senator , Democrat of , said in a statement that the proposed rules would begin a new era in which the United States began real efforts to control “climate-altering pollution” from the nation’s power plants.

“These rules are reasonable,” Mr. Markey said. “They are feasible. And they should soon be expanded to include standards for existing power plants.”

In one concession to the industry, officials said the agency would provide some flexibility. Plants that could install the technology within 12 months would be required to meet the 1,100-pound limit, officials said. Owners of coal plants would also have the option of phasing in the limits over a seven-year period, officials said. But those plants would be required to meet a stricter standard of 1,000 to 1,050 pounds per megawatt hours, averaged over the seven years.
453 2013-09-20 “The common thread is that you don’t achieve diplomatic progress in the Middle East without significant pressure,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said Thursday. “In Syria, it was the serious threat of a military strike; in Iran it was a sanctions regime built up over five years.”

Skeptics — and there are plenty in the National Security Council, the Pentagon, America’s intelligence agencies and Congress — are not so optimistic. They think Mr. Obama runs the risk of being dragged into long negotiations and constant games of hide-and-seek that, ultimately, will result in little change in the status quo. They argue that the president’s hesitance to pull the trigger on Tomahawk strikes on Syria nearly two weeks ago, and the public and Congressional rebellion at the idea of even limited military strikes, were unmistakable signals to the Syrian and Iranian elites that if diplomacy fails, the chances of military action ordered by the American president are slight.

“These two situations are deeply intertwined,” said Dennis B. Ross, who served as Mr. Obama’s lead adviser on Iran for the first three years of his presidency, and who argued for attacking Syria after the Aug. 21 gas attacks that killed more than a thousand civilians. “If the Syrians are forced to give up their weapons, it will make a difference to the Iranian calculation,” and would raise the prospects of some deal with Tehran.

“If the Syrians can drag this out and give up just a little, that will send a very different message to the supreme leader,” he said.

Hovering over it all is a third negotiation: Secretary of State John Kerry’s effort to jump-start talks between Israel and the Palestinians, a political minefield that Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry’s predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton, for the most part avoided.

All these possibilities could evaporate quickly; just ask the State Department diplomats who in the last years of the Bush administration thought they were on the way to keeping North Korea from adding to its nuclear arsenal, or the Clinton administration officials who thought they were on the verge of a Middle East peace deal.

Mr. Obama will most likely know whether the Syrian accord stands a chance of success long before he knows whether the sudden Iranian charm offensive is real or a mirage. The Syrians now face a series of deadlines. The first comes this weekend, when they must issue a declaration of their chemical stocks that “passes the laugh test,” as Gary Samore, Mr. Obama’s former top adviser on unconventional weapons, put it earlier in the week.

The State Department has hinted that the Saturday deadline is not hard and fast. And while Mr. Assad will presumably admit to quantities roughly in line with the amounts that the United States and Russia have estimated are in his hands, the harder question for the Syrian leader is whether to lead inspectors to every depot, every warehouse, every research and development facility. That is supposed to happen in November, with total disarmament by the middle of next year.

But enforcing that will be difficult. So much time will have passed since the Aug. 21 gas attack that Mr. Obama will no longer be able to threaten a strike as punishment for use of the weapons. Instead, he would have to justify any military action as an enforcement of a United Nations resolution that he does not yet have in hand, and that is unlikely to authorize the use of force. White House officials say they are not especially concerned: with the world watching and United Nations inspectors on the ground to supervise the elimination of stockpiles, “we would have an effective form of deterrence” against another use of the weapons, Mr. Rhodes argued.

Iran is trickier. The coming week will be about symbolism, including the possibility that Mr. Obama and the newly elected Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani, will arrange to run into each other at the United Nations, where they will both be for the annual General Assembly session. But that would be the easy part. Iranians are desperate for relief from sanctions that have cut their oil revenue by more than half, crashed their currency and made international banking all but impossible, but they may not understand the price of relief. “I suspect they are heading for sticker shock,” one official deeply involved in developing the American negotiating strategy said recently.

If rumors prove true, the Iranians may offer to close Fordo, the nuclear facility whose existence was revealed in 2009. The site’s major value to Iran is that it is largely invulnerable to Israeli bombing, but it is so small that it may be more valuable to Mr. Rouhani as a bargaining chip.

American officials say they understand that Iran will need some kind of enrichment ability to assure its own people that it has retained its “nuclear rights,” as its negotiators say. The question is how much. Unless a good deal of the current infrastructure is dismantled, Iran will be able to maintain a threshold nuclear capability — that is, it will be just a few weeks, and a few screwdriver turns, from building a weapon. It is unclear whether Mr. Obama can live with that; the Israelis say they cannot.

But the big picture for Mr. Obama is that after weeks of appearing uncertain of his way, he now has a chance to pull off something big. “If he gets this right in the ninth inning, no one will remember what the fourth and fifth inning looked like,” David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s longtime political strategist, said Thursday. But the president is nowhere near the ninth inning; the game is only now getting interesting.
454 2013-09-20 In the Democratic primary campaign for mayor, Bill de Blasio’s refusal to retain Raymond W. Kelly as police commissioner was framed as a cornerstone of his candidacy. His thoughts on who might run the Taxi and Limousine Commission would appear less likely to affect vote tallies in November.

And yet, when Mr. de Blasio said on Thursday that he would immediately replace the current taxi commissioner, David S. Yassky, if elected, he convulsed an industry that has undergone widespread upheaval in recent years, inspiring a stern response from a coalition of cabbies and a fractious exchange on Twitter between a deputy mayor and a state assemblyman. (Late Thursday, a spokeswoman for Joseph J. Lhota, Mr. de Blasio’s Republican opponent, said that Mr. Lhota also would not keep Mr. Yassky.)

The episode began Thursday morning, when Mr. de Blasio, the Democratic nominee, was asked on WWRL about his vision for the city’s taxis. “I’d start by getting a new chairman for the Taxi and Limousine Commission,” he said, adding, “I want someone who will work with the drivers.” Mr. de Blasio has been a frequent critic of the city’s Taxi of Tomorrow plan for a nearly uniform fleet of yellow cabs and its bid to expand street-hail service outside Manhattan with green livery cabs. His campaign has received over $200,000 in contributions from members of the taxi and limousine industry, many of whom opposed the Bloomberg administration’s policies.

In a statement, Mr. Yassky — who, like many administration officials, is not expected to stay once Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg leaves office — said he had “great respect” for Mr. de Blasio.

But Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, took immediate exception to the candidate’s remarks, calling Mr. Yassky “the most pro-driver chairperson we’ve seen.” She cited last year’s commission-approved increase in cab fares, which went directly toward higher wages for drivers, and wondered if the next administration would instead be at the “beck and call” of the taxi industry, given the campaign contributions.

“It’s definitely worrisome,” Ms. Desai said in a phone interview.

Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor, also defended Mr. Yassky. When Assemblyman Micah Z. Kellner, another critic of the city’s taxi initiatives, wrote “Amen!” on Twitter in response to Mr. de Blasio’s comments, Mr. Wolfson replied, “Won’t you be looking for a new job soon?”
455 2013-09-20 Adversity makes for unlikely allies in “Zaytoun,” an odd-couple road movie set in 1982 as Israel is preparing to invade Lebanon.

As the film opens in a Beirut already roiling in civil war, the director, Eran Riklis, injects chaotic street scenes with vigorous energy. When Fahed (Abdallah El Akal), 12, a recently orphaned Palestinian refugee, chances upon a captured Israeli pilot, (Stephen Dorff), he suppresses his hostility to offer the enemy a deal: take him safely to his family’s long-abandoned home in Israel, and he will help the pilot escape.

Once en route to the southern border, the characters, obliged to fulfill the requirements of a formulaic — and child-friendly — peace allegory, enjoy an adventure that’s more kooky than life-threatening. Progressing by cab, donkey, stolen jeep and shank’s mare, the pair dodge buried land mines and inept checkpoint guards with identical ease, their growing affection spurred by soft-serve peril and cemented by contrivance.

Trapped in a script (by Nader Rizq) that groans with sentiment and symbolism, Mr. Dorff looks a little lost, unconnected to the barren beauty of the Israeli locations that the Danish cinematographer, Dan Laustsen, takes pains to honor. Mr. El Akal, for his part, is burdened mainly by the traumatized olive tree (the title is Arabic for “olive”) that his character must lug across country for an emblematic planting in the family garden. His mission is touching and his director well-meaning, but in grabbing for the heart this one-size-fits-all fable sadly ignores the mind.
456 2013-09-20 On a cuteness scale — where 10 is a fuzzy kitten yawning in a hammock — the chattily uninhibited 7- and 8-year-old golfers of “The Short Game” score high. One moment, these skilled children are tirelessly practicing swings, rain or shine; another moment, they’re saying that Dad should marry Lady Gaga, or beaming over a book about breaking wind. Discipline exists alongside child’s play, on and off the green.

Josh Greenbaum’s documentary prizes these contrasts as it follows eight competitors at the 2012 U.S. Kids Golf World Championship in Pinehurst, N.C. “Spellbound,” the 2003 spelling bee chronicle that helped jump-start the theatrical market for nonfiction last decade, is an obvious model. Mr. Greenbaum is even more intent on delivering snappily edited portraits in ambition and athleticism.

The children are introduced, as people are in reality shows, with framed one-liners and held-for-a-beat bits of business: a pink-loving Texas girl with her stuffed bunnies; a pale French boy reading poetry aloud. After these sketches, some individuals and their obsessive parents are fleshed out more than others. Allan Kournikova, younger brother to the tennis-playing Anna, is one. Coolly talented, nearly bratty, he spouts sports interview platitudes and (less coherently) nutrition cant.

Mr. Greenbaum shapes the drama of tournament play with a heavy hand, pushing suspense that doesn’t always add up or leaning on pop songs. He’s observant of tears and laughter alike, but he might have made fewer sacrifices in the name of a tidy package.

“The Short Game” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for some expressions of frustration on the field of battle.
457 2013-09-20 MINNEAPOLIS — It promises to be a bizarre scene.

On Friday evening, the Minnesota Orchestra will hold a fund-raising ball in Orchestra Hall, which is just reopening after renovations costing some $50 million. Besides acoustical improvements intended to help musicians hear one another better onstage and expanded facilities for the players backstage, the face-lift includes a large and attractive new lobby that the orchestra and renters of the hall will be able to use to entertain patrons.

From an upper level on Friday, wealthy donors will look out at the skyline through an array of floor-to-ceiling windows. And at street level, they will look out at a demonstration through a low-slung row of windows extending the length of the facade: a rally by supporters of the orchestra’s players, who have been locked out of their jobs for almost a year, protesting the musicians’ treatment by the orchestra’s management and board.

Such, at least, was the prospect held up by the players at a concert they arranged on their own at the Lake Harriet Band Shell here on Sunday.

For the players, who have rejected two proposed contracts — one that would have cut their salaries by a third, another by a quarter — the lobby itself, costing some $30 million, has become a symbol. Though money was raised specifically for the renovation project, the players cast the lobby expenditure as a misappropriation of funds that might better be directed toward their remuneration and welfare.

The lockout, which began last Oct. 1 and wiped out an entire season of concerts, now jeopardizes the start of another, which is to include four concerts of Sibelius at Carnegie Hall conducted by Osmo Vanska, the orchestra’s music director. It also jeopardizes Mr. Vanska’s tenure, since he has threatened to resign if the first two Carnegie concerts, in early November, are canceled.

He has said that to prepare adequately for the new season and for the Carnegie concerts, the players will have to be rehearsing by Sept. 30. The administration said that for that to happen, the players would have to have agreed to a new contract by last Sunday.
458 2013-09-20 The New York Times Company announced on Thursday that it would pay a quarterly dividend to its shareholders for the first time in five years.

The company’s board voted to approve a dividend of 4 cents a share to all shareholders of record as of Oct. 9, 2013. It will be paid on Oct. 24, the week before The Times announces its third-quarter earnings. The Times has not paid a dividend since Dec. 14, 2008.

The dividend, which applies to both Class A and Class B shares, will cost the company roughly $24 million a year.

In a statement, Mark Thompson, president and chief executive of The Times, said that the board had concluded “that the strength of the balance sheet justified the restoration of a dividend.”

But Mr. Thompson warned that the company would remain cautious in its financial strategy.

“Given the expectation of continued volatility in advertising revenue and the fact that our growth strategy is at an early stage of development, we will maintain a prudent view of both the balance sheet and free cash flow,” he said.
459 2013-09-20 ATHENS — European officials expressed concern on Thursday about a rise of extremism in Greece, a day after thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in several Greek cities to protest the killing of an antifascist activist. The Greek police said the killer was a supporter of the right-wing Golden Dawn party.

Thorbjorn Jagland, the secretary general of the Council of Europe, said “an extremely dangerous development” was emerging in Greece and in other parts of Europe. “Sections of society are becoming more radicalized, and there is a real risk that hate speech turns into violence and coldblooded murder,” he said.

Prime Minister Antonis Samaras of Greece made another appeal for calm on Thursday, describing the killing of the activist — Pavlos Fyssas, 34, a leftist hip-hop singer — as “inhuman.” He said the government was “determined not to allow the descendants of the Nazis to poison our social life, to commit crimes, to terrorize and to undermine the foundations of the country that gave birth to democracy.”

Mr. Samaras did not say what actions the government would take, and did not comment on a suggestion advanced by the country’s public order minister, calling for changes in the laws defining criminal organizations to rein in Golden Dawn. The minister late on Thursday sent the Supreme Court prosecutor a list of offenses believed to have been carried out by Golden Dawn and asked for the party to be treated as a criminal organization.

The party, whose members have been accused of criminal violence against immigrants, has gained popularity recently, especially among Greeks angered by high unemployment and economic woes. Golden Dawn has insisted that it had nothing to do with the killing of Mr. Fyssas.

Tensions have been growing between Mr. Samaras’s fragile coalition government and the main leftist opposition party in Greece, Syriza, which has also been gaining in popularity. One of the prime minister’s chief advisers, Chrysanthos Lazaridis, said Syriza was also engaged in political violence, and suggested that the leftist party was not part of Greece’s “constitutional axis.”
460 2013-09-20 In a bid to generate more excitement for its annual National Book Awards, the foundation that administers the prize has released four long lists of nominees for the first time this year.

Five finalists in each category will be announced Oct. 16. The black-tie ceremony for the awards is Nov. 20 in Manhattan.

The nominated books and authors, revealed this week, are as follows:

Fiction: Tom Drury, “Pacific” (Grove); Elizabeth Graver, “The End of the Point” (Harper); Rachel Kushner, “The Flamethrowers” (Scribner); Jhumpa Lahiri, “The Lowland” (Knopf); Anthony Marra, “A Constellation of Vital Phenomena” (Hogarth); James McBride, “The Good Lord Bird” (Riverhead Books); Alice McDermott, “Someone” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Thomas Pynchon, “Bleeding Edge” (Penguin); George Saunders, “Tenth of December: Stories” (Random House); Joan Silber, “Fools: Stories” (Norton).

Nonfiction: T.D. Allman, “Finding Florida: The True Story of the Sunshine State” (Atlantic Monthly); Gretel Ehrlich, “Facing the Wave: A Journey in the Wake of the Tsunami” (Pantheon); Scott C. Johnson, “The Wolf and the Watchman: A Father, a Son, and the CIA” (Norton); Jill Lepore, “Book of Ages: The Life and Opinions of Jane Franklin” (Knopf); Wendy Lower, “Hitler’s Furies: German Women in the Nazi Killing Fields” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt); James Oakes, “Freedom National: The Destruction of Slavery in the United States, 1861-1865″ (Norton); George Packer, “The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New America” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Alan Taylor, “The Internal Enemy: Slavery and War in Virginia, 1772-1832″ (Norton); Terry Teachout, “Duke: A Life of Duke Ellington” (Gotham); Lawrence Wright, “Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief” (Knopf).

Poetry: Frank Bidart, “Metaphysical Dog” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Roger Bonair-Agard, “Bury My Clothes” (Haymarket); Lucie Brock-Broido, “Stay, Illusion” (Knopf); Andrei Codrescu, “So Recently Rent a World” (Coffee House); Brenda Hillman, “Seasonal Works with Letters on Fire” (Wesleyan University); Adrian Matejka, “The Big Smoke” (Penguin); Diane Raptosh, “American Amnesiac” (Etruscan); Matt Rasmussen; “Black Aperture” (Louisiana State University); Martha Ronk, Transfer of Qualities” (Omnidawn); Mary Szybist, “Incarnadine: Poems” (Graywolf Press).

Young People’s Literature: Kathi Appelt, “The True Blue Scouts of Sugar Man Swamp” (Atheneum); Kate DiCamillo, “Flora and Ulysses: The Illuminated Adventures” (Candlewick); Lisa Graff, “A Tangle of Knots” (Philomel); Alaya Dawn Johnson, “The Summer Prince” (Arthur A. Levine); Cynthia Kadohata, “The Thing About Luck” (Atheneum); David Levithan, “Two Boys Kissing” (Knopf); Tom McNeal, “Far Far Away” (Knopf); Meg Rosoff, “Picture Me Gone” (Putnam); Anne Ursu, “The Real Boy” (Walden Pond); Gene Luen Yang, “Boxers & Saints” (First Second).
461 2013-09-20 While Mr. McCain wrote that he did not believe a Russian citizen could publish similar criticism, such complaints appear frequently in the Russian press — especially online, where there is generally no censorship even as the government retains fairly strong control over what is shown on the major television stations, particularly in news reports.

Mr. Putin, speaking Thursday at an annual conference of Western academics and policy analysts, ridiculed Mr. McCain for submitting the article to Pravda, which he suggested was proof that the American senator was locked in an outdated cold war mind-set.

“I think that he has a certain deficit of information about our country,” Mr. Putin said.

“And the fact that he wanted to be published in Pravda, not any other publication, apparently he wants to be published in a most authoritative publication with big circulation,” Mr. Putin added, mockingly. “Of course, Pravda is a respectable publication of the now oppositional Communist Party, but its level of distribution in the country is minimal.”

Mr. Putin insisted that there was nothing anti-American in his article in The Times, and he said Mr. McCain had been invited to the conference, called the Valdai Discussion Club after the Russian town where it is held.

Mr. Putin usually holds a private dinner with the Valdai group, but to note the event’s 10th anniversary, the invitation list was broadened to include several opposition politicians and journalists who were given limited access.

Mr. Putin used his remarks and a question-and-answer session to touch on a wide range of subjects, and he portrayed the event itself as proof that there was no suppression of speech in Russia.

At one point, Mr. Putin defended a new Russian law banning propaganda on nontraditional sexual relations, which is widely perceived as intended to suppress homosexuality. He said that the law did not discriminate, but also that “Europeans are dying out” in part because of societal acceptance of gay relationships.

Even as he suggested that Mr. McCain was stuck in the past, Mr. Putin raised his own complaint with a cold war edge.

“Once, we were promised that NATO will not cross the eastern border” of Germany, he said. “We discussed it and Gorbachev was given a promise, though it was not registered anywhere. And now, where is NATO? And where is the border? We were simply duped.”

Mr. McCain cited the propaganda law in his article, criticizing Mr. Putin’s government. “They write laws to codify bigotry against people whose sexual orientation they condemn,” he wrote.

He did not defend United States policies, but accused Mr. Putin of shielding the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. “How has he strengthened Russia’s international stature?” Mr. McCain asked. “By allying Russia with some of the world’s most offensive and threatening tyrannies.”

Mr. McCain was not the first member of Congress to respond to Mr. Putin in the Russian news media.

On Monday, Kommersant, one of Russia’s most prominent daily newspapers, printed an open letter to the Russian people by Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.

In his letter, which he also published on his Web site, Mr. Israel explained in leveled language why he would potentially vote in favor of a military strike on Syria, although he praised Mr. Putin’s efforts to persuade Mr. Assad’s government to surrender its chemical weapons arsenal.

“Diplomacy should always be the first preference,” Mr. Israel wrote.
462 2013-09-20 The Fed’s action also gave India some breathing room. The rupee was the worst performer of the world’s 78 internationally traded currencies in August but has started to recover this month. The Mumbai stock market increased 3.3 percent, and the rupee climbed 2.4 percent against the dollar.

The Turkish stock market soared 8 percent in early trading, and the South African stock market jumped 2 percent. Latin American markets had risen sharply late Wednesday following the Fed’s announcement. But as the currency trading day progressed in Europe and Africa, there were some signs of flagging enthusiasm for emerging markets, as the Turkish lira was down 0.3 percent after an initial jump in value and the South African rand was down 0.6 percent.

“If liquidity flows to emerging markets revive, those economies that have suffered the most — India, South Africa, Turkey, Indonesia and Brazil — stand to gain,” said Ajay Bodke, the head of investment strategy and advice at Prabhudas Lilladher, a brokerage firm based in Mumbai. “It also increases the maneuverability that the new Reserve Bank of India governor has in charting his medium-term course for the monetary policy.”

The new governor, Raghuram Rajan, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund and chief economic adviser to the Indian government, took office in Mumbai on Sept. 4 and plans to release his first statement and news conference on monetary policy on Friday. At his inaugural news conference on his first day in office, he stuck to banking deregulation.

Although India and Indonesia have attracted the most attention in recent weeks among emerging economies, other countries’ stock markets and currencies also rallied strongly on Thursday. The Hang Seng Index closed 1.7 percent higher in Hong Kong and the Nikkei 225 closed up 1.8 percent in Tokyo.

The indexes in Thailand and the Philippines rose more than 3 percent, and the S.&P./ASX 200 index in Australia rose 1.1 percent. European stock markets also rose early Thursday. The FTSE 100 rose 1.4 percent soon after trading opened in London, and the main indexes in Germany and France rose 1.2 percent.

Among currencies, the Philippine peso and Korean won rose 1 percent against the dollar, while the Malaysian ringgit climbed 2.1 percent. The Japanese yen weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar as investors shifted money out of industrialized countries like Japan and back into emerging markets.

The big questions now are: How long a respite has the Federal Reserve taken before starting to taper its program of monetary stimulus, and how much damage may have already been done to emerging economies over the past several months by market volatility and capital flight? Most economists regard Fed tapering as inevitable, and still probable in the coming months.

The emerging economies facing the biggest challenges in recent months have been wrestling with broadly measured trade deficits equal to several percent or more of their annual output. They have relied until now on foreign investment to pay for these deficits as well as to finance interest payments on foreign borrowing, making them especially vulnerable to capital outflows that have reached tens of billions of dollars over the summer.

Falling emerging market currencies have also driven up the cost of commodities like oil that are priced in dollars.

“If the weakness of the rupiah lasts a longer time, it will create imported inflation,” Mr. Johansyah said.

The Bank of Indonesia raised its two benchmark interest rates by a quarter of a percent on Sept. 12, in what was widely interpreted by economists at the time as an unexpected measure to try to halt the increasingly rapid descent of the rupiah. The rupiah stopped falling after the central bank acted.

But Mr. Johansyah denied that the main motive had been to respond to currency markets, saying that the central bank’s plan had been to address inflationary pressures within Indonesia and curb the current account deficit, a broad measure of trade. The Fed’s action on Wednesday is not a reason to reverse the rate increase on Sept. 12, he said.

“We put all of our policies toward stabilization” of the rupiah, inflation and the current account, he said. “This is our focus now, rather than growth.”

A Goldman Sachs analysis on Wednesday found that interest rates fluctuated more in Indonesia in response to Fed policy actions than in any of 18 other emerging markets studied.

Indonesia allows both its citizens and foreigners to hold deposits in dollars at Indonesian banks. Many were reluctant to convert those deposits to rupiah until recently because they worried that the local currency was overvalued, but the central bank now perceives signs that exporters and others with dollars are becoming more willing to convert them, Mr. Johansyah said.

“Some dollar holders are happy at this level, so they are ready to convert dollars to rupiah,” he said.

The Bank of Indonesia gained political independence in 1999 after Indonesia suffered among the greatest damage from the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998, although the bank continues to work closely with the government.

President Xi Jinping of China is expected to come to Indonesia on Oct. 2 and hold extensive meetings the following day with Indonesian leaders. Sofjan Wanandi, a local tycoon who is the chairman of the Indonesian Employers’ Association and a close adviser of national leaders, said in an interview that he expected China to provide Indonesia with a $25 billion bilateral swap agreement.

That would buttress Indonesia’s ability to intervene in currency markets to stem any further slide of the rupiah. The Bank of Indonesia had foreign exchange reserves of $93 billion as of Aug. 30, the most recent date available.

Some analysts cautioned that the Fed’s statement was likely to be only a “short-term positive,” particularly as the timing of a reduction in bond-buying and the sustainability of a recent upswing in China’s economy remained uncertain.

After an initial relief rally over the next few days, “markets will start to fret again about tapering beginning in December. And that won’t be the end of it. Once tapering begins, the next worry will be when asset purchases will end altogether. And then, when rates will rise,” equity strategists at HSBC wrote in a research note. “We see a year or more when equity markets dip (and then recover) each time the Fed moves to (or toward) ending its ultra-easy policy.”

Meanwhile, they added, the delay in the Fed’s “tapering” of its stimulus gives policy makers in Asia a chance to speed up much-needed reforms. “But the risk is that the current surge in equity markets could also bring back complacency.”
463 2013-09-20 Stocks on Wall Street had a mixed close on Thursday as investors took a breather after a rally that raised major indexes to record levels in the wake of a surprise decision by the Federal Reserve to maintain its stimulus.

By the end of trading, the Standard & Poor’s 500-share index had lost 0.18 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 0.26 percent and the Nasdaq composite was up 0.15 percent.

Earlier in the day, shares in Europe and Asia jumped, and battered emerging market currencies rose, as those markets had their first chance to respond to the news from the Fed.

On Wednesday, the S.&P. and Dow reached record nominal closing highs — and the Nasdaq reached its highest close since September 2000, when the dot-com boom was fading — after the Fed’s unexpected decision to keep its massive stimulus efforts intact. The Fed will continue, for now, with its $85 billion monthly bond purchases which have propped up economic growth and equity markets for much of the year.

“Now that we have one worry out of the way, I think the next big catalyst to move the market is the earnings season, which is not too far away,” said Ryan Detrick, senior analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research in Cincinnati.
464 2013-09-20 Louis R. Rukeyser, who often had Mr. Granville on his PBS program, “Wall Street Week,” told People magazine in 1981 that Mr. Granville was “the most controversial man in American finance.”

But while Mr. Granville correctly called a bear market in the late 1970s and the implosion of technology stocks in 2000, he missed other major turns, like the start of an epic bull run in 1982.

And like many other market forecasters, his overall performance was “very poor” compared with that of basic stock index funds, said Mark Hulbert, editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, which has tracked the performance of investment advisory newsletters since 1980.

Mr. Hulbert said that from 1980 through January 2005, Mr. Granville’s stock tips for investors lost 0.5 percent on an annualized basis, compared with an 11.9 percent average yearly gain for a general stock index. Mr. Granville’s tips for more aggressive traders lost an average 10 percent a year over that period, Mr. Hulbert said.

Mr. Granville, who continued to produce the newsletter until his death, did not provide enough trading details after January 2005 to track his performance as precisely. But he got enough of the broad turns in the market right, Mr. Hulbert said, that if investors had ignored his stock picks and bought or sold an index fund with each major call, they would have earned 8.5 percent a year since 1980.

“He deserves some credit for insight into the market,” Mr. Hulbert said, adding that Mr. Granville created technical indicators still used by many market analysts.

He died in a hospice in Kansas City, Mo., where he was being treated for pneumonia, his wife, Karen E. Granville, said.

Mr. Granville reveled in all the attention his bold calls received, she said. “He loved that,” Mrs. Granville said in an interview. “It was almost like he was on stage all the time.”

Joseph Ensign Granville was born on Aug. 20, 1923, in Yonkers. In “The Book of Granville: Reflections of a Stock Market Prophet,” published in 1984, Mr. Granville recalled that his father had lost $30,000 in the stock market crash of 1929 and “at least twice as much more that he borrowed from Grandma Buck and Auntie Blanche.”

He wrote that his family survived only because his relatives “were comfortable enough to write off their losses and aid us in recovering.”

Mr. Granville studied economics at Duke University and graduated in 1948. He also wrote books on bingo and investing in stamps. He was married three times.

Beside his wife, the former Karen Erickson, whom he married in 1981, he is survived by six children from his second marriage, to the former Paulina Delp — John, Blanchard, Leslie, Leona Weissman, Mary Beth and Johanna — as well as 15 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
465 2013-09-21 Three weeks after an obscure Internet news service claimed that Syrian rebels had admitted responsibility for the deadly chemical attack outside Damascus in August, a veteran foreign correspondent has denied writing the article....
466 2013-09-21 Go to next slide
467 2013-09-21 Francesco Molinari shot a five-under-par 67 to share the lead with Felipe Aguilar of Chile and Simon Thornton after the second round of the Italian Open in Turin.
468 2013-09-21 El Salvador’s soccer federation permanently barred 14 players from the national team over accusations of match-fixing, including games against the United States and Mexico. Among those barred were Christian Castillo, a former D.C. United player, and William Osael Romero, who played for Chivas USA. The suspected match-fixing includes a 2-1 loss in an exhibition against the United States in 2010 and a 5-0 loss to Mexico in the 2011 Gold Cup. ■ Toronto midfielder Jonathan Osorio was suspended for two games after kicking the ball into a fallen Red Bulls player, Kosuke Kimura, last Saturday. Osorio said it was unintentional. The Red Bulls’ Dax McCarty and Jamison Olave were also fined for their parts in a scuffle after the play.
469 2013-09-21 Kovalchuk’s departure alone would leave a huge hole. He scored 89 goals after arriving in February 2010, and he was second on the team in points last season (31) despite missing 11 games with a shoulder injury. He had significant ice time, including on special teams, and his mere presence created offensive openings for teammates.

“You’re not going to go out in UFA and fill an Ilya Kovalchuk,” said Devils forward Ryane Clowe, referring to unrestricted free agency. “There are only so many of those in the world.”

But couple Kovalchuk’s departure with that of David Clarkson, and his 45 goals over the last two seasons, and the Devils are missing two of their top three scorers from a team that only scored 112 goals and missed the playoffs last year. Clarkson, a Toronto native, bolted for a seven-year, $36.75 million deal with the Maple Leafs.

Still, the Devils feel poised to surprise critics who say they will not be able to score enough goals this year.

“We have a good mix of veterans, energy guys and skill guys,” said Patrik Elias, the Devils’ scoring leader from a year ago with 36 points at age 37. “There are a lot of talented guys on this team.”

Harris brings financial stability, and General Manager Lou Lamoriello went back to basics, aiming to replace Clarkson and Kovalchuk with tough, physical forwards. He re-signed center Adam Henrique to a 6-year, $24 million deal. Henrique and the top-line center Travis Zajac are signed through 2018-19.

Lamoriello also added Jaromir Jagr, the N.H.L.’s active leader in goals, and Clowe and Michael Ryder, free agents from Newfoundland.

Ryder and Clowe made their Devils preseason debuts in a 5-3 loss to the Islanders on Thursday and have shared time in practice on the same line. Devils Coach Pete DeBoer acknowledged it was too early to set lineups, but the notion of them playing on the same line would excite some fans in eastern Canada.

“That hasn’t really happened before, two guys from Newfoundland playing on the same team and the same line,” said Clowe, who played for the Rangers after the trade deadline last season. “I’m sure everyone back home would love to see it.”

The Devils also signed the 27-year-old forward Damien Brunner to a professional tryout Monday. Brunner was on the ice for three Islanders goals Thursday, but he shared time on the ice with the top forwards Zajac, Dainius Zubrus and Rostislav Olesz. He played with Elias in power-play drills Tuesday, his first full day as a Devil.

“It’s always nice to be part of a new group and bring some energy,” said Brunner, who had 26 points for the Detroit Red Wings last season, his first in the N.H.L. after starring in his native Switzerland. “The Devils are a first-class organization, you can tell just being here. I hope it all turns out well.”

The Devils’ power play ranked 21st last season, scoring on 15.9 percent of its chances. The team expects Brunner to help improve that. He is also talented in shootouts, another area the Devils hope to fix. They were 2-7 in shootouts last season.

“He can make some plays when he has the puck on his stick,” DeBoer said. “There’s a good chance something good is going to happen offensively. We could use a little bit of that.”

The Devils may have new faces, but they are not young faces. Ryder and Clowe are in their 30s, and Jagr will be 42 in February. Injuries have already bitten the Devils’ forwards. On the first day of training camp last week, Jagr left the ice after 10 minutes with what the team has called lower-body soreness. He has not practiced since, though DeBoer said Friday that Jagr was skating and would return soon.

Clowe sustained a lower-body injury against the Islanders and did not practice Friday. Forward Mattias Tedenby, 23, left practice Friday with a lower-body injury and did not return. The Devils play the Islanders again Saturday night at Barclays Center in Brooklyn for the first N.H.L. game at the arena, which the Islanders will call home starting in 2015.

Still, for someone like Tedenby, a former first-round pick who has played just 105 N.H.L. games over three seasons, teaming with a slew of veteran forwards is enormously beneficial. That in turn might be productive for the Devils’ offense down the line.

“I’m really excited to be around them and play with them,” Tedenby said. “It’s good for younger guys like me who want to get to their level.”
470 2013-09-21 Chinese officials this month sent a drone near disputed islands administered by Japan; debated using a weaponized drone last year to kill a criminal suspect in Myanmar; and sold homemade drones resembling the Predator, an American model, to other countries for less than a million dollars each. Meanwhile, online photographs reveal a stealth combat drone, the Lijian, or Stealth Sword, in a runway test in May.

Military analysts say China has long tried to replicate foreign drone designs. Some Chinese drones appearing at recent air shows have closely resembled foreign ones. Ian M. Easton, a military analyst at the Project 2049 Institute in Virginia, said cyberespionage was one tool in an extensive effort over years to purchase or develop drones domestically using all available technology, foreign and domestic.

Chinese engineers and officials have done reverse engineering, studied open source material and debriefed American drone experts who attend conferences and other meetings in China. “This can save them years of design work and mistakes,” Mr. Easton said.

The Chinese military has not released statistics on the size of its drone fleet, but a Taiwan Defense Ministry report said that as of mid-2011, the Chinese Air Force alone had more than 280 drone units, and analysts say the other branches have thousands, which means China’s fleet count is second only to the 7,000 or so of the United States. “The military significance of China’s move into unmanned systems is alarming,” said a 2012 report by the Defense Science Board, a Pentagon advisory committee.

China’s domestic security apparatus, whose $124 billion official budget this year is larger than that of the military, is also keenly interested in drones, which raises questions about the potential use of drones for surveillance and possibly even attacks inside China, including in restive areas of Xinjiang and Tibet. Drone technology conferences here are attended by both military and domestic security officials. An international conference on nonmilitary drones is scheduled to take place in Beijing from Sept. 25 to 28.

A signal moment in China’s drone use came on Sept. 9, when the navy sent a surveillance drone near the disputed Diaoyu Islands, which Japan administers and calls the Senkakus. Japanese interceptor jets scrambled to confront it. This was the first time China had ever deployed a drone over the East China Sea. The Chinese Defense Ministry said “regular drills” had taken place “at relevant areas in the East China Sea, which conform to relevant international laws and practices.”

The drone appeared to be a BZK-005, a long-range aircraft used by the Chinese Navy that made its public debut in 2006 at China’s air show in Zhuhai, said an American official.

Mr. Easton said deploying the drone near disputed waters and islands “was very much a first” for China and had caught Japanese officials off guard.

“I think this is really just the beginning of a much broader trend we’re going to see — for China to increase its ability to monitor the East China Sea and the Western Pacific, beyond the Philippines, and to increase the operational envelope of their strike capabilities,” he said.

The Chinese military, with its constant focus on potential war over Taiwan and an eye on China’s growing territorial disputes, is at the vanguard of preparing drones for use in maritime situations. That is unlike the United States, which has used drones to hunt and kill suspected terrorists and guerrilla fighters, mostly in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

American drones “are not designed to enter into contested or denied air space,” Mr. Easton said. “So they would be unable to fight in any conflict with China.”

China, on the other hand, is building drones, also called unmanned aerial vehicles, precisely to operate in contested spaces. “It’s a very useful instrument for safeguarding maritime sovereignty,” said Xu Guangyu, a retired major general and director of the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association. “China will gradually step up its use of U.A.V.’s in this area.”

Chinese strategists have discussed using drones in attack situations if war with the United States were to break out in the Pacific, according to the Project 2049 report. Citing Chinese military technical material, the report said the People’s Liberation Army’s “operational thinkers and scientists envision attacking U.S. aircraft-carrier battle groups with swarms of multimission U.A.V.’s in the event of conflict.”

University research centers are at the core of China’s drone program. The oldest research and production center for drones is the Northwestern Polytechnical University in Xi’an, where design work began in 1958. The ASN Technology Group, linked to the school, said on its Web site that it produces 90 percent of Chinese drones.

At the program’s start, China reverse-engineered drones it had acquired from the Soviet Union in the 1950s. It also got its hands on American drones that crashed in Vietnam in the 1960s and in China while monitoring China’s nuclear weapons program. China bought 100 Harpy armed drones from Israel in the 1990s — its only significant purchase of foreign-made drones — and the Pentagon later pressured Israel not to upgrade those drones for China.

In recent years, China has continued to acquire foreign drone technology and is especially focused on studying American models. “American U.A.V. technology is very sophisticated,” Mr. Xu said. “We can only envy their technology. Right now, we’re learning from them.”

For the Obama administration and American business executives, no method of Chinese technology acquisition is more worrisome than cyberespionage. An American official confirmed that drone technology had been stolen by hackers.

FireEye, the cybersecurity company in California, called the drone theft campaign Operation Beebus, traced back to a command-and-control node at bee.businessconsults.net. Cybersecurity experts say that general address and tools linked to it are associated with the Comment Crew, the Chinese hacker unit that Mandiant, another cybersecurity company, discussed in a report in February. Mandiant said the group was part of Unit 61398 of the People’s Liberation Army, based in Shanghai.

Though the initial victims in Operation Beebus were large defense contractors, the hackers began to pick out companies that specialized in drone technology, said Mr. Kindlund, FireEye’s threat intelligence manager. They then alternated between large companies that made a wide range of military technology and boutique firms that focused on drones.

In China, it is not just the military that is looking at uses for drones. In February, Liu Yuejin, the director of the antidrugs bureau in the Ministry of Public Security, which is responsible for domestic security, told Global Times, a state-run newspaper, that the ministry had considered using a drone armed with 44 pounds of explosives to kill a Burmese man in northern Myanmar suspected of ordering the murders of 13 Chinese sailors on the Mekong River. In the end, the idea was shelved because senior Chinese officials wanted the suspect, Naw Kham, captured alive.

Chinese drones are increasingly appearing in the arsenals of other nations. The Chinese version of the Predator, the Wing Loong, or Pterodactyl, was first exported in 2011, according to People’s Daily. At the Paris Air Show in June, the president of a Chinese aeronautics company told Global Times that the drone could carry two laser-guided missiles and was the equal of the Predator in endurance and flight range, but was much cheaper.
471 2013-09-21 Mr. Sanchez said he worried that his past crime will follow him from job to job and brand him as an ex-con. “I feel violated because I don’t think those things have to be asked,” he said. “I feel that it could stigmatize me.”

The applications have also raised concerns among recent immigrants who fear their information could be shared with other government agencies, and have drawn protests from many companies that see the requirements as an unnecessary burden. More than three dozen local companies voiced complaints about the commission last week at a meeting organized by the Greater Hunts Point Chamber of Commerce, which represents about 700 local businesses.

“When people hear this, they don’t want to move here,” said Josephine Infante, president of the chamber, who said the commission continued to perpetuate a negative image of Hunts Point. “They think there must be a criminal element here, when in fact the environment has truly changed.”

The commission, created in 2001 to consolidate earlier efforts to combat organized crime in the wholesale food markets, commercial garbage hauling and shipboard gambling, has long collected personal information about those working in the markets. The applications and other requirements have been a sore point for the Hunts Point wholesale produce market, which recently cited the commission’s regulatory efforts as a reason that it was unable to come to terms with the city on a new long-term lease.

Commission officials said they started focusing on workers outside the public markets in 2009, after a state court decision mandating equal treatment of companies inside and outside the market walls. They added that they stepped up their efforts this year after receiving an anonymous complaint that many companies had not complied with the registration and identification cards.

Shari C. Hyman, the commissioner of the Business Integrity Commission, said her agency sought to ensure a safe, fair and competitive business climate for all food companies in Hunts Point. Since 2011, the agency has closed three companies outside the markets with ties to the Genovese crime family, and a fourth company whose owner was found to have embezzled from a former employer.

“Requiring the application is a balancing act,” she said, “one that requires us to look at the information collected in the most narrowly focused way so that corruptive influences are kept at bay, business needs are met and a clear path to employment for those who need it most is provided.”

The commission charges each company $4,000 to register, which is good for three years, and an additional $100 per employee for the identification cards. Commission officials said the fees covered the cost of reviewing the applications and performing background investigations of the companies and their staffs.

At Il Forno, a bakery that paid $7,000 for its registration and identification cards, many of the workers said they were intimidated by all the questions about their backgrounds.

“It’s not right,” Ramon Eduardo, the owner, said. “They’re acting like immigration, but I think immigration would ask you less questions.”

Foster Maer, senior litigation counsel for LatinoJustice PRLDEF, which was formerly known as the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, said the commission had overstepped its authority. “They aren’t authorized to ask these incredibly invasive questions,” said Mr. Maer, who has written a letter on behalf of more than four dozen workers, calling on the commission to review and revise the applications.

Ms. Hyman said her agency did not ask about immigration status or share the information collected about workers, though it could be provided to law enforcement officials in limited and specific cases. She added that the agency did not automatically deny applications from those who had committed crimes, citing recent approvals for a company in which 15 percent of the workers had criminal records. Commission officials also said no company outside the markets had yet been fined for workers who did not submit applications or wear identification cards.

Even so, many workers said the detailed questions made them uncomfortable and put them in an embarrassing or awkward position. Allen Luke, 60, a sales manager at Down East Seafood who has been divorced since 1992, said his ex-wife would not want him to include her name and address in his application, as requested, because “her business is her business, and my business is mine.”

“I could understand if it was homeland security. But this is just a fish business. That’s all we do,” Mr. Luke said.

Edward Taylor, the president of Down East Seafood, said more than half of his 60 employees had told him they did not want to complete the application. A couple of them have even said they would instead quit.

Mr. Taylor, who had to answer similar questions himself to register the company, said he would not have moved to Hunts Point from Manhattan in 2005 if he had known about the commission. The company, which he started in 1990 with $500 borrowed from a friend, supplies more than 700 establishments, including Dean & DeLuca, the Harvard and Yale Clubs and the dining rooms at the United Nations.

“They’re picking on my employees,” he said. “I didn’t open my own company to have someone else tell me how to run it.”
472 2013-09-21 But, utilities say, laws governing underground disposal were not written with carbon dioxide in mind, and sequestration is in a legal quagmire.

Three systems of carbon capture are in various stages of development. The most common is to convert coal into a mixture of hydrogen, carbon monoxide — which in this context is a fuel, not a pollutant — and carbon dioxide, and to recover the carbon dioxide at two different stages.

Another method, demonstrated by the utility American Electric Power in recent years at its Mountaineer plant in West Virginia, is to burn coal conventionally and use an ammonia process to grab the carbon dioxide out of the flue gas. And if coal is burned in nearly pure oxygen, the flue gases are nearly pure carbon dioxide.

In the last few days, Ms. McCarthy has referred to several early-stage carbon capture projects as a sign that industry can build the needed equipment. In testimony on Wednesday before the House Energy and Power Subcommittee, Ms. McCarthy cited four such projects. She told reporters on Friday that the draft rule was based on “technologies that are already entering the market and being constructed in plants today.” But the four she referred to in the committee hearing ranged from under construction to planned. None of them would sequester the carbon dioxide, and all would sell it.

The closest to opening is the Southern Company’s Kemper County plant in Mississippi, which will convert coal to gases and then filter out some of the carbon dioxide, reducing emissions by about 65 percent.

But the plant, at $5 billion, is $1 billion over budget. Southern Company said in a statement on Friday that the plant’s economics were peculiar to its location, and not a national model. Its captured carbon will be sold for use in the oil fields, where it helps force more oil to the surface.

But most power plants are not in areas where they can sell their carbon dioxide.

Revis W. James, director of the Energy Technology Assessment Center at the Electric Power Research Institute, said that before a technology could be considered commercially demonstrated, “you’d need Kemper to be operational and a couple more Kempers, and have the kinks worked out.”

Carbon capture and sequestration, he said, was unlikely to be competitive unless natural gas prices increased by 100 to 150 percent and the construction of nuclear plants was ruled out.

Ms. McCarthy also referred to three projects that would sell carbon dioxide to the oil industry: a coal plant in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, the Boundary Dam project, where the provincial utility plans to rebuild a small 45-year-old unit to capture carbon dioxide; the Texas Clean Energy Project, 15 miles west of Odessa, where the builders hope to soon break ground; and Hydrogen Energy California, proposed for the oil fields of Kern County.

As the price of oil has risen, so has the value of carbon dioxide to oil drillers. The value as a carbon-reduction mechanism is unclear, though, because the result is to produce more oil, all of which will be burned, producing more carbon emissions.

E.P.A. officials say that a carbon-emissions rule would push improvements in the technology. Two decades ago when the agency required technology to reduce emissions of a different pollutant — nitrogen oxides, a smog precursor — that, too, was expensive and not thoroughly demonstrated, but today it is routine, they said.

The biggest carbon-capture project to date was at the American Electric Power’s Mountaineer plant in New Haven, W.Va. But Nicholas K. Akins, the company’s chairman and chief executive, said that technology was “definitely not ready for prime time.”

Mountaineer was a pilot project. Equipping the whole plant would have cost $1 billion, he said, and driven up costs per kilowatt-hour by 60 to 80 percent. The company eventually shut down the effort because it could not recover the costs from its customers. And injection of carbon dioxide into the earth was only possible because it was classified as a research project, he said.

Mr. Akins and other industry executives say that a rule governing new coal plants would have little impact because of the low price of natural gas. “No one in their right mind is going to start a coal unit at this point,” he said.

But they fear it will become a precedent for limits on existing plants. Rules on smog, mercury and other pollutants are accelerating the retirement of many old coal plants, and a rule on carbon dioxide would hit many more, they say.

Many of the environmental groups that applauded the E.P.A.’s proposed standard appear to agree. They took pains to note that coal plants also emit a variety of smog-forming and toxic chemicals, and that suppressing new plants because of their carbon dioxide emissions would have the effect of reducing the other emissions, too.

On the other side, Senator Mitch McConnell, who is from coal-dependent Kentucky, promised to prevent the measure from being carried out. “The president’s decision today is an escalation of the war on coal,” he said.
473 2013-09-21 State legislatures across the country approved a host of new immigrant-friendly measures this year, a striking change from just three years ago, when many states appeared poised to follow Arizona’s lead to enact strict laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration. More than a dozen states now grant illegal immigrants in-state college tuition, and nine states and the District of Columbia also allow them to obtain drivers’ licenses.

With an estimated 2.5 million illegal immigrants living in California — more than in any other state in the country — some say the state has no choice but to find additional ways to integrate immigrants.

“It’s a recognition that how people are living and working in their community might trump their formal legal status,” said Hiroshi Motomura, an immigration law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles. “There is an argument that in parts of California a jury without a legal permanent resident is not really a jury of peers. Some view citizenship as the final consecration of complete integration, but this says, ‘Let’s take who we have and get them to participate in our civil institutions.’ ”

Early this month, the State Supreme Court suggested during a hearing that lawmakers could create a law to address the case of Sergio Garcia, who was brought to the United States illegally as a child. Mr. Garcia had met every other requirement to become a licensed lawyer. Within days, legislation was approved to allow immigrants who were brought here illegally as minors to obtain law licenses, with just three opposing votes.

But the bill to allow noncitizens to sit on juries has proved more controversial. Several newspaper editorials have urged Mr. Brown to veto it.

Rocky Chávez, a Republican assemblyman from northern San Diego County, said that allowing noncitizens to serve on a jury would make it harder to uphold American standards of law.

“What we call domestic violence is appropriate in other countries, so the question becomes, ‘How do we enforce our own social norms?’ ” Mr. Chávez said. He added that granting more privileges would weaken immigrants’ desires to become citizens. “Once we erase all these distinctions, what’s next? What is going to convince someone it is essential to get citizenship?”

Departing from their role regarding other bills affecting immigrants, advocacy groups largely stayed out of the debate over the jury duty bill, which was sponsored by Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, a Bay Area Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee.

“Being a juror really has nothing to do with being a citizen,” Mr. Wieckowski said. “You don’t release your prejudices or histories just because you take an oath of citizenship, and you don’t lose the ability to listen to testimony impartially just because you haven’t taken that oath either.”

He said that roughly 15 percent of people who received a jury duty summons never showed up and that the legislation would make it easier to impanel juries. Mr. Wieckowski said that he expected the governor to sign the bill and that the changes would quickly become accepted.

“It’s the same thing that happened with gay marriage: people got past their initial prejudices and realized it was just discrimination,” he said.

Supporters say that expanding the pool of those eligible to serve on juries and work the polls would serve citizens as well as immigrants. Several counties in California are required to print ballots and voting instructions in languages other than English. In Los Angeles County, ballots are available in Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, Armenian, Tagalog and Vietnamese.

But advocates say that the printed instructions are often insufficient and that many people are turned away from the polls because they simply cannot communicate. Expanding the pool of potential poll workers to include legal permanent residents will allow more citizens to vote, they say.

Critics say that the Legislature is going too far and that the legislation will probably face legal challenges.

“It seems they stay up late dreaming up ways they can reward illegal immigration and create either new benefits or new protections for illegal immigrants,” said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which backs stricter federal laws. “The overriding objective of the California Legislature is to further blur the distinction between citizen and immigrant, legal and not.”

State legislators and advocates had for years sought a law to allow unauthorized immigrants to obtain drivers’ licenses. Earlier legislation to create licenses for them had been vetoed by the previous governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Governor Brown signaled during his 2010 election that he would do the same.

But this year, a Republican co-sponsor signed on to the bill, and Mr. Brown quietly assured supporters that he would sign it as long as it included a marking to distinguish such a license from the existing driver’s license.

Assemblyman Luis A. Alejo, a Democrat and a sponsor of the bill, traced his involvement back to protests against the 1994 state ballot initiative that would have strictly limited access to public services for immigrants here illegally.

“Twenty years ago, that drove activists like me to get serious about school, and now we’re able to lead these pro-immigrant rights legislation, which is the total opposite of what was happening then,” Mr. Alejo said. “What was really controversial then is the reality now.”
474 2013-09-21 Lionel Shriver, an American novelist who lives in England, told a reporter recently that she was considering applying for citizenship in her adopted country, in part to be eligible for the Man Booker Prize, which historically has been limited to citizens of the Commonwealth. She may be relieved to learn that she needn’t take the trouble.

The Booker Prize Foundation announced on Wednesday that it would open the contest in 2014 to all authors writing in English, regardless of nationality. Jonathan Taylor, the chairman of the foundation, said in a statement that he expected the move to enhance the Man Booker’s “prestige and reputation,” adding that barring Americans and other English-language writers was “rather as if the Chinese were excluded from the Olympics.”

As rumors trickled out before the announcement, some in the literary world warned that the expansion would dilute the character of the prestigious award. Jim Crace, who’s on the 2013 Man Booker shortlist of finalists for his novel “Harvest,” said the new parameters would offer a greater overview of English-language literature but would also result in a less focused prize. “I’m very fond of the sense of the Commonwealth,” he said. “There’s something in there that you would lose if you open it up to American authors.” And Susan Hill, shortlisted in 1972, asked, “Why can’t we have a prize of our own?”

But the Man Booker wasn’t actually well focused before the shift in policy. It allowed writers from all 54 countries in the Commonwealth as well as Ireland and Zimbabwe — in other words, English-speaking nations plus some non-English-speaking nations (Cyprus, for example), minus the United States.

Three of this year’s six shortlisted authors live and work in America. A fourth, Jhumpa Lahiri, resides in Rome but is an Indian-American who moved to Rhode Island from London as a child. It’s silly that Ms. Lahiri was eligible for consideration but Ms. Shriver, who published a new novel this summer, was not. It’s perfectly reasonable for Ms. Shriver to be allowed to compete in the future.
475 2013-09-21 David L. Goldwyn, the State Department coordinator for international energy affairs in the first Obama administration, said the reopening of the western oil fields represented “a little bit of success.” But he said Saudi Arabia, which has been pumping at record levels in recent weeks, could lower its production now to keep prices stable. “I don’t think you are going to get much of a softening of prices.”

Libya, which has Africa’s largest proven reserves, is an important source of high quality oil for European refineries. Its production peaked at 3.3 million barrels a day in 1970 and has since shrunk by half. A recovery is possible since much of the country has not been explored and large shale oil fields have not even been tested. But foreign investment and expertise will be needed.

Libyan oil and government officials have tried to reassure nervous foreign oil companies with promises of action to end the strikes. “We will soon overcome these problems and hiccups,” Nuri Berruien, the chairman of the national oil company, told an oil conference this week.

Officials have also suggested that they are considering ways to make the country’s investment terms more appealing to foreign oil companies to attract bids at an auction for exploration rights. The auction, scheduled for the middle of next year, would be the first since the revolution in 2011.

But there are no guarantees that there will be bidders. Foreign oil company executives have expressed concern over the ability of the government to provide security for their workers when it relies on the very militias that are supporting the strikers. On Tuesday, Exxon Mobil said it was cutting back its staff and operations in the country because of the security situation.

The well-armed Zintan militia, which has been a constant thorn for the central government, has backed strikers demanding back pay for guarding western oil fields and critical pipelines. At a festival on Monday, its leaders promised to open the valves on a critical pipeline connecting the El-Sharara and El-Feel oil fields with the Zawiya and Mellitah export terminals that mostly supply southern Europe.

But oil and security experts say Mr. Zeidan’s problems are far from over in the eastern part of the country where militias are demanding virtual self-rule.

“You can more easily take care of the western concerns, which are about jobs and money, than the eastern concerns, which are about politics and regional autonomy,” said Geoff D. Porter, the head of North Africa Risk Consulting. “The objective of the east is to change the structure of the government, which the government is not going to do.”
476 2013-09-21 My first game as a member of the band, in 2010, was also Taylor Martinez’s first game as Nebraska’s starting quarterback. The announcement of his name in the starting lineup had the stadium buzzing a half-hour before kickoff.

But swaying anxiously under the bleachers, I was more concerned with getting through my first pregame performance mistake-free. As kickoff loomed ever closer, I repeated my sequence of drill moves in my head, imagining step by step my route around the field.

We had learned the routine a few weeks earlier in band camp, a week of 14-hour days spent practicing music and marching on a field molded by the footprints of Mike Rozier and Ahman Green. During camp and two weeks of morning rehearsals after school started, we spent as much time in Memorial Stadium as the football team would all season.

And now it was showtime. When I strutted onto the field for the pregame show, I eyed my marks on the turf and the time-keeping of our conductors, and tried not to be overwhelmed by the density of the red-clad crowd surrounding us.

Later, that became a difficult task. As we played the final chord of “The Star-Spangled Banner,” I heard the roar of jet engines passing above — the flyover our directors had explicitly told us not to look at so that our eyes would remain on the drum majors, who would promptly lead us into the next phase of the performance.

But I realized quickly that the noise was not above me, but around me. I had mistaken the rumble of the crowd’s applause for the sound of planes flying overhead.

I realized just how loud 85,000 people could be, and it hit me that after 18 years of observing college football from 40 rows up in the stadium, I was now part of the spectacle on the field.

In the first quarter, Martinez scored on his first carry, a 46-yard scamper that set the tone in the Huskers’ 49-10 victory against Western Kentucky.

While the fans in the stadium expressed their glee with incoherent yelling and awkward high-fives, we in the band had only a second or two to celebrate. Then we began playing our fight songs — “Hail Varsity” and “There Is No Place Like Nebraska” — leading to the crowd’s excitedly off-tempo clapping and chanting of “Go, Huskers!” during the brief pauses in the music.

They were rituals I had become accustomed to as a spectator, but the change in perspective made it all a new experience.

As the game continued, I learned the rules that guided the band’s actions.

■ No sitting in the bleachers when the team is on the field.

■ No playing music if there is a penalty flag or an injury.

■ No daydreaming; once a play ends, our focus must shift to the drum majors, whose hand signals tell us what to play.

Gone were my days of idle observing, of watching Nebraska beat Pittsburgh on a blocked field goal in 2005; or celebrating the Huskers’ 300th consecutive sold-out game, in 2009; or rooting for comebacks that fell short against Texas in 2002 and Virginia Tech in 2008. The trombone became my free ticket into every game, but it also made me an active participant in the game-day ritual.

After the game, the band assembled on the field and marched through a tunnel, up a ramp and out of the stadium, dancing to drum cadences back to the campus’s music building. We passed children sitting on their parents’ shoulders, girls sporting temporary tattoos of red N’s on their cheeks, boys wearing red jerseys.

At that moment, they might have been dreaming of becoming the next Taylor Martinez.

But who knows? Maybe someday they will exchange a mouth guard for a mouthpiece and still find themselves able to be a part of the game-day experience in Lincoln.
477 2013-09-21 This line of work draws directly on Ms. MacBain’s experience of seeing her father create and build congregations throughout the small-town South and of her own track record of ministering in churches, prisons, nursing homes and drug-rehab centers. Were she not helping to develop communities of nonbelievers, she would be called, in Christian parlance, a church-planter.

In her insistence on recognizing the social value of religion, rather than merely disparaging it as superstition for saps, Ms. MacBain operates very much in sync with her boss, Greg M. Epstein, the humanist chaplain at Harvard. In his 2009 book, “Good Without God,” and in a subsequent 50-city speaking tour, Mr. Epstein espoused the creation of secular communities. By hiring Ms. MacBain, he has put nonbelieving boots on the ground.

“The purpose of these communities,” Mr. Epstein wrote in an e-mail, “is to help us connect with one another more deeply, to spur us to act in the interest of the common good, and to change the way we think about values and purpose in a world where traditional religion is no longer vital for us. We’re not trying to build antireligious groups — the intention is more to answer questions about alienation, isolation, economic justice, and political and environmental sustainability, fighting back against religious privilege only when necessary.”

Everything in her life prepared Ms. MacBain for such a role. She grew up a “PK” — a preacher’s kid — and savored the role. She tagged along with her father on hospital visits. She went with him to classes at Bible college. She sang in the youth choir and taught Sunday school.

She also strained to accept the theology of her father’s Baptist faith, which reserved the ministry for men.

“For me, the lesson was that doubting is sinful and wrong,” she said. “If you have these things come up, you suppress them, you ignore them, you pray them away. This natural inquisitiveness and questioning is just wrong. And if I did them, I was displeasing God. For me, life was about being the person who loved God and wanted to be everything God wanted me to be. That just carried me on through decades.”

Growing into adulthood, however, Ms. MacBain ran aground on what seemed like irreconcilable messages in Scripture. In First Corinthians alone, for example, Verse 14:34 instructed women to be silent in church, while Verse 11:5 referred to women praying and prophesying. If text is divinely inerrant, as Ms. MacBain had been taught, how could both statements be true?

She tried to solve her dilemma — and answer God’s call — by becoming a pastor in the more theologically liberal Methodist church in the early 2000s.

Yet despite her sense of purpose in aiding the needy, despite her professional pride in a well-prepared sermon, her doubts never subsided. They ultimately led her to write that letter just before Easter 2012.

An atheist would never believe in providence, so let’s just say that by very welcome coincidence Ms. MacBain found herself speaking at the American Humanist Association convention one month later, with Mr. Epstein in the audience. After she finished her address — using the characters in “The Wizard of Oz” as examples of how to build community — he approached her.

“I can’t believe you just said those things,” she recalls his having told her. “I’ve been working on them for 10 years.”

Then he described the Humanist Community at Harvard, which was previously unknown to her. He was in the process of raising its annual budget to $500,000 from $28,000. And his immediate goal was to hire a point person to assist nascent congregations of nonbelievers.

Seven weeks ago, moving from Tallahassee to Cambridge, Ms. MacBain became that person.

“Without knowing it at first,” she said of herself and Mr. Epstein, “we were on the same page, seeing the desire of people — atheists, humanists, nonbelievers — who want to connect into a community and don’t know how. Within the free-thought world, the secular world, it’s desired, but the resources to build it haven’t been there.”
478 2013-09-21 The four companies have until November to reply to the accusations. The O.F.T. is then expected to reach a final decision next year and could impose fines of up to 10 percent of the companies’ worldwide revenue.

The British underwear market grew 1.5 percent to about 2.7 billion pounds, or $4.3 billion, last year, according to the market research company Mintel. Growth continues to be subdued and competition high “as a result of the wide availability of low-priced” goods, Mintel said in a report in June.

DB Apparel said it rejected any allegations by the O.F.T. “We have been transparent with U.K. authorities since the beginning of this process and will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this investigation,” the company said.

A statement from John Lewis said the company would cooperate fully in the investigation. Clotilde Gros, a spokeswoman for House of Fraser, said it was cooperating and was “confident that we have been operating within all laws and regulations.”

Debenhams said it rejected the O.F.T. findings but would not comment further. “The matter is being dealt with by its external lawyers,” the company said.

DB Apparel manufactures and distributes branded underwear mainly in Europe but also in Russia and Africa. Its other brands include Wonderbra, Fila and Unno.

The department stores sell clothes, personal-care products and some furniture and electronics to Britain’s middle class. All three have multistory flagship stores on London’s Oxford Street, the capital’s main shopping avenue.

Debenhams, which started as a haberdashery in London in 1778, now has 240 stores in 28 countries. It said earlier this week that year-over-year sales for the 12 months that ended on Aug. 31 rose 2 percent. The company is to report more detailed earnings next month. Its shares fell 1.4 percent by midday on Friday in London.

House of Fraser has 61 stores in Britain and Ireland and annual sales of 1.2 billion pounds. The company, which is privately held, reported a loss for the 12 months that ended on Jan. 26.

John Lewis is mainly owned by its employees through a partnership structure and is the smallest department store chain of the three by number of stores. The company, which was founded by John Spedan Lewis in 1864, also owns Waitrose, a relatively upmarket grocery store chain. The 39 John Lewis shops and 297 Waitrose stores had annual sales of more than 9.5 billion pounds last year.
479 2013-09-21 Stocks fell on Friday as investors puzzled over the Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain its stimulus measures as they heard opposing viewpoints from top Fed officials.

Despite lower closes in the last two sessions, the major stock indexes ended higher for the week. The Dow rose 0.6 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 1.3 percent. The Nasdaq advanced 1.4 percent.

On Wednesday, the Fed surprised economists and investors with its decision to delay scaling back its stimulus.

James B. Bullard, president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, who was interviewed on Bloomberg TV, said a reduction of the Fed’s $85 billion monthly bond purchase program beginning in October was possible. Mr. Bullard later said in New York that low inflation meant the Fed could be patient in deciding when to scale back the pace of asset purchases.

But the president of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank, Esther L. George, sharply criticized her colleagues’ decision this week not to reduce the bond-buying program, warning that it sowed confusion and risked the central bank’s credibility given the markets’ conviction that the policy would be adjusted.
480 2013-09-22 WISHNICK--Phyllis Price, passed away September 20th at age 90. Married for almost 69 years to surviving spouse John Wishnick. She was a founding member of Yama Ki Bonsai Society. Avid collector of plants and many things. Her kindness and generosit...
481 2013-09-22 Scenes from the Milan Fashion Week photo diary of Alfredo Piola....
482 2013-09-22 “So You Think You Can Dance” (Fox)

Cat Deeley, “So You Think You Can Dance” (Fox)

Jane Campion and Garth Davis, “Top of the Lake” (Sundance Channel)

David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, “Game of Thrones,” “The Rains Of Castamere” (HBO)

Jane Campion and Gerard Lee, “Top of the Lake” (Sundance Channel)

Derek Hough and Allison Holker, “Dancing With The Stars,” Routines: Heart Cry / Stars (ABC)

Derek Hough, “Dancing With The Stars,” Routines: Hey Pachuco / Para Los Rumberos / Walking On Air (ABC)

Sonya Tayeh, “So You Think You Can Dance,” Routines: Possibly Maybe / Turning Page / Sail (Fox)

Mandy Jo Moore, “So You Think You Can Dance,” Routines: The Power Of Love / Wild Horses (Fox)

Napoleon Dumo and Tabitha Dumo, “So You Think You Can Dance,” Routines: Call Of The Wild (Circle Of Life) / Love Cats / Beautiful People (Fox)

Travis Wall, “So You Think You Can Dance,” Routines: Where The Light Gets In / Without You / Unchained Melody (Fox)

* The winners of these awards were named at the Creative Arts Emmy ceremony on September 15.
483 2013-09-22 Puzzle master Will Shortz pops up on the 6th Floor blog to talk about table tennis and going head-to-head on winning collectibles on eBay....
484 2013-09-22 Go to next slide
485 2013-09-22 Scenes from the Milan Fashion Week photo diary of Sonny Vandevelde....
486 2013-09-22 The live stream of the latest women’s collection from Missoni at Milan fashion week....
487 2013-09-22 The couple first met in spring 2002 during high school study hall in Glen Ridge. Ms. Gerard was 15, and Mr. Piazza was 17.

“She had the biggest brown eyes I’d ever seen,” he said. “There was this draw, this vacuum almost. I couldn’t get drawn elsewhere.”

He asked her out and began a one-month romance. Mr. Piazza said it was “brief and complicated and confusing” but unlike most teenage relationships in that they talked on the phone for hours about poetry, history and French culture and watched old Grace Kelly movies while drinking ginger ale out of champagne flutes.

“I remember it as magic,” she said. “He was very well spoken and very interested in me and also in big dreams, and that was kind of, I don’t know, on a different level than anyone I went to high school with. He was an old soul. I didn’t know what that was until I met him.”

But she was heartbroken when he broke up with her just before he graduated that June.

They saw each other one more time before he went to college, and for a couple of years they called on their birthdays. They soon lost touch, but often thought of each other.

“There was always a ‘what if’ with Lizzie,” Mr. Piazza said. “She was always in the back of my mind.”

In September 2011, Ms. Gerard was crossing the street at 33rd Street and Madison Avenue in New York when she saw Mr. Piazza, as he dashed past her from the opposite direction. He then stopped and turned to her, and both burst out laughing as they began their street corner reunion. Mr. Piazza, out of breath and unable to speak, gently removed Ms. Gerard’s left hand out her blazer pocket. He smiled when he saw there was no ring.

Within a matter of weeks, they both had ended their respective relationships, and their old-fashioned courtship resumed, slowly. Three months later, they had their first kiss, for the second time. MARGAUX LASKEY
488 2013-09-22 Emily Gayle Arensman and Marshall Bowen Posner were married Saturday at Running Water Farm in Louisville, Ky. Judge Joan L. Byer of the Family Trial Division of Jefferson County Circuit Court in Louisville officiated.

Mrs. Posner, 29, is the coordinator of public programs at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, where she produces adult education programs. She graduated from Princeton and received a master’s in the history of art from Williams College.

She is a daughter of Barbara Kastan Arensman and Dr. Frederick W. Arensman of Louisville. The bride’s father is a pediatric cardiologist in private practice there.

Mr. Posner, 31, is known as Bowen. He is an associate director of undergraduate admissions at Yale. He graduated cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master’s in education from Harvard.

He is the son of Dr. Barbara E. Millen of Westwood, Mass., and Dr. Marshall R. Posner of Mount Vernon, N.Y. The groom’s mother works from Westwood, where she is the founder of a company that developed HealthMain, a Web and mobile app that assesses and tracks patients’ health, nutrition and fitness, and rewards them for goals met. She is a trustee of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. His father is a professor of medicine and the director of the human monoclonal antibody laboratory in the department of cell and gene therapy at Mount Sinai medical school. He is also the medical director of the head and neck oncology program and the cancer clinical trials office at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.

The groom is the stepson of Dr. Markley H. Boyer.
489 2013-09-22 “I think we do a very good job taking care of what we do here,” said Barry Martin, the senior warden at Clements.

From 2006 to 2012, Clements inmates and officers were involved in about 6,600 violent episodes — those in which an assault was alleged, force was used, a weapon was involved or a disturbance was reported — outpacing all other prisons. On average, there were more than 25 reports for every 100 prisoners each year.

After dipping significantly from 2006 to 2007, the number of violent episodes at Clements rose to 1,093 in 2011 and more than 900 in 2012 from fewer than 800 in 2007. Ms. Deitch called the numbers “overwhelming.” But Clements is not the most violent per capita. Reports of violent episodes are more prevalent at smaller institutions that house only psychiatric patients. At the John Montford Psychiatric Unit in Lubbock, the average of violent incident reports was 43 per 100 inmates from 2006 to 2012. The Beauford H. Jester IV Unit near Richmond, which houses some of the most violent mentally ill inmates in the system, had 41 incident reports per 100 inmates during that time. The average for the 99 Texas prisons analyzed by The Tribune was less than 8 per 100.

At Clements, officers were involved in a “major use of force” — reported whenever officers force inmates to do something against their will — more than 3,400 times during the six-year period. The Montford unit, with a population less than one-third that of Clements, had more than 1,500 reports of major use of force during the same period. Jester, with about 500 inmates, reported major use of force 900 times.

The state system is facing an increase in prisoners requiring psychiatric care, a trend seen in the criminal justice system nationwide in recent decades.

The number of inmates treated for mental illness by the University of Texas Medical Branch, which provides most inmate care in Texas prisons, grew to nearly 17,900 in August 2012 from about 14,500 in August 2008. More than 15 percent of the more than 151,000 inmates have been given a diagnosis of some form of mental illness. (The University of Texas at Austin and the University of Texas Medical Branch are sponsors of The Texas Tribune.)

Ms. Deitch and other proponents of prison overhaul said the rate of violence, particularly at facilities with mentally ill inmates, shows a need to reduce the prison population and improve staff training to cope with prisoners with psychiatric needs.

“Something is happening that’s causing inmates to act out in quite serious and dangerous ways, and staff do not have that situation under control,” she said.

Scott Medlock, director of the prisoners’ rights program at the Texas Civil Rights Project, said state officials should consider structural changes, including spreading mentally ill inmates among many units instead of concentrating them at a few.

“Those people are entitled to accommodations that will help integrate them into the prison system and keep them safe,” he said.

But leaders at Clements and department administrators say the statistics do not reflect the hundreds of times when officers have prevented violence. And they do not show the success of intensive programs that help mentally ill offenders.

Mr. Martin, the warden at Clements, said that the prison not only houses mentally ill inmates but that it also has a wing dedicated to G-5 offenders, those considered the most dangerous. The prison has 448 cells for isolation; last week, 435 of them were occupied.

Clements officers are given two and a half weeks of training in dealing with mentally ill inmates, and Mr. Martin said he planned to add more.

“That’s the biggest job,” he said, “protecting them from one another and, here, from themselves.”

At Clements, health care providers from Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center run a Program for Aggressive Mentally Ill Offenders; inmates can participate voluntarily in a cognitive behavioral therapy program, and 175 are enrolled. Those who complete the program by taking medication, attending therapy sessions and modifying their behavior receive a certificate that prison and parole officials consider when making decisions about housing conditions and potential release dates.

“It makes life easier for them and for us,” Mr. Martin said.

The prison also has an involuntary program for about 200 chronically mentally ill inmates, which puts them in daily contact with mental health care providers. Marion Williams, the medical director at Clements, said she felt safer treating patients inside the prison than outside. Keeping a large population of mentally ill inmates in one facility, she said, allowed for continuity of care.

As men shouted and banged on the steel doors in a solitary confinement wing at Clements, Maj. Michael Gruver, who oversees some of the men in isolation, said dealing with large numbers of inmates with mental health problems was difficult at times.

“There are challenges,” he said, “but they’re not insurmountable.”
490 2013-09-22 With Central Texas lakes at their lowest levels in over 60 years, many business owners are suffering because customer traffic has been greatly reduced ....
491 2013-09-22 CORPUS CHRISTI — At the Mexican Independence Day festival here this month, where the accordion-fueled sounds of the Tigrillos drifted across the grounds of a former greyhound racetrack, attendees like Sara Gaona came to celebrate their native country.

Ms. Gaona, 39, a housekeeper who was dressed head to toe in the red, white and green of the Mexican flag, down to the ribbons in her hair, arrived in Corpus Christi a decade ago from Reynosa in northern Mexico.

Like Ms. Gaona, more than half of the residents in the Corpus Christi metro area are Hispanic. But the vast majority of the area’s Hispanics were born in the United States. A report last month from the Pew Research Center shows that among the 60 metro areas in the United States with the largest Hispanic populations, Corpus Christi has the smallest percentage of Hispanics who are foreign-born, at 8 percent.

By contrast, 66 percent of Hispanics in the Miami area are foreign-born, as are 41 percent in the Houston region and 36 percent of all Hispanics in the nation.

South Texas cities like San Antonio and Corpus Christi have a low proportion of foreign-born Hispanic residents because that part of the state has been Hispanic for so long, said Steve Murdock, the director of the Hobby Center for the Study of Texas at Rice University. (Rice University is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
492 2013-09-22 The American League of Lobbyists, a powerful institution that defends and defines the role of Washington’s booming influence industry, is surveying its members to see whether it should drop what would seem to be the existential word “lobbyist” from its identity. The term “Government Relations Professionals” is used in some of the leading choices for a new name, according to The Hill newspaper, which first reported the league’s “rebranding” plans.

We suggest “Congress Plus” as a more truthful name for an industry that employs more than 400 former members of the Senate and House, plus former Congressional staff members estimated in one study to total 5,400 people over a recent 10-year period. Not to mention untold dozens of lobbyists who smartly shift back and forth to Congressional committee posts as the electoral pendulum makes partisan swings that prove increasingly lucrative for experienced insiders.

Reconsidering the connotations of “lobbyist” is no small matter in a city that last year listed 12,407 registered lobbyists in a $3.31 billion industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. This does not include the Brahmin class of Congressional veterans who go unregistered as high-priced, uber-lobbying “senior advisers” well versed in how familiarity and ingratiation work in Washington.

For years, the league’s members overwhelmingly rejected the idea of “running away from the term ‘lobbyist,’ ” according to the league’s Web site. What’s changed, the group says, is that a majority of members no longer consider themselves mere lobbyists because they have branched out into “a variety of disciplines.” These include variations on political strategizing and campaign fund-raising — roles tailored for lawmakers concerned with re-election as much as law.

Whatever the outcome of the league’s survey of its members, it is hard to imagine the reality of Washington without the presence of lobbyists, pure and simple, working wherever power resides, by one name or another, in work that never really changes — rebranded, perhaps, but never recast.
493 2013-09-22 More than 30,000 vacant houses and buildings, once homes for Detroit residents, are now havens for animals. Mr. McPhee said he planned to share the results of the survey to find a way to deal humanely with what has become a safety risk as the stray dogs breed, increasing their population while the city’s human population falls.

“With so many houses open that way, there’s also a lot of rats,” Mr. McPhee said. “That’s when we start to have health problems as the rats and the dogs meet.”

Detroit became the largest American city to file for bankruptcy protection in July. The city’s state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, says the city needs to find money to hire more “dog catchers.”

At 8 a.m. Saturday, volunteers fanned out across Detroit’s 139 square miles to begin the survey. At least one team found the animals elusive. The first 90 minutes that Barbara Moran and Nicole Ryan spent in a west-side neighborhood turned up nothing.

“I hope we see some dogs,” Ms. Ryan, 37, said after making a half-dozen or so stops. “I love animals and I love to help them.”

Mr. McPhee’s survey is part of his American Strays documentary research project. He hopes to use footage from the weekend to produce a feature-length documentary about Detroit’s stray dogs problem. He does not expect results anytime soon.

Ms. Clarke just wants something done about the dogs.

“If you are not getting rid of them, what are you going to do?” she said. “You can’t round them all up. You can tear down the vacant buildings, but where are the strays going to go? Up and down the street?”

About two months after Ms. Clarke was attacked, a teenager reported being bitten by three dogs that had escaped a yard. And loose dogs forced postal officials to suspend deliveries in a four-block area for about six weeks in 2007.

The department that handles dog complaints and rounds up strays had only six animal control officers at the start of the year, according to a report by police officials. About 1,700 strays are captured annually.

Markela Reese, 29, can’t remember the last time she saw stray dogs rounded up in her neighborhood, which is near a large wooded park. She said the park is often used as a dumping ground for unwanted dogs.

“About 12 dogs can be seen running around on any given day,” she said Saturday. “They chase the deer.”

The packs are threats to people, she said.

“When taking my son to school, I have to carry sticks and clubs,” Ms. Reese said. “I don’t know if they are going to bite or if they are hungry.”

Though the Michigan Humane Society is not part of Mr. McPhee’s survey, a spokesman, Ryan McTigue, said the group was interested in the study’s results because it had no idea how many strays there were.

However, Daniel Carlisle, the founder and executive director of the nonprofit Detroit Dog Rescue, is unconvinced. The organization has captured and found homes for about 150 stray dogs so far this year.

“I don’t think that counting — and not rescuing — makes any sense,” Mr. Carlisle said. “These dogs aren’t going to stand here and wait for you to count them.”
494 2013-09-22 Carla Kaplan, a professor of American literature at Northeastern University, offers a joint biography of six largely forgotten women (winnowed down from five dozen whom she researched) in “Miss Anne in Harlem: The White Women of the Black Renaissance” (Harper, $28.99).

The convention-bending women included philanthropists, educators, heiresses and novelists who figured in the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s as patrons, muses and editors and in assorted other roles that Professor Kaplan, a biographer of the writer Zora Neale Hurston, captivatingly illuminates and places in overdue perspective.

“We have documented every other imaginable form of female identity in the Jazz Age — the New Woman, the spinster, the flapper, the Gibson Girl, the bachelor girl, the bohemian, the twenties ‘mannish’ lesbian, the suffragist, the invert and so on,” she writes. “But until now, the full story of the white women of black Harlem, the women collectively referred to as ‘Miss Anne,’ has never been told.”

Professor Kaplan tells it engagingly, highlighting her subjects’ decisions to embrace blackness and repudiate their own whiteness — and the rewards and costs of their modern rebellion.

“We have enough police here to stop a revolution,” Commissioner Lewis J. Valentine declared outside Madison Square Garden on Feb. 20, 1939. What was going on inside might have been far short of revolutionary, but it was nonetheless revolting: 22,000 Nazi sympathizers celebrating Hitler’s Germany and castigating President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his “Jew Deal.”

In “Swastika Nation: Fritz Kuhn and the Rise and Fall of the German-American Bund” (St. Martin’s Press, $27.99), Arnie Bernstein tells the story of the German-born Kuhn, who hoped to replace the United States government with a fascist dictatorship, and the real-life crusade of eccentric and unlikely allies that stopped him. After managing to infuriate his own followers and his fellow Americans, Kuhn ended up in prison for embezzlement and was booted back to Germany after the war.

Mr. Bernstein takes Kuhn’s campaign personally. The author was a high school student in Skokie, Ill., in the 1970s when neo-Nazis planned a march in the Chicago suburb, where about one in six Jews was a Holocaust survivor or related to one.
495 2013-09-22 The math-averse may not be drawn initially to “Proof,” the David Auburn play that is being presented by McCarter Theater Center in Princeton. It is, at least superficially, about advanced math and mathematicians.

But Mr. Auburn’s four-character play, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 2001, is really more concerned with the value of trust in relationships than with proving some mind-boggling equation that changes the world’s understanding of the cosmos. And for all its emotional turmoil, the piece is agreeably streaked with humor. Think of it rather as a nice-geeks-in-love sort of scenario, and the work becomes more inviting.

Set on the back porch of a house near the University of Chicago, the contemporary story centers on the 20-something Catherine, unsettled by the death of her father, Robert, a celebrated mathematician who became helplessly “bughouse,” as he put it, in his later years. Catherine relinquished her own academic studies in the field to care for Robert, and now, obviously, is at loose ends.

Robert’s elder daughter, Claire, who arrives from New York for the funeral, fears that the sadly withdrawn Catherine may have inherited her father’s mental instability, as well as some of his genius, and urges her sister to return East with her for therapy.

Hal, one of Robert’s former students, is a friendly stranger in the house who has been vainly sifting through scores of Robert’s scribbled notebooks to see whether the man conceived of anything significant during his lengthy illness.

As the first act proceeds, a romance is kindled between Catherine and Hal. Their budding relationship breaks down, however, when Catherine shows Hal the contents of a notebook she says belongs to her. The disbelieving reactions of Claire and especially Hal shatter Catherine’s frail composure.
496 2013-09-22 WHAT WAS, IS AND WILL BE POPULAR

In the mid-’60s, I owned a Top 40 AM radio station in Cleveland (WIXY 1260 — it rhymes!). Our very livelihood depended on playing the “most popular” songs of the day. Early on, we decided that as data sets, lists of songs in Billboard were unreliable and listener requests were unwieldy. We concentrated instead on actual record sales and sustained our popularity with listeners for many years. It was a simpler time. As Adam Sternbergh points out, thanks to today’s ubiquitous media choices, rather than sharing our experiences, we are all relegated to “our own individual cocoon.” NORMAN WAIN, Lyndhurst, Ohio

The Times can’t believe that a show about rural America and hunting (“Duck Dynasty”) can be more popular than one about sophisticated Manhattanites (“Mad Men”)? Your biases are amazing, to the point that you have to toss “Mad Men” a crumb: “Yet by a different definition — the extent to which, say, a show saturates the cultural conversation.” O.K. “Cultural conversation” that occurs in . . . Manhattan. I think that you folks need to get out more. MICHAEL JAMES COBB, Myakka City, Fla., posted on nytimes.com

This is not a new phenomenon — not every artist, author or musician through the ages was wildly popular in their day. Van Gogh would have been highly tweeted — think of that ear — but he was not a financial success until after his death. DAVID SABLE, Global C.E.O., Y&R, posted on huffingtonpost.com

Jeffrey Gettleman describes Rwanda’s president, Paul Kagame, as “authoritarian” and “repressive.” But as someone who has studied collective trauma in Rwanda, I believe that Kagame’s policies are a psychologically valid response to the challenge of rebuilding the social fabric of Rwanda post-genocide. It is a basic principle of trauma psychology that for people to deal with past events, they must feel safe in the present. Kagame’s social policies have created a sense of security that will make it possible for Rwanda to move forward. CARL AUERBACH, Professor, Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology at Yeshiva University, New York

For those of us who live in Rwanda, it is puzzling to see others call Kagame a dictator. How does an oppressive regime lift more than one million people out of poverty in less than five years? How does Kagame ensure universal health insurance and primary education, make the country one of the safest and cleanest in the world, create one of the most business-friendly environments on the continent and enable an average G.D.P. growth of 8 percent for the past five years? PAUL KAYOBOKE, Kigali, Rwanda, posted on nytimes.com
497 2013-09-22 Is it ethical to buy something at a yard sale or a flea market at the seller’s asking price if you know the value of the item to be significantly higher than what is being asked? Let’s say, for example, someone is selling an old comic book worth thousands of dollars but asks for only a quarter because he or she does not know the true value. Is it incumbent on the seller to do his or her research? If the seller does not, is it fair game? RYAN ATLAS, BOSTON

The operative word in your question is “true” directly placed before the word “value.” You suggest the “true value” of a specific comic book is a few thousand dollars — but all that means is someone might be willing to pay that much for it, based on extrinsic qualities (rarity, for example). To the person running the flea market, the “true value” of the comic book is virtually nothing. There is no “true value” for any object: it’s always a construct, provisionally defined by a capricious market and the locality of the transaction. Things cost what they are being sold for, and they’re worth whatever the seller can get. It’s unethical for a seller to knowingly take advantage of someone’s practical desperation in a crisis (say, selling D batteries for $75 a pack during a citywide blackout), but it’s not unethical for a buyer to accept whatever arbitrary value a seller places on his or her goods.

Look at it like this: Let’s say the person at the flea market was selling that same rare comic for $2,000. You, however, would be willing to pay far more than that; because of its sentimental value and the status it will bring among your comic-book-collecting peers, you’d gladly fork over $5,000. Would you feel the need to inform the seller, “You know, I’d actually pay you $3,000 more than what you’re asking”? I don’t think you would, and no one would expect you to.

Now, this does not mean it’s ethical to take advantage of people simply because they’re uninformed about the arcane details of modern commerce. If you’re visiting an elderly neighbor and notice he’s using a 1909 Honus Wagner baseball card as a bookmark for his Bible, you can’t casually offer to buy the card for $1 in the hope that he won’t know any better. You can’t proactively look for ways to swindle people. But things change when somebody decides to put a nonessential item on the market: the person looks at an object, creates an imaginary value for what it is worth and asks for the equivalent of that fabricated value in currency. If the number is too high, no one will buy it; if the number is too low, the seller leaves money on the table. But people don’t inherently deserve the maximum potential price for whatever they’re trying to move. If that’s what they desire, they have to get it for themselves.
498 2013-09-22 Another Italian restaurant? Well, yes and no. Bianco Rosso Wine Bar and Restaurant in Wilton, which opened in January 2012, does indeed serve Italian food. But Bianco Rosso is not just another Italian restaurant. It has style, flair and a short, compelling menu devised by Jacob Hamilton, the chef, who formerly worked for Todd English in New York. It is owned by two brothers, Mario and Jaime Lopez, and their partner Gustavo Jaramillo.

The dining room, which runs the length of the building and seats 70, is stylish, too, with crystal chandeliers with gauzy red shades, a wood floor and a communal table in the center.

The really big deal is the two-course prix fixe lunch for $15, an excellent value. There are six starter choices and seven entrees; they sounded intriguing, and those we tried were prettily plated and generally very good.

Tops for creativity was an appetizer of king salmon tartare. A generous stack of chopped fresh salmon speckled with shallots and fiery jalapeños rested on a bed of arugula, with both black and pink peppercorns scattered on the plate — a most attractive presentation.

Crunchy fried calamari, another starter, is served in abundance, along with a mildly spiced marinara dip. Eggplant Parmesan with prosciutto and mascarpone sounded lovely. But the reality was not as fresh-tasting or as exhilarating as the other starters.

As for the prix fixe entrees, we loved the radiant freshness of the house-made pea tortellini — four or five pasta pillows filled with sweet peas, cooked in brown butter with a tang of honey, on a plate decorated with fresh pea shoots and tendrils.
499 2013-09-22 Along a Stretch in Brooklyn, Moving Beyond the Bars
500 2013-09-23 A tribute by Kevin Christian....
501 2013-09-23 An insurer has filed a lawsuit trying to block a deal Detroit reached over interest-rate swaps....
502 2013-09-23 As the social network is trying to show sustained revenue growth, CBS and other broadcasters can pair video clips with ads and distribute them on the service....
503 2013-09-23 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
504 2013-09-23 Dino de León joined Shoptology, Dallas, part of Project WorldWide, in a new post, executive creative director. He had an executive creative director at TracyLocke, Dallas, part of the Omnicom Group.

Joe Esposito, director for audience solutions and product at Spafax Networks, New York, part of the Tenthavenue division of WPP, was promoted to vice president for product and operations.

Mark Herrington joined Shoutlet, Madison, Wis., as chief executive, a post that had been vacant since April. He had been executive vice president for global product management and innovation at the First Data Corporation.

Robert Kleman joined the Miami Beach, Fla., office of SapientNitro, part of Sapient, as executive creative director. He succeeds Juan Morales, who left to become executive creative director at BGT Partners, Hallandale Beach, Fla. Mr. Kleman had been a creative director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners.

Lov, São Paulo, Brazil, part of Dentsu, is teaming with 360i, New York, another Dentsu agency, to help 360i open an office in São Paulo. It is the third office outside the United States that 360i has opened this year, joining London and Toronto.

Harmon Lyons joined Integral Ad Science, New York, in a new post, vice president for business development. He had most recently been managing director and global vice president for business development at the Resolution Media unit of the Omnicom Media Group, part of the Omnicom Group.

Mediamorph, New York, hired an executive for a new post and promoted an executive to a new post. Richard Cooper joined Mediamorph in the London office as international sales director; he had been business development manager at Red Bee Media, London. Also, Tim Rottach, who had been international managing director at Mediamorph, based in the London office, moves to New York and becomes vice president for marketing.

Kristin Morales joined the Portsmouth, N.H., office of Mad*Pow in a new post, director for business development. She had been director for business development at Raka Creative, Portsmouth.

Olo, New York, hired three executives for new posts. They are: Marty Hahnfeld, vice president for sales; Scott Lamb, vice president for account management; and Matt Tucker, chief operating officer.

Pace, Greensboro, N.C., was named Content Marketing Agency of the Year at the second annual Content Marketing Awards, presented by the Content Marketing Institute.

Point of Purchase Advertising Institute, Chicago, named two industry executive who will be inducted into the POPAI Hall of Fame on Dec. 12. They are: Gary Forman, chief executive at Henschel Steinau, and Bill Kolb, who is chairman at MRM Worldwide as well as chairman and chief executive at Commonwealth, both units of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Rolaids — the antacid brand known for its long-running campaign carrying the theme “How do you spell relief?” — is being reintroduced by its new owner, the Chattem Inc. unit of Sanofi U.S., part of Sanofi, which purchased Rolaids from the McNeil consumer health care division of McNeil-PPC, owned by Johnson & Johnson. Ads created by Ferrara & Company, Princeton, N.J., feature Guy Fieri of the Food Network, who declares, “That’s how you spell relief.”

Trueffect, Westminster, Colo., hired three executives for new posts. They are: Kevin Barhydt, vice president for business development; Ashley Grace, senior vice president for sales; and Darryl LaRue, senior vice president for operations.

April Weeks joined the Dallas office of Centro in a new post, vice president for regional media operations in the South. She had been senior vice president and senior director for media strategy and innovation at TM Advertising, Dallas, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
505 2013-09-23 In the midst of the New Nordic food movement, Stockholm’s top chefs are resurrecting the traditional bakficka, or “back pocket” bistro, offering menus that tend to be both innovative and casual....
506 2013-09-23 A new study suggests that doctors with a financial interest in M.R.I. machines may be more likely to order the scans even when clinical findings suggest they are unnecessary....
507 2013-09-23 It may now be cheaper to manufacture in China. The price of writing a fake review. Why Microsoft will keep making Surface tablets....
508 2013-09-23 That compares to five million iPhone 5 smartphones sold last year in the first weekend that device went on sale. But this year, for the first time, two models went on sale at once....
509 2013-09-23 The expansion of the Fair Labor Standards Act to home-care workers is unikely to raise costs for consumers, but it may weaken the business model of for-profit companies, an economist writes....
510 2013-09-23 Part 8: The band talks about the emotional impact of performing live.
511 2013-09-23 “That can be positive for consumers if it holds down premiums and drives people to higher-quality providers,” Mr. Linker said. “But there is also a risk because, under some health plans, consumers can end up with astronomical costs if they go to providers outside the network.”

Insurers say that with a smaller array of doctors and hospitals, they can offer lower-cost policies and have more control over the quality of health care providers. They also say that having insurance with a limited network of providers is better than having no coverage at all.

illustrates the strategy of many insurers. It intends to participate next year in the insurance marketplaces, or exchanges, in , , , Tennessee and .

“The networks will be narrower than the networks typically offered to large groups of employees in the commercial market,” said Joseph Mondy, a spokesman for Cigna.

The current concerns echo some of the criticism that sank the Clinton administration’s plan for universal coverage in 1993-94. Republicans said the Clinton proposals threatened to limit patients’ options, their access to care and their choice of doctors.

At the same time, House Republicans are continuing to attack the new health law and are threatening to hold up a spending bill unless money is taken away from the health care program.

In a new study, the Health Research Institute of , the consulting company, says that “insurers passed over major medical centers” when selecting providers in California, , , and , among other states.

“Doing so enables health plans to offer lower premiums,” the study said. “But the use of narrow networks may also lead to higher out-of-pocket expenses, especially if a patient has a complex medical problem that’s being treated at a hospital that has been excluded from their health plan.”

In , the statewide Blue Shield plan has developed a network specifically for consumers shopping in the exchange.

Juan Carlos Davila, an executive vice president of Blue Shield of California, said the network for its exchange plans had 30,000 doctors, or 53 percent of the 57,000 doctors in its broadest commercial network, and 235 hospitals, or 78 percent of the 302 hospitals in its broadest network.

Mr. Davila said the new network did not include the five medical centers of the or the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center near Beverly Hills.

“We expect to have the broadest and deepest network of any plan in California,” Mr. Davila said. “But not many folks who are uninsured or near the poverty line live in wealthy communities like Beverly Hills.”

Daniel R. Hawkins Jr., a senior vice president of the National Association of Community Health Centers, which represents 9,000 clinics around the country, said: “We serve the very population that will gain coverage — low-income, working class uninsured people. But insurers have shown little interest in including us in their provider networks.”

Dr. Bruce Siegel, the president of America’s Essential Hospitals, formerly known as the National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems, said insurers were telling his members: “We don’t want you in our network. We are worried about having your patients, who are sick and have complicated conditions.”

In some cases, Dr. Siegel said, “health plans will cover only selected services at our hospitals, like trauma care, or they offer rock-bottom payment rates.”

In New Hampshire, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a unit of , one of the nation’s largest insurers, has touched off a furor by excluding 10 of the state’s 26 hospitals from the health plans that it will sell through the insurance exchange.

Christopher R. Dugan, a spokesman for Anthem, said that premiums for this “select provider network” were about 25 percent lower than they would have been for a product using a broad network of doctors and hospitals.

Anthem is the only commercial carrier offering health plans in the New Hampshire exchange.

Peter L. Gosline, the chief executive of Monadnock Community Hospital in Peterborough, N.H., said his hospital had been excluded from the network without any discussions or negotiations.

“Many consumers will have to drive 30 minutes to an hour to reach other doctors and hospitals,” Mr. Gosline said. “It’s very inconvenient for patients, and at times it’s a hardship.”

State Senator Andy Sanborn, a Republican who is chairman of the , said, “The people of New Hampshire are really upset about this.”

Many physician groups in New Hampshire are owned by hospitals, so when an insurer excludes a hospital from its network, it often excludes the doctors as well.

David Sandor, a vice president of the Health Care Service Corporation, which offers Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans in Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, and Texas, said: “In the exchange, most individuals will be making choices based on costs. Our exchange products will have smaller provider networks that cost less than bigger plans with a larger selection of doctors and hospitals.”

Premiums will vary across the country, but federal officials said that consumers in many states would be able to buy insurance on the exchange for less than $300 a month — and less than $100 a month per person after taking account of federal subsidies.

“Competition and consumer choice are actually making insurance affordable,” Mr. Obama said recently.

Many insurers are cutting costs by slicing doctors’ fees.

Dr. Barbara L. McAneny, a specialist in , said that insurers in the New Mexico exchange were generally paying doctors at levels, which she said were “often below our cost of doing business, and definitely below commercial rates.”

Outsiders might expect insurance companies to expand their networks to treat additional patients next year. But many insurers see advantages in narrow networks, saying they can steer patients to less expensive doctors and hospitals that provide high-quality care.

Even though insurers will be forbidden to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions, they could subtly discourage the enrollment of sicker patients by limiting the size of their provider networks.

“If a health plan has a narrow network that excludes many doctors, that may shoo away patients with expensive pre-existing conditions who have established relationships with doctors,” said Mark E. Rust, the chairman of the national health care practice at Barnes & Thornburg, a law firm. “Some insurers do not want those patients who, for medical reasons, require a broad network of providers.”
512 2013-09-23 “We should have been able to use those kidneys at home, but we weren’t organized adequately in New York City to use them all locally, or in the States themselves,” he said in a recent interview on the Web site of the American Society of Transplant Surgeons, of which he was a founding member. “We shouldn’t have had to go that far.”

The first successful kidney transplant was conducted in 1954, and the procedure was rapidly adopted around the world. But by the late 1970s, hospitals faced challenges in preserving an organ during the out-of-body interim and in matching donors with recipients.

Dr. McCabe, who performed transplants at St. Luke’s, taught himself to become a specialist in organ preservation using cold storage as well as a machine developed by the transplant surgeon Dr. Folkert O. Belzer. The process, known as machine perfusion, uses a blend of fluids to simulate a kidney’s natural function until the kidney is transplanted. Dr. McCabe helped refine the blend.

But even with these preservation efforts, a kidney could be kept functional outside the body only for up to 72 hours.

The 1979 episode was not the first kidney transplant between the United States and the Soviet Union — there had been at least two others — but it exemplified the improvisational nature of transplant surgery and organ donation at the time.

Dr. McCabe’s photograph, showing him helping to push free a police car that had become stuck in the mud while transporting a kidney into Manhattan, had once appeared in The Daily News in New York. On another occasion he delivered a kidney to Italy using a perfusion machine, the fluid inside frothing as the car in which he transported it through Rome bumped along cobblestone streets.

“In those days it was a free-for-all,” said Dr. Thomas G. Peters, a surgeon who is the historian for the transplant society. “This was cowboy time.”

But the New York-to-Moscow episode had a positive effect in generating publicity for the transplant program — the account appeared on the front page of The New York Times — and that in turn led to a noticeable rise in kidney donations.

Over time, databases of kidney donors and recipients became more sophisticated, as did preservation methods, enabling transplants to be accomplished far more speedily. In 1984, to prevent entrepreneurs from profiting from transplantation and hospitals from moving wealthy patients to the top of the waiting list, Congress passed the National Organ Transplant Act, which outlawed the sale of organs and established a regulatory framework for donations.

Dr. McCabe said that one benefit of tighter regulations was a more efficient process of determining when an organ donor was dead so that the organ could be harvested.

“We’d hear about a donor on Tuesday or Wednesday, and we couldn’t get the neurologist to declare brain death,” he said in the online interview. “They were some of the skeptics too, frankly, and they would not declare brain death until Friday afternoon at 5, when they were tired of caring for the patient and wanted us to take over. So we would be busy every weekend.”

Robert Emmet McCabe Jr. was born on Feb. 20, 1925, in Charleston, W.Va. His father, Robert, was a lawyer, and his mother, the former Margaret Ward, was a homemaker. He graduated from Williams College in 1948 and received his medical degree in 1953 from Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan. He served as a surgeon in the Army from 1955 to 1957.

Dr. McCabe died of cancer at his home in Londonderry, Vt., his family said. Survivors include four daughters, Elsie Smith, Coco McCabe, Rue Sherwood and Kay McCabe; a son, Robert Emmet III; and nine grandchildren. His wife of 58 years, the former Katherine Robinson, died last year.
513 2013-09-23 ■ Kerry Keenan joined Deutsch New York as partner and chief creative officer, succeeding Greg DiNoto, who is leaving, the agency said. Ms. Keenan most recently ran, with Nathy Aviram, a company, Half Irish, that specializes in branded content; before that, she was global executive creative director at Y&R, as well as executive producer and principal at Y&R Entertainment, both units of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP. Deutsch New York is part of the Deutsch division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ Jason Prohaska joined Your Majesty New York, part of Your Majesty, as chief executive, a new post. He had been general manager and managing director at Big Spaceship, Brooklyn.

■ Richard Kosinski joined Unruly, New York, as United States president, succeeding Art Zeidman, who left to join Pixability as executive vice president for sales and chief revenue officer. Mr. Kosinski most recently was senior vice president for sales at Quantcast.

■ Rodd Chant joined Bannistar as executive creative director, overseeing the creative output and creative staff members at the offices in Singapore and Tokyo, as well as working with agency executives on plans to open a satellite office in New York. Mr. Chant, who most recently ran his own creative consultancy, will be primarily based in Singapore but will also spend time in New York.

■ Sean Rosenberg joined Code Worldwide, New York, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, as global head of mobile, a new post. He most recently was senior vice president for business development at Indaba Music.

■ Michael Kantrow and Tom Ajello, founding partners of Poke New York, part of Poke, London, completed a management buyout of Poke New York, which they renamed Makeable. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal came as Poke, a digital agency, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris, becoming a part of the Publicis Groupe’s operations in Britain. Mother Holdings, which had been a minority investor in Poke New York, is also a minority investor in Makeable.

■ Mary Baglivo joined her alma mater, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., in a new post, as vice president for global marketing and chief marketing officer. She most recently was chairwoman and chief executive for Latin America and multicultural at Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Marlene Sanchez Dooner, senior vice president for investor relations at the Comcast Corporation, was named to a new post at the NBCUniversal unit of Comcast, executive vice president for Hispanic enterprises and content, reporting to Joe Uva, chairman for Hispanic enterprises and content, which include Telemundo and Mun2.

■ Federal Trade Commission, Washington, plans to offer a workshop on Dec. 4 devoted to the subject of native advertising, also known as sponsored content and content marketing. The workshop, the commission’s first on the subject, will explore whether native ads blur the line between editorial content and advertising to the point where consumers are confused or misled. In a statement, the commission said its examination of native ads was in keeping with its scrutiny over several decades of how clear the distinction between content and advertising is to consumers. It cited challenges to deceptive practices like Web sites that pretend to be news sites and infomercials that are styled like television programs.

■ Straightline, New York, a brand consultancy, opened an office in London. As Michael Watras, chief executive, divides his time between clients at both offices, Andrea Cotter, managing director of the agency, becomes president.

■ Van Winkle & Associates, Atlanta, was renamed Van Winkle & Pearce after Bobby Pearce, who joined the agency last year, became a co-owner with Alex Van Winkle.

■ “Inspired,” a commercial for the Canon Eos Rebel T4i camera, won the 2013 Emmy Award for Outstanding Commercial at the 65th annual Creative Arts Emmys. The spot was created by Grey New York — part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, owned by WPP — and directed by Nicolai Fuglsig of MJZ.

■ CKSK, Dublin, expanded to the United States by opening an office in New York, to be called CKSK USA. The agency also has an office in Amsterdam. CKSK USA will work for clients that include Heineken USA and Pernod Ricard.

■ Neverstop, New York and Seattle, was acquired by the CHR Group, New York, a marketing services agency holding group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Nasir Rasheed, president and chief cultural engineer at Neverstop, becomes a shareholder in CHR and will join the board; Neverstop will operate as an autonomous brand within CHR.

■ The Station, New York, a post-production and content production company, started a division called The Writer’s Room, offering advertisers and agencies a roster of writers with backgrounds in movies, television and sketch comedy.

■ Talent Partners, New York, which provides production and talent support services for agencies and marketers, opened Talent Partners Canada, Toronto, through a merger with Canadian Connection. Financial terms were not disclosed.
514 2013-09-23 On Monday, federal legislation goes into effect to allow small start-ups to ask for equity investments publicly without having to register the shares for public trading....
515 2013-09-23 BERN, Switzerland — For the third time in almost 25 years, Switzerland has overwhelmingly voted to maintain its conscription army.

A total of 73 percent of the voters from 26 Swiss cantons rejected a referendum Sunday that pacifists and left-wing parties had put forward to do away with mandatory service in the army, the Swiss public broadcast network SRF reported.

In 1989, Swiss voters turned down a plan, advanced then by the Group for Switzerland Without an Army, to scrap the army altogether. However, more than a third of voters had cast ballots for that plan, which caused an uproar despite its defeat.

A second nationwide vote on a similar initiative brought by the group in 2001 drew just 22 percent approval.

The Swiss have long prided themselves on their army, which requires part-time service from each male citizen between the ages of 18 to 34. Women may serve voluntarily.

In a nation of eight million people, about 20,000 soldiers a year attend basic training for 18 to 21 weeks, then keep their uniforms and weapons at home to be ready for rapid mobilization and tours of duty.
516 2013-09-23 Can anything worthwhile come out of a shabby dictatorship like Franco’s in Spain? In “Franco’s Crypt,” the British biographer Jeremy Treglown, a former editor of The Times Literary Supplement, challenges the notion that Spanish intellectual life from the Civil War in 1936 to Franco’s death in 1975 was a cultural wasteland.

A discerning, provocative book, part travelogue, part reflection on how memory passes into history, and part cultural narrative, “Franco’s Crypt” establishes that much more was going on during Franco’s regime than is usually credited. Touching on prickly issues with the pragmatic detachment of a foreigner, Mr. Treglown shows that subversive elements were at play in art, literature and cinema, and that a cautious yet irreversible process of modernity had begun long before Franco’s death.

To tell his story, Mr. Treglown takes us on a series of pilgrimages to the cemeteries, flooded ghost towns, monuments and museums that compose the legacy of Franco. Through these “inquisitive wanderings,” as he calls them, Mr. Treglown chisels away at the monolithic vision of “la España negra” (or “black Spain”) of the Franco era, the poverty-stricken country of priests, civil guards and flies, adding depth and perspective, even color, to the country’s cultural heritage. Mr. Treglown depicts artists and writers who struggled through censorship and oppression at home, revising the long-held assumption that all the good guys left and those who stayed were complicit. In this book he tries to “make more sense of Spain — today’s Spain as well as that of 1936.”

Differentiating the ideologues from the ruthlessly opportunistic, the survivors of a no-win situation from the actively defiant, Mr. Treglown shows how often the mediocre betrayed their talented colleagues. One victim was the philosopher Julián Marías, father of the novelist Javier Marías, who was denounced for his republican sympathies and sent to prison. The intervention of the conservative writer Camilo José Cela (Nobel Prize, 1989) and the philosopher José Ortega y Gasset (a figure largely missing from this book) saved him from the garrote.

History, though, has its own way of vindicating betrayal, Mr. Treglown insists; Julián Marías’s work is alive, with a growing readership. His accusers are out of print, and two are linked to the Nazis. One, the archaeologist Julio Martínez Santa Olalla, accompanied Himmler’s entourage during his Spanish tour in 1940, and collaborated to highlight racial ties between Spain and Germany through the Visigoths.

“Spain still feels different,” Mr. Treglown writes, playing on a slogan that has pervaded discussions about the country since it was coined by Franco’s tourist board in the 1960s. For Franco, “Spain is different” sold the idea of a folkloric national identity to the outside world. But for many Spaniards, it could only be employed sarcastically. The kitschy idea of Spain as beaches, bulls and boleros, Mr. Treglown writes, “presented Spanishness through idealized stereotype” in a style called Españolada. Even before the tourist board’s slogan, Luis García Berlanga had spoofed the style in his 1953 film, “Welcome, Mr. Marshall!,” in which a small-town mayor dreams of being an American sheriff. Franco, a film buff, screened it at his home, not realizing that the joke was not only on the Americans.
517 2013-09-24 Monthly premiums for a family of four with an income of …

… more than $94,200 a year,

ineligible for subsidies
518 2013-09-24 Embarking on a huge push to real zero-carbon-producing renewables is the only responsible path to take....
519 2013-09-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
520 2013-09-24 No one benefits from effectively forcing a pregnant woman to choose between protecting her baby’s health and looking out for that child’s future economic interests....
521 2013-09-24 As lawmakers in Washington wrangle over financing the federal government, Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said at a conference that budget constraints had severely limited his ability to hire lawyers....
522 2013-09-24 Mark Spitznagel, the founder of Universa Capital, believes the stock market is going to fall by at least 40 percent in one great market “purge.”...
523 2013-09-24 Bankruptcy could eventually become an option for BlackBerry, though it has not signaled yet that it is under consideration. The Canadian version differs from Chapter 11....
524 2013-09-24 The son of the blues guitarist Robert Johnson and more distant relatives are fighting in court over ownership of the two known photographs of him....
525 2013-09-24 Leasing of business equipment declines. E-mail marketing isn’t improving. Is the out-of-office auto-response message dying?...
526 2013-09-24 Jacob Bakkila, a 29-year-old artist and Buzzfeed employee, said he had been operating the Twitter account for the last two years....
527 2013-09-24 The study measured the impact of projected increases in temperature on conditions that are known to produce severe thunderstorms. It makes theoretical projections of changes in those conditions daily — and even for parts of a day — throughout the rest of the century.

The calculations, never before made at such minute levels, required the use of computers at climate-change research centers around the world, Dr. Diffenbaugh said.

“We can look starting in the recent past and analyze how many severe thunderstorm environments there are in each model, in each year, all the way out to the end of 21st century,” he said.

All 10 models projected an overall increase in potential severe-weather days in the spring and autumn after about 2040. In some models, the risk of storms was found to decrease in part of the nation centered on Kansas and Nebraska, and only in summer.

The authors cautioned that some elements of thunderstorm formation, such as processes that stimulate atmospheric convection, were not included in their study. And they stressed that the conditions they did include are conducive to severe storms, but do not guarantee them.

Harold Brooks, a senior research scientist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory in Norman, Okla., called the findings “really intriguing,” noting that the study’s season-by-season analysis may add significantly to past studies that generally had made yearly predictions.

Kevin Trenberth of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., a second scientist whose own research has foreshadowed some of the findings, said he believes the study “actually underplays the worries.”

The likelihood of severe weather is “probably fairly robust and the prospects worrying,” he said in an e-mail.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which tallies severe-weather events that cause more than $1 billion in damage, recorded 13 such events in 2011 and 2012 involving thunderstorms and tornadoes. Those storms killed 628 people and caused nearly $45 billion in damage.

Various weather conditions help spawn thunderstorms, but among the most important are humidity, vertical wind shear and atmospheric instability, which can cause warm air to rush upward through colder air.

Because hot air can hold more moisture than cold air, rising temperatures ensure greater humidity in the future. The study predicted that the amount of energy available for a storm, called convective available potential energy, would also become more frequent as temperatures rise.

The number of days with wind shear likely would decrease, the study found — but almost all the decline would be on days when the air was calm, and thunderstorms were unlikely in any case. During periods of storm-spawning instability, the chances of wind shear were reported to rise.

That last point, which Dr. Diffenbaugh called a key finding, addresses questions about the projected decline in wind shear that have led some to question the link between higher temperatures and an increase in severe weather.

By some measures, severe weather has been on the rise in recent years, a development that some have attributed to climate change. Dr. Diffenbaugh said the study draws no such conclusion; the 10 models employed in the study did not reach general agreement on an increase in severe-weather days until about 2040, he said.

“We have a real challenge in trying to understand whether or not there have been changes in the likelihood of occurrence in the recent past,” he said. While temperatures have been assiduously recorded, he said, records of storms and tornadoes are considerably murkier.
528 2013-09-24 In 2007, Aaron Alexis was interviewed at the Great Lakes Naval Station regarding his arrest after an altercation, his traffic citations and his debts.
529 2013-09-24 “A recalcitrant state that wanted to throw sand in the gears could do that,” said Manik Roy, vice president for strategic outreach at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. Most of the pollution goals imposed under the state-by-state process have eventually been achieved, but for carbon this could easily stretch beyond the end of President Obama’s term of office. The state of climate politics in the next presidential administration is hard to predict now.

Gina McCarthy, the E.P.A. administrator, told reporters on Monday that state plans on carbon should be written in ways “that make sense for them.” She said controls on existing plants would be imposed by something similar to the “state implementation plans” that the E.P.A. has required for most of the last three decades, to regulate pollutants like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.

Some states, Ms. McCarthy said, already have efficiency programs, which reduce emissions because they reduce overall generation, as well as renewable portfolio standards, which require generation from wind, sun and other zero-carbon sources.

“The states are thinking about these things,” she said. “This is not going to be new to them.”

Experts say the E.P.A. might set a simple limit in pounds per kilowatt-hour, or might let the states convert that rate of emissions into an overall cap. The cap might be met by blending in wind power, or by shutting one coal plant and earning credits that could be applied to another. Experts point to the trading system that the E.P.A. allowed when it was phasing out lead in gasoline as one possible model. In that case, credits could be traded among refineries.

Although utilities that burn coal do not like the idea of limits on emissions from their plants, either existing or old, they might push for a system that allows them to trade credits within their systems, even if those systems extend across state lines, said Dallas Burtraw, a climate and energy specialist at Resources for the Future, a nonprofit group.

Making the states establish the details of the regulatory system could have an advantage in disseminating it beyond Washington, he said. “This moves the climate policy debate outside the Beltway,” he said. “It launches it in 50 state capitols, where the forum is not yet polluted.”

But the regulation will create other disputes, he said, including what the baseline would be. Colorado, which has already forced its utilities to invest heavily in renewable energy, would probably want credit for that, he said.

S. William Becker, the executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, whose members are state and local officials, said some Western states were already expressing interest in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, an organization of northeastern states whose utilities trade carbon credits. But the Waxman-Markey climate bill of 2009, which passed the House but was defeated in the Senate, was a cap-and-trade bill. Some regional cap-and-trade systems might work, he said, but calling them something else “might be more palatable politically.”
530 2013-09-24 BANGKOK — Cambodia’s long-serving, authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, was elected to another five-year term in office on Tuesday despite a deadlock with the opposition, which has refused to attend the National Assembly in protest over alleged electoral cheating.

Mr. Hun Sen was set to be sworn into office later Tuesday by Cambodia’s king, Norodom Sihamoni, officially extending the prime minister’s 28 years in power.

The king has sought in vain to broker an end to the acrimony after Mr. Hun Sen’s foes claimed widespread cheating in the July 28 election and rejected the official results, which left Mr. Hun Sen’s Cambodia People’s Party in the majority, though weakened.

But the prime minister appears willing to govern Cambodia without the cooperation of the opposition. According to The Associated Press, Mr. Hun Sen told reporters Tuesday that he was willing to offer the opposition senior posts in the government but only if they ceased their boycott of the National Assembly.

Still, Mr. Hun Sen has projected what some analysts see as unusual signs of weakness.

He has made uncharacteristic, conciliatory gestures, including three recent meetings with Sam Rainsy, the leader of the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party. One lasted about five hours and centered on changes to the country’s electoral system.
531 2013-09-24 After the lights dimmed for the Metropolitan Opera’s Russian-themed opening night gala on Monday evening, the first solo voice that rang out in the house was not of a tenor or soprano, but of a protester criticizing the recent antigay laws signed by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

“Putin, end your war on Russian gays!” a man shouted in the vast auditorium, which was packed for the black-tie gala opening of Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin,” before turning to two of the evening’s Russian stars: Anna Netrebko, the popular Russian diva, and Valery Gergiev, the artistic director of the Mariinsky Theater in St. Petersburg. “Anna, your silence is killing Russian gays! Valery, your silence is killing Russian gays!”

Some members of the audience tried to shush the protester, as security guards walked into the house. After a pause, the opera began.

Four protesters in the Family Circle were asked to leave and did, opera officials said.

At issue was a new law banning “propaganda on nontraditional sexual relationships” that Mr. Putin signed into law in June, drawing worldwide attention to the difficulties gay people face in Russia. Both Ms. Netrebko and Mr. Gergiev were vocal supporters of Mr. Putin in his last election.

The outburst in the opera house capped an evening of picketing outside it, as opera patrons in black tie and ball gowns were met with chanting protesters and a 50-foot rainbow banner that said “Support Russian Gays!”
532 2013-09-24 The alcoholic dimming of a literary light is rendered in “Brendan at the Chelsea,” a fascinating if fanciful account of the late life of Brendan Behan, now at the Acorn Theater. Behan — the Irish poet, short-story writer, novelist, memoirist and playwright, who died of complications from alcoholism in 1964 — lived at the Chelsea Hotel in the early 1960s, after the New York premiere of his play “The Hostage.”

“Brendan at the Chelsea,” written by Behan’s niece Janet Behan and produced by the Lyric Theater in Belfast, depicts a bedraggled Behan (Adrian Dunbar) hounded by an unseen agent about a book he has barely begun; tended by a minder, Lianne (Samantha Pearl), who vainly struggles to keep him sober; befriended by the composer and Chelsea resident George Kleinsinger (Richard Orr), who encourages him to seek treatment; and confronted by his pregnant, no-nonsense wife, Beatrice (Pauline Hutton), visiting from Dublin and alarmed by reports that he has a mistress and wants a divorce.

The play conflates Behan’s Chelsea stay with his earlier periods at the New York hotels the Bristol and the Algonquin (both of which later barred him), and establishes Behan’s bisexuality by imagining a male lover (Chris Robinson) and a visit to a Fire Island gay enclave. We see a Behan promiscuous and dissolute, literary but not political: His republican past (aside from a reference to him as an “ex-revolutionary”) is ignored, as are his detentions as a youth in Britain for I.R.A. activities, which informed his 1958 memoir, “Borstal Boy.” (He later renounced violence, but I.R.A. members were his pallbearers.)

The supporting players, inhabiting multiple roles, are often a bit broad when playing Americans. But the set and costumes, by Stuart Marshall, and the lighting design, by James C McFetridge, are vividly evocative.

And in the title role, Mr. Dunbar, who also directed, exudes a feckless, erratic and spellbinding charisma. Mr. Dunbar, who originated the role in 2008, is alternately charming and scathingly abusive; his Behan is quick with a one-liner (the play liberally quotes Behan) and yet painfully aware of his trembling hand and hopeless addiction. His performance alone makes “Brendan at the Chelsea” a must.
533 2013-09-24 Paul Colford, a spokesman for The A.P., would not discuss the case, saying, “We would never comment on our sources.”

The case originated in a successful intelligence operation in April 2012 that disrupted a plot by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, a Yemen-based offshoot of the main group, to destroy an airliner. The government was able to obtain a special underwear bomb apparently designed by the terrorist group’s master bomb maker, Ibrahim al-Asiri, to evade detection in airport security checks.

On May 7, 2012, The A.P. broke the news that the bomb plot had been disrupted, setting off further disclosures.

That evening, Richard A. Clarke, a former Clinton administration national security official who had been briefed on the case by John O. Brennan, then the top White House counterterrorism official and now the C.I.A. director, said the plot never came close to being carried out because it was under “insider control” by intelligence officials.

Soon, The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times and other news organizations reported that the would-be suicide bomber in the operation had been a double agent.

The disclosure about the Yemen bomb plot came as Republicans were accusing the White House of deliberately leaking a variety of secret information to make President Obama look tough on national security issues in an election year, an allegation that the White House denied. Amid Republican calls for independent prosecutors, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. assigned Mr. Machen to handle the Yemen bomb plot case.

Nearly a year later, in May 2013, the Justice Department disclosed that after the F.B.I. had interviewed more than 550 officials and been unable to solve the case, investigators secretly used subpoenas to telephone companies to obtain calling records for 20 lines associated with A.P. bureaus and reporters. The scope and secrecy of the subpoenas outraged journalism organizations and lawmakers of both parties, who accused the department of going too far.

The Justice Department said the phone records had proved crucial in identifying Mr. Sachtleben as a suspect. In a bizarre coincidence, investigators then discovered that other law enforcement officials had already seized his computer and other electronic materials in an unrelated child pornography investigation.

“Sachtleben was identified as a suspect in the case of this unauthorized disclosure only after toll records for phone numbers related to the reporter were obtained through a subpoena and compared to other evidence collected during the leak investigation,” the Justice Department said. “This allowed investigators to obtain a search warrant authorizing a more exhaustive search of Sachtleben’s cellphone, computer and other electronic media, which were in the possession of federal investigators due to the child pornography investigation.”

A court filing said agents discovered evidence that he had stored classified intelligence information on the computer without authorization, leading to a separate charge under the Espionage Act.

During his 25-year career with the F.B.I., Mr. Sachtleben worked on many major terrorism cases, a court filing said, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, the 1998 American Embassy bombings in Africa, the 2000 bombing of the American destroyer Cole in Yemen, and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

He held a top secret clearance and, among other assignments, he worked for the explosives unit at the F.B.I. laboratory in Quantico, Va. The court filing said that he met one of the A.P. reporters, identified only as Reporter A, in 2009, and that in the following years he helped the journalist with information about bomb-related issues.

One court filing quoted text messages in which the reporter reached out to Mr. Sachtleben on April 30, 2012, after ABC News reported that Mr. Asiri might have been working on bombs that could be surgically implanted. Mr. Sachtleben and the reporter exchanged several text messages, quoted in the court filing, speculating about the ABC report. As it turns out, the contractor was about to take a trip to Quantico. On May 2, he visited the lab where the underwear device was being examined, it said, and soon called the reporter.

Two and a half hours later, the court filing said, two A.P. reporters began calling government officials saying they knew that the United States government had intercepted a bomb from Yemen and that the F.B.I. was analyzing it.

The next day, May 3, 2012, law enforcement agents in Indiana, working on an unrelated case involving the distribution of child pornography on the Internet, obtained a search warrant for Mr. Sachtleben’s house, court filings show. They seized his computers on May 11.
534 2013-09-24 Many Generator Hostel guests are starting in their careers and traveling for work but do not have large expense accounts. In 10 years, they might stay at stylish boutique hotels like W and the Standard, but for now they choose upscale hostels rather than budget hotels. Mr. Wyatt said they were drawn by “a great night sleep, a great shower and free Wi-Fi, all in a hip, relaxed setting. If you have to travel and are on a budget, you still want to have fun and want something cool.”

He said a bed in a dorm room at Generator Copenhagen could cost about 20 percent of the price of a room at a typical midrange business hotel nearby and at Generator Barcelona about 10 percent of that midrange hotel price. And private rooms at Generator hostels in those cities can cost as little as half the price of comparable rooms at a three-star hotel, he said.

The company is beginning to market to start-up firms and entry- and junior-level employees. It uses booking sources not typically associated with hostels that compete with budget hotels, listing its properties on global distribution systems used by online booking Web sites.

The hostel industry has grown in recent years because more people are traveling and because of the global economic downturn that pinched travelers’ budgets, according to Stay Wyse, a nonprofit trade association that tracks and researches accommodation trends among young travelers globally.

The hostels, which have been consistently profitable over the years, are also evolving as they move away from the traditional, rustic concept to high design, with enhanced facilities and services, a trend that started around 2004.

An estimated 10 percent of hostel guests are business travelers, a figure that has grown about 1 percent each year since 2009, in part because “the product has significantly increased in quality,” said Laura Daly, association manager for Stay Wyse. “With the investment in facilities, we predict this will grow at a steeper rate year on year.”

Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said he was not aware of data that tracked business travel stays at hostels, but he said it might be more common outside the United States. He attributed that to several factors: traditional lodging brands offer more budget choices of consistent quality in the United States. And in Europe, where low-cost brands are not as prevalent, hostels “may fill that void,” he said. He also cited “wider acceptance to nontraditional lodging formats.”

Giovanna Gentile, senior public relations executive for HostelBookers.com, a Web site based in London for budget accommodations internationally, said many hostels now offered amenities traditionally associated with hotels: private rooms with bathrooms, swimming pools, conference rooms and gyms.

She said hostels offered many amenities that hotels typically did not provide: entertainment rooms with big-screen television sets, surround-sound cinemas, game rooms, pool tables and self-catering kitchens that “encourage travelers to cook their own food and avoid spending a fortune in restaurants.” Hostels also organize social activities, like movie nights, city tours and other outings.

Driven largely by competition, hostel owners “had to find a way to stand out,” Ms. Gentile said.

The fusion hotel in Prague, for example, is both a hotel and a hostel offering standard private rooms and traditional shared dorm rooms, as well as nontraditional meeting spaces, like the rotating bar and lounge and the playroom, which features colorful, oversize folding sofas attached to the wall. Guests can network or play video games during informal meetings. The idea for the hybrid property was born after the economic crisis. “We have a product to sell to anyone, at anytime,” said Nah-Dja Tien, fusion’s general manager. “We can give business travelers an alternative pricewise, and also an alternative experience” for doing business.

Giuseppe Gentileschi, chief executive of Incoming Talents, a modeling agency and fashion production house with headquarters in Prague, often stays and books employees, clients and models at fusion and other hostels. The trend is for clean, well-managed hostels that offer atmosphere, comfort and upscale design but are not pretentious without spending “huge” amounts of money, he said. “At the beginning, I didn’t even realize that fusion was a hostel.”

David Orr, founder of Hostelz.com, a hostel booking and review site, said: “The key to staying in a hostel as a business traveler is to pick the right hostel. I think in some hostels, business travelers feel out of place,” as he said he discovered on a business trip to Spain when he stayed at a hostel “where guests are known to party all night long.” But over all, the competitive market has driven up standards, he said. “They can’t get away with being grungy,” he said. “In some cities, hostels are nicer than hotels.”

Mr. van ‘t Wout, the electronics company manager, said if you needed frills like minibars and room service, then a hostel might not be a good choice.

“But if you are used to traveling with your mobile office,” he said, and “want to enjoy a drink at bar at the end of the day without feeling awkward about being on your own, then this is a stylish and great value option that’s definitely worth considering.”

“The atmosphere is as open or private as you choose yourself,” he said. “It basically made my business travels a lot more fun again.”
535 2013-09-24 “Pakistan’s politicians are failing at the most basic of questions — about what kind of Pakistan they want to shape and lead,” said Cyril Almeida, a writer with Dawn newspaper. “Whether out of sympathy, fear or cowardice, no one is willing to stand up to radical Islamists and say: ‘No, enough is enough. We are taking our country back.’ ”

Christians in Pakistan already contend with deep-rooted prejudice. Most are poor and traditionally carry out menial work like sweeping street garbage and cleaning sewers. Muslim mobs, enraged by rumors of blasphemy, occasionally rampage through Christian slums, and have burned hundreds of houses. Extremists killed the Christian minorities minister Shahbaz Bhatti in early 2011.

Still, Sunday’s attack touched a raw nerve across sectarian lines. Clerical organizations and all major political parties issued statements of condemnation. On Monday, Parliament passed a resolution condemning the bombing as “an attack on Pakistan.”

Perhaps the sharpest political fallout has been felt by Imran Khan, the former cricket star who has long urged a truce with the Taliban and whose political party runs Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, where the bombing took place.

On Sunday, Mr. Khan, who is more used to adulation at his appearances, was jeered by Christians with cries of “shame” and “Imran is a dog” at a Peshawar hospital where victims were being treated.

Visibly rattled, Mr. Khan claimed the hostile reception had been whipped up by his political rivals. But he couched his reaction in vague terms, saying he condemned “whoever carried out the bombing.” (Some other Pakistani politicians went further in suggesting that the bombing had not been by the Taliban, but instead had been engineered to sabotage the prospects of talks with the militants.)

Mr. Khan also stuck by his longstanding support for peace talks. “There are only two solutions: either fight or have dialogue,” he said.

Mr. Khan’s stance has become mainstream, with most major parties supporting negotiations. But that has led to tensions with the military leadership, which has given conflicting signals about its stance.

The army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, supported a recent all-parties conference that authorized Mr. Sharif’s government to initiate talks. But the army is also furious at the killing of a two-star general in a Taliban ambush near the Afghan border a week ago. Recent statements suggest the military high command’s enthusiasm for talks is wavering.

While officials are mired in the debate, the Taliban and their allies have kept up their campaign of violence.

Over the past year, militants have stepped up attacks against Shiites and other religious sects, continued a drive to close girls’ schools, targeted the military and police, and deeply bloodied liberal political parties before the May elections.

Now, the bombing at the church, which is a member of the Church of Pakistan and part of the Anglican Communion, stands as a fresh reminder that the Taliban have been happy to drive deeper wedges into any division Pakistan presents.

“This was an attack on everyone who doesn’t subscribe to obscurantist agendas,” read an editorial in The News, a daily newspaper, on Monday. “We have remained silent for far too long, and silence now will have blood on its hands.”
536 2013-09-24 Of course, the American arsenal was much older than Syria’s, and some 30 times as large, when the United States in 1997 embraced the global treaty banning chemical arms. And unlike Syria, it has had to contend with citizen opposition to some decommissioning plans.

On the other hand, the United States has no civil war to get in the way of the dangerous work of dismantling chemical weapons.

But fundamentally, the disparity between the two plans centers on differing philosophies of chemical disarmament — quick and dirty versus slow and costly. Over the decades, the United States went from one approach to the other as concerns grew about possible threats to public health and the environment.

Chemical experts point to the possibility of a hybrid approach that would dispatch Syria’s arms relatively quickly while minimizing the risks.

“The technologies exist,” said Lenny Siegel, the executive director of the Center for Public Environmental Oversight, a group in Mountain View, Calif., that has closely monitored the Army’s toxic cleanups. “The weapons can be destroyed safely — not real quickly, and definitely not cheaply. But it can be done.”

The United States’ arsenal goes back to 1917, when the nation began producing mustard gas and other poisons for use in World War I.

Over the decades, the arsenal got much deadlier. A leading poison was sarin, the same gas used in the Aug. 21 attack in the suburbs of the Syrian capital that the Obama administration says killed more than 1,400 Syrians. It throws nerves and muscles into overdrive, resulting in convulsions, lung paralysis and death. Victims’ pupils are often tiny because the iris, a muscle, contracts so much.

As a rule, chemical weapons are easier to make than to destroy. “Everybody forgets that none of these weapons were designed to be peacefully disassembled,” Miguel E. Monteverde, an Army spokesman, noted in an interview. “It was always assumed that they’d be used.”

When the United States first began destroying leaky and obsolete munitions, it took the fast approach. It burned and buried them. In time, a forgotten dump became Spring Valley — the Washington neighborhood of elegant homes.

“We know we’re going to find things, but we’re not sure what,” Andrea Takash, an Army spokeswoman, said Friday. The overall bill for the neighborhood’s cleanup, she noted, is expected to run to more than $230 million.

The next means of disposal was simply to dump munitions at sea. The United States did so until the early 1970s, when a global treaty outlawed such practices.

Finally (environmentalists would say belatedly), the Army turned to a costlier method. It built decommissioning plants in Alabama, Arkansas, Utah, Oregon and on a Pacific atoll. Special furnaces incinerated the poisons at extremely high temperatures and then scrubbed out dangerous waste products.

But citizens near the big facilities and at sites of proposed ones worried about accidents, toxic fumes and health risks.

In 1984, Craig Williams, a Vietnam veteran living in rural Kentucky, went to a public meeting about a planned incinerator. On his way home, he recalled, his wife said, “Craig, somebody’s got to do something about this.”

Mr. Williams lobbied hard against incineration, organizing civic groups around the nation while battling Army brass and testifying before Congress. “We realized we couldn’t prevail by having a spaghetti dinner once a week,” he said in an interview.

Slowly, the Army adopted what the citizens groups praised as a safer approach — neutralization, in which water and other chemicals react with the deadly chemicals to undo their toxic structures.

As the cold war ended, so did the military’s production of chemical arms, and the elimination work sped up. Abolition went global in 1993 with a treaty known as the Chemical Weapons Convention. It went into force in 1997.

The Army built giant neutralization plants in Maryland and Indiana. Today, at a cost of $10.6 billion, it is erecting new ones near Pueblo, Colo., and Richmond, Ky. The Kentucky work force now stands at more than 1,200 people, and the plant is set to destroy 523 tons of mustard gas and nerve agents, including sarin. The chemical destruction job is expected to be finished by 2023.

Beyond the arsenal and the nine decommissioning plants lurks a major cleanup dilemma — what, if anything, to do about the estimated 250 old dump sites for chemical arms that dot the nation. Unlike Spring Valley, most are on military bases or remote sites far from dense populations.

Last year, the National Research Council put out a lengthy report calling the old dump sites “a huge challenge.” The cost of cleaning up just the five miles of weapon trenches in Alabama, it noted, is estimated at several billion dollars.

The report detailed scores of portable technologies — everything from air monitors and excavation gear to demolition trucks and detonation chambers — that already exist and could speed the domestic cleanup.

Mr. Siegel, of the Center for Public Environmental Oversight, noted that the mobile nature of the technologies meant they could play an important role in the rush for Syria’s chemical disarmament. The plan now calls for its completion by July.

“If you want to act quickly, the technical decisions have to be made now, while the diplomats are working,” he said. “This is difficult stuff and it’s costly but the technologies exist — though most people don’t know that.”

A better appreciation of the American experience and the available technology, Mr. Siegel added, would make it easier for diplomats and government officials to develop a strategy for the undoing the Syrian arsenal.
537 2013-09-24 They worry that Mr. McConnell is too hamstrung by political concerns in the Capitol and back home in Kentucky. In Washington, a rebellious crop of new Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz of Texas, has rejected his compromising brand of politics. Mr. Cruz has led the charge to tie any further government financing to gutting President Obama’s health care law, a movement that has angered many veteran Republicans and brought the federal government to the brink of a shutdown.

On Monday, Mr. McConnell gave the first indication of how he will figure into the budget standoff, saying that he would support a House bill that denies financing for the health care law, putting him at odds with Mr. Cruz, who has encouraged his colleagues to filibuster the bill so Democrats cannot amend it.

And in Kentucky, the junior senator, Rand Paul, has largely set the agenda for a Tea Party-infused Republican Party there.

Mr. McConnell is dealing with an unwanted primary challenge from a well-financed Tea Party candidate who keeps telling Kentucky voters the senator is an establishment pawn.

Mr. McConnell is leading his challenger by a large margin in internal polls. But after Tea Party candidates rose from nowhere in the past two elections to beat veteran senators, Mr. McConnell is leaving nothing to chance.

“He’s got an election,” said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. “And that’s his No. 1 concern. I hope we can work together on things, but we’ll just have to wait and see.”

What worries members of both parties is that efforts to work around Mr. McConnell and bridge the partisan disagreements over the budget, health care and taxes have failed.

Early this year, just off his re-election triumph, Mr. Obama tried to reach out to Senate Republicans beyond the leadership. This group, called the “sounding board,” met repeatedly with the White House chief of staff, Denis McDonough, and other senior White House officials and came away with nothing.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of that group, said what was lacking was the level of trust that would persuade the two sides to accept a deal that would be politically difficult for both sides’ most dedicated activists to swallow. He said that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Mr. McConnell trusted each other. No other partners have emerged in Mr. McConnell’s absence to fill “probably the biggest missing ingredient,” Mr. Graham said.

Not one to enjoy small talk, Mr. McConnell rarely speaks at length during meetings. But his presence has become so spectral that some Democrats have taken to referring to him as “the man who isn’t there.”

For example, during a meeting this month with all four leaders of the two chambers — Speaker John A. Boehner, Mr. Reid, Mr. McConnell and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader — he seemed so disengaged from the conversation, one Democrat briefed on the meeting said, that Mr. Reid later remarked how few words his sometimes-adversary had said.

And in late July, when the two Senate leaders tried to resume regular meetings in hopes of repairing their relationship after a bruising fight over changing Senate rules to make it harder for Republicans to block the president’s nominees, Mr. Reid made a similar observation to colleagues. He said he was taken aback by how absent Mr. McConnell seemed.

They have not met privately since Congress returned from its summer recess, despite the serious issues crowding the Senate’s agenda, from Syria to the budget, though they have spoken on the phone.

The current crisis had its origins at a meeting of Republican senators in July, where Mr. Cruz and Senator Mike Lee of Utah presented their plan to urge their colleagues to vote against any budget that provides money for the president’s health care law — in effect threatening a government shutdown.

They said they had written a letter outlining their position and were recruiting signatories. For those who refused to sign, they offered an alternative: Come up with your own plan.

Mr. McConnell’s response was noncommittal. He said, according to a Republican aide, that he was waiting to see what budget the House would pass. He has not signed the letter despite pressure from the right to do so. “It creates a situation where senators like Mike Lee and Ted Cruz become the leaders,” said the Republican aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss meetings that senators are discouraged from talking about publicly.

With his campaign building steam, his voting record has veered from the mainstream of Republican politics. His newfound affinity for issues like legalizing hemp farming and protecting the United States from government drones seems to grow more from a partnership with Mr. Paul than his own history.

In an interview on Thursday, Mr. McConnell said he remains proud of his deal-brokering accomplishments — which included hatching a plan to work around the Tea Party in 2011 that allowed the debt ceiling to be raised without an affirmative vote, and sealing a compromise with Mr. Biden last December that averted the “fiscal cliff” — even if he now sees little purpose in rolling up his sleeves.

“Those were deals that in my view were worth negotiating because they produced permanent tax relief, and permanent spending reductions,” he said. “I don’t see any circumstances or any hints, any indications whatsoever, that this Senate or this president is willing to do anything other than to try to unravel what we already achieved.”

Such caution may recede as the Kentucky Senate race settles in. McConnell aides say confidently that their internal polls show them with a wide lead over the Tea Party challenger, Matt Bevin. His supporters circulated a video last week of Mr. Bevin, a businessman and self-described “constitutionalist,” confusing Article Five of the Constitution with the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.

Some say they still believe that Mr. McConnell will ride to the rescue in budget negotiations, even if he ultimately cannot vote for the deal he helps midwife.

“In the final analysis, Senator McConnell’s going to be right in there,” said Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota.

Aides noted that Mr. McConnell ultimately helped broker the bailout of Wall Street in 2008, just weeks before his last re-election campaign came to an end. But in 2008, of course, there was far greater tolerance from the right for the compromise politics that Mr. McConnell has perfected.

“I think what’s changed isn’t Mitch McConnell,” said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, who was elected in the Tea Party wave of 2010. “What’s changed in general is the nature of American politics.”

“The grass roots have more influence over the political process than they ever have, and I think that’s a positive development,” he added. “You know, there was a time around here not so long ago where people could sneak all kinds of things into a bill, where members could vote any way they wanted and no one would ever find out.”
538 2013-09-24 WASHINGTON — It could easily be a glorious Pharaonic tomb, stocked with all the sustenance a philatelist might require for the afterlife. The William H. Gross Stamp Gallery, which opened on Sunday here at the Smithsonian National Postal Museum, includes an $18 million array of display spaces, artifacts, trays and touch screens. Its 20,000 items have been culled from more than 6 million at the museum, one of the world’s great collections. And the gallery’s 12,000 square feet are devoted to a single object that seems on the brink of extinction: the postage stamp.

But why should those of us who have never been consumed by the desire to hunt down a rare Inverted Jenny or a Brazilian Bull’s-eye give stamps (or their extinction) much attention? For most of us, they are utilitarian: we lick or peel, stick and use. And if, like me, you find a serious drop-off in the aesthetic values of American stamps in recent decades, what inspiration is there for collecting or contemplation? Why care that neither rain nor snow nor gloom of night are any longer the main hurdles for snail mail’s continuing rounds?

The Post Office has been struggling to reinvent itself, reeling from deficits and awaiting rescue. Maybe that’s why many recent stamps seem so hyped-up and saturated with color: they are straining to cheer up mail carriers, as well as customers.

But this new exhibit space provides more vigorous cheer. It is the world’s largest stamp gallery, we are told, made possible by a $10 million gift from William H. Gross, founder of the investment company Pimco. And surprisingly, until now, the National Postal Museum has had no major philatelic display showing off its collection; its main galleries focus on mail technology and delivery, not its sticky symbols. You might not begin collecting stamps immediately after a visit to their new home (though every visitor will get a head start with a selection of six free stamps), but you will start to think differently about them. Their current inconsequence is a far cry from the trust and influence they once possessed.

The Postmaster General, for example, was once so powerful that the position was included in the president’s cabinet. The mails were once the nation’s premier courier; in 1958, even the priceless Hope diamond was entrusted to the Postal Service for a cost of $145.29, including $1 million worth of insurance. (The heavily stamped and metered envelope is here; the diamond is nearby, at the Natural History Museum.)

And stamp images once had so much authority that in 1901, an engineer opposed to the digging of a Nicaraguan canal scared United States senators by presenting each with a Nicaraguan stamp showing the eruption of the nearby Mount Momotombo; the canal was dug in Panama instead.
539 2013-09-24 For its full fiscal year, which ended June 30, total Surface sales were only $853 million, Microsoft said in its annual report. By comparison, Apple’s iPad sales during roughly the same time frame were $33.2 billion.

And it appears that Microsoft will be leaving many tablet sales to the competition with the new offerings, too. The latest Surface tablets will not be available in smaller 7- to 8-inch versions, the most popular size in the market. The iPad mini and other devices in that size have become clear favorites among tablet shoppers because their compactness makes them easier to hold with one hand.

The Surface tablets have 10.6-inch screens, behemoths by tablet standards. This year, 57 percent of worldwide tablet shipments are expected to be in the 7- to 8-inch category, while 17.8 percent will be in 9- to 10-inch category, estimates IDC, the research firm. Tablets with 10- to 11-inch screens, like the Surface, are forecast to account for about 17.4 percent of the market.

Mr. Panay suggested that Microsoft will eventually offer a mini version of the Surface, but not until it is confident that it has the right product.

“You want to make sure the experience is spot on,” he said.

As before, the new Surface family includes two products, Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2. The Surface 2, called the RT in the first version, competes more directly with the iPad, because it runs on the class of ARM microprocessors inside nearly all smartphones and tablets, including Apple’s. The Surface Pro 2 is a more expensive, full-blown PC running an Intel chip so that any legacy PC applications — from accounting software to iTunes — can run on it. The new devices will be in stores on Oct. 22.

Little has changed about the exterior of the devices, other than a subtle color change on one of the models. Both have an integrated kickstand that props the Surface screen up at a 24-degree angle for watching movies on an airplane or typing on a keyboard. On the new models, the kickstand also clicks into a 40-degree position to improve what Microsoft calls “lapability,” so people can cradle it comfortably on their thighs while sitting.

Microsoft paid special attention to improving the Pro version’s battery life, which Mr. Panay described as “awful” in the original, getting as little as three to four hours. The company redesigned the guts of the system so that the Surface Pro 2 can run for seven to 10 hours depending on how it is being used. He said people who bought the original Surface Pro loved it except for the battery life.

The company has created a new docking station that clamps onto the sides of the Surface Pro, with connectors for up to two external displays.

“For the relaunch, we don’t want to reinvent the wheel,” Mr. Panay said. “We really wanted it to be a subtle change.”

Microsoft will sell Surface 2 for a starting price of $449. That is $50 less than both the initial price of the earlier version and Apple’s latest full-size iPad. But it is still more than the price for Android tablets from Google and Amazon with comparable screen sizes. (Microsoft intends to keep selling last year’s model for $349.)

“I think it’s tough to come in at that price point when you are not that differentiated,” said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner. “Maybe with bundling they’ll be able to make it more interesting.”

Microsoft is using its online services to sweeten the deal for Surface, including a year of free international voice calling on Skype to conventional phone numbers. Surface customers will get 200 gigabytes of free storage for two years on Microsoft’s SkyDrive service, far more than most people will need for their photos, videos and documents.

Microsoft said it would also sharpen its advertising for the product, which in earlier versions showcased troupes of dancers doing percussive moves and acrobatic stunts with their Surface tablets.

For instance, Microsoft in its marketing will be more clear that the Surface Pro product is aimed squarely at people in the market for a laptop who also want the touch capabilities of a tablet. That approach could make the $899 starting price of a Surface Pro 2 more palatable since that is closer to what laptops cost.

And since this is Microsoft, it is safe to say the second iteration — and the marketing — is still only the beginning.

Brian Hall, general manager of Surface sales and marketing, said: “This time around we get to tell the first Surface story.”
540 2013-09-24 Asia’s emerging economies are, on the whole, better positioned than they were during the financial crisis that shook the region in 1997 and 1998.

More debt is now in local currencies, rather than dollars, meaning that weakening local currencies do not bring a painful increase in debt servicing costs, analysts say. The region’s banks are more robust than they were in the 1990s. And foreign exchange reserves are higher than they were then, even though some countries, like India, have been selling dollars to prop up their plunging currencies in recent months.

Moreover, more dynamic growth in Japan, where an economy that has been languishing for decades is now picking up speed, could ultimately help make up for flagging capital inflows from the West.

Still, some analysts say, many of the region’s developing economies need more overhauls to ensure that the capital inflows that have become increasingly important for growth in recent years keep coming. The issues vary from country to country.

Infrastructure shortfalls, for example, are most pronounced in Indonesia and India, but they are also prominent in Vietnam, the Philippines and Thailand. India’s investment in the power sector, for example, has failed to keep up with the nation’s growing need for electricity — its generating capacity is only about one-quarter that of China’s, according to International Energy Agency statistics. Frequent power failures force many businesses to scale back production or resort to expensive diesel-powered generators.

In many countries, including China, often inefficient state-owned businesses dominate the market and make it difficult for smaller, privately owned companies to operate. Red tape and restrictions on acquiring land or businesses impede foreign investment in many countries. And fuel subsidies have sapped the budgets of countries like India, Thailand and Malaysia.

The recent exodus of foreign funds from emerging Asia — caused by the first hints, in May, that the Fed might soon reduce its support of the U.S. economy — highlighted the need to press ahead with changes and prompted some action. India and Indonesia, for example, recently raised interest rates. Those moves could hurt economic growth but are key to instilling confidence in their battered currencies. Malaysia and Indonesia have lowered fuel subsidies in a bid to ease the burden on their stretched budgets and regain investor confidence.

Such structural tweaks have been few and far between, many economists argue, and need to be accelerated. “We have seen just a few tentative first steps — not enough to turn things around in Asia,” said Mr. Neumann, the HSBC economist.

But with elections looming in India and Indonesia next year and the Fed now signaling that the times of easy cash are not quite over, the incentive for more action could be limited, analysts fear.

“A risk that we will be closely monitoring, especially as several elections are approaching,” Asia economists at Nomura in Singapore wrote in a research note, “is whether a return of strong capital inflows reduces the market discipline of Asian governments and policy makers, allowing them to revert to populist, pro-growth expansionary policies and neglect supply-side structural reforms.”

And Taimur Baig, chief Asia economist at Deutsche Bank in Singapore, cautioned that the “window of respite” could cause some countries to push back their fiscal and monetary adjustments.

They worried that the rally in asset prices could reignite problems like property price bubbles and credit growth, which had begun to abate in many parts of Asia.
541 2013-09-24 HONG KONG — The government of Singapore announced measures on Monday that will compel companies to give priority to local residents in the job recruitment process, a move that could create more challenges for multinational firms doing business in the Southeast Asian city-state.

The measures will require companies operating in Singapore to advertise vacancies to local residents for two weeks before they can apply to fill positions with overseas workers. The recruitment notices must be posted to a central job bank to be administered by a government employment agency, according to a statement released by the Ministry of Manpower.

“Providing better jobs and diverse opportunities to meet Singaporeans’ aspirations are the ultimate objectives of economic growth,” Tan Chuan-Jin, the acting minister for manpower, said in the statement. “What we are doing is to put in place measures to nudge employers to give Singaporeans — especially our young graduates and professionals, managers and executives — a fair chance at both job and development opportunities.”

Singapore has already taken steps this year to make it more difficult to import workers, including increasing levies on overseas hires and reducing the allowable ratio of foreign to local employees at companies in the service, manufacturing, construction and maritime sectors.

Singapore is a major hub for regional and multinational companies operating in Southeast Asia, and such measures have raised concerns in the foreign business community about the ability to meet staffing needs, given Singapore’s aging population. In January, nine foreign business groups, including the American, Australian, British, Canadian and European chambers of commerce, sent a letter expressing these concerns to local labor officials.
542 2013-09-24 PARIS — Economic growth in the 17 European Union states in the euro zone appears to have accelerated modestly in the third quarter from the previous three months, according to a private sector report released on Monday.

Business activity in the euro zone rose this month to a 27-month high, according to a survey of the zone’s purchasing managers by Markit Economics, a data and analysis firm based in London.

Germany, which has the largest economy in Europe, led the euro zone with strong new business and employment gains, according to the Markit survey. French purchasing managers also reported modestly improving business.

The report came on the heels of the election victory of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Germany. European stock markets and the euro currency were essentially unchanged, as investors took the widely expected election outcome in stride; only the large margin of Ms. Merkel’s success had been unexpected.

Ms. Merkel’s triumph and the fact that the anti-euro party Alternative for Germany fell short of the total needed to enter Parliament may allow her more freedom to address problems like the likelihood that Greece, Portugal and Slovenia will need additional bailouts. Germany also holds trump cards in crucial European discussions on banking oversight. But Germany’s own banks remain fragile.
543 2013-09-25 Help Tom Pepper and Victor Barocas restore some much-needed items to their puzzle....
544 2013-09-25 SecondMarket is expected to begin raising money for an investment fund that will hold only bitcoins, giving wealthy investors exposure to the virtual currency....
545 2013-09-25 With waistlines expanding, some chubby dogs are being sent to fitness programs to get slim and trim.
546 2013-09-25 Wednesday’s highlights from around the Web include reactions to Oracle Team USA’s victory in the America’s Cup, and a tale of air travel gone awry because of a flaw on Apple’s Maps app....
547 2013-09-25 He was polite. He was relentless. And he never stopped asking questions until everything was cleanly sorted in his head....
548 2013-09-25 Mr. McCain reminded Mr. Cruz that, no matter how much he dislikes health care reform, “the people spoke” and “they re-elected the president.”...
549 2013-09-25 In one of the largest studies ever done on the subject, researchers have found that taking statins, the widely used cholesterol-lowering drugs, is associated with an increased risk for cataracts....
550 2013-09-25 Bill Gates’s many talents don’t include effectiveness as chairman. Under his leadership, Microsoft’s board left Mr. Ballmer in place too long, the author writes....
551 2013-09-25 The Securities and Exchange Commission wrung an admission of wrongdoing out of the bank, but it did not charge any top executives with misleading disclosure....
552 2013-09-25 The five-year program, called NYPL BridgeUP, will provide academic and social support to eighth graders at five library branches in the Bronx and Manhattan....
553 2013-09-25 Doubts about crowdfunding. Home prices continue to rise. Explaining Google’s search rankings. And George W. Bush is on Instagram....
554 2013-09-25 Oracle’s victory in Wednesday’s race capped an extraordinary comeback, after the team was down 8-1 in the series. New Zealand finished 44 seconds behind in the final race....
555 2013-09-25 These stylish timepieces for men and women, which can keep track of up to 24 time zones, cater to the world’s most serious journeyers....
556 2013-09-25 The Justice Department also brought criminal charges against three former ICAP employees on Wednesday over their roles in manipulating the benchmark London interbank offered rate....
557 2013-09-25 The Chinese Internet company has ended talks with the Hong Kong stock exchange over an initial public offering....
558 2013-09-25 For a family of four with an annual income of $50,000, the administration said, monthly premiums for the second-cheapest plan will vary widely, averaging $600 in Arizona, $800 in Georgia, $961 in Indiana, $1,069 in Mississippi, $859 in New Hampshire, $943 in New Jersey and $656 in Utah.

Under the 2010 health law, most people buying insurance in the exchanges will be eligible for federal subsidies in the form of tax credits. Taking account of these subsidies, the administration said, a family of four with income of $50,000 will generally be able to buy a silver-level plan for $282 a month, while a 27-year-old with income of $25,000 will be able to get such coverage for $145 a month.

However, the data provided only a partial picture of the reality that consumers will face. The government did not identify the insurance companies offering policies in the federal marketplaces, also known as exchanges. Nor did it provide any information about the many policies that will cost more than the amounts cited in its report. Such information will not be available until the exchanges open, federal health officials said. Republicans and other critics of the health program were likely to take issue with the financial picture painted by the administration as the new premium information became more widely known.

The figures, almost by definition, provide a favorable view of costs, highlighting the least expensive coverage in each state.

Consumer advocates said that people shopping for health insurance should consider not only price, but also other factors like the list of covered drugs and the doctors and hospitals available in a health plan.

“We are excited to see that rates in the marketplace are even lower than originally projected,” said Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services. Insurance, she said, will be affordable even to low- and moderate-income people.

Gary M. Cohen, the director of the federal Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight, said that premiums were generally lower in states with vigorous competition in their insurance markets and robust programs to review rates.

In the 36 states where the federal government has primary responsibility for the exchanges, Mr. Cohen said, consumers will be able to choose from an average of 53 health plans. In most states, health plans will be offered by two or more insurance companies — a high of 13 companies in Wisconsin, but just one apiece in New Hampshire and West Virginia.

“About one in four of these insurance companies is offering health plans in the individual market for the first time in 2014, a sign of healthy competition,” Mr. Cohen said.

Insurance experts said the prices reported on Tuesday should be viewed with caution for several reasons. In many cases, the statewide figures are averages. The rates may be available only in parts of a state, and premiums can vary as much within a state as among states.

Peter V. Lee, executive director of the state-run exchange in California, said that his state had 19 rating regions and that the variation in prices among regions was “quite significant.” For example, he said, a 40-year-old buying the least expensive silver plan would pay $240 a month in Los Angeles, but $330 in Sacramento, about 38 percent more.

In New York, a premium charged in New York City might be more than 80 percent higher than the charge in Rochester — $611 a month against $337, for the same level of coverage offered by the same insurer. Even within Rochester, prices for the same level of coverage might range from $218 to $366 a month.

Consumers will be able to sign up in the six months starting Oct. 1. For those who enroll by mid-December, coverage will begin Jan. 1. New policies are not directly comparable to those now covering individuals and families who buy insurance on their own.

In many states, insurers now can turn down people with illnesses and disabilities, or charge them higher premiums, based on their medical history or pre-existing conditions. That will generally not be allowed next year.

Under the 2010 law, health benefits are supposed to be similar to those currently provided under a typical employer-sponsored plan. But the new policies will be more comprehensive than many now sold in the individual insurance market. They will, for example, have to cover certain services like maternity care that may now be sold separately, for an extra premium, under a rider to a basic or standard policy.

The figures released by the administration include some curiosities, related to the way premiums and subsidies are calculated. For example, the administration said, in West Palm Beach, Fla., the least generous, least expensive plan available to a family of four with income of $50,000 will cost less than the comparable plan available to a 27-year-old with income of $25,000, after taking account of subsidies in both cases.

And in some places, the administration said, the subsidies will completely offset the cost of the least expensive plan, so consumers will not have to pay any premiums.
559 2013-09-25 UNITED NATIONS — It was the handshake that never happened.

While American officials say the near miss between President Obama and President Hassan Rouhani of Iran at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday means little to the ultimate fate of negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program, it does illustrate the acute political sensitivities that will affect both leaders as they try to embark on a diplomatic path.

After two days of discussions between American and Iranian officials about a potential meeting of the leaders, a senior administration official said, the Iranian delegation indicated that it would be “too complicated” for Mr. Rouhani and Mr. Obama to bump into each other.

“We did not intend to have a formal bilateral meeting and negotiation of any kind,” said the senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the negotiations. “For them, it was just too difficult for them to move forward with that type of encounter at the presidential level, at this juncture.”

The White House had done nothing to dispel speculation about a meeting. It might well have felt confident, given that Mr. Rouhani was granting interviews to American broadcasters in which he struck a remarkably moderate tone. On Tuesday morning, the General Assembly was buzzing with rumors of a history-making encounter. Hopes flagged when Mr. Rouhani failed to show up for a lunch given by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, which would have provided the best site for a handshake.

By the time Mr. Rouhani took the rostrum at the United Nations late on Tuesday afternoon, it was clear that he felt compelled to undertake a slight course correction. In a speech that seemed pitched as much to a domestic audience as to a room of world leaders, he unfurled a familiar list of grievances, speaking of the repression of the Palestinian people and “warmongering” forces in the United States.

Mr. Rouhani’s words were a far cry from the inflammatory language of his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. He did not mention Israel, let alone condemn it. Nor did he deny the existence of the Holocaust. But his message was clearly aimed at placating hard-line elements in Iran, who analysts say will be quick to undermine Mr. Rouhani’s attempt at diplomacy if he is perceived as moving too fast.
560 2013-09-25 The statistic is so often repeated that it has become central to San Francisco’s self image: there are more dogs than children in the city.

And there is only one part of the nation’s entire national park system — whose 401 units cover 84 million acres — that provides any area whatsoever for dogs to run off-leash: the Golden Gate National Recreational Area, spread across 74,816 acres of marshes, lagoons and 28 miles of shoreline from Marin County in the north to San Mateo in the south.

The bulk of the recreation area, though, hugs some of the prime spots on this dense, bustling city’s waterfront, where over the years, residents have gotten used to letting their dogs go without a leash in many parts of the park.

“We were stunned when we saw the second draft of the park service’s dog plan,” Ms. Walters, of the dog group, said as she watched her 8-year-old rescue dog, Grace, wade into the mild surf, the Golden Gate Bridge rising with improbable grandeur in the background.

“Despite all our work,” Ms. Walters said, “they ignored pretty much everything we recommended.”

Responding to what it said were rising complaints from park visitors and park officers, the National Park Service decided several years ago to come up with a new, detailed plan that spells out where dogs are allowed.

The first attempt, Mr. Levitt said, was a federal process called Negotiated Rule Making, in which stakeholders representing the various groups that use the park — families, older citizens, environmentalists, exercise enthusiasts and dog owners — tried to sit down and hammer out an agreement.

It did not work.

“People felt those with a different viewpoint were intractable while they were being flexible,” Mr. Levitt said. “Most people see the world through their own lens.”

The park service then turned to writing its own Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, and released its first draft in January 2011. Dog owners found it too restrictive, while some environmental groups found it too lenient.

A public comment period attracted more than 4,700 people, most of them agitated dog owners. So it was with some disappointment that the dog owners read the 1,500-page second draft, released this month.

There is now a 90-day public comment period for dog owners and others to make their displeasure known. Then a final plan will be unveiled, probably in early 2015.

The plan breaks down all 22 areas where dogs have been allowed throughout the park. In some of those areas, dogs will be banned. In others, they will be allowed if leashed. Dogs will be allowed without a leash in only seven areas of the park “where impacts to visitor experience and safety and sensitive resources would be minimized,” and even there the dogs must respond to their owner’s voice commands.

Several people walking their dogs in Crissy Field this week said they would probably just continue to bring their pets here, even if the rules change, and test the level of enforcement.

“Actually, I wouldn’t say test,” said Menden Kibera, a stay-at-home mother who says she brings her Rhodesian Ridgeback to the park pretty much every day. “I’d say protest.”

That is the way San Francisco is wired, people on all sides of the issue say. They are devoted to their dogs, to their parks and to the kind of freewheeling outdoors lifestyle that Northern California provides in abundance — and if they do not get what they want, they organize.

“I don’t think we’re spoiling our dogs — I think they’re living a wonderful life,” Ms. Walters said. “I mean, we all live here in the Bay Area for a reason. We don’t live in Chicago.”
561 2013-09-25 The Red Bulls are likely to face the Seattle Sounders on Sunday night without two of the club’s top players — striker Thierry Henry and defender Jamison Olave.

Coach Mike Petke, speaking during his weekly telephone conference call Tuesday, said: “Both those guys are huge question marks. I would probably lean toward more no, they would not be going.”

The Red Bulls are riding a four-game winning streak that has taken them to the top of the overall standings in Major League Soccer with 51 points. Seattle is No. 2 over all with 50 points and the match, which will be televised nationally by ESPN2 (9 p.m. Eastern) is likely to draw a large crowd to CenturyLink Field. The Red Bulls have never led the race for the league’s Supporters Shield, which goes to the No. 1 team in the regular season, this late in a campaign. The shield winner also earns an automatic berth in next season’s Concacaf Champions League.

Henry’s absence for what is shaping up to be the biggest game of the regular season really is not that surprising because he rarely plays games on artificial turf, the playing surface in Seattle. He played on turf once this season, in the opening game at Portland, but did not play at New England. In past seasons, Henry’s absence on turf has been attributed to his chronic problems with an Achilles’ tendon.

“I haven’t had a direct conversation with him about it yet, but going by history, it would appear that he wouldn’t be available,” Petke said. “It’s very easy for supporters, even media, to say it’s a huge game and that it’s ridiculous or whatever. But you have to go with the doctors, talk to the doctors. It’s not something that he doesn’t like turf. He has a chronic issue with the Achilles. And if it’s a situation where I am told by the doctor that it can be damaged, then it’s a situation. Or you going to sacrifice to take that risk for one game, no matter what the significance is, when there are still four more left, three more left to play in the regular season and hopefully the playoffs.”

Henry also missed a game that the Red Bulls played on grass at Columbus in early August.

“It is a big game, but the health of him as one of our key players is extremely important,” Petke said. “I wouldn’t 100 percent rule him out, but going by history, I wouldn’t hold out a ton of hope that he would be playing on turf this weekend. But you never know.”

Olave, who has been a mountain in the center of the Red Bulls’ defense, has been dealing with a tender knee for much of the season. Last Sunday during the Red Bulls’ 1-0 victory over Dallas, Olave spent several minutes on the turf at the end of the first half but returned and finished out the match.

“It could be he could go through all 90 minutes,” Petke said. “Or it could be one bad turn on the turf and you lose him for the whole season. You go back to yes, it is an important game, but is it important enough to risk a key defender for the remainder of the year?”
562 2013-09-25 “It’s breathtaking that there could be a Stalin brand of vodka in my lifetime,” she said, referring to Stalinskaya, a premium Romanian brand whose slogan is “For the strong ones.” The famines and food shortages that resulted from Stalin’s agricultural policies, which killed millions of Soviet citizens, reverberated through her childhood, and now through her book.

Born in in 1963, Ms. von Bremzen attended a kindergarten for the children of Communist party elites, where she received a state-mandated daily dose of fish oil in a spoonful of Caspian Sea caviar. Her grandfather was a senior Soviet intelligence agent during ; her father worked in the Moscow laboratory dedicated to preserving the corpse of , still entombed in Red Square. (He was in charge of making sure the leader’s skin never changed color.)

But she lived in the Soviet Union just over a decade; in 1974, in the midst of Leonid Brezhnev’s repressive regime, she emigrated to with her mother, Larisa, who is Jewish. It was around that same time that Brighton Beach became a haven for Russian Jewish émigrés. Even now, English is a second (or third) language on the strip, where Georgian bakeries jostle for space with 99-cent stores and Uighur noodle joints. (Stalin and Mao battled over the Uighurs, Central Asian Muslims whose central city is , a crucial midpoint of the spice route that is known for its fragrant, East-West cooking style.)

Nostalgia is visible at every turn in Brighton Beach today, where the rise and fall of the Soviet Union is still playing out. Luxurious supermarkets like Brighton Bazaar are staffed by young Uzbeks and Tajik immigrants, who are leaving Central Asian homelands that had greater wealth as members of the U.S.S.R. than they do now. La Brioche, a bakery that has revived the extraordinary pastry traditions of turn-of-the-century Odessa, stands opposite glossy buildings, behind security gates, that are rising along the waterfront, providing pieds-à-terre for wealthy Muscovites.

Some places, like Elza Fancy Food, serve improbable (and sometimes great) hybrids like Uzbek-Korean cuisine, but the food often has a strange, sad Soviet back story. Central Asian dishes like rice plov and lagman noodles, many types of chim-cha (the Northern cousin of kimchi), and a kind of peppery potato kugel called hanum are results of Stalin’s first mass deportations — the “cleansings” that still cause mayhem today, in places as far away as and as near as .

In 1937, virtually all the ethnic Koreans living near Russia’s far eastern border, around Vladivostok, were put on trains, transported 4,000 miles west and ordered to establish farming collectives. “They were supposed to grow rice for the entire Soviet Union on the Central Asian steppe, where there was nothing,” said Ms. von Bremzen. Thousands died, but some farmers thrived, until the newly independent Central Asian republics became too poor to support them in the post-Soviet era.

Today their descendants are making their way in a changed world — like Alex Kan, a young co-owner of Elza Fancy Food, who arrived in via Tashkent, and speaks Russian, North Korean and some Uzbek. (He has tried New York Korean food, but finds it too fiery.)

Ms. von Bremzen made multiple research trips to Moscow, pulling government records and reading new histories of the Soviet era that would never have seen light under the old order. In one of the book’s devastating segments, she lays out Khrushchev’s plan of replacing wheat with corn as the nation’s staple grain, which ended in crop failures and the first Soviet-era bread lines, “a cartoonish fiasco with millions of tons of topsoil simply blowing away,” she said. Bread, she reminds us, is symbolic and sacred: the one true food of the Russian table.

She also tells the remarkable story of the most influential figure in the Soviet cooking landscape: Anastas Mikoyan, a high-ranking Politburo member who became the first “people’s commissar” for food. At Stalin’s urging, he visited America in 1936 to study the food systems of a vast industrial democracy, as the Soviet Union then saw itself.

Having met with and tasted popcorn, Mikoyan returned with grand plans for self-serve cafeterias, mechanized cow milking and Eskimo pies. In 1939, his agency published the first and only Soviet cookbook, “The Book of Healthy and Tasty Food,” a kind of state-sponsored “Joy of Cooking.” Through many editions, it remained the only officially approved cookbook until the Soviet Union ended in 1991.

“Imagine: one-sixth of the world’s land mass was supposed to have one cookbook,” Ms. von Bremzen said. “It’s no wonder that now we have gone from monochrome to multichrome.”
563 2013-09-25 A row of long tables dominates the center of this soaring restaurant with floor-to-ceiling windows. “We felt it was important to capture the sense of communal, social dining you find in Spain,” Ken Oringer said about the New York edition of the Boston tapas bar and restaurant he is opening with his co-chef and partner, Jamie Bissonnette. You’ll find a couple of classics from the Boston menu like patatas bravas and beef heart romesco. The menu also includes a sea urchin sandwich and cockles with scrambled eggs among the bite-size pinchos, and dozens of hot and cold tapas. Several paellas round out the menu. There is also a plancha bar featuring abalone, sea cucumbers and even carrots. The drink options include sangria on tap and sherry cocktails. “It’s an honor to be cooking in the same building as Tom Colicchio, Mario Batali and Mark Ladner,” Mr. Oringer said. (Opens Wednesday): 85 10th Avenue (entrance on 15th Street and 11th Avenue), (212) 691-2360, toro-nyc.com.

AMERICAN CUT LDV Hospitality has installed a TriBeCa branch of Marc Forgione’s Atlantic City steakhouse. Cuts of meat are listed by whether they have been wet- or dry-aged. There are also potatoes cooked in fat from dry-aged beef, plenty of seafood and more than a dozen butters and sauces for the main course. (Friday): 363 Greenwich Street (Franklin Street), (212) 226-4736, americancutsteakhouse.com.

LA CENITA With Akhtar Nawab as chef, the former Abe & Arthur’s now serves casual Mexican food. The menu features tacos, king crab tostadas, lobster and potato tostones and other familiar fare, often reinterpreted. The duplex space has a bar for ceviche and raw seafood: 409 West 14th Street, (646) 289-3930, emmgrp.com.

1200 MILES The name is the distance between Paris and Algiers, and Pierre Rougey, the executive chef, combines French and North African cuisines. Smoked duck terrine and brandade de morue coexist with lamb tagine. (Thursday): 31 West 21st Street, (212) 510-8722, 1200milesnyc.com.

SKAL Iceland and “northern ingredients” inspired Oli Bjorn Stephensen’s new restaurant, serving cod, lamb, arctic char, cauliflower and cucumbers. Ben Spiegel, the chef, was an intern at Noma in Copenhagen and chef at Willows Inn in Seattle: 37 Canal Street (Ludlow Street), (212) 777-7518, skalnyc.com.

‘EL BULLI 2005-2011’ As a sort of last hurrah for El Bulli, Ferran Adrià has announced that in March 2014, Phaidon Press will publish this seven-volume work for $625. Six books will document the food, and the seventh, to be called “Evolutionary Analysis,” will be about techniques.
564 2013-09-25 Despite the early hour, I stepped up and ordered one well done. It was soon handed across the counter: a bulbous, artificial-skin dog of the type often called a “ballpark frank,” sporting a giant gash that might alarm an emergency-room physician. Among several ways the ripper may be dressed, foremost is Rutts’s signature relish, said to have been invented by the founder’s mother back in : a canary-yellow condiment that tastes as if it contains mustard, onions and sweet-pickle relish. While it seemed a little strange eating a hot dog for breakfast, the fellow behind me polished off four in under five minutes.

Near the northern end of Clifton, several working-class neighborhoods away, is the Hot Grill (669 Lexington Avenue, 973-772-6000), a name that suggests more raciness than the elderly male staff, in starched white outfits, can deliver. Hot Grill is a prime advocate of another genre of regional frank known as the Texas wiener. Indeed, its logo shows a lanky hot dog wearing a cowboy hat and chaps.

Hot Grill’s flagship frank is deep-fried and smothered in a warm, coarse-textured brown sauce erroneously called chili. The story of how this misnomer occurred is too long to recount here; suffice it to say that the sauce is really a cinnamon-scented minced meat, the kind you may find in Greek pastitsio.

The next leg of the trip involved an hour’s drive west to the tiny farming community of Buttzville, not far from the Delaware Water Gap and the border. It had begun raining heavily, but Hot Dog Johnny’s (333 Route 46, 908-453-2882), picturesquely situated on the banks of the Pequest River, had an eager knot of customers, cowering under the overhang of the flying-saucer-shaped green building. Here I found a third type of hot dog, a deep-fried ballpark frank elegantly garnished with mustard, chopped raw onions and an entire dill-pickle spear, giving it a pronounced Teutonic air.

Much stranger at Hot Dog Johnny’s is the traditional beverage choice, delivered in frosty mugs for consumption in the dining room or at outdoor picnic tables: birch beer or buttermilk. While the birch beer, often associated with the Pennsylvania Dutch, goes perfectly with hot dogs, buttermilk seems a weird choice. But it remains “popular with both young and old,” the counterman said when I asked him, expecting to hear that nobody ordered it anymore. Remember, this is farming country.

Another 20 minutes’ drive downstate, Toby’s Cup (857 Memorial Parkway, 908-859-1925) is on the outskirts of Phillipsburg, a small Delaware River city with some lovely 19th-century architecture, in an aquamarine building that looks like a treehouse that an elephant sat on.

The customer area is so small that no more than a few can stand inside. As I entered, three towheaded boys with fishing rods stood by the order window like something out of “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.”

The franks at Toby’s Cup are nearly identical to those at Hot Dog Johnny’s, only smokier, with two pickles instead of one. They cost $1.18 each, so the five-dollar bill one of the boys clutched was enough to buy lunch for three, with money left over for candy.

Farther into Phillipsburg, at the foot of the toll-free bridge favored by locals that goes to Easton, Pa., stands Jimmy’s Doggie Stand (7 Union Square, 908-859-1000). This gleaming, modern restaurant, with a dining room in back, caters to many tastes, proffering franks variously topped with cheese, sauerkraut, chili, mustard, raw onions, pickles or a “spicy red sauce” that the waitress heartily recommended. It turned out to be the same red onion condiment served in New York, doctored with hot sauce.

Jimmy’s was the only place I’d encountered anything like that west of Jersey City, and a picture of the Parthenon on the wall suggested why: the onion topping was invented by Greek hot-dog vendors in New York, and this appearance betokened a westward migration.

As the deluge recommenced, it was time to cross the state’s midsection again, east to the , where Long Branch is the capital of a vastly different type of frankfurter. Max’s Famous Hot Dogs (25 Matilda Terrace, 732-571-0248), founded by Max Altman in 1928, occupies a spacious new spot on Ocean Boulevard, seating perhaps 120 at a counter that runs around the O-shaped bar and at a score of tables.

The seaside version of the Jersey frank is humongous — a quarter-pound, beef-pork footlong that sizzles on a flat griddle till the natural skin turns crisp and partly blackens. These opulent dogs are served at Max’s in several different ways: girt with bacon, split down the middle with a slice of American cheese tucked inside, or with a chili that tastes somewhat more like real chili than the wiener variety.

But Max’s is not alone in this endeavor. A few blocks south, in a building strikingly shaped like its Dutch muse, the WindMill (586 Ocean Boulevard, 732-229-9863) offers footlongs with a roster of toppings you spoon on yourself, including a New York-style heated sauerkraut that the counterman yanks from the griddle. The WindMill’s greatest competitive advantage is an outdoor upper deck, where you can eat with a view of the ocean. As I drove out of town feeling stuffed and slightly ill, I passed another Garden State icon: Gov. , making a pitch for Jersey Shore tourism (two weeks before the big fire in Seaside Heights).

While the hot dogs in Long Branch were astonishing in size, nothing prepared me for what I encountered near Newark. Little known to outsiders, the Jersey Italian hot dog is a small-circumference sausage served on hollowed-out “pizza-bread,” a round loaf of the kind often found in . The most famous rendition is at Jimmy Buff’s (60 Washington Street, 973-325-9897) in West Orange, not far from ’s laboratory. Here at Jimmy Buff’s the hot dogs are fried in a lake of cooking oil along with the onions, peppers and rounds of potato that are stuffed into the bread along with the frank or franks, making a gut bomb of indescribable proportions.

An even better example was found at Tommy’s Italian Sausage and Hot Dogs (900 Second Avenue, 908-351-9831), to the south in Elizabeth, where you can also order one, two or three franks crammed inside your pizza bread — they almost get lost among the other toppings. The bread at Tommy’s is soft and bouncy; the natural-skin beef weenies taste exceedingly fresh.

It was way past suppertime as I motored dizzily toward the Holland Tunnel, with one last stop to make. In Jersey City, next to an ornate and ancient movie theater, lurks the narrow yellow Boulevard Drinks (48 Journal Square Plaza, 201-656-1855). In addition to a number of supposed tonic beverages, à la Gray’s Papaya, Boulevard Drinks offers a single viand, a slender hot dog warmed on a griddle with your choice of sauerkraut, cheese sauce, red stewed onions, chopped raw onions and a Texas-wiener-style meat sauce with finely minced onions mixed in.

This dog is clearly a New York-New Jersey hybrid. As such it doesn’t quite belong in this roundup, but it was darned good nonetheless.
565 2013-09-25 A road trip across the Hudson River to sample a variety of New Jerseyan franks....
566 2013-09-25 A spokesman for the Investigative Committee, Vladimir I. Markin, cast Greenpeace’s operation in the Arctic as something akin to espionage, saying the ship was “filled with electronic equipment of unclear purpose.” In a statement, he said that the entire crew would be questioned and that “those most actively involved” could be detained pending trial.

“All those who carried out the attack on the platform will face criminal charges, regardless of their nationality,” he said.

Russia has clashed repeatedly with the United States in recent months, beginning with the highly publicized arrest of an American diplomat — and the disclosure of the identity of the Central Intelligence Agency’s station chief — and culminating with the decision to grant temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who leaked classified documents.

The announcement that Russia might charge such a prominent environmental organization as Greenpeace came on a day in which officials from Russia and several other nations, including those with citizens aboard the Arctic Sunrise, gathered for an annual conference on the Arctic held here in the capital of the Yamal-Nenets autonomous region.

The handling of the case cast a shadow on the conference’s themes of health and environmental safety in the Arctic in the face of a changing climate that has opened the seas for longer periods each year. Mr. Putin, who has decreed a new strategy to rebuild Russia’s economic and military power in the Arctic, was scheduled to address the conference on Wednesday.

Greenpeace International sent the ship to the region in August to draw attention to the potential environmental threats caused by a rush to exploit natural resources in a dangerous and fragile region. The oil platform, not far from the island of Novaya Zemlya, or New Land, is the first offshore oil rig in the Arctic. It was completed last year, built to withstand crushing ice floes, and is expected to begin pumping oil next year, though its development has been hampered by complications and delays.

Mr. Markin said in the statement that the activists aboard the ship had carried out an illegal and dangerous act by trying to scale the platform, threatening not only those involved in the offshore confrontation but also the environment that the organization is devoted to protecting.

Maria Favorskaya, a representative for Greenpeace Russia currently in Murmansk, said some of the activists were taken from the Arctic Sunrise to the local office of the Investigative Committee on Tuesday evening. Defense lawyers had gathered there waiting for demonstrators to be delivered from the ship, she said, and expected they would be questioned the same evening.

Kumi Naidoo, the executive director of Greenpeace International, dismissed the charge of piracy, saying that “peaceful activism” is crucial to raise awareness about the impacts of climate change in the Arctic and elsewhere.

“Any charge of piracy against peaceful protests has no merit in international law,” Mr. Naidoo said in a statement. “We will not be intimidated or silenced by these absurd accusations and demand the immediate release of our activists.”

Greenpeace’s protests have often run afoul of the authorities around the world. In 2006, the British briefly seized a ship, as did the Soviet Union in 1989 and Russia in 1992, after Greenpeace staged protests over the nuclear testing grounds on Novaya Zemlya, according to the organization. The seizure of the Arctic Sunrise appeared to be the most serious crisis since the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior off New Zealand in 1985.

The United States Embassy did not immediately respond to inquiries about the fate of the American aboard: the ship’s captain, Peter Willcox, a veteran of Greenpeace who was captain of the Rainbow Warrior when it was bombed.

The conference in Salekhard, a city that straddles the Arctic Circle, is the third that Russia has organized to promote scientific and diplomatic collaboration and a balanced policy that does not preclude energy exploration, as sought by groups like Greenpeace. Among those attending the gathering, titled “The Arctic — Territory of Dialogue,” are environmentalists and executives of several oil companies, including Statoil of Norway and Eni of Italy.

Artur N. Chilingarov, an Arctic explorer, a member of the upper house of Parliament and Mr. Putin’s special envoy on polar issues, said he opposed “such extremist actions.” Speaking to reporters during a break in the meetings, he noted that he had founded a chapter of Greenpeace here when Russia was still part of the Soviet Union and said he remained committed to protecting the Arctic environment.

“Let us solve problems through dialogue,” he said.
567 2013-09-25 Wall Street was unable to shrug off doubts about government gridlock on Tuesday, as concerns about a government shutdown dragged much of the stock market lower in the final half-hour of trading.

The modest losses extended the losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index to four days. It was the longest run of declines in a month. The Dow Jones industrial average also dropped for a fourth consecutive day.

Investors struggled with conflicting news about the economy on Tuesday. One report showed that home prices in July rose the most in more than seven years. Another showed that Americans’ confidence in the economy slipped in September.

Investors are searching for direction after the Federal Reserve’s decision last Wednesday to keep its stimulus program intact. They had expected a reduction in the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities.

Many investors remain nervous about political gridlock in Washington, expressing concern that the federal government could shut down because Washington lawmakers appear to be making little progress in budget talks.
568 2013-09-25 What is it about a breaded and fried slice of meat that is so cross-culturally endearing? Call it a cutlet, call it chicken-fried steak. Call it schnitzel or Milanesa or cotoletta alla Milanese; everybody loves it the world around. Use beef, veal or pork. Or use chicken or turkey. It’s all good.

The technique is always the same: the meat is flattened by pounding, dipped in flour and beaten egg, then coated in bread crumbs and shallow-fried until golden and crisp.

There are abundant regional variations, and I try to sample them wherever I go. Quality varies, but if you are a fan, it is hard to find a truly bad version. The point is, even a tough cut of meat, when prepared in this fashion, emerges from the pan succulent and tender.

I’ve had genuine delicate Wiener schnitzel in Vienna, authentic big-as-a-plate Milanese cutlets in and the well-loved Milanesa in , sometimes as a sandwich. I can’t resist even a so-so truck stop rendition of chicken-fried anything, country gravy and all. I have a fondness for my Israeli friend’s stellar chicken schnitzel rolled in cornflake crumbs. And a morsel or two of Japanese tonkatsu in a panko crust is always nice.

Making this breaded marvel is easy at home. I cut thin slices from a pork loin and flatten them only a bit. Rather than fine dry crumbs, I prefer to make soft crumbs from a day-old French loaf, cubed and whirled in a food processor, which creates a coating with a little texture.
569 2013-09-26 The activist hedge fund manager William A. Ackman has dislodged the company’s underperforming boss, John McGlade. For bigger, more lasting success, however, a painstaking transformation of the company is now needed...
570 2013-09-26 The Obama administration announced that the insurance marketplaces for small businesses would be fully open for enrollment a month later than it had planned....
571 2013-09-26 Nearly 6 in 10 Americans express dissatisfaction with the government’s 2008 rescue of financial institutions, and only about a third approve, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll....
572 2013-09-26 Christie’s took in nearly $25 million at the first auction in mainland China by an international auction, a sale that included the first work by Picasso to be sold at auction in that country....
573 2013-09-26 Nissan said it would recall about 98,000 of its 2006-10 Infiniti M models in the United States because of a loss of power. Toyota will recall 615,000 Sienna minivans for a transmission problem....
574 2013-09-26 Ms. Fleming performed the “Top 10 Opera Lyrics” on “Late Show With David Letterman.”...
575 2013-09-26 How to find a cheap flight. Using Google Plus for contests. Health insurance premiums come in lower than expected....
576 2013-09-26 Air Products and Chemicals, a producer of industrial gases, is adding three new directors to its board and beginning a search for a new chief executive, changes supported by the activist investor William A. Ackman....
577 2013-09-26 Metropolitan Diary: A woman poetically asks that men who wish to get her attention use her preferred title....
578 2013-09-26 A score report from a high-scoring kindergarten applicant shows the components of an evaluation.
579 2013-09-26 Calling it a “matter of justice,” Gov. Jerry Brown signed a bill on Wednesday that will raise California’s minimum wage to $10 an hour within three years. The minimum of $8 an hour will go to $9 next July 1, then to $10 on Jan. 1, 2016. In opposing the raise, Republican lawmakers said increased wages would encourage businesses to cut jobs and automate. Federal law sets a minimum wage of $7.25 per hour, but California is among 19 states and the District of Columbia that sets higher minimums. Some cities have higher rates, including San Francisco, which has the nation’s highest minimum wage, $10.50 an hour.
580 2013-09-26 Mr. Xi is eager to assert authority over the domestic security agencies and the military, said Ding Xueliang, a professor at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology who has studied corruption in China.

Mr. Zhou, who retired as a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, a rank that is widely assumed to make him effectively untouchable, will be an important test of Mr. Xi’s intentions and authority.

“What’s going on can be called shaking the mountain to scare the tiger,” said Professor Ding, citing a Chinese expression meaning a show of strength to warn others.

“It’s also about Xi consolidating control over the key parts of the system,” Professor Ding said. “It says to Zhou Yongkang, ‘We are in the process of collecting all the evidence of people close to you, and if you don’t keep yourself disciplined, we can do more.’ Others will also understand that warning.”

In late August, four senior managers of the oil company, known by its initials C.N.P.C., and its stock market-listed arm, PetroChina, were dismissed in a party investigation into allegations of disciplinary violations, a term that usually means corruption. Days later, a former chairman of C.N.P.C., Jiang Jiemin, was publicly accused of the same charges and then dismissed from his job in charge of the government agency that administers state-owned companies.

Mr. Jiang and several other oil executives under investigation had worked under Mr. Zhou when he was a rising official at C.N.P.C. and its predecessor, a state organization. And even before the oil scandal broke into the open, a corruption investigation in Sichuan Province, where Mr. Zhou served as party chief, had taken down officials who were close to him.

But this is potentially treacherous terrain for China’s new leadership, observers said. From 2007 until last year, Mr. Zhou, 70, was head of the party’s Legal and Political Affairs Committee, which oversees the police, courts, state security and other powerful agencies for domestic law and order. As a member of the Standing Committee, he was part of the innermost council of party power.

With that background, Mr. Zhou might be able to summon support from allies and party elders, and any formal charges against him could tear up norms that for decades have insulated top leaders and their families from scrutiny and shored up elite stability. Mr. Xi and his colleagues will probably refrain from publicly pursuing or punishing Mr. Zhou, said most observers.

“They want to have a cleaner playground,” Professor Ding said of Mr. Xi and his colleagues. “But I don’t think the decision has been made to openly punish Zhou Yongkang. If they come to that decision, then the rules of the game change dramatically.”

But as the trial of Mr. Bo showed, corruption allegations that date back decades can be exhumed to make a case against an official. And there are signs that Mr. Zhou’s past is also exposed to official scrutiny.

In July 2012, C.N.P.C. held a leaders’ meeting in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province in southwest China. Mr. Jiang, who was then chairman and party secretary of the company, spoke, as did Li Chuncheng, who was then deputy party secretary of the province. A deputy head of the provincial legislature, Guo Yongxiang, was among the dozens of officials who attended the meeting, according to reports on the company’s Web site.

Now all three men are under investigation by the party’s chief anticorruption agency, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, an ominous development for Mr. Zhou, who has career ties with all of them. In December, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection publicly targeted Mr. Li, who had risen quickly in Sichuan while Mr. Zhou was party chief from 1999 to 2002. Probably even more unnerving for Mr. Zhou, his former secretary, Mr. Guo, was detained in June.

“The fact that it’s oil and Sichuan, two places where Zhou’s been for parts of his career, certainly suggests that there’s something involving Zhou here,” said Erica S. Downs, a researcher at the Brookings Institution in Washington who studies Chinese energy policy and politics. “You could probably make the case that Jiang Jiemin is the closest to Zhou Yongkang.”

The government has not publicly named Mr. Zhou as the target of any investigation, but investigators have focused on Mr. Zhou’s son, Zhou Bin, a businessman, two sources familiar with his movements have said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid recriminations. In China, criminal investigations against senior officials are usually opened only after party investigators complete their inquiries and leaders decide whether to proceed to the courts. Neither Mr. Zhou nor his son has publicly responded to the reports and rumors about them.

Even if Mr. Zhou is spared public punishment or censure, Mr. Xi has sent a warning to other officials and powerful arms of the party-state, analysts said. For critics, C.N.P.C. embodies the quasi-monopolistic dominance of state-owned conglomerates and their access to credit and political patronage that have ensured their growth, to the cost of potential competitors and the long-term health of the Chinese economy.

“It’s not so much Zhou personally; it’s breaking down his networks, and that patronage system that had allowed the oil companies to become extremely powerful,” said Michal Meidan, a senior analyst at Eurasia Group in London who follows Chinese politics and energy companies. “The message has been sent that they no longer have unlimited power.”

The investigation is also likely to send that message to the public security apparatus, where Mr. Zhou amassed a growing budget and influence. Critics have said that Mr. Zhou used that influence to promote and protect Mr. Bo, the politician tried last month for corruption, embezzlement and abuse of power.

A separate investigation into military corruption appears intended to send a similar warning there. Gu Junshan, a general who was the deputy director of the military’s General Logistics Department, has been investigated on corruption charges since his removal last year. Chinese news reports, as well as party insiders, have said that General Gu has been accused of amassing a fortune through illegal sales of military land and posts.

For decades, top party leaders have shied away from targeting their peers on corruption charges, even though subordinates may be punished.

That informal arrangement has constrained elite rivalry, and if Mr. Xi does away with it, he would alarm retired leaders, including the former president and party chief Jiang Zemin, said Zheng Yongnian, the director of the East Asian Institute at National University of Singapore.

“Xi Jinping must do something to show that he has command over those interests — that they are not independent kingdoms. Otherwise, no one will follow him,” Mr. Zheng said. “Of course, how far he can go is another matter.”
581 2013-09-26 But in some instances, inviting a gaggle of people to be on a panel seemed effective, because it gave the audience a cross section of viewpoints. For instance, at one session on Wednesday, the panelists were eager enough to hear one another’s remarks that they began talking among themselves in addition to responding to questions from the moderator.

That panel, titled “Creative Carousel,” by its very name signals that it was intended to be filled with agency creative executives. There were seven panelists in addition to the moderator, which was actually fewer than last year, when 11 panelists rode the creative merry-go-round.

One issue the panel discussed was the proliferation of platforms on which to run ads and the effect on the ability to balance creativity with technology.

“The more technology expands, the more challenging it is to know what to make,” said Peter Moore Smith, executive vice president and executive creative director at Saatchi & Saatchi New York.

The creative briefs that agencies now receive from clients “are very open-ended,” he added, making it challenging to determine the right platforms.

Carlos Figueiredo, executive creative director at Publicis Kaplan Thaler, said, “Sometimes I miss the days when I had a print ad and a radio spot.”

Another subject the panel discussed was the various skills required to produce ads and how it was sometimes difficult to determine which staff members were needed for an assignment.

“You’re almost a Hollywood producer, you’re casting all the time,” said Matt Eastwood, chief creative officer at DDB New York. There was a time recently, he said, when creative directors were eager to learn how to code and develop digital strategies.

Mr. Figueiredo said: “Nothing is above anyone’s pay grade anymore. If you do the spot, you’re going to do the banner, you’re going to do the Facebook post.”

Reid Miller, executive creative director at the New York office of Taxi, said the new normal was not unwelcome: “It’s taught us a little bit of humility.”

Casting a wider net and hiring people with experience outside the industry has been beneficial, said Quincy Cherry, senior vice president and chief creative officer at the UniWorld Group. “Finding a copywriter who has not written copy before is breathtaking,” he added.

The panelists also talked about how agencies with different specialties or different parents, or both, often wind up collaborating on work for a mutual client.

Matt Ian, executive creative director at TBWA/Chiat/Day New York, joked about the confusion that typically ensues. “But we all work for the same company now, I think,” he said. The audience started laughing.

Quips about the parentage of agencies have been a hallmark of Advertising Week 2013 as a result of the recent announcement of a merger between the Omnicom Group and the Publicis Groupe, which would create the world’s largest agency holding group. Part of a “C.E.O. Forum” on Wednesday — six panelists and a moderator — was devoted to talking about the deal.

David Jones, chief executive at Havas, which like Publicis is a French agency holding group, echoed pointed remarks he made after the announcement, questioning how well the combination would work for clients and employees because “the complexity is enormous.”

Bob Jeffrey, worldwide chairman and chief executive at JWT, part of WPP — the largest agency holding group, until the merger takes effect — said he believed that a decision to have the merged company, the Publicis Omnicom Group, led by a pair of co-chief executives would prove unwieldy. “That’s a recipe for a problem,” he said.

Another panelist, Ross Levinsohn, chief executive at Guggenheim Digital Media, was less willing to cast stones. “There’s no such thing as ‘too big’ anymore,” he said, adding that he would give the merger two years before judging it a success or failure.
582 2013-09-26 The world team championships in Bali, Indonesia, have reached the semifinal stage.

In the Venice Cup, USA-2 (Disa Eythorsdottir, Janice Seamon-Molson, Jill Levin, Jenny Wolpert, Jill Meyers and Migry Zur-Campanile) defeated Poland in the 96-board quarterfinal by 173 international match points to 125. USA-1 (Barbara Sonsini, Judi Radin, Lynn Deas, Beth Palmer, Irina Levitina and Kerri Sanborn) lost to England by 65 imps.

In the semifinals, USA-2 will take on the Netherlands and England will play China, who put out the defending champions, France.

The USA-1 Bermuda Bowl team (Kevin Bathurst, Kevin Dwyer, John Kranyak, Gavin Wolpert, Bobby Levin and Steve Weinstein) beat Canada by 55.3 imps and will play Monaco next.

The other semi is between Italy and Poland, who eliminated the reigning champions from the Netherlands.

USA-2 (Martin Fleisher, Mike Kamil, Zia Mahmood, Chip Martel, Michael Rosenberg and Chris Willenken) just failed in a bid to qualify for the quarterfinals.

In the d’Orsi Senior Trophy, USA-2 (Carolyn Lynch, Mike Passell, Roger Bates, Garey Hayden, Marc Jacobus and Eddie Wold) defeated Scotland by 149 imps and will meet Poland in the semifinals. The second match is between France, the defending champions, and Germany.
583 2013-09-26 “Baked” is a new buzzword referring to cosmetics that start out as liquids, rather than being milled and compressed into compacts. They promise denser and truer pigmentation, longer wear and easier blending. Like bread, some of the best baked makeup (including the three brands here) is made in Italy.

Of the 600-plus products in the Bobbi Brown line, the only baked item is her Shimmer Brick highlighter, below. Its creation involves a wet slurry powder that is placed into a pastalike machine and cut into small strips. They are baked twice and then shaved, lending the final product a velvety surface ($42, bobbibrown.com).

Also dabbling in baked goods is Laura Mercier, who in her Dark Spell Collection has introduced two eye shadows, Magical (below) and Mystical (each $23). In October, she will appeal to customers’ cravings for sweets with Petite Baked Eye Colour Bonbons ($25) and, for a splurge, Les Petits Bonbons Luxurious Baked Eye Colour Palette, with 30 shadows from matte to demi-matte, shimmer to high-shimmer ($250, lauramercier.com).

Laura Geller Beauty introduces Baked Elements Foundation this month. Formulated with water said to be extracted from a thermal spring in Calabria and infused with antioxidants, the products are baked for 24 hours on terra-cotta tiles, then hand finished by artisans who turn them into silky domes of powder ($33, laurageller.com).
584 2013-09-26 The networks on Tuesday night again demonstrated that they can successfully introduce a series to the public, as ABC’s much-hyped new comic-book drama, “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” posted the best numbers for a new drama in almost four years.

Still, the story of the early television season remains the performance of the NBC singing competition “The Voice,” which scored another two hours of hit ratings on Tuesday, surpassing its performance a year ago and leading all of television for its second hour.

The result for “S.H.I.E.L.D.” was welcome news for ABC, which put enormous support behind the start of the series, a spinoff from the movie franchise “The Avengers” (except that it does not star superheroes). Though the characters can’t fly, the premiere did, attracting just under 12 million viewers and a big 4.6 rating among viewers in the 18- to 49-year-old age group, which ABC uses for most of its ad sales. (That number, which is based on initial overnight sampling, is sure to grow when national ratings come in and even more so after delayed viewing is counted over the next three days.)

“S.H.I.E.L.D.” is the third new drama this season to open with hit-size numbers, following “Sleepy Hollow” on Fox and “The Blacklist” on NBC.

Unfortunately for ABC, Tuesday was book-ended by a second new drama, “Lucky 7,” which opened with the lowest drama ratings for a fall premiere that ABC has ever scored: fewer than five million viewers and only a 1.3 rating in that 18-49 category.
585 2013-09-26 The pressure on small businesses to manage fulfillment costs stems from expectations in the marketplace generated by large retailers, especially Amazon. The online giant has 40 large fulfillment centers around the United States that it uses to offer free two-day shipping to its Prime subscribers, and it is now building five new facilities that are expected to enable it to deliver many items the day they are ordered.

Some smaller e-commerce sites have responded with something of an if-you-can’t-beat-them-join-them attitude, turning to Fulfillment by Amazon, a program that lets them use the retailer’s state-of-the-art distribution system to ship items not even sold by Amazon. But it typically charges more than a standard 3PL provider, about $6 per sale for a product with the approximate size and weight of a sippy cup.

Other businesses treat fulfillment as something of an existential exercise, one subject to constant reappraisal and revision. Several months after the Lims signed on with their 3PL provider, for example, they took another look at the arrangement. Not only were they spending about $8,000 in monthly 3PL fees, they were enduring far more shipping mistakes. They priced other options, and they realized they could improve quality control and save money by shifting final assembly to their manufacturer and bringing inventory and shipping back in-house, this time to a 2,500-square-foot warehouse staffed by one new employee.

“We’re probably going to save about $50,000 this year doing it this way,” Ms. Lim said. “Once we went the 3PL route, it could have been easy to say, O.K., that’s done. But instead we kept questioning and evaluating. We still are.”

While no two in-house fulfillment operations are the same, certain principles apply. In most successful operations, warehouse space is divided into a section for bulk inventory and an area where product can be found quickly to fill orders, a process known as pick-and-pack. One trend Mr. Halpin said he had noticed in recent years was the heightened sophistication of the off-the-shelf software products that are used to manage aspects of the process. At Lollacup, for example, the company’s online store is powered by an e-commerce package from Shopify, which exports inventory data to the Lims’ QuickBooks program, and interfaces with ShipStation to print shipping labels and generate the right amount of postage.

Driven by Amazon and other major e-commerce sites, shipping has become a costly loss leader for many smaller sites. Jimmy Beans Wool, an $8 million-a-year seller of knitting yarn based in Reno, Nev., for instance, charges a flat rate of $4 on all orders and offers free shipping on purchases of more than $75, which ends up costing the company about $370,000 a year. “We consider it just part of our marketing costs,” said Laura Zander, who founded the business with her husband, Doug. But those costs could be twice that amount, she said, if not for a secret weapon she deploys: the United States Postal Service.

The Postal Service may have a reputation as an antiquated drag on the federal budget, but it is surprisingly competitive in order fulfillment, especially with standard-size packages that weigh less than a pound. (The post office’s competitive advantage falls off sharply on packages weighing over three pounds.)

Using first-class mail, Jimmy Beans can ship a package of yarn anywhere in the continental United States for $2 to $4 and expect it to arrive within two days (compared with $5 to $7 with FedEx or U.P.S. ground). Because the Postal Service also provides shipping materials free for priority and express delivery, the company saves $1 more per box and 30 cents on every envelope. For high-volume customers like Jimmy Beans, the post office will even print the packaging with the customer’s own logo, again for free. “I mean, how cool is that?” Ms. Zander said. “I love America!”

What is more, because post office distribution centers are open six days a week until 10 p.m., Jimmy Beans can accept orders on Saturday — the most popular ordering day of the week for its knitters — package them and drop them off at the distribution center by Saturday evening, confident they will be in East Coast homes by Monday. “A lot of our customers tell us they can’t get over that we’re able to do that,” Ms. Zander said. “To them, it’s almost like magic.”

Some businesses have lowered shipping costs by borrowing a page from Amazon and opening multiple fulfillment centers. The reason has to do with the zoned shipping policies employed by carriers that divide the country into seven zones and charge higher rates for packages that cross zones. Even a company like Adagio Teas, with just shy of $10 million in annual sales, has found that it pays to operate two fulfillment warehouses, one at its headquarters in Garfield, N.J., and another in Fresno, Calif. Michael Cramer, chief executive of Adagio, explains that before his company opened the second facility, shipping a $60 order of iced tea to the West Coast cost $30. Now it is just $10.

Nuts.com, a $20-million-a-year e-tailer of nuts and other snacks, has gone even further — with advanced software systems, scores of white-suited warehouse employees, and a whirring labyrinth of conveyors snaking among shelving towers 20 feet high in a 55,000-square-foot-warehouse. And now Jeffrey Braverman, the chief executive, is considering leaping to the next level.

He is in talks with the German manufacturer of a system that eliminates the need for workers to move between locations to gather products. Instead, the shelves bring the products to them. “It’s like a giant vending machine with a brain,” he said. “Whenever an order comes in, these enormous lifts automatically go up and down and back and forth and grab the right shelf and bring it to the packing area.”

After it is installed, the system, Mr. Braverman said, could save the company more than $500,000 a year. “If the bid comes in at less than $2 million,” he said, “I think I’m going to do it.”
586 2013-09-26 “Our border guards did not know who was trying to seize our platform under the disguise of Greenpeace,” Mr. Putin said. Referring to the deadly terrorist attack on the shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, which began after the Arctic Sunrise was already in tow, Mr. Putin added, “Especially, in the context of the bloody events that took place in Kenya, anything might have happened.”

Kumi Naidoo, the executive director of Greenpeace International, said that the ship was clearly marked and that the activists were engaged solely in peaceful protest, citing as evidence a video of the incident recorded by Russian law enforcement officials and released on YouTube.

“We welcome President Putin’s recognition that our activists are clearly not pirates, and acted purely out of concern for the Arctic environment,” Mr. Naidoo said in a statement. “Our climbers attempted to attach themselves to the side of the platform to raise attention to the threat of Arctic oil drilling in this fragile environment and the urgent need to deal with climate change.”

Under Russian law, investigators must either charge or release the activists within 48 hours. A Greenpeace representative in Murmansk said Wednesday that none had been charged yet. Several prominent international organizations, including the World Wildlife Fund and Amnesty International, have called on Russia to release them.

The Foreign Ministry of the Netherlands on Wednesday demanded that Russia release the ship, which was flying under a Dutch flag, and the crew, which includes several Dutch citizens.

The seizure of the Arctic Sunrise has focused new attention on Russia’s ambitions to develop the Arctic as climate change makes the region more accessible for larger parts of the year. It also cast a shadow over the international conference, where Mr. Putin, joined by the presidents of Finland and Iceland and scores of diplomats, scientists and oil executives, pledged to foster diplomatic, economic and environmental cooperation in the Arctic.

“We are not shying away from it,” Mr. Putin said of the debate over the impact of economic development in the Arctic. “We are gathered at such events to discuss all these problems.”

At the same time, he made it clear that Russia intended to exploit the resources in the region. “From time immemorial, mankind used nature to satisfy its needs, more and more,” Mr. Putin said. “First it was mushroom picking and animal hunting, later on it was mineral resources, metals, hydrocarbons.

“Can it be stopped? Of course not. It’s impossible to stop. The question is how to use them sustainably, how to minimize the damage to nature or to bring it to zero.”
587 2013-09-26 Three things distinguish the new Logitech Z600 desktop Bluetooth speakers. The manufacturer, Logitech, uses two as selling points and doesn’t say much about the third.

The Z600s have an eye-catching design. At about 9.5 inches high, the tapered, cloth-wrapped cylinders look a bit like miniature nuclear power cooling towers, and a textured silver-gray material that wraps them gives the speakers a Moderne look.

Another distinguishing feature is the three drivers. Two face the listener and the bass faces down. The Z600s pump out some serious volume. I thought their sound was very detailed; you can hear every little finger pick, but they are a little bright. After adjusting my iTunes equalizer, they were quite pleasing, but if you are looking for a hip-hop bass sound, these aren’t your best bet.

Keeping ornamentation to a minimum, the on-off switch is discreetly flush with the cabinet, as is the concealed auxiliary input jack. Volume is controlled by swirling your finger on the top surface of the speaker cabinet.

The one thing that Logitech doesn’t mention is all the wiring these little towers require. They are wired to one another and to a power source by stylishly flat cables. It would be nice if they could coil up in the speaker to maintain their sleek look. But how much can you fault them? After all, the speakers aren’t meant to be portable, and to maintain sound quality, sacrifices must be made.

The Z600 speakers are $150 through Logitech and other online retailers.
588 2013-09-27 Friday’s highlights from around the Web include a re-cap of several academics’ visit to the National Security Agency. Plus, what Facebook, Twitter, Tinder, Instagram and Internet pornography are doing to America’s teenage girls....
589 2013-09-27 The elegantly minimal piece, created by the architect Carlos Scarpa, was made by the pioneering company Simon, which has been acquired by the furniture manufacturer Cassina....
590 2013-09-27 Your Money columnist Tara Siegel Bernard has answers to your questions about the new health care exchanges opening on Oct. 1....
591 2013-09-27 The Dogfish Head Brewery plans to open a hotel called the Dogfish Inn in Lewes, Del., next year....
592 2013-09-27 Ustyme allows grandparents and distant friends to share books and games with children over video, but is smart enough to make that connection and get out of the way....
593 2013-09-27 Capital misallocation is a new bad sign for the struggling retailer....
594 2013-09-27 The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.
595 2013-09-27 A Q. and A. with Nolan Conway, who photographed people who spend the night in Walmart parking lots....
596 2013-09-27 America’s ‘toilet turnaround.’ The biggest start-up incubator in the world. And what percent of Yelp’s reviews do you think are fake?...
597 2013-09-27 Tiffany Hayes scored 23 points, Angel McCoughtry had 18 points and the host Atlanta Dream beat the Indiana Fever, 84-79, for a 1-0 lead in the W.N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals. Game 2 is at Indiana on Sunday.
598 2013-09-27 WASHINGTON — The United States and Turkey on Friday will announce the creation of a $200 million fund to combat violent extremism by undercutting the ideological and recruiting appeal of jihadists in places like Somalia, Yemen and Pakistan, State Department officials said Thursday.

While the United States and its allies in the global campaign against terrorism have over the past decade effectively honed their intelligence and reconnaissance skills to hunt terrorists, the West continues to struggle in its efforts to prevent the process of radicalization that creates them.

The new fund, formally called the Global Fund for Community Engagement and Resilience, will for the first time combine financing from both government and nongovernment entities to identify credible local organizations; develop, monitor and evaluate programs; and channel funds to local projects that target groups and individuals vulnerable to appeals from terrorist groups.

It is expected to be operational by mid-2014, officials said.

The initiative, based on other global funds to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, is to be announced by Secretary of State John Kerry and Turkey’s foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, at a meeting of foreign ministers of the Global Counterterrorism Forum in New York. The United States and Turkey are leaders of the group, an organization of 29 countries and the European Union created two years ago with the State Department’s support to act as a clearinghouse of ideas and actions for civilian counterterrorism specialists.

“Countries that have a radicalization problem previously had to rely on ad hoc support from wealthier donor nations, many of which are not bureaucratically capable of sponsoring the small intervention programs necessary to disrupt the radicalization process,” said William McCants, a former State Department counterterrorism official who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution. “Now countries can turn to the global fund to sponsor programs that will pull young men and women back from the edge of terrorist violence.”
599 2013-09-27 1. Determines that the use of chemical weapons anywhere constitutes a threat to international peace and security;

2. Condemns in the strongest terms any use of chemical weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic, in particular the attack on 21 August 2013, in violation of international law;

3. Endorses the decision of the OPCW Executive Council [XX September 2013], which contains special procedures for the expeditious destruction of the Syrian Arab Republic’s chemical weapons program and stringent verification thereof and calls for its full implementation in the most expedient and safest manner;

4. Decides that the Syrian Arab Republic shall not use, develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile or retain chemical weapons, or transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to other States or non-State actors;

5. Underscores that no party in Syria should use, develop, produce, acquire, stockpile, retain, or transfer chemical weapons;

6. Decides that the Syrian Arab Republic shall comply with all aspects of the decision of the OPCW Executive Council of [XX September 2013] (Annex I);

7. Decides that the Syrian Arab Republic shall cooperate fully with the OPCW and the United Nations, including by complying with their relevant recommendations, by accepting personnel designated by the OPCW or the United Nations, by providing for and ensuring the security of activities undertaken by these personnel, by providing these personnel with immediate and unfettered access to and the right to inspect, in discharging their functions, any and all sites, and by allowing immediate and unfettered access to individuals that the OPCW has grounds to believe to be of importance for the purpose of its mandate, and decides that all parties in Syria shall cooperate fully in this regard;

8. Decides to authorize an advance team of United Nations personnel to provide early assistance to OPCW activities in Syria, requests the Director-General of the OPCW and the Secretary-General to closely cooperate in the implementation of the Executive Council decision of [XX September 2013] and this resolution, including through their operational activities on the ground, and further requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Director-General of the OPCW and, where appropriate, the Director-General of the World Health Organization, to submit to the Council within 10 days of the adoption of this resolution recommendations regarding the role of the United Nations in eliminating the Syrian Arab Republic’s chemical weapons program;

9. Notes that the Syrian Arab Republic is a party to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, decides that OPCW-designated personnel undertaking activities provided for in this resolution or the decision of the OPCW Executive Council of [XX September 2013] shall enjoy the privileges and immunities contained in the Verification Annex, Part II(B) of the Chemical Weapons Convention, and calls on the Syrian Arab Republic to conclude modalities agreements with the United Nations and the OPCW;

10. Encourages Member States to provide support, including personnel, technical expertise, information, equipment, and financial and other resources and assistance, in coordination with the Director-General of the OPCW and the Secretary-General, to enable the OPCW and the United Nations to implement the elimination of the Syrian Arab Republic’s chemical weapons program, and decides to authorize Member States to acquire, control, transport, transfer and destroy chemical weapons identified by the Director-General of the OPCW, consistent with the objective of the Chemical Weapons Convention, to ensure the elimination of the Syrian Arab Republic’s chemical weapons program in the soonest and safest manner;

11. Urges all Syrian parties and interested Member States with relevant capabilities to work closely together and with the OPCW and the United Nations to arrange for the security of the monitoring and destruction mission, recognizing the primary responsibility of the Syrian government in this regard;

12. Decides to review on a regular basis the implementation in the Syrian Arab Republic of the decision of the OPCW Executive Council [XX September 2013] and this resolution, and requests the Director-General of the OPCW to report to the Security Council, through the Secretary-General, who shall include relevant information on United Nations activities related to the implementation of this resolution, within 30 days and every month thereafter, and requests further the Director-General of the OPCW and the Secretary-General to report in a coordinated manner, as needed, to the Security Council, non-compliance with this resolution or the OPCW Executive Council decision of [XX September 2013];

13. Reaffirms its readiness to consider promptly any reports of the OPCW under Article VIII of the Chemical Weapons Convention, which provides for the referral of cases of non-compliance to the United Nations Security Council;

14. Decides that Member States shall inform immediately the Security Council of any violation of resolution 1540 (2004), including acquisition by non-State actors of chemical weapons, their means of delivery and related materials in order to take necessary measures therefore; Accountability

15. Expresses its strong conviction that those individuals responsible for the use of chemical weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic should be held accountable; Political transition

16. Endorses fully the Geneva Communiqué of 30 June 2012 (Annex II), which sets out a number of key steps beginning with the establishment of a transitional governing body exercising full executive powers, which could include members of the present Government and the opposition and other groups and shall be formed on the basis of mutual consent;

17. Calls for the convening, as soon as possible, of an international conference on Syria to implement the Geneva Communiqué, and calls upon all Syrian parties to engage seriously and constructively at the Geneva Conference on Syria, and underscores that they should be fully representative of the Syrian people and committed to the implementation of the Geneva Communiqué and to the achievement of stability and reconciliation; Non-Proliferation

18. Reaffirms that all Member States shall refrain from providing any form of support to non-State actors that attempt to develop, acquire, manufacture, possess, transport, transfer or use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery, and calls upon all Member States, in particular Member States neighbouring the Syrian Arab Republic, to report any violations of this paragraph to the Security Council immediately;

19. Demands that non-State actors not develop, acquire, manufacture, possess, transport, transfer, or use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery, and calls upon all Member States, in particular Member States neighbouring the Syrian Arab Republic, to report any actions inconsistent with this paragraph to the Security Council immediately;

20. Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the procurement of chemical weapons, related equipment, goods and technology or assistance from the Syrian Arab Republic by their nationals, or using their flagged vessels or aircraft, whether or not originating in the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic; Compliance

21. Decides, in the event of non-compliance with this resolution, including unauthorized transfer of chemical weapons, or any use of chemical weapons by anyone in the Syrian Arab Republic, to impose measures under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter;

22. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.
600 2013-09-27 That is now changing, as teams of workers and gardeners lay the stone plazas that next summer will be sprinkled with bistro chairs, and plant 60 species of trees — 1,500 in all. They are also installing 50 red hammocks and creating a maze of hedges and formal gardens planted with perennials like aster daisies. The 30 acres, called Governors Island Park, will offer far more space for recreation and relaxation.

Work has also begun on 10 acres of parkland called the Hills, which will feature constructed mounds ranging in height from 25 to 80 feet. When finished in 2015, the Hills are to include four separate knolls, including Slide Hill (with four slides built into the hillside) and the 80-foot Outlook Hill (with a terrace on top facing the Statue of Liberty).

The landscape architecture firm in charge of the parkland project, West 8, decided to break up the monotony of the flat island and maximize views of the harbor by changing its elevation. Even the hammock grove north of the Hills was raised to a maximum height of 16 feet.

An added benefit of the new elevation, which was completed right before Hurricane Sandy, is the new resilience. “We lost only 8 trees out of 1,700 existing trees on the island during Sandy,” Ms. Koch said. “The storm was a big stress test for our landscape.”

More views of the harbor were opened up when an abandoned 11-story brick building was torn down this summer; three other Coast Guard apartment buildings were demolished last year. The remains of those buildings were repurposed for the new parkland. “All debris from the demolition is under our feet,” Ms. Koch said.

The city plans to eventually transform the island into a year-round community that is financially self-sustaining. (The island is now open only on weekends from late May through September.) While there is no plan for housing, the city envisions office space for nonprofit organizations and businesses, as well as hotels and possibly a satellite college campus.

In December, the Trust for Governors Island issued a request for proposals from prospective tenants and will announce the results later this year. That was probably the first of many requests, given that there are 1.4 million square feet of empty historic buildings available for conversion to office space, and 33 acres of land that can be developed for commercial use.

The largest of the historic buildings is Liggett Hall, a handsome low-rise, red-brick building with a cupola as its centerpiece. The new 30 acres of parkland are adjacent to Liggett Hall, with the first section, Liggett Terrace, to feature a hedge labyrinth, flower gardens and a plaza.

South of Liggett Terrace rises Hammock Grove, where a single red hammock is now strung between two thick posts. Soon, dozens of others will join the lone hammock between rows of saplings. “This will be a forest,” said Ms. Koch, who estimated that it would be 15 years before the new trees provide shade.

The new parkland is part of an even larger, $260 million construction project for the island. It includes improvements that the public will not immediately notice, like repairing the 2.2-mile sea wall around the island, laying a pipe under Buttermilk Channel to bring potable water from Brooklyn and upgrading the island’s electrical and telecommunications systems.

Two future amenities include the South Prow, a wetland garden at the southern tip, and a Great Promenade that will enhance the existing path around the island and replace the chain-link fence with a decorative balustrade.

For now, however, the focus is on the current parkland project. “This is really new green space for New York,” Ms. Koch said. “All this land was off-limits.”
601 2013-09-27 Yet the idea of the federal government’s responsibility toward Detroit is hardly a settled issue in Washington. Instead, divisions over the question reflect the fundamental divide between the two parties over the size and role of government.

Congress, preoccupied with reducing federal deficits, has been all but silent about helping the birthplace of the auto industry and, some say, of the American middle class. The Republican-controlled House is hostile to any spending initiatives from Mr. Obama. In the Senate, two Southern Republicans separately and unsuccessfully proposed legislation intended to ban bailouts — Detroit leaders have not sought one — briefly churning the racial currents at play over a city where four out of five residents are black.

So with the chances that Congress would pass any legislation for Detroit “somewhere between zero and zero,” as an administration official put it, Mr. Obama has fallen back on what he can do through executive actions, with available money and credits, or through partnerships with local businesses and foundations.

The effort is similar to the way he has worked around Congress to create advanced manufacturing centers nationwide with federal and local support, provide broadband in every classroom, speed up infrastructure projects and try to reduce gun violence.

Even before Friday’s event, administration officials worked with Michigan’s governor, Rick Snyder, a Republican, to redirect $52 million in federal money to be used to demolish abandoned properties that are blighting communities and discouraging investment.

Most of the roughly $300 million to come is federal money, with the state and foundations chipping in, according to the White House. About $140 million would go toward transit improvements, including $24 million to repair buses. An additional $100 million would go to blight efforts, including $25 million for commercial demolitions from combined federal, state and foundation money. With the planned $25 million in federal Homeland Security money, up to 150 firefighters could be hired.

“Our message right from the beginning was: There is nothing we can do to help on the bankruptcy; there is no bailout,” said Mr. Sperling, a native of , Mich. “However, we want to look at what could we do to help through existing resources and mobilization” of public and private partners.

“What we knew, too, was that this was a place where signaling was important,” he added. “You want to signal that people are staying with Detroit, that this is still a place to invest, to go.”

The signals are intended for outside investors and residents alike. “There is this quiet desperation of just everyday normal people, of why does nobody care, why isn’t anybody helping us,” said Debbie Dingell, a local leader and the wife of Representative John D. Dingell, a Democrat whose district is west and south of Detroit.

“I’ve said a thousand times, we’re a precursor to the same problems everyone else is facing,” Ms. Dingell added, citing in particular the public pension obligations that weigh on many local and state governments.

The White House’s decision not to seek special help from Congress for the city initially frustrated some people within and close to the administration, who thought the president should at least try. The decision also frustrated some leaders in Detroit.

“Unfortunately, we’re not going to get the bailout that New York got in the 1970s,” said Dan Gilbert, founder and chairman of Detroit-based Rock Ventures, an investment firm, and Quicken Loans, the nation’s largest online lender. “That looks like it’s off the table for whatever various political reasons.”

What is needed, Mr. Gilbert said, is “a Marshall Plan for Detroit.” Citing the city’s “soul-sucking” blight, he said: “We need to remove every single structure and building in this city that is no longer viable. Once you remove all of that, and I mean all of it, you start renewing hope.”

In contrast to Washington’s hush regarding Detroit, loud debate about what the government could or should do followed ’s 1975 financial crisis — as captured by the Daily News headline “Ford to City: Drop Dead.” Ultimately, President , a Republican from Michigan, and the Democratic-controlled Congress agreed to a multibillion-dollar loan package that the city eventually repaid, with fees.

Four decades later, ’s two Democratic senators, and Debbie Stabenow, said — like White House officials — that they knew better than to seek Congress’s help.

“There is not going to be a bailout for Detroit or any other city,” said Mr. Levin, a six-term Democrat who has lived in downtown Detroit for 35 years. “There’s not even enough funds in this budget to fund our own federal programs under sequestration,” the across-the-board spending cuts.

In July, after Mr. Snyder authorized Detroit’s emergency manager to file for bankruptcy, Mr. Levin had aides identify federal programs that Detroit could tap — the fiscal equivalent of looking under sofa cushions for spare change. A result was a 20-page spreadsheet of potential grants for neighborhood stabilization; brownfield cleanup; highway, education and antigang programs; and more.

Mr. Levin shared the list with Mr. Sperling, who was charged by Mr. Obama with overseeing a working group of administration officials. They soon discovered many areas where city officials had “left money on the table” by not applying for available federal money correctly, or at all. Foundations and businesses promised matching money. By late Thursday, the tabulation for Friday was still inching upward.

“What is important is that this is not a one-time announcement,” Ms. Stabenow said. “This is the first step.”
602 2013-09-27 The government has responded forcefully. A statement by the authorities promised to act “with an iron fist” to “destructive actions.” Sudan’s police forces said 29 people, including members of the police, had died in the violence, blaming “trained elements” and “rioters.”

But activists say that at least 100 are believed to have been killed, mostly by the government, with hospitals flooded. Security and police forces have used live ammunition as well as tear gas and batons to break up the protests.

“I know two who were killed,” Moyasser said. “One was shot, and the other beaten to death.”

As the protests escalated, Internet services were shut down on Wednesday and early Thursday. The authorities said that rioters had attacked and destroyed equipment belonging to a local online provider, but activists say it was a deliberate act by the government to create a blackout on events in Sudan.

The lifting of gasoline subsidies was the latest step in the difficult economic adjustments Sudan has experienced since South Sudan became independent two years ago, taking with it nearly 75 percent of the oil revenue the two countries once shared. Inflation has reached nearly 40 percent, and the value of the Sudanese pound has spiraled downward.

“The removal of subsidies must be accompanied with widening the social safety net,” said Abla el-Mahdi, an economist. “But the government has failed to compensate the poor through direct transfers and increasing the minimum wage.”

Despite promises for assistance to the poor and an increase in the minimum wage, “there is little confidence in the government,” she added.

The Sudanese government, however, said it would continue with its economic overhaul policies.

“A government that backs down from taking the right decision for the benefit of society is not a government worthy of the trust and support of the people,” Vice President Ali Osman Taha told a group of graduates on Wednesday.

Sudan’s political opposition has been quick to criticize the government.

“We are against the increase in fuel prices,” said Kamal Omer of the Popular Congress Party. “This shows the failure of the ruling party.”

Thirty-five activists belonging to various political parties have been arrested since the beginning of the protests, Mr. Omer said. He said the current wave of protests represented “a revolution of the hungry.”

“This is the straw that broke the camel’s back,” Mr. Omer added.

Amjad Farid, 29, an activist with the Coalition of Sudanese Revolutionary Youth, warned that the protests would continue.

“After what happened, we cannot back down,” he said. “The blood of Sudanese is not cheap.”

Attempts by Sudanese dissidents in 2011 and last year to organize and set off an Arab Spring-like revolution in Sudan failed. But popular uprisings in 1964 and 1985 succeeded in bringing down military governments.

Abdel-Latif el-Bouni, a columnist, was cautious to not describe the current events as a revolution.

“This was all expected, but thus far, it’s been a reaction,” he said. “Anger is not enough for change.”

But, he added, “if geared into political momentum, it has the potential to become a revolution.”

Five days of protests have taken an economic toll on the city of Omdurman as well. In the usually crowded Al Shuhada Square, an intersection for buses, shops were closed or only partly open.

Salih Ibrahim, 47, a conductor, said that while 250 drivers of minivans used for public transportation usually showed up for work, “only 30 showed up.”

Many of the drivers, Mr. Ibrahim said, feared that protesters would attack their vans. Others simply could not find gasoline, as a number of gas stations in Omdurman had been burned down.

“The guys who came bought gasoline from the black market, not for 21 pounds, but 30 pounds,” Mr. Ibrahim said. “So they’re charging passengers up to three pounds,” or about 68 cents, double the normal price.

“I have no choice; I need to get home,” said Abdel-Munim Ismail, 37, who got on a van.

Some grocery store owners also felt the brunt of higher gasoline prices and their expected trickle-down effect.

“The price of transporting goods to my store went from 20 pounds to 40 pounds,” or about $9.11, said Abdel-Aziz Ahmad, 40.

“The prices of flour, cooking oil, tomato sauce and onions are starting to go up,” Mr. Ahmad said. “I know people who don’t buy from me anymore.”
603 2013-09-27 Postmaster General Patrick R. Donahoe said Thursday that the Postal Service had no choice but to ask for an emergency rate increase because of the agency’s dire finances. One day after the post office proposed raising the first-class stamp price to 49 cents, Mr. Donahoe urged swift action by Congress to overhaul the Postal Service and fix its finances. The post office expects to lose $6 billion this year and wants to raise stamp prices by 3 cents next year. Mr. Donahoe said that his agency’s request for a price increase probably would not be decided for three months, a delay that he said hampered the Postal Service’s ability to run an efficient and competitive business.
604 2013-09-27 “I refuse to marginalize them down to one identifier, their sexual persuasion,” said Cameron J. Hamilton, who replaced Ms. Gurrola as mayor. “The gay proclamation is strictly about being gay when in reality everybody is much more than that.”

Mr. Hamilton said that he had a “gay sister and a gay cousin in Hollywood” and that his opposition to this was different from when he championed a City Council resolution supporting Proposition 8, which in 2008 banned gay marriage before ultimately being overturned by the Supreme Court.

“Proposition 8 was a religious stance on my part, in support of traditional marriages,” Mr. Hamilton said.

By every measure, California is, and has been, at the leading edge of the gay rights movement. The earliest modern gay liberation groups in the nation were created 60 years ago in San Francisco and Los Angeles — the Daughters of Bilitis and the Mattachine Society.

Porterville, a largely Latino agrarian community with a population of 54,000, is in the heart of the San Joaquin Valley, on the edge of the Sequoia National Forest, and surrounded by orange, lemon, pistachio and almond fields, as well as bobbing oil derricks. It is a town that has seen better days, with some buildings on its main streets abandoned.

The three Council meetings devoted to this subject drew a large attendance of Mormons and members of the Church of the Nazarene, a powerful force here. Mr. Hamilton is a member of the church, and its minister, Mark Pitcher, offered a 50-minute sermon against homosexual conduct in the middle of the debate, and posted it on the church’s Web site.

“Same-sex attraction is not a sin,” Mr. Pitcher said. “What is the sin is acting upon that attraction. We’re all tempted but temptation does not become a sin in your life until you act on it.”

In the course of his sermon, Mr. Pitcher expressed regret at what he said was rising pressure from society — including the news media and the entertainment industry — to press the acceptance of homosexuality. He argued that gay men and lesbians tended to live shorter and unhappier lives, be more prone to disease and suicide, saying, “We are praying for them to come into a right and growing relationship with Jesus.”

By contrast, the gay community, as much as there is one, appears minuscule. There are no gay bars — though a local biker bar has a gay night every Tuesday — and Brock Neeley, who asked Ms. Gurrola to sponsor the proclamation, became a bit of a local celebrity after he and his partner of 12 years, John Coffee, became the first same-sex couple in Tulare County to get married in 2008.

Ann Marie Wagstaff, the head of the language arts division at Porterville College and the faculty adviser to the campus gay group, said there were more gays and lesbians in Porterville than people thought, but they had been largely invisible here before the vote on Proposition 8. “There was virtually no visibility for a long time until Prop 8,” saying that gay groups arose in opposition to what the council did on Proposition 8.

Mr. Coffee, 67, said he had expected some resistance when Mr. Neeley asked for the proclamation.

“To say I was severely disappointed in some of the folks would be an understatement,” he said. “But was I surprised? No.”

“I’ve lived here my whole life,” Mr. Coffee said. “Anybody who thinks they are going to run me out of this town has another thing coming.”

In California, the position of mayor is often rotated among the Council members; Ms. Gurrola had served one year of what is typically a two-year cycle. Along with the gavel and the power to run meetings and issue proclamations, the mayor is paid more than the Council members — $25 a meeting, compared with $20 a meeting.

Ms. Gurrola was ousted by a 3-to-2 vote. “The mayor is supposed to be a spokesperson for the Council and she made it a unilateral decision, knowing full well the Council didn’t support her,” Mr. Hamilton said. “My reasoning was, you’re out because of that.”

Brian Ward, the Council member who drafted the “good will for all” proclamation, said he viewed the original one as divisive and beyond the purview of the Council. “It’s setting one group off against another,” he said. “I would oppose proclamations that pointed to religion or to race or to gender.”

As a result, Porterville has been wracked by a season of intense debates and neighbor-versus-neighbor meetings in which people denounced homosexuality as a sin and demanded that Ms. Gurrola repent. Three gay rights activists were arrested for disrupting one of the meetings.

“I have never been more terrified,” said Melissa McMurrey, who heads Gay Porterville, a gay rights organization. “There’s no words to describe what it feels like to hear people go up there and say we’re into bestiality, and having someone next to you saying, ‘Amen, praise Jesus.’ ”

Mr. Hamilton, 55, said he, too, had “never experienced anything like this,” though said that both sides were guilty of excess. For all that, the mayor said he thought the dispute was being portrayed in a way that was unfairly giving Porterville a bad name.

“It made it sound like we beat the hell out of them and would never embrace them — this redneck Central Valley desert town,” he said. “There’s just no truth to that at all. We’re a very loving community.”
605 2013-09-27 Bombs ripped through outdoor markets in and near Baghdad on Thursday, killing at least 23 people and wounding dozens, officials said. Three bombs went off simultaneously in the Shiite village of Sabaa al-Bour, about 20 miles north of Baghdad, the capital. The police said the explosions — two at the market entrance and one inside the shopping area — went off as the place was packed with shoppers, killing 16 people and wounding 41 there. Earlier, a bomb blast hit the Athorien market in Baghdad’s southern neighborhood of Dora, killing seven people and wounding 17, the police said. More than 4,000 people have been killed in violence during the last few months. No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, but they bear the hallmarks of Al Qaeda’s branch in Iraq, the Islamic State of Iraq.
606 2013-09-27 Mr. Harrel’s face is familiar to state and federal officials at nearly every public meeting on the topic. But as are most ranchers, he is skeptical of participating in government programs that pay them to conserve land, even though the payments would help offset huge income losses in the face of drought.

“Everybody’s just too busy trying to make a living to survive the drought, pay their taxes and put food on the table,” said Jeff Haley, who also raises cattle on chicken habitat near the Oklahoma border in the Texas Panhandle. “They’re resentful of the fact that outside forces would be trying to tell them what they can and can’t do on their own place.”

The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department and similar agencies in nearby states hope ranchers will embrace an idea known as the Range-wide Plan. Oil and gas companies would offset disturbances to the lesser prairie chicken’s habitat by paying landowners a certain amount to maintain the birds’ habitat on their own land. The plan aims to quadruple the bird’s population without the need for a federal listing.

There is already “some evidence of the interest of the ranching community,” said Carter Smith, the Texas department’s executive director. More than 500,000 acres of land are already enrolled in voluntary agreements with the federal government to protect ranchers against liability if the bird is listed. But that only represents roughly 60 landowners who have signed such agreements, including Haley.

It does not help that solutions offered to encourage the bird’s conservation explicitly mention the lesser prairie chicken, whose name has become synonymous with the threat of federal regulation. The federal Natural Resources Conservation Service has already been paying landowners to conserve habitat across the Southwest, but as news of a possible threatened species listing spread, interest waned.

“If you call it something else, like ‘conservation initiative,’ they’ll sign up,” joked Stanley Bradbury, who works in the federal agency’s Lubbock office.

Such a name could work because both cattle and the birds are best raised on healthy prairie grassland. The state and the nonprofit Nature Conservancy are working to create a managed refuge of more than 12,000 acres in West Texas for lesser prairie chickens — some of which ranchers could also lease as ideal grassland for cattle grazing.

“What we’re doing here really isn’t about the prairie chicken,” said Russell Martin, a state wildlife biologist. “When I talk to landowners, I won’t even bring prairie chickens up unless they bring it up.”

The birds thrive in prairies where tall, colorful grasses and weeds dominate. They can nest in the grass, hidden from predators, and eat the seeds of weeds. But if cows eat too much grass, that hurts the sustainability of both ranching operations and the prairie chicken.

So Mr. Martin and Mr. Bradbury often suggest “rotational grazing,” or moving cattle from one pasture to another, giving the grass time to recover. By trampling the grass with their hooves, the cattle also pack the soil and promote weed growth — a task historically done by bison running across the prairie.

Prescribed fires could then recreate the natural regeneration process usually done by wildfires. Even oil and gas wells could exist on such land if the density of tall structures that prairie chickens fear is limited.

Mr. Harrel said he and many other ranchers are already using some of these techniques. But he is wary of turning those into contracts with the government, even if it protects him from liability. “You’re afraid they’re going to move into your house after mowing your yard,” he said.

Another approach, proposed by the Environmental Defense Fund and several large oil and gas companies, could be more amenable to government skeptics. That plan also would pay landowners to conserve chicken habitat, but a private foundation would be in charge. Compensation would be based on supply and demand, in a market system known as a “wildlife habitat exchange.” Details of the plan are not available, however, because backers say they are “proprietary.”

Texas Gov. Rick Perry and the governors of four other Southwestern states have backed the Range-wide Plan, which has gone through four iterations of public comment and drafts. But Susan Combs, the state’s comptroller, says that oil and gas interests have too much to lose under that approach. And some wildlife advocates say neither strategy provides enough permanent habitat to the birds.

But all agree that landowners must support whatever conservation measures are put in place, and many think that what happens in Texas could be a model for the country.

“I think it should be the wave of the future,” said Joy Zedler, a University of Wisconsin botany professor who has studied the exchange concept for wetlands conservation.

“When one landowner provides resources for the public good,” she said, “a little ‘thank you’ would be nice.”
607 2013-09-27 Over the last few years, G.E. has pushed for the creation of so-called medical homes, in which an individual medical practice closely coordinates a patient’s care by having access to all of the patient’s medical records.

In Cincinnati, about 118 doctors’ practices have converted to medical homes, and all five of the major health systems are making their primary care practices move in that direction. G.E. has also pushed for greater transparency of results.

“If we don’t take accountability ourselves for figuring this out, we’re part of the problem,” said Sue Siegel, a senior executive at G.E., who sees transformation of health care both as a business opportunity and a business necessity.

“We have to be involved in the solution,” she said. “We can’t just wait for someone to tell us that it is going to be fixed.”

What distinguishes the effort by G.E. is its direct focus on hospitals and doctors. Companies looking to the private exchanges are largely hoping to save money and want to be freed from the headache of administering health benefits.

In Walgreen’s case, the company says it doesn’t plan to lower its share of its workers’ health care costs but hopes to foster more competition among insurers, leading to better prices and more choice for employees.

In Cincinnati, G.E. took on both a cheerleading and coordinating role. In early 2010, Jeffrey R. Immelt, its chief executive, addressed local business leaders and urged them to think strategically and align their efforts to make more of a difference. There were already significant efforts under way to foster medical homes, for example, and G.E. pushed to find more financing to expand the concept to more medical practices and keep the focus on that initiative.

“The ever-present vigilance of the employers help nudge things along,” said Craig Brammer, chief executive of three area health care coalitions, including the Greater Cincinnati Health Council, which is made up of the area’s hospitals, health plans and employers.

The city’s health systems say they recognize that insurers and employers are increasingly going to reward them for better tracking their patients in and out of the hospital. “We are clearly gearing up to change directions from fee for service for what I’ll call payment for value,” said Will Groneman, an executive vice president for TriHealth, one of the systems.

The medical home also appears to resonate with employees. When Mary Farris, a 44-year-old marketing executive for G.E., found herself going to a local urgent care center because she could never get an appointment with her physician, she switched to a practice that had become a medical home.

What strikes Ms. Farris was how much time the doctor and medical assistant spent gathering her medical history and making sure there weren’t additional medical issues. While she came in for a spider bite, the focus was on her well-being as a working mother whose father was seriously ill at the time. “The picture was more on all of me as opposed to one isolated incident,” she said. “Somebody was trying to connect the dots.”

In Cincinnati, there are beginning to be grudging signs of success. Early results are promising: patients enrolled in medical homes had 3.5 percent fewer visits to the emergency room and 14 percent fewer hospital admissions over the four years from 2008 through 2012. G.E. plans to ask an outside firm to do a more detailed analysis.

But employers looking to adapt a similar strategy will find “it’s hard to do,” said David Lansky, the chief executive of the Pacific Business Group on Health, which represents West Coast employers. While “the opportunity is significant,” he said, companies may not have the time or resources to work in too many of their locations, with different hospitals and health plans in each market.

Some companies — Trader Joe’s for example — decided to send at least some employees to the new public exchanges. Trader Joe’s has left coverage for three-quarters of its work force untouched but is giving part-time workers a contribution of $500 to buy policies in the newly created state marketplaces. Because of the employees’ low incomes, the company says it believes many will be eligible for federal subsidies to help them afford coverage.

But a few major employers are taking even more aggressive stances and are trying to reshape how health care is delivered in this country.

They are increasingly looking to make direct connections with health systems, particularly well-regarded institutions that can deliver good care for what can be very expensive back or heart problems. G.E. recently signed an agreement with Hospital for Special Surgery in New York, a high-volume orthopedic hospital, to oversee the care of some employees getting hip and knee replacements. Last year, Walmart contracted with health systems like the Cleveland Clinic, Mayo and Geisinger, among others, to take care of employees who need transplants, heart and spine care. The company says it will soon expand the program to other centers of excellence.

The decision doesn’t always sit well with the home team. In Cincinnati, the UC Health System, which includes an academic medical center that also serves the area’s major source of care for the uninsured, says it would welcome a similar opportunity to provide joint replacements for G.E., but executives say they simply cannot afford to offer significant discounts. “We don’t have the resources to cut deals,” said Dr. Myles Pensak, an executive for UC Health.

G.E. is unapologetic. The company says it will continue to try a variety of approaches until it finds a way to tame health care costs even more than the annual growth rate achieved so far of under 3 percent. “You’ll see many, many experiments across the board,” Ms. Seigel said.
608 2013-09-27 The parts included seat belts, radiators, windshield wipers and air-conditioning systems, Mr. Holder said. The Justice Department said that while the price fixing increased the cost of cars for consumers, there was no way to determine exactly how much.

The two former executives — Gary Walker, an American, and Tetsuya Kunida, a Japanese national working for American subsidiaries of Japanese companies — also pleaded guilty for their involvement in the scheme, in which executives met in person and colluded on the phone to rig bids, fix prices and allocate the supply of parts, the Justice Department said.

Mr. Kunida was sentenced to 12 months and a day in an American prison. He pleaded guilty to a felony charge of fixing the price of products sold to Toyota and other automakers from at least November 2001 until May 2012.

Mr. Walker was sentenced to 14 months. The Justice Department said he engaged in a conspiracy to fix the prices of seat belts sold to Honda, Mazda, Nissan, Subaru and Toyota from at least Jan. 1, 2003, through February 2010.

Each man is to pay a $20,000 fine.

Twenty companies and 21 executives have been charged so far in the Justice Department’s investigation. Each company has pleaded guilty or agreed to do so, the Justice Department said. All but four of the 21 executives have been sentenced to prison or have entered into plea agreements that call for prison sentences.

The actions on Thursday underscored a willingness of countries to cooperate as business relationships become more international.

“Twenty years ago, a case of this size would have been inconceivable,” said Spencer Weber Waller, a professor at the Loyola University Chicago School of Law and director of its Institute for Consumer Antitrust Studies. “We often fought with these countries against the application of U.S. antitrust laws, but now they themselves are more stringent in applying their own antitrust laws.”

Scott D. Hammond, assistant attorney general of the Antitrust Division’s Criminal Enforcement Program, said that some of the conspiracies announced on Thursday were originally discovered by the Japan Fair Trade Commission.

As for the price fixing, Professor Waller said it “appears to be one of the longest-running international cartels that has come to light.”

General Motors called the price fixing among suppliers unacceptable. “We are greatly concerned by the large number of suppliers in the automotive supplier sector who have pled guilty to serious criminal price-fixing charges,” it said in a statement.

Ford said it was monitoring the investigation and would not comment further.

Toyota said in a statement that it “expects its suppliers to provide the company with quality parts at competitive prices, while complying with all applicable laws in the markets where they do business.”

It also said: “We are committed to supporting free and fair competition among suppliers, and we have code of conduct guidelines in place that we expect suppliers to meet. We take any violations of these guidelines seriously.”

Hitachi will pay its $195 million fine in connection with charges that it conspired with other companies to rig the prices of auto parts it sold to General Motors, Ford, Honda, Nissan and Toyota in the United States and other countries.

In a statement, Hitachi said it would institute measures to prevent such actions in the future and was “committed to ensuring to comply with all applicable antitrust laws or competition laws.”

Mitsubishi will pay its $190 million fine on charges that it conspired to fix the prices of auto parts like starter motors, alternators and ignition coils it sold to Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Nissan and Subaru.

“We’ve cooperated fully with the Department of Justice and have concluded our discussions,” Mitsubishi said in a statement.

The charges were filed in United States District Courts in Cincinnati, Detroit and Toledo, Ohio.

“These enforcement actions send a clear and consistent message to all who would take advantage of consumers,” Mr. Holder said.

Mitsuba Corporation will pay $135 million on charges that it fixed the price of parts sold to Chrysler, Honda, Nissan, Subaru and Toyota. The company also agreed to plead guilty to one count of obstruction of justice, because of orders from a high-level United States-based executive to destroy evidence, the Justice Department said.

Jtekt Corporation will pay $103 million and NSK Ltd. will pay $68.2 million. The remaining companies will pay lesser amounts, including a fine of $14.5 million for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., which pleaded guilty to rigging prices for compressors and condensers, and a fine of $13.75 million for T.RAD Company, which sold radiators and devices that warm the automatic transmission fluid.

Valeo Japan, which sold air-conditioning systems, will pay $13.6 million. Yamashita Rubber will pay $11 million for fixing the price of automotive antivibration rubber products.

As the investigation expands, Mr. Holder said, the Justice Department will continue to look into price fixing in the automotive industry. “Our work isn’t done,” he said.
609 2013-09-27 Q. So what are some of the lessons you’ve learned about running a business?

A. There are some simple rules to management that, if you apply them, will always work in any industry. The first one is respect. People have to know that they’re not there to serve you, and that they’re part of a team to accomplish a goal, and that you care as much about their career as you care about your own. You can’t just say it. You’ve got to do it.

You’ve got to constantly be asking them how they’re doing. You’ve got to let them have autonomy. You’ve got to let them run and do as much as they possibly can without fear. Then you’ve got to hold them accountable for that autonomy, and leave your office open so that anybody can feel free to come in and not be afraid.

The second thing is that you have to make sure that respect is uniform, from the lowest-ranking employee to the highest-ranking employee. And the highest-ranking employee has to understand that the lowest-ranking employee is essential to the enterprise.

You have to encourage speed. Little companies cannot compete with money, so we have to compete with risk tolerance — smart risk tolerance — and speed. So our main mantra is speed, respect and an obligation to dissent.

Q. And the point about dissent?

A. Don’t have a meeting with your boss where you agree with him on everything he says. If you have an obligation to dissent, then we get the best minds and we get the best outcomes. People like living in that environment. They feel valuable. People become fearless. For the most part, when you empower people, they really punch above their weight.

Q. What else about your leadership style?

A. I start every day by walking around and chatting with everybody in the company. I just stop by and say: “How are you doing? What are you working on?” And tech people are critical in this new world, and I’ve observed that they are often left out of the decision process in many companies. I find that you create a really better product and a better culture when your technology people understand the whole company.

A. I don’t like long e-mails. If you’ve got something to say, walk over and say it. I don’t want to spend my life reading 500 e-mails. You shouldn’t want to spend your life doing that, either.

Q. How do you hire?

A. We try to hire nice people, kind people. Kind people matter. One, it’s a nicer place to work, and two, I think people who are kind tend to play on teams much better.

When I talk to them at the start of the interview, I say: “You must be very good, and here’s how we’re going to start. You have a choice about where you work, so you get to interview me and make sure that I’m the kind of guy you want to work with. I’m going to tell you about our company and tell you about the culture and my expectations, and you need to understand that we don’t waver from it. If you don’t fit our culture, you won’t be here.” So I let them ask a lot of questions.

I also look for strivers — people who, for whatever reason, feel they weren’t given the opportunity to accomplish what they think they were capable of. That’s a trait I want in everybody, so that until they met us, nobody really understood how good they were. I also ask them who the most important person is in their life. I’m trying to find people who build close connections, because relationships are the reason businesses win.

Q. What is your pet peeve?

A. Complaining. I don’t care what the topic is. We’re all in charge of our own destiny.

Q. What is your career advice for college seniors?

A. In your first jobs, work for winners. Find people who have achieved something. You’re going to learn a whole lot about winning by working for winners. And you don’t need a lot of money. You never had any before your first job. So find somebody you admire, and work with them for a year or two. It’s going to change everything.
610 2013-09-27 HONG KONG — A report by Nomura said Thursday that Chinese municipal debt, a focal point of major concern about the country’s economy, had grown at an alarming 39 percent clip in recent years.

The report by Nomura estimated that the financing vehicles used by local governments to raise cash had created debts totaling at least 19 trillion renminbi, or $3.1 trillion, by the end of last year and posed a “major risk to the economy.”

“Liquidity risks are rising,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura and one of the authors of the report. He added that the bank’s research — based on a survey of 869 of these local government financing vehicles, entities set up to borrow in various ways on behalf of the cities — showed that more than half of the debt would have been at risk of default last year had local governments not supported it.

The number in Nomura’s report roughly matches a recent estimate by Liu Yuhui, an economist in the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government research organization in Beijing.

“I personally feel that the scale of local debt has already broken beyond 20 trillion yuan,” Mr. Liu told a forum in Beijing in mid-September, according to Caixin, a Chinese business magazine. Yuan is another name for China’s currency, the renminbi. “You can say there is a risk of local government debt getting out of control.”
611 2013-09-28 One after another, Republicans leaving their meeting in the Capitol on Saturday rejected the notion that their party would be blamed for a government shutdown....
612 2013-09-28 “I’ve never been with a company that has invested so much on marketing,” said Lowe, who previously worked for ESPN U.K. and the BBC.

So far, the formula is working. NBCSN’s 22 telecasts have been seen by an average of 391,000 viewers, 70 percent better than the average game last season on Fox Soccer, which carried most of the games, and ESPN and ESPN2, which broadcast about one game a week in a licensing deal. NBCSN, however, has about twice as many subscribers as Fox Soccer. More important, at least to NBC, is that NBCSN’s daily viewership from Aug. 17 to Sept. 22 swelled 67 percent, to 77,000 viewers.

That is still a fraction of ESPN’s 1.2 million in that period and fewer than the month-old Fox Sports 1’s 121,000. But the highs are getting higher. Last Sunday afternoon, 852,000 viewers watched Manchester City trounce Manchester United, 4-1, in one of the Premier League’s marquee early-season matches. That was the biggest audience so far on NBCSN.

John Guppy, a veteran soccer executive who founded Gilt Edge Soccer Marketing, said, “What they’ve done — and it’s not that Fox didn’t do it, but maybe it comes across more directly to consumers — is they’ve made the Premier League feel special and important.”

NBCSN has become the NBC Sports Group’s Premier League centerpiece, filling as many as 40 hours a week on the cable network. Mark Lazarus, chairman of the NBC Sports Group, said the kickoff times of Premier League games, as early as 7:45 a.m. on Saturdays on the East Coast, had helped. Even the day’s latest matches start before American football games begin to dominate the channel lineup.

“They’re largely in windows without live sports,” Lazarus said. “It’s not totally unencumbered, with college football Saturday afternoon and the N.F.L. on Sunday. But the beauty of this league is that it goes from August to May.”

The Premier League’s success has helped Major League Soccer, which also has games on NBCSN. Viewership of the eight M.L.S. games on the network since coverage of the Premier League began on NBCSN has jumped 60 percent, and the number of unique visitors to M.L.S. games streamed by NBC has soared 322 percent. All of that should help M.L.S. in talks to extend its contract beyond next season.

For the NBC suite of networks, the Premier League was a property to covet. NBC wanted to capitalize on the league’s popularity and to breathe oxygen into NBCSN, which will show 154 of the 196 games that the NBC family of networks is televising; NBC is showing 21 games this season, with others on CNBC, USA, Telemundo and Mun2.

Another 184 games, which are not being televised, are available free at Premier League Extra Time, a service available to cable, satellite and telephone subscribers. The entire season of 380 games is being streamed on NBC Sports Live Extra.

Lazarus is politic enough not to declare that NBCSN’s identity has quickly become tied inextricably to the Premier League. That would irk other leagues it carries or longtime properties, like the Tour de France. NBCSN also carries the Olympics every two years.

Still, during an interview here at NBC Sports international broadcast center, Lazarus said: “It’s part of our definition, but you have to put it up with the N.H.L. This adds another pillar product to go with the N.H.L., and I think Nascar will be the third.”

NBC is paying the Premier League $250 million over three years, still triple what Fox Soccer was paying annually. NBC’s winning bid defeated one made jointly by Fox Soccer and ESPN. Fox Soccer folded and became FXX, an entertainment channel, but plans were in place during the bidding process to show Premier League games on Fox Sports 1.

Richard Scudamore, the Premier League’s chief executive, said in an interview last week that some American club owners were nervous about shifting the United States rights to NBC.

“But now they’re saying it’s the best thing we’ve ever done,” he said.

Still, John Henry, the owner of Liverpool, one of the Premier League’s cornerstone clubs, said he had no skittishness about selling the league’s rights to NBC. “I thought Fox and ESPN did a great job,” he said in an e-mail message, “but I knew NBC was serious about their commitment, and they have done everything right thus far.”

For any network that shows soccer, one large financial oddity exists: there are no commercial breaks during the games — except for advertisers’ names and logos that poke out of the corner score boxes during play.

That is why NBCSN is awash in Premier League programming: pregame, halftime, postgame studio shows; game replays,  previews, reviews and news shows; and the weekly “Manchester Mondays.” Some of it is seen in the wee hours, especially before games on Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays.

Seth Winter, the executive vice president of sales for NBC Sports, said improved viewership and the Premier League’s increasing appeal to young, affluent viewers 18 to 49 has helped advertisement sales.

The network’s expenses are relatively modest: it does not produce the games it televises — paying only satellite access fees — and sends announcers to only two of the six games it shows each week.

Mark Noonan, a former executive at the United States Soccer Federation and Major League Soccer, said that NBC stepped into the Premier League at an appropriate moment, with a young, multicultural audience enamored with world sport.

“I don’t even think it’s reached  a tipping point,” he said. “NBC’s timing couldn’t be better.”
613 2013-09-28 A woman is asking Mississippi to recognize her out-of-state same-sex marriage so she can get a divorce. The woman, Lauren Beth Czekala-Chatham, married Dana Ann Melancon in California, but they lived together in Southaven, Miss., until separating in 2010. Ms. Czekala-Chatham potentially could pursue a divorce in California, which exempts same-sex couple from divorce laws that generally require at least one spouse to be a resident of the state for six months. But the state might not be able to issue rulings on matters like property ownership, debt, alimony or children. Ms. Czekala-Chatham’s lawyer said a favorable ruling on the petition would not mean that same-sex couples could get married in Mississippi because that is banned in the state.
614 2013-09-28 Even as the Army faces shrinking budgets, an audit shows it paid out $16 million in paychecks over two and a half years to soldiers designated as AWOL or as deserters. It is the second time since 2006 the military has been criticized for such an error. A memo issued by the Human Resources Command at Fort Knox, Ky., found that the Army lacked sufficient controls to enforce policies for reporting deserters and absentee soldiers to cut off their pay and benefits immediately. A failure by commanders to fill out paperwork promptly was described as the main cause of the delay. The payments from 2010 to 2012 represent only a fraction of the Army’s nearly $44 billion projected payroll for 2013.
615 2013-09-28 Pictures From the Week in Business
616 2013-09-28 Although both Republican and Democratic presidents have reached out to Tehran in the interim, contact had been reserved to letters or lower-level officials.

The call came just days after Mr. Obama had hoped to encounter Mr. Rouhani at a luncheon at the United Nations and expected to shake hands. Mr. Rouhani skipped the luncheon and later indicated it was premature to meet Mr. Obama. But a meeting on Thursday between Secretary of State John Kerry and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of Iran was described as constructive and led Iranian officials to contact the White House on Friday to suggest the phone call, according to American officials.

A senior Obama administration official, who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivities, said the White House had expressed the president’s interest in meeting Mr. Rouhani to the Iranians this week but was surprised when they suggested the phone call. Mr. Obama placed the call from the Oval Office around 2:30 p.m., joined by aides and a translator.

He opened by congratulating Mr. Rouhani on his election in June and noted the history of mistrust between the two nations, but also what he called the constructive statements Mr. Rouhani had made during his stay in New York, according to the official. The bulk of the call focused on the nuclear dispute, and Mr. Obama repeated that he respected Iran’s right to develop civilian nuclear energy, but insisted on concessions to prevent development of weapons.

Mr. Obama also raised the cases of three Americans in Iran, one missing and two others detained. In a lighter moment, he apologized for New York traffic.

The call ended on a polite note, according to the official and Mr. Rouhani’s Twitter account.

“Thank you,” Mr. Obama replied, and then tried a Persian farewell. “Khodahafez.”

By talking on the phone instead of in person, Mr. Rouhani avoided a politically problematic photo of himself with Mr. Obama, which could have inflamed hard-liners in Iran who were already wary of his outreach to the United States. As it was, conservative elements in Tehran tried to reinterpret his statements acknowledging the Holocaust while he was in New York.

The state news channel, the Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, had not mentioned the phone call with Mr. Obama as of midnight Friday after word of it broke, and the original messages on Mr. Rouhani’s Twitter account were deleted and replaced with more anodyne comments. But Mr. Rouhani’s office announced the call in a statement carried by the Iranian state news agency.

“This voice contact has for now replaced the actual shaking of hands, but this is clearly the start of a process that could in the future lead to a face-to-face meeting between both leaders,” said Amir Mohebbian, a political adviser close to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Abbas Milani, an Iranian scholar at Stanford University, said Mr. Rouhani wanted to avoid looking as if he was making concessions. “The U.S. and the West have wisely decided to allow the regime to make its claims of victory at home, so long as they play earnest ball in meetings abroad,” Mr. Milani said. A call to a leader on the way to the airport may not be normal protocol, he added, but “in this case it was adroit policy for both sides.”

American advocates of closer relations between the two countries were optimistic. “The phone call wasn’t just history,” said Joseph Cirincione, president of the Ploughshares Fund, an arms control group, who attended a dinner with Mr. Rouhani in New York. “It helped fundamentally change the course of Iranian-U.S. relations. We’re on a very different trajectory than we were even at the beginning of the week.”

But others expressed caution, arguing that Iran was reaching out only because of the sanctions that have strangled its economy.

“The economic pain now is sufficient to oblige a telephone call, though not a face-to-face meeting,” said Reuel Marc Gerecht, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, which supports stronger sanctions against Iran. “We will see whether the pain is sufficient for the Iranians to shut the heavy-water plant at Arak and reverse Iran’s path to a rapid breakout capacity with enriched uranium.”

Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican majority leader, criticized Mr. Obama for not pressing Iran to halt what he said was its support for terrorism and for Syria’s government. “It is particularly unfortunate that President Obama would recognize the Iranian people’s right to nuclear energy but not stand up for their right to freedom, human rights or democracy,” he said.

In announcing the call with Mr. Rouhani, Mr. Obama said that only “meaningful, transparent and verifiable actions” on the nuclear program could “bring relief” from sanctions.

“A path to a meaningful agreement will be difficult, and at this point, both sides have significant concerns that will have to be overcome,” he said. “But I believe we’ve got a responsibility to pursue diplomacy, and that we have a unique opportunity to make progress with the new leadership in Tehran.”

Recognizing the delicacy of the outreach effort, Mr. Obama made a point of trying to reassure Israel that he would not jeopardize an ally’s security. “Throughout this process, we’ll stay in close touch with our friends and allies in the region, including Israel,” he said.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel is scheduled to visit Mr. Obama at the White House on Monday.

Before leaving New York, Mr. Rouhani said his government would present a plan in three weeks on how to resolve the nuclear standoff. “I expect this trip will be the first step and the beginning of constructive relations with countries of the world,” he said at a news conference.

He went on to say that he hoped the visit would also improve relations “between two great nations, Iran and the United States,” adding that the trip had exceeded his expectations.

Mr. Rouhani and his aides have been on an extraordinarily energetic campaign to prove that they are moderate and reasonable partners and to draw a stark contrast with his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. But Mr. Rouhani has yet to propose anything concrete to suggest how different the Iranians really are in their approach. The first glimpse of that is due to come on Oct. 15 and 16, when Iran plans to present its own road map in Geneva.

Mr. Rouhani emphasized that his government had the authority and the will to reach a nuclear settlement within what he called “a short period of time.” But he was visibly irritated when asked whether his diplomatic blitz was merely designed to buy time with his Western interlocutors.

“We have never chosen deceit as a path,” he said. “We have never chosen secrecy.”
617 2013-09-28 Under the Texas law, clinics would have to follow, instead, a regime described in the original Food and Drug Administration approval in 2000. Based on initial studies, it required doses three times those of the current protocol and an extra visit to the clinic and was recommended only through seven weeks of pregnancy.

“Politicians are interfering with the personal medical decisions of women who already have the least access to birth control and preventive health care,” said Cecile Richards, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, one of the groups bringing the suit.

Gov. Rick Perry, who has said he hopes to make abortion “a thing of the past,” signed the legislation in July after calling a special session of the Legislature to pass it. The bill came under a national spotlight when Wendy Davis, a Democratic state senator, temporarily derailed passage in the Republican-controlled Legislature with a filibuster.

In a written comment on the lawsuit Friday, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst attacked abortion rights groups for pursuing “an agenda that disregards the value of human life and accepts subpar medical care for women undergoing a serious surgical procedure.”

Mr. Perry and Republican leaders described the law as important to protect women’s health. Opponents called it an unconstitutional attack on abortion rights and a thinly disguised effort to shutter clinics.

“This law is part of a coordinated national strategy” by anti-abortion groups seeking “to make it impossible to obtain an abortion,” said Jennifer Dalven, director of the Reproductive Freedom Project of the American Civil Liberties Union, another party to the suit along with the Center for Reproductive Rights.

The suit, Planned Parenthood et al. v. Abbott, was filed Friday morning in Federal District Court for the Western District of Texas, in Austin. The goal is to obtain a preliminary injunction to prevent the two measures from taking effect.

Emily Horne, a legislative associate with Texas Right to Life, said that “I believe the law will be found constitutional” and that “over all it’s a great thing for women’s health.”

Similar laws are under litigation in several other states and in most cases have been blocked. In Alabama, Mississippi, North Dakota and Wisconsin, courts have said that requiring physicians to have admitting privileges was an unjustified obstacle to abortion rights.

Courts in North Dakota and Oklahoma have struck down laws imposing the earlier drug protocol for medication abortions, but one remains in effect in Ohio.

Friday’s lawsuit does not challenge two other hotly disputed provisions of the Texas law — a requirement that all abortion clinics meet the costly architectural and staffing standards of ambulatory surgery centers and a ban on nearly all abortions at 20 weeks after conception, based on the disputed theory that the fetus can feel pain at that point.

The surgery center requirement, which major doctors’ groups say is medically unnecessary for all but the latest-stage abortions, could force a majority of the state’s abortion clinics to close. But it does not take effect until September 2014, giving rights advocates time to consider their response.

Texas was the 12th state to adopt a 20-week ban, which legal experts say is in conflict with Supreme Court decisions granting a right to abortion until the fetus is viable outside the womb, usually at around 24 weeks. Courts have blocked such measures in the three states where they have been challenged, but they remain in effect in others.

In Friday’s news conference, the groups said they were studying the issue but for now were focusing on the two provisions likely to have the most immediate and far-reaching impacts.

If the admitting privilege rule takes effect, they said, the sole abortion clinics in Harlingen, Killeen, Lubbock, McAllen and Waco, and all three providers in Fort Worth, would have to halt services, forcing some women to make multiple trips of more than 100 miles to obtain an abortion.

In Texas and elsewhere, many clinics outside the largest cities must rely on visiting doctors who are not eligible for local admitting privileges. Many religiously affiliated hospitals also refuse to grant privileges to doctors involved with abortion.
618 2013-09-28 Here’s some information to get you started:

Q. Where can I apply or get more information on the exchanges?

A. To avoid fraud artists, enter through the front door: Healthcare.gov. From there, you can find links to the exchange offered in your state. There may be technical glitches as the program gets started, so alternatively, you can call 1-800-318-2596.

Q. When does coverage go into effect?

A. You can apply as early as Oct. 1, but coverage won’t begin until Jan. 1. The enrollment period for coverage in 2014 closes on March 31, 2014. After that, you can enroll only if you have a major life event like a job loss, birth, marriage or divorce.

Q. What sort of coverage will be offered?

A. All plans will have to provide the same set of essential benefits, including prescriptions, preventive care, doctor visits, emergency services and hospitalization (this also applies to most individual and small-employer group plans sold outside of the exchanges). But plans can offer additional benefits, or different numbers of services like physical therapy, so you’ll need to do a side-by-side comparison to see what fits your needs — or at least the needs you can anticipate.

Q. Are the plans sold on the exchange more comprehensive than plans outside?

A. There are four plan levels, each named for a precious metal. They all generally offer the same essential benefits, but their cost structures vary. The lower the premium, the higher the out-of-pocket costs.

The bronze level plan, for instance, has the lowest premiums, but will require consumers to shoulder more costs out of pocket. They generally cover 60 percent of a typical population’s out-of-pocket costs, and include deductibles, co-payments and coinsurance. The silver plans cover 70 percent; gold, 80 percent; while platinum covers 90 percent (and therefore carries the highest premiums).

If you buy a plan on an exchange, your annual out-of-pocket costs cannot exceed $6,350 for individuals and $12,700 for a family of two or more in 2014. Catastrophic plans are also available to people under age 30 or those suffering a financial hardship. These carry high deductibles (equivalent to the out-of-pocket maximum, or $6,350 for a single person, in 2014). You cannot apply tax credits to these plans, either.

Premiums will vary across the states because of a variety of factors, like market competition, the underlying cost of care and the negotiating power of the exchanges, according to Kaiser research.

Q. If the costs with plan levels are similar, how will plans differ within the metal levels?

A. Networks of doctors and hospitals will differ, and cost-sharing structures may also vary. One plan might have lower deductibles and higher co-pays, whereas another plan might have a separate deductible for prescriptions. Various medications may also be covered differently. “If you are someone who is taking medicines, make sure you know what your drugs will cost in the various plans being offered,” said Cheryl Fish-Parcham, deputy director of health policy at Families USA, a Washington consumer advocacy group.

Q. Will I be eligible for a premium tax credit (subsidized coverage)?

A. People with income between 100 percent of the poverty line (or about $23,550 for a family of four) and 400 percent of poverty ($94,200 for a family of four) are eligible for a tax credit to defray premium costs. (All income eligibility is based on your modified adjusted gross income; the online version of this column links to a guide explaining how that is calculated).

The tax credits are set up so that consumers will not have to pay more than a certain percentage of their income, ranging from 2 percent for those with incomes of up to 133 percent of the poverty level ($15,282 for a single and $31,322 for a family of four) to 9.5 percent for those with income of 300 to 400 percent of the poverty level, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. The dollar amounts of the credits are calculated based on the costs of the second-to-lowest-cost silver plan available to you.

Kaiser has a calculator that can give you an idea of your eligibility.

Q. Can I get help with my out-of-pocket expenses, like deductibles?

A. People with incomes between 100 percent of the federal poverty line ($23,550 for a family of four) and 250 percent ($58,875 for a family of four) are also eligible for cost-sharing reductions, which means you’ll pay less for items including deductibles and co-payments, and you’ll have lower out-of-pocket maximums.

There is a big caveat: you can qualify for the reductions only if you buy a silver plan. When choosing a silver plan — and compare them closely, because they will differ — the exchange Web site will automatically show what you will pay, with the cost-sharing reductions included, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

Even if you’re tempted by the bronze plans’ lower premiums, remember you’ll probably end up paying more for out-of-pocket costs. For people who qualify for both premium and cost-sharing subsidies, the silver plan will usually be the better deal, Ms. Fish-Parcham said.

Q. Should I use all of my subsidy at once? How can I avoid owing taxes?

A. The premium subsidies are delivered in the form of a refundable tax credit, which can be used immediately to reduce your monthly premiums.

You can use it all right away, or you can use part of it, or none at all. If you expect your income to remain the same, you might use the entire credit. But if your income is likely to rise, it may pay to use only a portion of the subsidy. That way, you’ll avoid owing money to the I.R.S. at tax time.

If your income does change, report it to the exchange. If your income drops, you may be eligible for a larger credit. Changes in family size should also be reported. “It will all get reconciled on your taxes in the spring of 2015,” said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Q. How can I find out if my doctor accepts exchange-based insurance?

A. Many of the insurance providers’ networks of doctors and hospitals will be narrower than are typically found in commercial insurance, as my colleague reported this week. So just because your doctor accepts, say, a Blue Cross plan provided by your employer, that doesn’t necessarily mean the doctor will take the same carrier’s plan offered on the exchange.

The plans will be required to provide a directory that lists their network’s providers, Ms. Pollitz said, so inspect them carefully.

Q. How will I know if my drugs are covered by the plans?

A. The exchanges must include a summary of benefits and coverage for each plan. That includes information about what your co-payments would be for generic, brand name and specialty drugs. It should also provide a Web link to the plan’s list of covered drugs and how they are categorized by a particular plan, said Ms. Fish-Parcham.

Q. If I have employer-based coverage, can I go to the exchange for coverage?

A. You can, but you probably won’t want to. Your employer’s plan is usually a better deal. Many employers heavily subsidize your premiums and you can pay for your coverage using pretax dollars, something you can’t do if you buy coverage on the exchange.

“Plus, employer plans are typically fairly generous,” said Lynn Quincy, a senior policy analyst at Consumers Union.

Besides, if your employer offers you coverage, you probably won’t qualify for a tax credit unless your share of the premium (for the lowest-cost plan for individual coverage offered by your employer) is more than 9.5 percent of your modified adjusted gross income, Ms. Quincy explained.

If your employer’s insurance plan doesn’t cover 60 percent of medical costs, on average (what’s known as “minimum value”) you may also qualify for subsidized coverage. Your employer is supposed to let you know where the plan falls in terms of minimum costs. “If you are spending huge amounts out of pocket each year and you have a high deductible, it’s worth looking at what your possibilities are,” said Sara R. Collins, vice president of the health care coverage and access program at the Commonwealth Fund.

A. The health care law aimed to expand Medicaid so that everyone under age 65 would qualify if they earned up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level (that’s about $16,000 for an individual and $32,500 for a family of four in 2014). But the Supreme Court ruled in June that the decision to expand Medicaid is up to the states — and only 26 states have decided to move forward, according to Kaiser.

Q. So if I’m poor but not eligible for Medicaid, can I get insurance on the exchange?

A. Yes, but unfortunately, many people in this situation won’t be able to afford it. People who don’t qualify for their state’s Medicaid program but earn too little to qualify for subsidies on the exchange will have to pay full price for the coverage offered on the exchanges. So if you can’t get Medicaid and your income is below 100 percent of the poverty level, you will not be eligible for subsidized coverage on the exchange.

Q. What if I’m self-employed or own a small business?

A. If you’re self-employed with no employees, you can shop for coverage on the exchange.

If you have fewer than 50 employees, you can get coverage for yourself and your workers though the Small Business Health Options program, known as the SHOP Marketplace. “Small employers have always wanted to have the buying clout of a large employer and the SHOP exchanges offer them just that,” said Kevin Lucia, project director at Georgetown University’s Health Policy Institute.

Q. What are the penalties for not having coverage? Are there any exceptions?

A. Most people will be required to have insurance, with some exceptions. You are not required to buy insurance if: the cost of insurance premiums would exceed 8 percent of your income, your income is below the threshold for filing taxes, you have a certified hardship, or you would have qualified for Medicaid but live in a state that did not expand the program. Illegal immigrants, the incarcerated, members of Indian tribes and those who qualify for certain religious reasons are also exempt.

Everyone else will pay a penalty. In 2014, it will cost you $95 or approximately 1 percent of your income, whichever is greater. The penalties will rise each year.
619 2013-09-28 LONDON — As the pace of efforts to scrutinize Syria’s chemical weapons stockpiles quickens, United Nations inspectors said on Friday that they were investigating reports that the weapons were used seven times in Syria, including three after an attack on Aug. 21 on the outskirts of Damascus, the Syrian capital, that set off an international crisis.

The disclosure, which came in a statement from the United Nations in Damascus that was quoted in news reports, came as the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the group in The Hague that oversees the international treaty banning them, planned a meeting late Friday to approve a separate schedule for inspections of chemical weapons storage and production sites. Syria applied to join the treaty this month.

A joint proposal by the United States and Russia to be put before the organization’s executive council on Friday calls for the completion of inspections and the destruction of “production and mixing/filling equipment” by November, according to a text on the organization’s Web site.

An official at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said that, if the meeting of the 41-nation Executive Council approves the plan to deploy inspectors in Syria at its meeting later on Friday, a first team of experts could leave for Syria on Monday and plan to arrive there on Tuesday.

The official, who declined to discuss the composition of the team, spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plan had not yet been approved.
620 2013-09-28 “This will give regulators the ability to penetrate the shroud of secrecy that patent trolls operate behind,” said Daniel Nazer, a lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit organization that focuses on free speech and technology. “Patent trolls have complex structures, with thousands of shell companies. It’s impossible to know who is pulling the strings and getting the dollars.”

But other patent experts say they fear that the effort could be little more than a fishing expedition, looking for problems that the investigators have already decided exist.

“At the end of the day, these are licensing companies that are practicing their property rights, much as a landlord is practicing his property rights by leasing a house,” said Adam Mossoff, a law professor at George Mason University.

Even the term “patent assertion” implies that the purpose of the company is to file lawsuits, Mr. Mossoff said, adding that he prefers calling them what they are — patent licensing companies.

Andrew Gavil, director of the office for policy planning at the F.T.C., said the agency had not predetermined anything about companies that license patents. “This is a statistical study,” he said. “We are not trying to lay a foundation for an enforcement action.” He said the commission hoped to begin requesting information from companies in the late winter or early spring.

The decision to move forward with the investigation was unanimously approved, 4 to 0, by the commission.

If the commission finds evidence of companies’ filing frivolous lawsuits accompanied by demands for payments to license questionable patents, it can begin enforcement proceedings using its anticompetition and antitrust authority.

The types of companies targeted by the F.T.C. certainly seem to spend a lot of time in court. They accounted for more than 60 percent of the 4,000 patent lawsuits filed in 2012, up from 29 percent two years earlier.

This year, President Obama has called for the federal government to ascertain how such companies are operating. He directed executive agencies to take steps to “protect innovators from frivolous litigation.”

American technology companies also have been worried that their patent problems will spread to Europe with the start of a new unified patent court system there.

The companies that are generally pointed to as the largest of the litigators say that while there is abuse of patents in some sectors, they themselves are not involved in frivolous litigation.

Patent assertion entities span a spectrum. On one end are companies that are essentially legal shells that send letters to businesses claiming infringement and demanding payments; in 2011, for example, such a company targeted coffee shops for setting up Wi-Fi networks for customers.

At the other end are companies like Mosaid Technologies and Intellectual Ventures, which buy patents from technology companies, assembling large portfolios that they use to generate licensing payments that run to the millions of dollars.

Intellectual Ventures, frequently cited as one of the largest patent assertion entities, said it welcomed the inquiry. “By gathering data from 25 patent assertion entities and 15 operating companies, we believe the F.T.C. analysis would help policy makers make decisions on patent reform based on business behaviors not business models,” said Russ Merbeth, its chief policy counsel.

In 2011, Congress completed an effort that was supposed to be an overhaul of the patent system. But among its features was a provision that said a company could not file a patent infringement lawsuit against multiple companies in a single court action; rather, it had to file the cases separately. The idea was that frivolous lawsuits would diminish because of the cost of filing more cases.

Instead, the number of patent cases soared. In part, that reflects the fact that a company will often find it more economical to pay to settle a case rather than pay to defend itself.

Not Martha Stewart. This week, her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, filed a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Wisconsin against a patent-assertion entity named the Lodsys Group. Lodsys claimed in a letter that four of Martha Stewart Living’s iPad apps infringed its patents, and it offered to sell a license for the patents for $5,000 apiece.

Although fighting the case will probably cost it more than the $20,000 requested, Ms. Stewart’s company asked the court to rule the patents invalid.
621 2013-09-28 GENEVA — As the United Nations Security Council moved toward a resolution enforcing the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal, the Human Rights Council stepped up pressure Friday on President Bashar al-Assad to allow greater access for humanitarian aid and for war crimes investigators.

The 47-member council voted by 40 to 1 with 6 abstentions for a resolution that condemned the use of chemical weapons, the “gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights” by the Syrian authorities and, in weaker language, “any human rights abuses” and violations of international humanitarian law by opposition armed groups.

But diplomats attending the council said an immediate aim was to increase pressure on Syria to allow the access it has so far denied to members of the two-year old Commission of Inquiry monitoring human rights violations to ensure that those responsible for human rights crimes are brought to justice.

Mr. Assad has accused the commission of selectivity and bias, but “if he has nothing to hide he should let the commission in,” Karen Pierce, Britain’s ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, said after the vote. “This resolution tells the authors of the crimes, whoever they are, wherever they are, you will be held to account and you will not remain unpunished.”

A second aim of the resolution, diplomats said, was to support international agencies that are seeking to deliver aid to more than six million people in the face of bureaucratic obstacles and restrictions on visas as well as the risk of violence from all sides.

Some states criticized the resolution for not adopting stronger language and measures against Syria, but diplomats in Geneva saw the convergence between Russia and the United States on chemical weapons as providing an opportunity to achieve broad support. In the end, only one country, Venezuela, voted against it.
622 2013-09-28 Top climate scientists on Friday embraced an upper limit on greenhouse gases while warning that it is likely to be exceeded within decades if efforts to curb emissions are not rapidly accelerated....
623 2013-09-28 HONG KONG — Alibaba, the Chinese Internet company whose potential initial public offering is one of the most fervently awaited in the world, has fired back at Hong Kong’s exchange, saying its stance on Alibaba’s unusual management structure puts the exchange at risk of being overtaken by the rest of the world.

This week, Alibaba abandoned plans to list in Hong Kong after the exchange declined to change rules that discourage companies from organizing in a way that favors dual-class shareholding over individual shareholdings or gives one shareholder a disproportionate say over how a company is run.

Alibaba, which is run by a 28-member partner committee, insisted that it be allowed to continue to nominate a majority of its board of directors. It is now moving forward with plans to list in New York, a person close to the Chinese company has said.

In a blog post published late Thursday, Joe Tsai, a co-founder and executive vice chairman of Alibaba, vigorously defended the structure, saying that its lack of hierarchy and bureaucracy was key to preserving the company’s success and innovation.

“Our governance structure is a creative way to address the core issues that matter to shareholders while staying true to who we are — which we cannot, and will not, change,” Mr. Tsai wrote.

“We understand Hong Kong may not want to change its tradition for one company,” Mr. Tsai continued. “But we firmly believe that Hong Kong must consider what is needed in order to adapt to future trends and changes. The question Hong Kong must address is whether it is ready to look forward as the rest of the world passes it by.”
624 2013-09-29 PREISS--Madeline, 88, deceased September 13, 2013. Survived by Patti Preiss-Harris, Richard, and David Preiss....
625 2013-09-29 Melissa Delaine Hobley and Paul Francis Yau were married Saturday at the Marble Collegiate Church in New York. The Rev. Kirsty DePree, a minister of the Reformed Church in America, officiated; the Rev. Ronald Naylor, a Presbyterian minister and a friend of the bride’s family, participated.

The bride, 33, is keeping her name. She works in New York as a vice president of marketing in the United States and Canada for Boots, the British retailer of health and beauty products. She graduated from Fordham University.

She is a daughter of Marjorie Munn Hobley and Duane A. Hobley of Muncie, Ind.

The groom, 35, works for the investors group of Thomson Reuters in New York, which sells financial data and analytics to clients in the investment industry. He advises management on content and business strategy. He graduated from the University of Melbourne in Australia.

He is the son of Shirley Yuen-Sai Yau and Peter Dickon Yau of Melbourne.
626 2013-09-29 Vanessa Joy Verdino and Evan Michael Weissbrot were married Friday evening at Ici restaurant in Brooklyn. Judge Elizabeth D. Pessala of the Westbury Village Court in Nassau County officiated.

Mrs. Weissbrot, 30, is a media director at ZenithOptimedia, an advertising agency in Manhattan. She graduated from James Madison University.

She is the daughter of Elisabeth Eavarone and the stepdaughter of Fred Eavarone of South Huntington, N.Y. Her mother is a health coordinator at Individual Home Care, a home health care provider in Centereach, N.Y. The bride’s stepfather retired as a Suffolk County police officer, assigned to the motor carrier safety unit in Bellmore, N.Y.

Mr. Weissbrot, 32, is a global account director in Manhattan for OMD, a division of Omnicom, the advertising company. He graduated from Cornell.

He is the son of Arleen N. Weissbrot and Eric N. Weissbrot of Great Neck, N.Y. The groom’s mother, now retired, taught second grade at Public School 91 in the Bronx. His father, who worked in Queens, retired as a recreation supervisor for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation.
627 2013-09-29 Diana Taurasi of the Phoenix Mercury became an Internet sensation when she gave Seimone Augustus of the Minnesota Lynx a peck on the cheek after the players were called for double personal fouls in the Lynx’s 85-62 rout of the Mercury on Thursday night in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals. Video of the encounter garnered more than 2.5 million views on YouTube in 36 hours. “I had no idea it would catch fire like it did,” Augustus said Saturday.
628 2013-09-29 MOUNT VERNON, Va. — George Washington’s Mount Vernon estate has opened a $47 million library dedicated to the study of America’s first president, with plans to host a series of scholars who will examine the lives of Washington and the other founding fathers.

Since 1853, the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association has been dedicated to preserving and promoting Washington’s legacy. But with the opening on Friday of the Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington, Mount Vernon is committing itself to sponsoring a formal level of scholarship about Washington, and Mount Vernon officials say they have no intention of insisting on a glossy interpretation.

“There is this vision of Washington as a man on a pedestal,” said Curt Viebranz, Mount Vernon’s president and chief executive. “I actually think if you take him down off the pedestal, it’s an even more compelling story. We’re not going to try to control the message.”

The library’s director, Douglas Bradburn, said there was a trend among historians now who might be more likely to look at the American Revolution through a more cynical lens, resurrecting arguments from a century ago that Washington and the other founding fathers were motivated more by their own economic interests than by any lofty notions of liberty and self-governance.

Mr. Bradburn said the beauty of a library like Mount Vernon’s was that historians and researchers from various schools of interpretation could come together, collaborate and commiserate.

Sandra Moats, a history professor at the University of Wisconsin, Parkside, who will be one of the first seven visiting scholars at the estate, will research Washington and the advent of American neutrality after the Revolution. She said she was looking forward to delving into “the nitty-gritty policy in the way a historian would with any president.”

She expects her work to be neither critical nor glowing, but a more straightforward examination.

“He’s not someone with a lot of scandals or problems,” she said. “He’s not someone where I’m expecting to find a lot of skeletons.”
629 2013-09-29 SANTIAGO, Chile — A former director of a Pinochet-era intelligence agency killed himself on Saturday, officials said, days after the government announced that it would close the exclusive military prison where he was being held for human rights crimes and transfer the inmates to a less privileged detention center.

The former intelligence chief, Gen. Odlanier Mena, 87, shot himself at home, officials said, where he had been allowed to spend weekends since mid-2011. At that time, he had completed half of a six-year sentence for the 1973 murder of three leftists while he was commander of an army regiment in Arica, in northern Chile. General Mena, who retired from the army, was director of the National Information Center intelligence agency from 1977 to 1980.

The Cordillera Detention Center in eastern Santiago, where General Mena had been serving his sentence, was set up on the grounds of the army’s telecommunications command center in 2004. At the time, the Supreme Court was abandoning its practice of applying a 1978 amnesty law in human rights cases, and the government feared that Punta Peuco, a special military prison created in 1995 to hold human rights offenders, would not suffice.

General Mena’s lawyer, Jorge Balmaceda, blamed the recent government decision for his client’s suicide. “In the last letter he sent me he expressed concern for the eventual transfer, which would cause him serious moral, physical and psychological harm,” Mr. Balmaceda said in an interview with TVN, the Chilean national television station.

On Thursday, after news reports about the preferential treatment of the Cordillera inmates prompted a public outcry, President Sebastián Piñera announced that he would close the prison and transfer the 10 inmates there to Punta Peuco, on the outskirts of the capital, Santiago.

The president’s decision came after a televised interview with Gen. Manuel Contreras, former director of Gen. Augusto Pinochet’s National Intelligence Directorate, which was responsible for systematic human rights violations in the first few years of General Pinochet’s military dictatorship. In the interview with CNN Chile on Sept. 10, one day before the 40th anniversary of the coup that toppled President Salvador Allende, General Contreras denied that the directorate had been responsible for any torture or crimes and expressed no remorse. He was also imprisoned at Cordillera, serving a sentence of nearly 360 years for multiple murders and disappearances.

The Cordillera inmates, who range in age from 68 to 86 and include top commanders of the National Intelligence Directorate, lived in five cabins — each with a private bathroom — on grounds that include a tennis court, according to a court report on a visit to the prison last Monday. They were assisted by nutritionists, kinesiologists, doctors, psychologists, social workers and a physical education professor, the report said.
630 2013-09-29 IT didn’t come as a complete surprise when Verizon Communications agreed earlier this month to pay $130 billion for the 45 percent of the Verizon Wireless unit that it didn’t already own. What’s startling, though, is the parent company’s dependence on its wireless unit’s operating profit. Without Verizon Wireless, the value of the old Verizon — the giant telephone company that provides dial-tone service as well as Internet and fiber optic TV to millions of customers — is vanishingly small.

In the first six months of this year, Verizon’s nonwireless business made only $87 million in operating profit. That’s less than the profit of many successful law firms — and it’s positively paltry compared with the business’s roughly $20 billion in sales. In the same period, Verizon Wireless had roughly twice as much revenue, but it made close to $13 billion in operating profit, which was divided between the two parent companies.

Two factors explain this profit picture. First, the outlook for Verizon’s core business isn’t encouraging. Lots of cellphone users can get by without a landline, and that trend is increasing. And there’s something else: landline telephone service has been regulated since 1913, while the wireless business generally has not.

In announcing the deal, Lowell McAdam, the Verizon C.E.O., said that owning 100 percent of Verizon Wireless would provide increased opportunities in old landline markets. Here’s how: Verizon expects millions of landline customers to switch to wireless service. And when that happens, the profit won’t be split with Vodafone, the British company cashing out of its stake in the business.  It will all go to Verizon.
631 2013-09-29 That’s the message of a new study from the Finra Investor Education Foundation, which surveyed more than 2,000 investors, age 40 and older. It found that more than 80 percent of them had been approached with potentially fraudulent offers and that 40 percent of all respondents were unable to spot “classic red flags of fraud” — implicit warnings that they were in danger of being fleeced.

“When it comes to financial fraud, America is a nation at risk,” said Gerri Walsh, president of the foundation, in an interview. “Investment pitches are all around us, and many of them are scams.” What’s more, she said, “The ability of most Americans to spot these persuasion techniques is dismal.”

The Finra foundation, which is affiliated with the industry-financed Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, sampled a toxic variety of fraudulent sales pitches taken from Web sites and the Internet: lottery bonanzas, penny-stock enticements, not-so-free lunch seminars, Ponzi schemes and other dubious deals. People were asked whether they found the offers appealing. Many did, even though the offers were chosen because they contained telltale signs of fraud.

Here’s one sample pitch, filled with telling examples of chicanery:

“My friends informed me about a very reliable high-yield investment program I’ve been extremely impressed with. The program pays from 2 percent to 3.4 percent daily depending on the investment plan you choose. The minimum term of investment is 180 days, after which you can either recover the sum of your initial investment or continue further participation in the project. You can also invest on a compound basis and get huge returns. It guarantees the safety of the invested amount and even pays a 5 percent referral commission.”

On a 1-to-10 scale, respondents on average rated this a 5.6, a very appealing investment.

More than half found the safety guarantee attractive — though Ms. Walsh said it ought to have raised eyebrows, because “nothing is really guaranteed without a cost.” They liked the 5 percent commission, too, though it is a sign that the offer could be a Ponzi or pyramid scheme.

That’s a fraud practiced by people like Mr. Madoff, in which ever-increasing numbers of people are enticed by the promise of high, steady returns. The perpetrator uses fresh money from new investors to pay earlier ones. When the flood of new cash ebbs, such schemes collapse. “You only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out,” as Warren Buffett once said. That happened in the Madoff case when the stock market plunged in 2008.

The Finra survey was conducted nearly four years after the Madoff scheme was exposed, yet relatively few people saw anything wrong with the sample pitch above. Its personal appeal at the beginning gives a warm, fuzzy feeling by citing “friends,” and seems to have “source credibility or authority,” Ms. Walsh said, with its claims of reliability.

Then there is the “dangling of phantom riches before us,” she said: “We’d all love to have investments that are fully guaranteed and that will make us wealthy. Scam artists want us to start salivating and to stop thinking.”

That brings us to the core of the offer — the promise of a daily return of 2 to 3.4 percent. Fewer than 20 percent of respondents found that part of the pitch troubling. Roughly half found it appealing, and the remainder were neutral. That suggests that few people bothered to think about those numbers. They would represent a modest rate of return — if it were what you received after an entire year. As a daily rate, it’s preposterous — a red flag.

HOW preposterous? I ran the numbers on an Excel spreadsheet (and Finra verified them). Say we’re investing $10,000. Let’s be conservative and assume that the investment produces a return only when markets are open, not every day of the year. And why be greedy? We’ll try the daily return of 2 percent first. After a week, our $10,000 grows to $11,040.81. After two weeks, we’ve got $12,189.94. And after a year, our $10,000 becomes $1,469,749.37.

Not bad at all, but it’s chicken feed compared with the payoff from a 3.4 percent daily return. After a year, $10,000 becomes $45,622,151.99.

That’s great money if you can get it. But you can’t — not legally, not in this world.

“A lot of people aren’t thinking at all about what’s reasonable and what isn’t,” Ms. Walsh said. “  ‘Check and verify’ ought to be everyone’s watchword. But we’ve found that many people don’t bother.”

You might assume that people with more money were likely to have better antennas for this kind of thing. But you’d be wrong. The survey showed that for this pitch, the highest earners — those with household incomes of $100,000 or more — found the pitch more appealing than those with lower incomes. And those with more education were generally more credulous, too. The greater their education, the more likely they were to invest in potentially fraudulent schemes.

The explanation for this, Ms. Walsh said, is that many well-educated people are overconfident and “let down their defenses.” (And different studies by Finra and others show that men are more likely than women to be overconfident in this way.)

Sadly, there’s no simple way to give everyone immunity from con artists, Ms. Walsh said. She added, though, that “the take-away from this ought to be ‘Always ask and check.’ ” Ask whether an individual selling an investment is licensed to do so, then check the information online through Finra, which has a service called “Brokercheck.” Ask whether a security being offered is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission — and then check that independently by going to the S.E.C.’s Edgar database.

That may prepare you for the next guy who tries to sell you the Brooklyn Bridge.
632 2013-09-29 “Who do you delete to take his place?” Baker said. He paused. “Right?

“The thing is, Billy, is he ready to handle that pressure? And not only base running, which he can probably handle, but is he ready to start a game or come off the bench and get some hits that you might need? There’s a lot of factors here.

Baker then gave a brief lesson on McGee, who as a 23-year-old rookie in 1982 helped the St. Louis Cardinals win the World Series. In Game 3, he hit two home runs, and made a leaping catch at the wall in the ninth inning.

Hitting and fielding seem to be Baker’s issues with Hamilton. He was moved to center field from shortstop this season and did just fine. But as a switch-hitter at Class AAA Louisville, he hit just .256 and was better batting right-handed.

Jim Riggleman, his manager in Louisville, said Hamilton played like a natural in center, and he pointed to how, as the season went on, Hamilton improved at the plate. He declined to discuss the Reds’ postseason roster, but he did offer a comparison: how Dave Roberts’s ninth-inning steal in Game 4 of the 2004 American League Championship Series sparked Boston’s historic comeback against the Yankees.

“You know, those outs are precious at that point in the game,” Riggleman said. “It takes a little nerve from the manager to allow it. And it takes the guts of a burglar to do it as the runner. Billy has that.”

His Reds teammates already respect his talent, or at least his speed.

Shin-Soo Choo, a respected base stealer himself, said Hamilton’s build — he is 6 feet and 160 pounds with long legs — helped him run so well. To prepare to pinch-run, Hamilton usually retreats to the indoor track beside the clubhouse in the sixth or seventh inning. He stretches, rides a stationary bike and runs sprints. If he is on the road, he will find anywhere to stretch and run.

When he took off last Monday against the Mets, he slid in easily for his 13th steal. Two days later, he started, Baker giving him a chance to prove he belonged on the postseason roster.In his first two at-bats, Hamilton struck out and flew out to left against the Mets’ Daisuke Matsuzaka. In his third, he hit a chopper to Lucas Duda, several feet off first base. Hamilton bursted out of the box. Matsuzaka sprinted to cover the bag. Hamilton beat him by a step.

It was the fifth inning, two outs and the Reds were trailing by 1-0 when Hamilton reached. The Mets had their backup, the new call-up Juan Centeno, behind the plate. Hamilton took his lead. The crowd buzzed. Matsuzaka shortened his delivery. Hamilton went. Centeno caught the ball clean and made a perfect throw. Wilfredo Tovar, the Mets’ young shortstop, swiped his glove across Hamilton’s sliding leg. The second-base umpire Tony Randazzo punched the air. Hamilton took off his helmet and gloves, expressionless, almost in disbelief.

But now the question is whether Hamilton will be back at it in the postseason, pure speed trying to steal a run for the Reds.
633 2013-09-29 But math alone cannot communicate Mariano’s achievement, his almost otherworldly control of the ball, or his aura as a great warrior, gentleman and mensch. Colleagues, fans and journalists have struggled to find words to convey his accomplishments, and his heart and soul and will — his steely determination on the mound and his humor and charm off the field.

ABC’s Robin Roberts observed that it was rarer to score an earned run off Rivera in the postseason than to walk on the moon. The former Mets manager Bobby Valentine once said: “No one else throws a 94-mile-an-hour cutter. It’s like bird watching in a foreign land. You can’t understand it.” Rivera’s teammate David Robertson, who may inherit his job, called him “the most consistent human being to ever play the game of baseball.”

One baseball analyst attributed Rivera’s success to the “three C’s” — “control, control, control.” Another attributed it to the “four C’s” — “confidence, concentration, control and competitiveness.” To which a Yankees fan might add even more alliteration: constancy, calm, class, composure, continuity and complete command of craft.

People have compared Rivera to Michael Jordan and Wayne Gretzky to convey his soaring talent and just how indispensable he has been to his team. Explaining Rivera’s mystique goads others to reach for analogies outside sports to describe the indescribable, comparing his artistry to that of famous musicians and painters, his tenacity and mental toughness to that of Navy SEALs, his sleight of hand to the legerdemain of a Harry Potter or Houdini.

Rivera himself was succinct and to the point about his job: “I get the ball, I throw the ball, and then I take a shower.”

For fans who grew up watching No. 42 or have followed him for the last 19 seasons, he has become the embodiment of the Yankees at their very best: not the big-spending, patched-together All-Star team that chased after the likes of Randy Johnson, Gary Sheffield and Kevin Brown, but the team that Rivera, along with Derek Jeter, Andy Pettitte, Jorge Posada and Bernie Williams, defined. The team always came first for these homegrown Yankees, and they played with brotherly dedication and collective pride.

Rivera’s retirement is a melancholy moment for the Yankees and their fans. Williams retired in 2006, Posada last played in 2011, and Pettitte was scheduled to pitch his final game Saturday. Jeter will be the only one to return next year — and to a team in need of reimagining and rebuilding, and possibly fated to some long years in the baseball wilderness.

That the beloved and seemingly ageless Sandman is exiting this year not only means the end of a golden era, but also reminds us of the swift and unrelenting passage of time. The perfect ending everyone yearned for after the Rivera tribute last Sunday at Yankee Stadium was a win for Andy and a save for Mariano, but that was not to be. And yet, the larger narrative of Rivera’s career remains a storybook one.

The son of a fisherman, he grows up playing baseball on a beach in Panama with a milk carton for a glove, a stick for a bat and whatever was available for a ball; after being signed by a Yankees scout for $3,500, he does his apprenticeship in the minors, joins the Yankees and struggles at first, and then suddenly hits his stride. He wins a championship in 1996 as the setup man for John Wetteland and, soon, leaps into hyperspace as the closer, becoming such a feared adversary that opponents will talk about needing to win games against the Yankees in seven or eight innings before he takes the mound.

In the last month or so, the pace of Rivera tributes has accelerated, within baseball and the news media, and also among fans on Twitter and Facebook, on radio call-in shows, and even in an AT&T-sponsored “Thanks for the Mo-Ments” promotion. They recite Rivera’s luminous stats, cite songs (like Nat King Cole’s “Unforgettable” or Jeff Buckley’s “Last Goodbye”) they would dedicate to him, and trade memories of his clutch performances: those emotional World Series wins; Game 7 of the 2003 American League Championship Series against the Red Sox (won in 11 innings by Aaron Boone’s home run); his record- setting 602nd save with a perfect ninth inning against the Minnesota Twins in September 2011.

Such outpourings of love are a testament to the intimate and deeply felt karmic relationship that has developed over two decades between Rivera and Yankee fans, and New York City — a relationship that has been heightened, perhaps, by his job as the closer. No one has been more of a team player than the humble and loyal Rivera, and yet his was a strangely solitary job: taking the field not alongside his teammates but alone, at the end, with the heavy responsibility of saving the game for them all.

The photographs and videos of Rivera running toward the mound from the bullpen — shot from behind, No. 42 starkly outlined on his impeccably crisp pinstripes — have given way to similar images (in newspapers, and on T-shirts and souvenir pins) showing him striding not into the electric blur of Yankee Stadium but into some less immediately recognizable realm. Jogging into the future and retirement. And through the gates of Cooperstown and into the forever of history.
634 2013-09-29 For years, Randy Hage has been snapping photos of storefronts in changing New York neighborhoods, and then making scale models of them....
635 2013-09-29 Athletic socks, once the most forgettable item of clothing, have become hugely coveted and a huge, nearly $3 billion business, said Matt Powell, the chief retail analyst with the market research firm SportsOneSource. After years of near-static demand (exactly how many six-packs of white socks does one need?), sales grew by 34 percent in 2012 over 2011, he said, and are up 28 percent to date this year.

His figures don’t include flourishing newcomers like Stance, which shares founders with the hipster headphone-maker Skullcandy, and Strideline, whose cityscape designs have been posted approvingly on Instagram by the rapper Snoop Lion (formerly known as Snoop Dogg) and worn by the Seattle Seahawks player Marshawn Lynch during a January division playoff game. Nor do they include the dozens of scrappy Instagram-dependent start-ups like Rock ’Em, whose designs, usually involving Nike Elites, aren’t sold in stores but command some of the highest prices.

Nike has no relationship with these companies, and so far cannot stop them from buying its socks retail and then embellishing, usually in patterns that deliberately complement an up-and-coming or just-released sneaker. “We put great value on our trademark rights and will take the necessary steps to enforce those where appropriate,” Nike said in a statement.

The biggest consumers: middle- and high-school boys, fledgling sneakerheads who may or may not actually compete in basketball but who definitely compete in “I have a cool sock, and you don’t,” Mr. Powell said.

Parents, particularly of younger boys, are happy to indulge, because pricey socks generally are still cheaper than the premium sneakers they’re reluctant to buy for fast-growing feet.

Jacqueline Maddron of Orlando, Fla., said that she feeds “the madness” by rewarding her son, Nicholas, 14, with $40 socks for good grades. He now has 5 pairs of those socks and some 30 other pairs that average about $20 a pair.

“This is the only thing my son is into,” she said. “If socks are his vice, I can live with that.”

The ascent of sock from afterthought to accessory that some boys build their outfits around began with Nike’s introduction of its Elite basketball crew socks to the United States Olympic men’s basketball team in 2007 and to other teams in 2008, followed by sales of the socks to the public in 2009. The socks, which go for about $14 a pair, feature an anatomically correct design for each foot and a logo practically visible from the cheap seats: four rectangles that shrink as they inch up the Achilles, topped with a broken vertical stripe.

The company may tout, as a spokesman did, its obsessive attention to athletes’ needs, but, really, Nike got lucky, Mr. Powell said. “This is a grass-roots story,” he said, noting that the sock was on the market for years before sales exploded. “Some cool kid in some high school somewhere started wearing them. Now wearing them marks you a player.”

Added Jake Lefferts, 13, a basketball player from Maplewood, N.J., whose team won its suburban-league championship two years ago: “All the good basketball teams have the cool socks. It’s like we know who’s good, but the socks reinforce that they are.”

Though competitors have scrambled to block Nike, the company’s share of the so-called “single crew sock market” keeps climbing. It’s currently about 59 percent, more than five times that of No. 2, Jordan, with about 11 percent (and which Nike now owns), Mr. Powell said. The original five options have expanded to dozens, plus iterations called Hyperelite and Platinum Elite, not to mention athlete tie-ins and the inevitable limited editions for occasions like Black History Month.

It’s “wholly consumer driven,” said Yale Schalk, the managing editor of CounterKicks, a sneaker breaking-news site whose sock coverage, he said, exploded last year.

When new Nike colors are released, said Jennifer Dickson, the socks and footwear-accessories buyer for the 475-unit Sports Authority chain, “certain stores sell out as soon as they hit the floor.” Ms. Dickson said that more expensive socks won prime store real estate 18 months ago and that demand isn’t slowing.

“I still sell more than I did a year ago,” she said. Of competitors’ offerings, she said, “nothing else reaches that level.”

On eBay, there’s even a brisk business in “worn once” — also not by anyone famous — “and washed” Nike socks in the rarer colorways, with some pairs selling for twice their original price. (“It’s crazy — I was going to throw them out,” said one purveyor, Charles Henry of Richmond, Va.)

Nike’s dominance of the sock drawer and its steady stream of limited-edition sneakers mean that enterprising designers rarely bother with any socks but Elites.

Rob Starkman, who alternately refers to himself as the “captain” of the Orlando-based Rock ’Em Apparel and “the Walter White of dye mixing” (a “Breaking Bad” reference), said that he can’t work with Adidas or Under Armour socks because they “don’t have a comparable product.”

Mr. Starkman, a 6-foot-10 former University of Central Florida broadcast journalism major who dropped out during his senior year to chase sock-market supremacy, explained: “In the sneaker culture you have to match everything. If you’re wearing Under Armour underwear with a Nike shoe, someone will know. So it just doesn’t make sense to do an Adidas design on a Nike sock.”

Nor is it worth doing staid colors in the smaller sizes. The flashier and brighter the colors, the better. At Strideline, cotton-candy pink, one of the original six colors offered in 2009, remains a Top 5 seller.

“We initially picked it because we wanted to include girls in our market,” said Riley Goodman, a co-founder. “But it’s all middle-school boys saying, ‘O.K., I’m man enough to wear pink.’ ”

But high schoolers, Mr. Goodman said, “are over the flashiest colors.”

A peek in the laundry basket of the basketball-playing Nycz (pronounced Nice) brothers of West Lafayette, Ind., bears out Mr. Goodman’s theory. Tyler, 16, rarely wears the blue and orange Nike Elites he calls his flashiest pair, while Charlie, 14, still favors fuchsia, lime green and a purple pair that his girlfriend at the time gave him for his 13th birthday.

His father, Patrick Nycz, said that he and the girl’s mother were amused that a teenage boy would be delighted with a present of socks. But Charlie ignored both of them. “I’m known for having a lot of socks, and she knew that I really liked them,” Charlie said of the girl.

Patrick Nycz said that anyone who sorts the laundry incorrectly hears about it swiftly. “It’s ‘Those black ones are obviously mine, and the fuchsia ones are obviously Charlie’s,’ ” Mr. Nycz said, quoting Tyler and drawing out the “obviouslys.”

For anyone to whom it’s not obvious, the brothers have taken to writing their names inside the socks.

“We bought most of them with our own money,” Tyler said. “It’s not like my brother is going to take them, but I guess I hope if I lose a sock somewhere, maybe someone will know to give it back to me.”
636 2013-09-29 The single setting, expansively designed by Michael Carnahan, presents both the cozy interior and the weathered facade of a Victorian-style house decked with screened porches and bow windows. In the yard, a large and extravagantly gnarled apple tree spreads its fruit-laden branches toward the heavens.

As the story begins, a gramophone recording of “Love’s Old Sweet Song” sets a twilight atmosphere as Gramps (Robert Hogan) and little Pud (Oakes Fegley) putter around while discussing family matters. Granny (Diane Kagan) is a dear old scold who affectionately frets over Gramps’s salty influence on Pud’s character. The boy’s sanctimonious Aunt Demetria Riffle (Angela Reed) is termed a “pismire” by Gramps, who defines that as “one of the meanest ants there is.”

Then Mr. Brink (Tom Nelis) appears, requesting that Gramps go off with him to “where the woodbine twineth.”

Foiled in that attempt, Mr. Brink later visits Pud’s parents (offstage) and Granny — the leisurely narrative proves to be fairly fatal — which results in Gramps’s conflict with Demetria, who demands to become the boy’s guardian.

Another visit by the persistent Mr. Brink eventually sees him stuck in that tree and unable to touch Gramps, or anybody else, as the first act concludes.

Should this tale seem familiar to some people, perhaps they recall the 1939 film, which starred Lionel Barrymore as Gramps and closely follows the play. Barrymore performed the role in a wheelchair, but here the silver-haired Mr. Hogan ambles about as a mostly spry if occasionally shaky-on-his-feet Gramps. Mr. Hogan’s tetchy but essentially mellow nature lends a glow to the proceedings, especially in his relationship with young Mr. Fegley’s earnest, bespectacled Pud. Their rapport appears to be genuine and fond. Ms. Kagan is nicely more tart than sweet as Granny.

Subtly bathed in an unearthly light by the designer Jennifer Tipton, the lithe Mr. Nelis lends a soft voice and a patient manner to Mr. Brink, who obviously knows that time is on his side.

Wearing prickly hats and pinched expressions as Demetria, the sharp Ms. Reed adds comic astringency to a play that turns surprisingly humorous in the second act. Steven Skybell as a kindly doctor and Patrick Husted as a taciturn lawyer deliver rock-solid performances among the several villagers whose disbelief regarding Gramps’s unwilling prisoner changes into open-mouthed bewilderment. Ann Hould-Ward, the costume designer, dresses everyone appropriately to the mid-1930s time and place.

Adapted by Mr. Osborn from a novel by Lawrence Edward Watkin, “On Borrowed Time” thoughtfully contemplates the necessity of death while providing a tender portrait of an old man’s abiding love for his grandson. Mr. Grey’s interpretation of the play perhaps registers as a tad too melancholy in its usually somber lighting and cello-touched music, but his well-acted production effectively vibrates with life.
637 2013-09-29 In his second season as the Philadelphia Orchestra’s music director, the French Canadian conductor Yannick Nézet-Séguin has already galvanized this ensemble’s audiences and inspired its musicians. New Yorkers mostly know Mr. Nézet-Séguin, 38, from his appearances with the Metropolitan Opera. He brings his orchestra to Carnegie Hall for a gala concert to open the season.

He is offering lighter fare, including Tchaikovsky’s “Slavonic March” and Ravel’s “Bolero.” The violinist Joshua Bell will be the soloist in some favorite showpieces — Ravel’s “Tzigane” and Saint-Saëns’ Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso. (7 p.m., Wednesday, 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $49-$154.)

The New York Philharmonic also chose to end its season-opening gala with Ravel’s “Bolero,” which seems to be the go-to piece of the moment. But this week Alan Gilbert conducts Beethoven’s mighty Ninth Symphony on an enticing program (the first of five performances) that will open with the American premiere of “Frieze” by the British composer Mark-Anthony Turnage, best known as the composer of the opera “Anna Nicole.” (7:30 p.m. Thursday, 8 p.m., Friday and Saturday, Avery Fisher Hall, 212-875-5656, nyphil.org; $31-$153.)
638 2013-09-29 Landlords and owners are faced with difficult decisions when considering medical waivers allowing dogs in no-pet buildings....
639 2013-09-29 I respect what these programs are trying to do. But I worry that they seem to be forcing children to share their feelings even if they don’t want to. Do schools have the right to require children to announce their emotional state all the time and volunteer information about all aspects of their lives? I think a shy child, or a child who comes from a family that values privacy, might find this very uncomfortable. Wanting to keep your thoughts and feelings to yourself (when you aren’t among family and close friends) isn’t a character flaw, even in children. BETH BABCOCK, Miami, posted on nytimes.com

As a therapist, I see many patients who were never taught this type of information. As adults they have difficulty finding words to express their feelings, cannot calm themselves after being upset, cannot tolerate the intense feelings of others, may become numb or persistently depressed and have obsessive negative thoughts long after the emotions have dissipated. I frequently wish that emotional-intelligence skills were taught in school to prevent so much misery in childhood and adulthood. Why should children be forced to suffer when the information is readily available? SHELLEY DIAMOND, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com

The child’s overall lifestyle — sleep, diet and exercise — is probably even more influential on school performance than any pseudo-cognitive behavioral therapy. If only schools could teach parents how to be parents. ROBERT FAHEY, Burlington, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

I’m a music teacher, and I think the idea of teaching a classroom of children with tablets is awful. They are already so distracted by technology. They need a smart, engaged adult standing in a room with them, talking to them, explaining things to them. I love technology when appropriate in my classroom. I don’t lament the loss of the 8-mm projector in favor of a Smart Board. I’m happy to use film clips of musicals with middle-school students, and I keep my iPod handy to play songs that illustrate my lesson. But kids staring at a screen? No way. ROSEMARY BUETIKOFER, Harleysville, Pa., posted on nytimes.com

Do you not look down at a book? Do you not turn your back toward students to write on a chalkboard? Do you not look at a projector screen or a computer monitor? A tablet can be a way to aggregate all of those. As opposed to having numerous places to look for both teacher and student, now they can have one place, thus allowing for more eye contact. It’s actually a solution, not a problem. TYLER M. REID, Louisville, Ky., posted on nytimes.com
640 2013-09-29 Who wants to spend the night in a Walmart parking lot?...
641 2013-09-30 On the eve of open enrollment in health exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act, President Obama announced that he wanted to hire Lanhee J. Chen, a Mitt Romney adviser who argued for the law’s repeal....
642 2013-09-30 The head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s enforcement unit, who has taken on the financial industry, is stepping down....
643 2013-09-30 Stock markets around the world steadied early on Tuesday after broad declines on Monday. The dollar, however, fell in value against major currencies....
644 2013-09-30 When the Senate began its new legislative day as it customarily does with a prayer, the chaplain departed from his usual apolitical messages....
645 2013-09-30 Previous government shutdowns have not been catastrophic to the markets, but no precedent exists for how they might react to a failure to raise the debt ceiling....
646 2013-09-30 House Republicans will attach language to a government funding bill that would delay the mandate that individuals purchase health care and would ensure no government subsidies for members of Congress and their staff who purchase insurance on the h...
647 2013-09-30 Members of a grass-roots disability rights group called Adapt, many of them in motorized wheelchairs, gathered on the steps of the Longworth House Office Building to protest House Republicans’ attempts to repeal and delay the health care law....
648 2013-09-30 The photographer Greg Kessler captures the transformations of the Spring 2014 Fashion Week in Paris....
649 2013-09-30 The site, which was closed when Hurricane Sandy damaged the South Street Seaport last October, will reopen on Tuesday....
650 2013-09-30 Simply paying money to get rid of investigations raises questions about whether JPMorgan Chase should be viewed as a recidivist, and if so how the law should treat the bank....
651 2013-09-30 A play-by-play by The Financial Times tells how a default by the Treasury could unfold....
652 2013-09-30 A government shutdown looms. Ten companies say they have achieved return on investment through social media. A look at the small-business health insurance exchange in Washington....
653 2013-09-30 Charles B. Johnson, the retired chairman of the money management company Franklin Resources, has pledged $250 million to Yale....
654 2013-09-30 Jaime Hodges rejoined Phoenix Marketing International, Rhinebeck, N.Y., in a new post, executive vice president of the Phoenix Healthcare Group. She had been a pharmaceutical category lead at Millward Brown, part of WPP.

Intercept Pharmaceuticals, New York and San Diego, named Cambridge BioMarketing, Cambridge, Mass., as agency of record for the introduction of obeticholic acid, which is meant to help with digestion. Billings were not disclosed.

Tracey Jennings joined GlobalHue, Southfield, Mich., as senior vice president and group account director. She had been vice president at Liquid Soul Media, Atlanta.

Katz Media Group, New York, renamed its interactive division, Katz 360, as PROXi Digital. Katz is part of Clear Channel Communications, owned by CC Media Holdings.

Landis Communications, San Francisco, hired three executives. They are David Cumpston, director of client services; Sean Dowdall, general manager and chief marketing officer; and Eric Steckel, digital media strategist.

Sabrina Levine joined Channel V Media, New York, as a partner. She had been a partner at Lizzie Grubman Public Relations and Management.

Mktg Inc. hired three employees in its Chicago and New York offices. They are Ryan Carter, vice president of client service, in Chicago; Katie Kirby, director of communications, in New York; and Scott Malaga, senior vice president of business development, in Chicago.

Eliot Phillips joined Wasabi Rabbit, New York, in a new post, executive vice president of business development. He had been a principal at the Phillips Communications Group.

Elizabeth Rowny joined Cole & Weber United, Seattle, part of the United Network unit of WPP, as managing director and partner. She assumes duties from Britt Peterson, director of growth strategy, who is now executive vice president and head of strategy at Publicis Seattle, part of the Publicis in the USA division of Publicis Worldwide, which is owned by the Publicis Groupe. Ms. Rowny had most recently been worldwide managing partner at TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Ram Sarma, group director of technology and architecture at DigitasLBi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, joined another Publicis agency, Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., in a new post, partner for technology.

Kathleen Schneider joined Criteo, London, as senior vice president of marketing and strategy, a new post. She had been executive director for global channel marketing and programs at Dell, based in London.

Charlie Walter joined CoreMedia Systems, Fairfield, N.J., as chief operating officer. He assumes the post from Jim Paull, who remains president. Mr. Walter had most recently been chief information officer at GroupM, New York, part of WPP.

Jennifer Young joined Oxygen Media, New York, as vice president of ad sales marketing. She succeeds Puja Vohra, who is now senior vice president of marketing. Ms. Young had been vice president of strategic and integrated marketing at CBS Local Media, New York, part of the CBS Corporation. Oxygen Media is part of the NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment division of NBCUniversal, which is owned by the Comcast Corporation.

Zenith Romania, Bucharest, which had been an affiliate agency of the ZenithOptimedia Group, part of the Publicis Groupe, has been acquired by the Publicis Groupe as ZenithOptimedia takes majority control of the media agency. Financial terms were not disclosed.
655 2013-09-30 The fiscal fight and threat of a government shutdown are causing greater unease than past political disputes. | Mark Cuban is sparring with the federal government. | The British game maker King has filed for an I.P.O. in the United States. | Warre...
656 2013-09-30 Go to next slide
657 2013-09-30 Metropolitan Diary: Two men used a child’s game to decide which of them would get the only available Citi Bike....
658 2013-09-30 Mechanical and communications failures and an unforeseen sandstorm put three of the eight helicopters out of action, leaving one fewer than the minimum of six needed to fly the Army commandos from the desert to the Tehran area. That caused Mr. Carter to call off the operation. Then one of the helicopters preparing to depart crashed into a parked Air Force transport plane, causing an explosion and fireball that killed eight servicemen.

Mr. Carter took responsibility for the mission’s failure. A report by a Pentagon commission listed numerous problems in the planning and execution of the mission and cited a lack of sufficient coordination among the service branches, though it did not assign blame to General Vaught or the commanders under him.

Ronald Reagan made the failed mission an issue in defeating Mr. Carter in his bid for a second term. The hostages were not released until the day Mr. Reagan was inaugurated, 444 days after they were taken captive.

In an interview with Newsday in 2005, General Vaught touched on interservice rivalry. He said he had sought to inspect the Navy helicopters while they were being prepared for the mission aboard the aircraft carrier Nimitz, but was turned down by the Joint Chiefs.

“I was told it was the Navy’s job, and it was perfectly capable of preparing and repairing them,” he said. “I had no authority except over the Army guys.”

James Benjamin Vaught was born in Conway on Nov. 3, 1926.

“I am a direct lineal descendant of Francis Marion,” he told the Conway-area news site Grand Strand Daily.com in 2011, referring to the South Carolina militia commander known as the Swamp Fox for waging guerrilla war against the British in the Revolutionary War. “Some of those unconventional warfare genes carried through the years.”

He attended the Citadel in Charleston, S.C., for three semesters before being drafted into the Army and obtaining a lieutenant’s commission. He served in the post-World War II occupation of Germany, was an infantry company commander in the Korean War and a battalion commander of helicopter-borne troops in the Vietnam War, taking part in the liberation of Hue and the relief of Marines who were besieged at their Khe Sanh outpost.

General Vaught held a senior administrative post at the Pentagon when he was assigned by the Army chief of staff, Gen. Edward C. Meyer, to command the Iran rescue operation. Sixteen months after the failed raid, he was promoted from major general to lieutenant general and became commander of American and Korean troops in South Korea. In announcing the appointment, General Meyer called General Vaught “a very confident, very capable general who has been a superb troop leader.”

General Vaught retired from the military in 1983.

He is survived by his wife, Florence; his daughter, Cathryn Vaught; his sons James Jr. and Stephen; a brother, John; a sister, Vina Floyd; his stepdaughters Marian Davis and Lee Glasgow Watson; four grandchildren, three stepgrandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.

General Vaught was quoted by The Washington Post on the 25th anniversary of the aborted raid as having been devastated by the feeling he had “let the country down and left the hostages there.” But he called the mission a “successful failure” since it used technology, including satellite communications and night-vision goggles, that proved valuable in future operations.

The fragmented command structure exposed by that failed raid also led to the creation of a multiservice Special Operations Command that included an elite Navy unit focusing on counterterrorism. Thirty-one years after the botched hostage-rescue mission, the men from that unit, SEAL Team 6, killed Osama bin Laden.
659 2013-09-30 Re “Private Schools Likely to Drop an Entrance Test” (front page, Sept. 20):

At the Bank Street School for Children, the admissions process for our youngest applicants has never depended upon the E.R.B. exam or on any other standardized test.

Issues of test preparation aside, as educators who believe deeply in our school’s progressive philosophy of education, we have long understood that a standardized test score can only narrowly and unfairly define a 4- or a 5-year-old, especially given the broad spectrum of human development at such a young age.

Careful and informed observations of a child — both individually and in small groups — allow us to begin to understand that child’s innate curiosity and how he or she approaches both academic problems and social interactions.

That process is a more legitimate and successful assessment of a child’s readiness for school and, for us, has always been the preferable alternative to a standardized test.
660 2013-09-30 Re “A Nudge to Poorer Students to Aim High on Colleges” (news article, Sept. 26):

The College Board’s latest efforts to encourage talented low-income students to apply to top colleges, while laudable in intent, will indeed create tensions surrounding financial aid at most institutions. Without more financial aid, getting more low-income students to apply to top colleges will just result in more rejections.

About two-thirds of America’s top 150 private colleges and universities with the highest endowments per student are not need-blind in admissions, and already reject talented low-income applicants because of students’ financial need. And many of the need-blind schools are already spending as much as is sustainable from their endowments.

To make progress on low-income access, institutions need incentives to increase financial aid. The federal government can play a role by tying its higher education dollars directly to access. In the end, more financial aid is essential if colleges are going to be successful in enrolling more talented low-income students.
661 2013-09-30 The communication intercepts between Mr. Zawahri and Mr. Wuhayshi revealed what American intelligence officials and lawmakers have described as one of the most serious plots against American and other Western interests since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. It prompted the closing of 19 United States Embassies and consulates for a week, when the authorities ultimately concluded that the plot focused on the embassy in Yemen.

McClatchy Newspapers first reported on the conversations between Mr. Zawahri and Mr. Wuhayshi on Aug. 4. Two days before that, agreed to withhold the identities of the Qaeda leaders after senior American intelligence officials said the information could jeopardize their operations. After the government became aware of article, it dropped its objections to The Times’s publishing the same information, and the newspaper did so on Aug. 5.

In recent months, senior administration officials — including the director of national intelligence, Jr. — have drawn attention to the damage that Mr. Snowden’s revelations have done, though most have been addressing the impact on national security more broadly, not just the effect on counterterrorism.

“We have seen, in response to the Snowden leaks, Al Qaeda and affiliated groups seeking to change their tactics, looking to see what they can learn from what is in the press and seek to change how they communicate to avoid detection,” Matthew Olsen, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, told a security conference in , Colo., in July.

American counterterrorism officials say they believe the disclosure about the Qaeda plot has had a significant impact because it was a specific event that signaled to terrorists that a main communication network that the group’s leaders were using was being monitored. The sharpest decline in messaging has been among the Qaeda operatives in Yemen, officials said. The disclosures from Mr. Snowden have not had such specificity about terrorist communications networks that the government is monitoring, they said.

“It was something that was immediate, direct and involved specific people on specific communications about specific events,” one senior American official said of the exchange between the Qaeda leaders. “The Snowden stuff is layered and layered, and it will take a lot of time to understand it. There wasn’t a sudden drop-off from it. A lot of these guys think that they are not impacted by it, and it is difficult stuff for them to understand.”

Other senior intelligence and counterterrorism officials offer a dissenting view, saying that it is difficult, if not impossible, to separate the impact of the messages between the Qaeda leaders from Mr. Snowden’s overall disclosures, and that the decline is more likely a combination of the two.

“The bad guys are just not going to talk operational planning electronically,” said one senior counterterrorism official. Moreover, that official and others say, it could take months or years to fully assess the impact of Mr. Snowden’s disclosures on counterterrorism efforts.

Over the past decade, the N.S.A. has invested billions of dollars in a clandestine campaign to preserve its ability to eavesdrop. The agency has circumvented or cracked much of the encryption, or digital scrambling, that guards global commerce and banking systems, protects sensitive data like trade secrets and medical records, and automatically secures the e-mails, Web searches, Internet chats and phone calls of Americans and others around the world, according to documents provided by Mr. Snowden.

The government’s greatest fear concerning its counterterrorism operations is that over the next several months, the level of intercepted communications will continue to fall as terrorists most likely find new ways to communicate with one another, one senior American official said. It will likely take the government some time to break into that method and monitor communications.

One way the terrorists may try to communicate, the official said, is strictly through couriers, who would carry paper notes or computer flash drives. If that happens, the official said, terrorists will find it very difficult to communicate as couriers take significant time to move messages.

“The problem for Al Qaeda is they cannot function without cellphones,” said one former senior administration official. “They know we listen to them, but they use them anyhow. You can’t run a sophisticated organization without communications in this world. They know all this, but to operate they have to go on.”

A senior intelligence official put it this way: “They are agile, we are agile. When we see a change in behavior, our guys are changing right along with it, or we’re already seeing it and adapting to it. Our capabilities are changing in hours and days, versus weeks and months like we used to.”

To be sure, Qaeda leaders and their top lieutenants use other secure electronic communications as well as old-fashioned means — like couriers, as Bin Laden did — that pose major challenges to American intelligence services.

In the past few months, the Global Islamic Media Front, the propaganda arm of Al Qaeda and other Islamic terrorist groups, has released new software that allows users to encrypt communications for instant-messaging and cellphones. Officials say these new programs may pose fresh challenges for N.S.A. code breakers.

Jihadists have been working on camouflaging their communications through encryption software for years.

Al Qaeda’s use of advanced encryption technology dates to 2007, when the Global Islamic Media Front released the Asrar al-Mujahedeen, or so-called “Mujahedeen Secrets,” software. An updated version, Mujahedeen Secrets 2, was released in January 2008, and has been revised at least twice, most recently in May 2012, analysts said.

The program was popularized in the first issue of Inspire, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula’s quarterly online magazine, in a July 2010 post entitled “How to Use Asrar al-Mujahedeen: Sending and Receiving Encrypted Messages.”

Since then, each issue of Inspire has offered a how-to section on encrypting communications, recommending MS2 as the main encryption tool.

Shortly after Mr. Snowden leaked documents about the secret N.S.A. surveillance programs, chat rooms and Web sites used by jihadis and prospective recruits advised users how to avoid N.S.A. detection, from telling them to avoid using to recommending specific online software programs like MS2 to keep spies from tracking their computers’ physical locations.

A few months ago, the Global Islamic Media Front issued new software that relies on the MS2’s “Asrar al-Dardashah, or “Secrets of Chatting,” which allows users to encrypt conversations over instant-messaging software like , Chat, and MSN, according to Laith Alkhouri, a senior analyst at Flashpoint Global Partners, a New York security consulting firm that tracks militant Web sites.

In early September, the Global Islamic Media Front said it had released an encryption program for messages and files on mobile phones running the Android and Symbian operating systems.

According to the group, the software can encrypt text messages and files and send them by e-mail or between cellphones with different operating systems. The software also lets users securely check e-mail and prevents users from receiving nonencrypted messages, the group claimed.
662 2013-09-30 Of course, no country, not even the United States, can prevent massacres everywhere in the world — but this was a close American ally, which prized its warm relationship with the United States and used American weapons and military supplies against its own people.

Nixon and Kissinger barely tried to exert leverage over Pakistan’s military government. In the pivotal days before the crackdown began on March 25, they consciously decided not to warn the Pakistani generals against opening fire on their population. They did not press for respecting the election results, nor did they prod the military to cut a power-sharing deal with the Bengali leadership. They did not offer warnings or impose conditions that might have dissuaded the Pakistani junta from atrocities. Nor did they threaten the loss of American military or economic support after the slaughter began.

Nixon and Kissinger were not just motivated by dispassionate realpolitik, weighing Pakistan’s help with the secret opening to China or India’s pro-Soviet leanings. The White House tapes capture their emotional rage, going far beyond Nixon’s habitual vulgarity. In the Oval Office, Nixon told Kissinger that the Indians needed “a mass famine.” Kissinger sneered at people who “bleed” for “the dying Bengalis.”

They were unmoved by the suffering of Bengalis, despite detailed reporting about the killing from Archer K. Blood, the brave United States consul general in East Pakistan. Nor did Nixon and Kissinger waver when Kenneth B. Keating, a former Republican senator from New York then serving as the American ambassador to India, personally confronted them in the Oval Office about “a matter of genocide” that targeted the Hindu minority among the Bengalis.

After Mr. Blood’s consulate sent an extraordinary cable formally dissenting from American policy, decrying what it called genocide, Nixon and Kissinger ousted Mr. Blood from his post in East Pakistan. Kissinger privately scorned Mr. Blood as “this maniac”; Nixon called Mr. Keating “a traitor.”

India was secretly sponsoring a Bengali insurgency in East Pakistan, and the violence ended only after India and Pakistan went to war in December 1971, with the Indian Army swiftly securing an independent Bangladesh. Economic development and political progress were always going to be difficult there. But Bangladesh’s situation was made tougher by the devastation: lost lives, wrecked infrastructure and radicalized politics.

Bangladesh, despite its recent economic growth, is a haunted country. Part of the tumult centers on the fate of defendants like Abdul Quader Mollah, who face judgment in a series of national war crimes trials for atrocities committed in 1971 by local collaborators with West Pakistan. These trials are popular, but the court has often failed to meet fair standards of due process. Its proceedings have ensnared members of the largest Islamist political party, Jamaat-e-Islami, which is aligned with the main political rival of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.

It will be up to Bangladeshis to fix their country’s rancorous politics, but their task was made harder from the outset by Nixon and Kissinger’s callousness. The legacy of 1971 still stains the reputation of the United States in India as well. If an apology from Kissinger is too much to expect, Americans ought at least to remember what he and Nixon did in those terrible days.
663 2013-09-30 But before he departed for New York, Mr. Netanyahu said, “I will tell the truth in the face of the sweet talk and the onslaught of smiles.”

The Iranian issue has been an acute source of tension between Israel and the Obama administration in the past, and it could be again.

A senior Israeli official, speaking to reporters on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly, said Sunday: “We are worried Obama is looking for a way out. He said part of it right: we are looking for actions not words. But it wasn’t the same forceful language he used in the past.”

Mr. Netanyahu has instructed his ministers to refrain from commenting on the Iranian issue ahead of his speech at the United Nations. But news of the man suspected of spying quickly became part of the campaign to cast doubt on Iranian intentions. Soon after Mr. Netanyahu landed in New York, Israel Radio cited an unnamed member of his entourage as saying that the arrest of the agent was further proof that the words coming out of Iran did not match its atrocious actions and that Iran, while pretending to charm the United States, continued to practice terrorism around the world.

Israel said the man, who was arrested as he tried to leave Israel on Sept. 11, was in his 50s, was born in Iran and held Belgian and Iranian citizenship.

The Israeli security officials identified him as Ali Mansouri and said he had entered Israel with a Belgian passport under the name of Alex Mans, posing as a businessman trading in commercial windows and fixtures. They said he had visited Israel three times in the past 15 months with instructions to set up a business in Israel that could serve as a cover for “intensive intelligence and terror activities” by Iranian agencies.

He was recruited by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and handled by the Quds Force, a special operations unit, which is responsible for carrying out attacks against Israel and its interests abroad, according to the statement. It added that the man supplied Israel with information about his handlers and told his Shin Bet interrogators that he had been promised $1 million for his efforts.

The Israeli authorities released several photographs they said had been found in his possession, including two of the American Embassy.

Gad Shimron, a former Mossad intelligence official and a journalist, said he was suspicious that the timing of the announcement might have been linked to Mr. Netanyahu’s trip. “When you reveal someone like this, the Shin Bet always has an interest to turn the agent into a double agent and send false messages to the Iranians or follow the agent in Europe to reveal a network,” Mr. Shimron told Israel Radio.

But Ronen Bergman, an Israeli journalist who writes extensively on intelligence affairs, said that the release of such information by the Shin Bet was usually unconnected to political considerations.

“I am not sure that in this case it would be any different,” Mr. Bergman added.
664 2013-09-30 On paper, the pay TV industry in the United States is ripe for revolution. Most Americans subscribe to one of a handful of entrenched providers, like DirecTV, Comcast or Time Warner Cable, but they give the industry dismal scores in satisfaction surveys and they complain regularly about slow customer service. More and more households are supplementing cable or satellite with on-demand streaming services like Netflix and Amazon, which offer movies and episodes of TV shows. A small minority has given up on cable altogether. But most remain subscribed, knowing it is hard to switch providers and believing the others are not much better, anyway.

Intel’s OnCue intends to address those complaints. It would supply customers with the same basic bundle of channels that existing companies do, but it would do so via the Internet and on screens of all sizes, from smartphones to wall-size TVs. Its interface would be smoother than that of most cable set-top boxes, and it would be personalized, so daughters, for example, would see different show recommendations than fathers.

Maybe most important, OnCue would automatically record everything on every channel and save it for a period of three days, giving viewers far more flexibility to watch on their own terms.

During Intel’s demonstrations of its technology for channel owners, the automatic recordings are frequently an “aha” moment. But Intel still has some persuading to do, even inside its own company, where a new chief executive, Brian M. Krzanich, took control in May.

Reports emerged last week, first on the Bloomberg newswire, about Intel seeking partners who could help with OnCue; that is because Mr. Krzanich wants more evidence from Erik Huggers, the executive in charge of the TV project, that OnCue can ramp up quickly once it starts, according to three people with knowledge of the company’s plans.

Intel projects that it needs to sign five million customers in OnCue’s first three years to make the initiative worthwhile, according to the people, who insisted on anonymity to speak freely. It needs scale in part because carriage contracts with channel owners usually guarantee certain minimum payments. Intel wants partners that are already in millions of homes, like Samsung or Roku, to better its chances of getting to scale quickly.

The company is in advanced stages of negotiations with Amazon for one such partnership, according to two of the people. Having Amazon’s on-demand service, called Amazon Prime Instant Video, baked into OnCue would help merge what are now two separate worlds of live and on-demand television. (For example, episodes of “The Big Bang Theory” would appear from both sources — recordings and Amazon’s rental library.) Intel and Amazon declined to comment.

Sony is thought to be a little further along than Intel. During the summer, it was reported that Sony and Viacom, the owner of Nickelodeon and MTV, had reached a tentative carriage deal. But the companies have not confirmed that, and no other deals have been reported since.

Sony’s streaming cable service would be sold through its PlayStation video game console at first, and might eventually span Sony’s product lines, from phones to TV sets. But it does not appear ready for public release yet, either. A Sony spokesman declined to comment on Sunday.

New cablelike services that aim to replace incumbents like Comcast would most likely have to compete on convenience, not cost; newer and smaller providers generally have to pay more for channels than bigger ones do. For Intel and Sony, the services would be peripheral to their core businesses, at least in the beginning, but could give them closer relationships with customers. (Imagine Sony selling one of its $3,000 flat-screen TVs by promising three months of free cable.)

The firms that have talked most openly about Intel and Sony’s plans are the half-dozen media companies that own most of the nation’s television channels. They generally say they are happy to have more customers for their channels.

“We are completely open to selling our product to them,” Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, said at a Goldman Sachs conference last week. He observed that some “new platforms” were technologically advanced, so Disney and its rivals could “offer customers product that is in many respects more attractive than what we’ve been able to offer before, more bells and whistles.”

The services could help media companies package their content in new ways; through OnCue or through the PlayStation, Disney could create a “Phineas and Ferb” channel, with nothing but reruns of the animated series, or NBC could create a channel for “The Voice.”

But Mr. Iger and his counterparts have to tread carefully, lest they offend the cable and satellite providers that are their main customers. Some of the incumbent providers have recently put up roadblocks for Intel and other over-the-top competitors. Partly for that reason, “no one wants to go first; no one wants to be isolated” while making deals with the Intels of the world, said an executive from another channel owner.

Media companies like Disney also want to make sure that they do not undermine their core businesses, like advertising sales. Intel initially proposed recording everything on every channel for 30 days; that timetable was reduced to three days after some channel owners objected, noting that Nielsen counts only three days of video-on-demand viewing.

Among Intel’s would-be rivals, skepticism reigns supreme about whether OnCue will ever be seen by the public. But analysts expect that something like it — a bundle of channels, live and on demand, streamed online — will bubble up someday, possibly from Comcast, Dish Network or another existing provider.

Mr. Vorhaus, of Magid, predicted that catch-up products like Netflix and Internet cable services like OnCue would “both produce small nicks in the traditional pay-TV guys over time.”
665 2013-09-30 A Boeing 787 Dreamliner operated by Poland’s LOT airline had to land unexpectedly in Iceland on Sunday because of a fault in its air identification system, a spokeswoman for the airline said on Sunday.

The problem with the LOT Dreamliner occurred a day after Norwegian Air Shuttle grounded one of its 787 jets and demanded that Boeing repair the plane after it had repeated equipment breakdowns in less than 30 days in service.

These latest episodes are yet another black eye for the troubled Dreamliner, which had been expected to be a game-changer for the aviation industry. They follow a string of electrical and other safety problems that included battery meltdowns so severe they prompted aviation regulators in the United States and overseas to ban the long-haul jetliner from flight for more than three months this year.

The LOT plane was flying from Toronto to Warsaw when it was forced to land at Keflavik airport in Iceland.

“The aircraft had to land due to an air identification system fault,” the LOT spokeswoman, Barbara Pijanowska-Kuras, said. “The Norwegian authorities have refused permission to fly over its territory, even though other countries gave permission to fly over theirs.”

For state-owned LOT, which has struggled for years with huge operating losses, the episode adds to a list of problems with the Dreamliners. Last week it had to delay flights after checkups showed two planes lacked gas filters.

On Saturday, Norwegian Air Shuttle took its Dreamliner out of service in Bangkok because of a hydraulic pump failure.
666 2013-09-30 ■ Neil Stewart, chief executive for the Asia-Pacific operations of Maxus, part of the GroupM division of WPP, was named to a new, global post, chief client officer.

■ Chris Quillen joined Erwin Penland as executive creative director, a new post, and will serve as a creative partner to Andy Mendelsohn, chief creative officer. Mr. Quillen will work with clients at the agency’s three offices, in Birmingham, Mich.; New York; and Greenville, S.C. Mr. Quillen most recently was senior vice president and group creative director at McCann Erickson New York, part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide division of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Erwin Penland is part of the Hill Holliday division of Interpublic.

■ Daniel J. Korn joined McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu, as chief of staff, a new post. He had been North American business development director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP.

■ Scot Safon joined the Weather Channel, Atlanta, part of the Weather Company, as executive vice president and chief marketing officer, a new post. He most recently was executive vice president at CNN, part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner, managing the HLN cable channel.

■ Max Kalehoff joined SocialCode, New York, part of the Washington Post Company, as senior vice president for marketing, a new post. He most recently was vice president for marketing at Clickable, which was acquired by Syncapse.

■ Christopher Ayres joined Barry’s Bootcamp, West Hollywood, Calif., as creative director, a new post, based in New York. He had been creative director for design at MRY, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Sherwin-Williams, Cleveland, plans to introduce on Monday a free app for Google Glass called ColorSnap Glass, based on free mobile apps the company offers for smartphones and iPads. The app for Google Glass, like the others, was developed for Sherwin-Williams by Resource, Columbus, Ohio. Wearers of ColorSnap Glass will be able to ask Sherwin-Williams to suggest paints that match the colors found in pictures they send the company, which will provide color chips and the locations of nearby stores that sell Sherwin-Williams paints. Ellen Moreau, vice president for marketing communications at Sherwin-Williams, said consumers had downloaded “well over a million” ColorSnap smartphone apps and “hundreds of thousands” of ColorSnap Studio apps for iPads.

■ Eight young men and women have won paid, 30-day freelance agency positions in the fifth annual Big Ad Gig contest, which was held during Advertising Week in New York. They presented ideas to industry judges for a public service campaign for the Advertising Council that would encourage people to take part in efforts by Feeding America to help prevent childhood hunger. The campaign presented by Sean Wright — which removed food from familiar children’s stories like “Green Eggs and Ham” to make a point about “rewriting” the story of 17 million hungry children — was declared the winner and will be produced by the council to appear in media donated by Mashable and Microsoft. Mr. Wright will work at Crispin Porter & Bogusky; the other winners were: Andy Hunt, JWT; Maria Luiza Lara, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide; Grace Talice Lee, Co Collective; Aly Perez, Ogilvy & Mather; Adam Repp, Deutsch New York; Britton Upchurch, JWT; and Amber Wing, Atmosphere Proximity.

■ Wechsler Ross & Partners, New York, known as Wechsler, is being acquired by Addison, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. The services Wechsler provided to law firms and marketers in fields like financial services and professional services will now be available through two divisions of Addison, Addison Wechsler Financial Marketing and Advisor Custom Branding.

■ Geoff Renaud is opening Renaud Partners, New York and Detroit, an agency search consultancy, with his brother, Tom Renaud, who will be head of agency relations. Geoff Renaud was chief marketing officer at Magnetic Collaborative, New York, which he helped found. Tom Renaud was senior vice president at Radar Entertainment, a firm at which his brother had been a principal before helping to start Magnetic.

■ Probit Research was acquired by Radius Global Market Research, New York; financial terms were not disclosed. Probit will operate as Probit Research, a Radius company, with offices in Austin, Tex; San Antonio, Tex; and Seattle. Radius made another acquisition in May, buying Profile Marketing Research, Lake Worth, Fla.

■ Adweek, part of Guggenheim Digital Media, declined to run an advertisement from the Center for Science in the Public Interest and four other organizations that criticized the Nickelodeon cable channel for accepting commercials for food products that the organizations deemed “junk” food. The ad ran instead in another Guggenheim Digital Media publication, The Hollywood Reporter. The organization wanted the ad to appear in last week’s issue of Adweek during the annual Advertising Week in New York. Suzan Gursoy, publisher of Adweek, said in a statement, “We do not accept ads that we feel weaponize our brand.”

■ Worldwide advertising spending will increase 3.5 percent this year compared with last year, according to a quarterly report to be released on Monday from the ZenithOptimedia Group, part of the Publicis Groupe. The forecast is unchanged from one that ZenithOptimedia made in June, making it the first time its ad spending growth forecast for 2013 had not been reduced since June 2012. ZenithOptimedia said the growth in spending for mobile advertising would account for half the total increase in ad spending in the United States both this year and next. The forecast for world ad spending in 2014 calls for growth of 5.1 percent compared with 2013, and the forecast for 2015 calls for growth of 5.9 percent compared with 2014.
667 2013-09-30 The report estimates the value of the Apple brand at $98.3 billion, up 28 percent from the 2012 report. The value of the Coca-Cola brand also rose, by 2 percent to $79.2 billion, but that was not sufficient to give Coca-Cola a 14th year as Interbrand’s most valuable brand.

Although “Coca-Cola is an efficient, outstanding brand marketer, no doubt about it,” Mr. Frampton said, Apple and other leading technology brands have become “very much the poster child of the marketing community.”

That is underscored by the brand in second place in the new report: Google, which rose from fourth place last year. In fact, of the top 10 Best Global Brands for 2013, five are in technology: Apple; Google; Microsoft, No. 5, unchanged from last year; Samsung, 8, compared with 9 last year; and Intel, 9, compared with 8 last year.

Samsung’s ascent followed the company’s adoption of a new brand strategy called the Brand Ideal, which includes “a greater focus on social purpose,” Sue Shim, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Samsung, said by e-mail. That reflected research indicating American consumers would switch brands to “one that was associated with improving people’s lives,” she added.

I.B.M. — No. 4 in 2013, down a notch from 2012 — is ranked as a business services brand. Otherwise, technology would account for six of the top 10.

“Brands like Apple and Google and Samsung are changing our behavior: how we buy, how we communicate with each other, even whether we speak with each other,” Mr. Frampton said. “They have literally changed the way we live our lives.”

Among other transformative technology brands that performed well in the new report was Facebook, which climbed to 52 from 69 last year, its first year on the list.

However, not all technology brands fared well. BlackBerry, which tumbled last year to 93 from 56 in 2011, has disappeared from the list. And Nokia, which dropped to 19 from 14 in 2011, finished this year in 57th place — “the biggest faller” among the 100, Mr. Frampton said.

Among nontechnology brands, a notable addition to the list was Chevrolet, at 89, the first General Motors brand to rank among the Best Global Brands.

“It feels good to hit the list for the first time,” Alan Batey, global head of Chevrolet at G.M., said in a telephone interview. “It’s a great first step, but we’ve got a long way to go. There are a lot of big brands in front of us.”

The milestone reflects how General Motors has been “making a conscious effort to globalize Chevrolet,” Mr. Batey said, selling the brand in 140 countries in ads that play up attributes like “value for money and designs that move hearts and minds.”

Commonwealth, the creative agency for Chevrolet, “played a key role” in helping the brand make the list, he added. Commonwealth is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Last year, when Coca-Cola finished atop the Best Global Brands list for the 13th consecutive time, an executive at the Coca-Cola Company acknowledged the streak but noted that “nothing lasts forever.”

A year later, the executive, Joseph V. Tripodi, executive vice president and chief marketing and commercial leadership officer, had this reaction: “Of course, we would like to remain on top of the list forever. That said, we are honored to continue to be included among such an esteemed group of global brands, and we congratulate Apple and Google, both valued partners of ours.”

“We’ve seen the value of technology brands rise as they create new ways for people to stay connected virtually,” Mr. Tripodi said by e-mail. “We understand this, as the lasting power of our brand is built on the social moment of sharing a Coca-Cola with friends and family.”

“Creating these simple moments and delivering on our brand promise each and every day remains our focus,” he added, “as we continue to grow the value of brand Coca-Cola for decades to come.”

If it is consolation, Coca-Cola remains far ahead of Apple and Google in likes on Facebook fan pages. Coca-Cola has 73.2 million, compared with 9.8 million for Apple and 15.1 million for Google.
668 2013-09-30 Work began in earnest on Thursday evening at Avery Fisher Hall for the New York Philharmonic after a weeklong flirtation with film music and Wednesday’s season-opening gala. But there were many moments during this first subscription concert, in which Alan Gilbert conducted works by Ravel, Bernstein and Tchaikovsky, when the musicians seemed to be having far too much fun to justify the word “work.”

For starters, Mr. Gilbert could not stop dancing. His conducting is always physically animated, but in Ravel’s “Alborada del gracioso” and Bernstein’s “Symphonic Dances From West Side Story,” the Latin rhythms took shape in expressive body movements that ranged from a quick forward snap of the shoulder and a slight twitch of the hips to the theatrical flamenco arm gesture with which he brought the “Alborada” to a close.

The orchestra responded with a performance that, while not always tidy, was exciting and free. The symphonic arrangements of Bernstein’s dances require a large orchestra to change on a dime, imitating a small jazz band in one instant and rolling out a plush carpet of Romantic strings the next. In the “Prologue,” the eight double basses were especially convincing in jazz mode; the percussion section was perhaps too spread out physically to ensure tight cohesion. The brass players brought a frenzied, sexy abandon to the “Mambo” that would have surely been gratifying to Bernstein.

In the second half, the orchestra was joined by the pianist Yefim Bronfman in a performance of Tchaikovsky’s Piano Concerto No. 1 that managed to retain the first half’s sense of freedom combined with a great deal of polish. Mr. Bronfman is this season’s Mary and James G. Wallach artist in residence with the Philharmonic and will return regularly in chamber recitals, concerts of contemporary music and a minifestival comprising the complete Beethoven piano concertos.

While many young pianists attack the Tchaikovsky with competitive athleticism, Mr. Bronfman, now 55, played it with elegance and wit. He is also capable of playing with enormous power, and he took the final Allegro at a speed that would have left many younger players gasping for breath.

But his musical maturity showed through in his sensitivity to the work’s quiet passages and the piano’s interaction with the orchestra. In one instance in the first movement, he matched his timbre perfectly to the dry, delicate sound of the pizzicato strings that echoed him. He brought a sunny sweetness to a melody in the high register of his piano that was reflected in the big, smiling tutti Mr. Gilbert drew from the orchestra. In the slow movement, marked “Andantino semplice,” he heeded the call for simplicity, playing with a tiptoeing lightness that allowed the elegance of the oboe and cello phrases to come to the fore.
669 2013-09-30 ISTANBUL — A court in Bahrain handed down sentences of between 5 and 15 years in jail for 50 people on Sunday whom the authorities accused of belonging to a protest movement seeking to overthrow the government, human rights activists said.

The Reuters news agency reported that officials were preparing an announcement about the court’s action, but by late Sunday night none had been issued.

The defendants in the case included a prominent human rights worker, political activists and several exiled opponents of the government, the activists said.

The court’s action, if it is confirmed, would appear to be part of a widening effort by the authorities to quash protests led by members of Bahrain’s Shiite majority against the Sunni monarchy, which has been accused by its opponents of discriminating against Shiites and monopolizing power. It seemed likely to fuel further criticism of the monarchy, which has imprisoned or detained a growing number of its most vocal opponents over the last two and a half years of protests.

Earlier this month, in an escalation of the crackdown, the authorities arrested Khalil al-Marzooq, a former member of Parliament and a leader in Bahrain’s mainstream opposition group, al-Wefaq, which had been engaged in dialogue with the government.
670 2013-09-30 ALBANY — With a little more than five weeks until voters decide whether to authorize up to seven full-scale casinos around New York, the state’s Roman Catholic bishops on Sunday warned of social problems linked with gambling, but did not tell residents how to vote on Nov. 5.

“As pastors and as citizens, we call on all voters to very carefully consider this measure and all of its potential implications,” said the statement by the New York State Catholic Conference, which is led by Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, the archbishop of New York.

The seven-paragraph statement, echoing previous statements by the bishops, described gambling as “a morally neutral act” but also said that the “the passion for gambling risks becoming an enslavement,” and associated gambling with embezzlement, drunken driving and personal bankruptcies, as well as “catastrophic losses” to individual gamblers.

The statement acknowledged that New York is already home to various types of gambling — including five Indian-run casinos, electronic gambling at nine racetracks and the lottery.

“Gambling already is big business for the state,” it said.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Catholic himself, has said he will help push for the passage of the measure, though he has not said exactly how. On Sunday, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, Matt Wing, declined to comment on the bishops’ statement.
671 2013-09-30 Judge Carl J. Barbier has not ruled yet on the question in the bench trial. But if he agrees with the government’s position that there was gross negligence and that 4.2 million barrels was spilled, the fines could amount to more than $18 billion.

“They would have to sell assets to keep the company afloat,” said Fadel Gheit, a senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. “It would wipe out all of their cash.”

But if BP’s position is upheld that there was simple negligence and only 2.45 million barrels were spilled, then the total fines would amount to no more than $2.7 billion. In all likelihood, a decision or settlement will reach a dollar figure in between, legal experts say.

BP pleaded guilty last year to 14 criminal charges, including manslaughter, and admitted negligence in misreading important tests before the explosion. It also agreed to pay $4.5 billion in fines and other penalties. Four current or former employees also face criminal charges. The company has spent more than $42 billion on cleaning up the environment and compensating victims. People and businesses continue to file claims for damages, and there is no cap to the damages.

The company has struggled to get back on its feet since the accident by divesting itself of less profitable operations and expanding oil production from Angola to the North Sea.

In the early days after the accident, the company took a conciliatory approach to resolve disputes with the gulf states and claims seekers, but it is now taking a more aggressive stance in court. In advertisements, it claims that a multibillion-dollar settlement with victims of the spill has been misinterpreted by the claims administrator. The company has complained bitterly of misconduct within a court-supervised claims program, and last Monday it made a third request to Judge Barbier to suspend settlement payments.

The newest request came a few weeks after the former F.B.I. director Louis Freeh issued a report that found that several staff members of the claims program had taken kickbacks for referrals. Patrick Juneau, the claims administrator, said the improprieties had been isolated. So far, Judge Barbier has rejected BP’s requests for a suspension of payments, and Mr. Freeh said the claims center should continue its work despite the irregularities.

The second phase of the trial will determine not only how much oil spilled, but also whether BP was negligent or grossly negligent for not being prepared for a spill and during its efforts to stem the flow of the well between April and July 2010.

The plaintiffs, which include the federal government, several gulf states and private claims seekers, have argued in papers that BP “repeatedly lied to key decision makers about the flow rate of the well.” They added, “but for BP’s fraud, the well could have been capped weeks earlier.”

The Justice Department, in its statement to Judge Barbier, also asserted that BP was being deceitful. It argued that BP’s low spill estimates depended on calculations “that contradict those used by BP in making drilling decisions and during the response.”

BP and its well partner, Anadarko Petroleum, argued in their filing that the government’s spill amount was based on estimates generated over a single weekend in July without taking into account that the flow changed over time because of erosion and other factors. In another filing, BP noted that its engineers and contractors had worked closely with the federal government to secure the well.

“BP’s engineers shared an abundant amount of data with government representatives, including holding daily meetings at which they shared material information regarding the source control strategies being developed,” said one filing, which also noted that BP, along with other oil companies, had developed spill response plans that had the approval of federal regulators before the accident.

Mr. LeCesne, the Loyola University New Orleans law professor, said it was difficult to predict the outcome of the trial. He said there was still a chance for an out-of-court settlement.

“It’s anyone’s guess what is going to happen,” he said. “There is still great litigation risk for the both United States government and BP regardless of whether there is gross or ordinary negligence determination, because the court has the discretion to determine the per-barrel amount of the fines.”

Under the Clean Water Act, only BP, and perhaps to a lesser extent Anadarko Petroleum, would be responsible for paying the fines for the spilled oil.

Edward F. Sherman, a Tulane University law professor, said a decision could readily be appealed by BP. “Given the complexity of the record, that could take a lengthy time,” he said, “especially if BP sees it to their advantage to drag things out, hoping in the long run to reach an agreement with the government.”

The contractors Halliburton and Transocean have joined with the plaintiffs and government in arguing that BP lied about the flow rate, delaying the final capping of the well.

Transocean has already pleaded guilty for its role in the spill and agreed to pay $1.4 billion in civil and criminal fines under the Clean Water Act. Halliburton pleaded guilty to criminal charges for destroying computer test results that had been sought as evidence and agreed to pay $200,000 in fines.
672 2013-09-30 Many of the 16 directors of state-run exchanges are describing October as a “soft launch” period, when Americans can start exploring their coverage options — but on Web sites that may be incomplete, vulnerable to glitches and perhaps not ready for an onslaught of customers.

“I have no idea what this thing’s going to look like on Oct. 1,” Mr. King said one afternoon last week as dozens of tense-looking programmers, scattered through the exchange offices outside Portland, rushed to finish testing and fix problems. “We could crash and burn and have to close it down.”

The outcome could hardly be more important for Mr. Obama. With Republicans threatening to shut down the government unless Democrats agree to delay the law for a year, even small problems with the exchanges could be powerful fodder for the law’s opponents.

In an indication of the difficulty of the job, some of the states with delays, like Oregon and Maryland, have been preparing for many months and have political leaders who strongly support the law.

“It makes you wonder about the exchanges that actually have been at this a shorter period of time,” said Jon Kingsdale, a managing director at Wakely Consulting Group, who is advising several state-run exchanges. “Do they even know what their problems are?”

The federal government, which will operate all or part of the exchanges in more than 30 states that declined to create their own, mostly because of political opposition to the law, is having readiness problems of its own. In one example, the Obama administration said on Thursday that small businesses would not be able to buy coverage online through federally run exchanges until November.

Although the exchanges have been able to tap billions of federal start-up dollars and hire companies like Accenture, Oracle and Xerox to help with the work, their task has been highly complex and their time frame tight.

The Web portals for the exchanges have to be able to share information in real time with insurance companies, state agencies and the federal government, which has built a “data hub” through which it can verify the income and citizenship of people applying for subsidies or Medicaid. Each portal has to undergo rigorous testing to ensure, for example, that data will flow properly, that the portal is secure and that it can handle heavy volume. Much of the testing is still going on.

“Everybody is working 24/7,” Christine C. Ferguson, the director of Rhode Island’s exchange, told reporters in a conference call last week. “We are sliding into that date still testing and making sure that we are able to fulfill the promise that we’ve made for Oct. 1.”

Any insurance coverage acquired through the exchanges will not take effect until Jan. 1, when the health care law will start requiring most Americans to have insurance or pay a tax penalty. Ms. Ferguson and other officials are predicting that while people might flood the exchange Web sites in October to learn about their options, few will actually enroll so soon.

To be covered starting Jan. 1, people need to sign up for coverage through the exchanges by Dec. 15. The first open enrollment period will run from Oct. 1 to March 31.

“The idea that huge numbers are in essence going to do layaway purchasing three months out, I just think runs against the American way,” Ms. Ferguson said.

Peter V. Lee, the executive director of California’s exchange, joked in the conference call with Ms. Ferguson last week that he expected a total of two people to sign up for health plans on Day 1. Tuesday, he said, would be “important as a historic marker of our nation saying health care is a right, not a privilege.” But California does not expect many people to start signing up until November, he added.

At the state’s exchange here, known as Cover Oregon, posters urge the staff to “Keep Calm and Go Live.” Last week, 180 staff members and consultants were proofing some 500,000 lines of computer code, 1,500 Web site pages and 5,000 possible premium rates that will vary depending on where people live, how old they are, how much money they make and which insurance company and plan they choose. A downstairs conference room had taken on the look of a modern-day sweatshop, with long tables lined with workers tapping away on laptops. Even the bike storage room had been converted to a testing room.

Mr. King said rate quotes had been one of the trickiest things to get right, a problem that also appears to be plaguing other states and the federal government. Mila Kofman, the executive director of the D.C. Health Benefit Exchange Authority, said she had discovered “a high error rate, about 15 percent,” in tests to determine if people were eligible for tax credits or Medicaid. The errors, she said, occurred in complicated cases involving large families with different sources of coverage.

“If one in 10 people get the wrong information,” Ms. Kofman said, “that’s too many in my book.”

Because of the errors, Ms. Kofman said, a family might be told it qualified for a tax credit of $150 a month when it was eligible for only $50.

The agency will be able to determine eligibility in November, she added, and people who qualify will still be able to get subsidized coverage on Jan. 1 as originally planned.

In Portland, Mr. King said a “go-live team” would hunker down on Tuesday in a “situation room” next to his office, monitoring a hot line that insurance companies, agents and community groups helping with enrollment and others can call to report technological problems. Similar efforts will play out in state exchanges across the country.

“I tell everybody, ‘If the site isn’t right, I’ll close it and we’ll fix it,’ ” he said. “We’ve just got to make sure that stuff is correct for folks.”
673 2013-09-30 BEIJING — A Tibetan man in China’s western Sichuan Province died on Saturday after setting himself on fire to protest Chinese policies in the region, according to Tibetan exile groups and Radio Free Asia, a news service financed by the United States government.

The man, Shichung, was the first person to carry out a self-immolation protest in Tibetan areas in more than two months and the 122nd person to do so since the gruesome campaign of suicides began in 2009.

Shichung, 41, who like many Tibetans uses only one name, was from Aba, a heavily Tibetan county that has been the scene of several self-immolations and antigovernment protests. The authorities have responded to the unrest by flooding the area with paramilitary police officers and closely monitoring Buddhist monasteries.

A few days before his death, Shichung had complained to friends about such heavy-handed policies, saying, “It seems they won’t leave us in peace,” the group Free Tibet reported, citing local sources.

On Saturday afternoon, shortly after returning home from a religious festival in a nearby village, he set himself on fire and then ran to the road, where he collapsed and died, according to Radio Free Asia and Tibet Watch, a research group registered in Britain.

The reports said Shichung, who was described as a part-time tailor and farmer, had a wife and two teenage daughters.