1 2008-03-01 From The Onion: Idiom Shortage Leaves Nation All Sewed Up In Horse Pies WASHINGTON-A crippling idiom shortage that has left millions of Americans struggling to express themselves spread like tugboat hens throughout the U.S. mainland Tuesday in an ...
2 2008-03-01 China and the United States signed a formal agreement in Shanghai to open a military hot line between their defense departments. China also agreed to release records about missing American soldiers long sought by the United States military and relatives of thousands of American servicemen missing from the Korean War and other cold war-era conflicts. More than 8,000 servicemen are still unaccounted for from the Korean War. Details of the agreements remained hazy.
3 2008-03-01 The body of Katoucha Niane, one of the first African women to attain international stardom as a model, was found in the Seine. She had been missing since January. An autopsy showed no signs of foul play, pointing to the possibility that she may have fallen into the river as she returned home to her houseboat from a party. The Guinea-born Ms. Niane, 47, was known simply as Katoucha in the fashion world and was the top model for Yves Saint Laurent in the late 1980s. She gave up modeling in the 1990s, and became a vocal opponent of female genital cutting.
4 2008-03-01 The Netherlands risks economic sanctions and attacks on its citizens and businesses because of a plan by a right-wing politician to televise an anti-Islamic film in March or April, Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende warned. Geert Wilders, the right-wing leader of an anti-immigration party who has likened the Koran to “Mein Kampf” and called for it to be banned, said he was in negotiations for the film’s broadcast. The prime minister told journalists, “Dutch products have been rejected at an exhibition, the Taliban announces actions against Dutch soldiers, stewardesses are afraid to work on certain air flights.” He did not call on Mr. Wilders to stop the broadcast but emphasized that the government did not share his views.
5 2008-03-01 For its part, Boeing, which had been considered the strong favorite to retain the contract, said it was “very disappointed” in the outcome. But it did not say whether it would file a formal protest — something that Gen. T. Michael Moseley, chief of staff of the Air Force, has said that he hoped the losing bidder would not do because it would only further delay the tanker replacement program.

In its statement, Boeing said, “We believe that we offered the Air Force the best value and lowest-risk tanker for its mission.” The company added that only after a debriefing by the Pentagon would the company “make a decision concerning our possible options, keeping in mind at all times the impact to the warfighter and the nation.”

A Boeing victory was considered so certain that many Wall Street analysts had already factored the contract into their economic forecasts for the company. One senator, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, sent out a press release prematurely praising Boeing for its victory.

“This isn’t an upset,” said Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a Washington-area research group. “It’s an earthquake.”

The Air Force decision is also a surprise ending to a protracted contracting process that went on for nearly a decade and became mired in scandal and international politics.

Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, scuttled an earlier attempt by the Air Force to award the contract to Boeing, opening the door for the Northrop-Airbus bid.

Senator McCain’s campaign spokeswoman referred calls to his Senate office, which could not be reached for comment.

Representative Norm Dicks, a member of the defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee and a Democrat from Washington State, said he was attending an anticipated victory party at Boeing’s offices in Washington when the mood suddenly darkened.

Mr. Dicks added: “Here we are in the middle of a recession, and we give this to Airbus? That is not going to go down well.”

Ronald D. Sugar, the chief executive of Northrop Grumman, said in a telephone interview that he expected members of Congress would have a “variety of views” depending on whether their districts would be gaining or losing jobs under the deal.

Mr. Sugar said that 60 percent of the content of the new tanker would come from the United States and that it would create 2,000 jobs in Mobile and 25,000 over all in the United States.

“This is more about the capability that we will give to the kids fighting the wars and the cost to the taxpayer,” Mr. Sugar said.

Backing Mr. Sugar’s view was Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who hailed the decision as “great news for Alabama.”

The Alabama and Mississippi delegations had lobbied hard in Congress to polish the image of Airbus. In Paris, at the annual air shows, Airbus officials and these politicians proudly displayed the proposed European tanker offering and made the argument that if the United States wanted to sell its weapons to European countries, it should also open its doors to foreign suppliers.

In terms of the craft itself, the Airbus 330 is far larger than the 767 that Boeing proposed using. The Air Force said it was attracted by the plane’s larger fuel capacity, its cost and its ability to also carry cargo and passengers.

The deal is the first phase of a multidecade program to replace the aging aerial tanker fleet, which dates to the Kennedy and Eisenhower eras. The fleet, which now numbers about 535 refitted Boeing 707s and DC-10s is one of the largest but oldest fleets of jets in the world.

Replacing these tankers has been the Air Force’s top priority since 1996, when the government first proposed obtaining new planes. The first 179 tankers will be acquired at a pace of about 15 a year. But it is expected that over time, nearly 400 new refueling planes will be needed, which could bring the program’s total cost to $100 billion.

For more than a decade the Air Force’s effort to modernize the fleet has been thwarted by global politics, Washington scandals and an aggressive attack by Mr. McCain, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

In the end, a procurement scandal led to the departure of Philip M. Condit, the chief executive of Boeing; the resignation of James G. Roche, the Air Force secretary; and the imprisonment of two Boeing executives, one of whom had worked on the program as a Pentagon acquisition official.

The Air Force, short on cash and wanting to acquire the planes as fast as possible, proposed an arrangement to Congress in late 2001 under which the Pentagon would lease the Boeing 767s in a sole-source contract that would keep Boeing’s aging 767 production line alive.

But just as the Air Force was about to sign that deal, it came under sharp attack from Senator McCain, a former Navy pilot. He denounced the deal as a sweetheart arrangement between Boeing and the Air Force that would shortchange the taxpayer and that was arranged with insufficient scrutiny and oversight.

Soon afterward, it was reported that the Air Force’s No. 2 weapons buyer, Darleen A. Druyun, had been promised jobs for herself, her daughter and son-in-law in return for steering the tanker contract and billions of dollars of other Air Force business to Boeing.

Soon after she joined the company in a $250,000-a-year post, Ms. Druyun and Michael M. Sears, Boeing’s former chief financial officer, pleaded guilty and received prison terms.

The weight of the scandal caused the Boeing deal to collapse in 2004 and opened the door to competition from Boeing’s archrival EADS, which teamed up with Northrop.

Each side spent millions to sharpen its proposal, hire lobbyists and former generals to argue its case and wage extensive advertising efforts in Washington and at military gatherings.
6 2008-03-01 By the time traders in New York were at their desks, economic reports issued in Washington showed consumer spending was flat in January after adjusting for inflation. Then a bellwether report on Midwestern business activity unexpectedly fell to its lowest level in more than six years, and a survey showed consumer confidence declined to a 16-year low.

If that was not pessimistic enough, Wall Street’s attention was soon riveted by a report from analysts at UBS that estimated losses to the financial system from securities backed by mortgages and other debts would total $600 billion. Until recently, many analysts had been forecasting losses in the neighborhood of $400 billion — a figure that the dwindling band of optimists in the financial markets once dismissed as vastly overblown.

“There is not any one news item that I can point to,” said Douglas Peta, chief investment strategist at J. W. Seligman & Company in New York. “We know that there is paper out there that we can’t trust. We don’t know exactly who owns it and how much. And we don’t know how they are valuing it.”

The S.& P. fell 37.05 points, to 1,330.63, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 60.09 points, or 2.58 percent, to 2,271.48.

For Mr. Peta and many others, the current turmoil in the financial system is at its core a crisis of faith and confidence.

Problems are now appearing even in markets that were considered to be safe and staid like municipal bonds.

Adding to the worries, hedge funds that borrowed billions of dollars through complicated transactions to invest in tax-exempt debt have been forced in the last few days to sell securities to meet margin calls from their banks, said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital Management, a bond firm based in New York.

An index that tracks the municipal bond market fell sharply in February. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, has jumped to 5.42 percent, from 4.81 percent at the start of February, according to The Bond Buyer, which compiles an index of 40 municipal bonds.

“I have never seen anything like this in the 15 to 20 years that I have been involved in muni investing,” said Mr. Dachille, who said he was encouraging clients to buy at these prices.

The problems in the municipal bond market highlight the increasing reluctance of banks to lend. Burned by their laxity during the housing boom and large losses from securities that were backed by subprime mortgages, lenders are tightening up and shutting out any borrower with a taint, real or perceived.

For their part, lenders and investors are reluctant to stake their dwindling capital on new ventures or to roll over debts that are coming due because they are unsure if they will get their money back. Defaults and losses continue to rise in many corners of the credit market.

In January, 23.4 percent of outstanding subprime mortgages were either 60 days’ delinquent, in foreclosure or had already had the home repossessed, up 9 percent from December, according to Rod Dubitsky and other analysts at Credit Suisse.

He noted that in California, which is suffering more than most states, mortgage companies are holding 10 times the number of foreclosed homes as they were at the start of last year, because more borrowers are falling behind and it is taking longer to sell homes given the glut of properties on the market.

The debacle in the housing market has taken a toll on the broader economy, and in particular on consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of overall economic activity. For the second consecutive month, spending was flat in January when adjusted for inflation, the Commerce Department said on Friday.

“You can almost draw it out in a diagram,” said Bernard Baumohl, managing director at the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. “With home prices going down, consumers cut back on spending. If consumers cut back on spending, the economy weakens further. If the economy weakens further, fewer people are able to afford mortgages so home foreclosures increase.”

On a nominal basis, Americans spent more in January, as spending outlays increased 0.4 percent after rising 0.3 percent in December. But, on average, the products they bought went up in price equally fast, too. In January, prices were up 3.7 percent from a year ago, the fastest rate of growth in more than two years.

Much of the increase comes from the cost of food and gasoline, which has risen sharply in recent months. But prices have risen across the board for products ranging from clothes and medicine to computers and washing machines. Excluding energy and food, prices are up 2.2 percent from January 2007.

“We know that incomes are growing more slowly, and they’re growing more slowly because of a weakening job market,” said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington.

Still, other economists note that most Americans should be able to weather the problems in the housing market if they keep their jobs. While the unemployment rate has been creeping up, it remains relatively low at 4.9 percent. But the number of jobless claims has moved up in recent weeks and is flirting with the kind of numbers that often signal a recession is imminent. The Labor Department will next publish the closely watched monthly employment report on Friday.

“From here,” said Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm, “the key thing to watch is what happens on the employment front.”
7 2008-03-01 Historians eager to search through the daily minutiae of the Bush administration can expect scandalously little help from the White House’s shoddy and suspiciously gap-ridden e-mail archives. Estimates of the number of missing e-mail messages range into the millions.

The gaps coincide with critical periods like the run-up to the Iraq war — and the rollout of specious intelligence — as well as the period when the White House was leaking the identity of the former C.I.A. operative Valerie Plame Wilson. Also missing are communications from Karl Rove, the president’s former political guru, and 50 other White House staffers who used e-mail accounts at the Republican National Committee.

The threat to the nation’s historical record is severe. In the last four years, the administration has received repeated warnings from the National Archives about missing e-mail records protected by federal law.

One of the administration’s former computer experts, Steven McDevitt, has admitted to Congress that the e-mail preservation system is “primitive” and that “the risk that data would be lost was high.” Mr. McDevitt uncovered 12 work days with no e-mails at all for President Bush’s immediate office and 16 blank days for Vice President Dick Cheney’s office. At a closed hearing last year, still other administration witnesses admitted that e-mails from hundreds of days were missing, according to lawmakers at the session. The White House also conceded at that time that there were “numerous days with few or no e-mails” for some offices in a system the administration installed after taking office.

Lately, though, the White House has been shifting its story, insisting that there is “no evidence” of missing e-mails. Call it electronic malfeasance or colossal ineptitude. What has become of all these missing policy and political communications the law says belongs to history and the taxpayers?

The administration’s latest archive expert has promised to get “to the bottom of this.” Representative Henry Waxman, chairman of the House committee investigating the matter, may have spoken for history when he described the administration running out the clock on itself and “sandbagging” the public interest.
8 2008-03-01 The Republicans, who had nothing going for them in this election, who had a weak field of candidates and were on the wrong side of virtually every major issue, are beginning to feel a bit like Lazarus. Democratic voters were courageous enough to put two candidates at the head of their line of potential nominees who have built-in political disadvantages. Party unity and a strong message are essential to overcoming those disadvantages. The longer the Clinton-Obama fight goes on, and the more bitter it gets, the better it is for the G.O.P.

In recent days both Clinton and Obama supporters have been predicting a long and possibly brutal fight if Senator Obama does not lock up the nomination on Tuesday. A Clinton advocate, who asked not to be identified because he didn’t want to be seen as wavering in public, said: “I don’t see how this gets resolved if she wins both Ohio and Texas. She needs blowouts to overcome Obama’s lead in delegates, but I don’t see that happening.

“On the other hand, she has a case to make if she heads toward the convention having won New York, California, New Jersey, Texas, Ohio and maybe Pennsylvania. But if she’s still behind in the delegates, how do you give her the nomination?”

The danger for the Democrats is a standoff steeped in rancor. The Republicans, assuming Senator Obama will be the nominee, are already having a field day. Those claiming the high road are mocking his foreign policy positions while the lowlifes are making sport of his name, suggesting he is unpatriotic, inferring that he is a Muslim and trying to drive a wedge between him and Jewish voters.

Mr. Obama seems at the moment like someone standing alone against the attacks. Since he hasn’t secured the nomination, he doesn’t have the biggest names in the party rallying to his defense. His supporters are busy battling the Clintons. (The same would be the case for Senator Clinton if she were the front-runner but hadn’t wrapped up the nomination.)

A further complication for the Democrats is the possibility that the results in Texas — which has a ridiculously complex primary-caucus setup — will be unclear. If Senator Clinton wins Ohio and there’s a battle royal in Texas (both sides are prepared for a legal fight), the McCain forces will pop the corks on another round of Champagne.

Democratic voters are tremendously excited about this presidential election. In addition to the obvious concerns about war and the economy, voters in both the Clinton and Obama camps believe that some of the fundamental values of the United States are at risk. They are worried, for example, about the undermining of governmental checks and balances, the erosion of civil liberties and the makeup of the Supreme Court.

Tuesday’s elections may decide the nominee. But if they don’t, the wisest heads in the party will be faced with the awesome task of preventing a train wreck that would ruin what was supposed to have been a banner year.
9 2008-03-01 “That’s the same length of time the president of the United States has his job,” the Rangers’ owner, Tom Hicks, said. “If he does a good job, he gets re-elected.”

The Rangers also extended General Manager Jon Daniels’s contract by two years, through the 2011 season, coinciding with the length of Ryan’s deal.

Ryan, 61, who played the last 5 of his 27 major league seasons with the Rangers, said he planned to have an evaluation period before he decided on any changes for the franchise.

SCHMIDT TAKES A BREAK Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Jason Schmidt is taking a break from throwing, but he said it was all part of the rehabilitation process.

“It’s just fatigued, a little achy, nothing serious,” said Schmidt, a 35-year-old right-hander who is trying to make his way back from shoulder surgery.

The Dodgers signed Schmidt to a three-year, $47 million contract last winter, but he was limited to six starts before having an operation June 20 to repair an inflamed bursa, a torn labrum and a frayed biceps tendon in his right shoulder.

Schmidt said he was not sure when he would throw again.

REDS SHORTSTOP OUT Cincinnati shortstop Alex Gonzalez has a broken knee. The team physician Dr. Timothy Kremchek examined Gonzalez on Friday and said he had a compression fracture on his left knee. Gonzalez will be evaluated again in three weeks. PRIOR HEADED TO DISABLED LIST Mark Prior is expected to make his Padres debut sometime around June 1. This will be the fifth consecutive season that Prior has opened the season on the disabled list.

His injuries have ranged from his shoulder to his elbow to his Achilles’. He is expected to start the year on the 15-day disabled list, which would be his 10th career trip there.

Last year, Prior was demoted to Class AAA after a poor spring training with the Chicago Cubs, and ended up having surgery.

SELIG TALKS WITH GIANTS The Giants’ owner, Peter Magowan, met with Commissioner Bud Selig about the club’s prominent mention in the Mitchell report. Magowan declined to give details about the session. General Manager Brian Sabean also has met with representatives from the commissioner’s office, Magowan said.

The questions from the commissioner’s office most likely dealt with whether members of the Giants’ organization suspected that Giants players were using performance-enhancing drugs.
10 2008-03-01 It will cost more for most people to ride the subways and buses in New York City beginning Sunday morning.

The base fare for subway and bus rides will remain unchanged, at $2. But base fares are paid for just 14 percent of the bus and subway trips in the city.

The cost of unlimited-ride MetroCards will increase to $81, up from $76, for the 30-day pass; it will rise to $25, from $24, for the seven-day pass. The authority is also introducing a new $47 card that offers unlimited rides for 14 days.

The fare increase, approved by the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in December, will go into effect at 12:01 a.m.

A similar increase on the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad takes effect on Saturday.

Any confusion over the fare increase is likely to center on the bonus pay-per-ride MetroCards. The bonus offered on those cards will decrease to 15 percent, from 20 percent, which could result in odd amounts of spare change appearing on many riders’ cards once they begin to use them. Riders who pay the $7 minimum needed to receive the bonus will get a card with a value of $8.05. That will be good for four rides, with five cents left over. Riders can then add more money to the card.

Unlimited-ride MetroCards that were in use before Sunday will remain valid for their specified periods. But the authority wants to discourage riders from stocking up on the unlimited-ride cards at the lower price, so it will allow riders to begin using those cards only during a grace period.
11 2008-03-01 American International Group, the insurance company, said Friday that the head of its financial products unit, Joseph Cassano, was stepping down after the insurer reported $11.1 billion in losses on contracts sold to fixed-income investors.

Mr. Cassano helped start the business in 1987 and built it into a unit providing financial guarantees on more than $500 billion of assets at year-end, including $61.4 billion in securities with ties to subprime mortgages.

For the interim, he will be succeeded by William N. Dooley, 54, a senior vice president of the insurer’s financial services businesses.

Shares of A.I.G. fell $3.29, to $46.86, after the company posted the biggest quarterly loss in its 89-year history Thursday caused by write-downs of the value of so-called credit-default swaps. The company, the world’s largest insurer, said for the first time that realized losses on the portfolio “could be material” to quarterly earnings. The fourth-quarter net loss was $5.29 billion.

Mr. Cassano, 52, “has decided, with our concurrence, that he would like to pursue opportunities outside of A.I.G.,” said the chief executive, Martin J. Sullivan.

A.I.G. disclosed on Feb. 11 that the swaps lost $4.88 billion in October and November, and its auditor said the company used faulty accounting in providing a previous estimate that was about a quarter that size.
12 2008-03-01 According to Mr. Knetter’s calculations, “the value of the school’s name has already appreciated by about $2 million” since the deal was announced in October, Ms. Smith writes.

NOT YET “With financial firms losing almost 30 percent” of their value, and “home builders falling more than 50 percent since June, it’s hard not to be tempted by apparent bargains” in those sectors of the stock market, SmartMoney writes.

Still, it appears that is too early to be buying, Reshma Kapadia writes.

Analysts quoted in the article are still worried about the backlog of unsold homes, and say it may not be until next year before the fundamentals of home building companies improve and their stocks rebound.

Bank shares could improve before that, but there is still the worry that a “deeper economic slowdown, or a steeper drop in home prices could result in further write- downs,” Ms. Kapadia writes.

One potential buying signal, the experts say, is a string of bank takeovers. Ms. Kapadia points out, “if industry players are willing to buy rivals, they must believe that nothing will come out of the woodwork.”

D-I-Y INSURANCE Given the rising cost of property insurance — because of fires, hurricanes and other disasters — a growing number of people who own their second homes outright are considering self-insurance, Robb Report Vacation Homes reports.

“Self-insurance is more or less synonymous with non-insurance and appeals to those who are wealthy enough to bear the risk of loss themselves, rather than pay high monthly premiums that could end up costing more than the home is worth,” John Morell wrote.

Obviously, the plan is not without risk. As one financial adviser quoted in the article points out, “Self-insuring in a place like Florida, where every home is threatened during hurricane season, is considered gambling.”

Homeowners who have a mortgage on their property invariably are required by their lender to carry insurance. So self-insurance is not an option for them.

LESS LUXURY? It is not caviar at the cost of hamburger, but Bloomberg Markets reports that Saks, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom are “cutting prices to keep their least affluent shoppers — those who might spring for a $1,200 Coach handbag when flush with cash” buying at their stores. “These shoppers, who have an annual average household income of $75,000, are discouraged by the worst housing downturn in 26 years,” Cotton Timberlake writes.

One expert said: “Americans are feeling less wealthy. In 2008, the effect of the housing market is going to be more apparent.”

FINAL TAKE About 30 percent of men who are 18 to 34 years old are still living with a parent, Cosmopolitan reports, citing a University of Pennsylvania study.

That is, of course, bad news for both the housing industry — and the parents.
13 2008-03-01 Coincidentally or not, Clemens was not around Friday. He had spent several days with reporters trailing him and seeking comments, particularly after the F.B.I announced Thursday that it had begun an investigation into whether Clemens committed perjury when he denied under oath that he had used performance-enhancing drugs.

Clemens’s son Koby, a minor league catcher for the Astros, said that Clemens had returned to Texas to attend a baseball tournament involving one of his other sons. He said that his father would return to Kissimmee, but he did not know when.

Whether he is in Houston or in Florida, Clemens remains a target of federal investigators. And which investigators will be working on his case could turn into something of a tug of war.

Jeff Novitzky, a special agent for the I.R.S., has worked with federal prosecutors in the Northern District of California in spearheading the government’s investigations into the use of performance-enhancing drugs by professional athletes.

Those prosecutors entered into an agreement with Brian McNamee, Clemens’s former trainer. McNamee then told investigators for the former Senator George J. Mitchell that he had injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone.

Richard Emery, a lawyer who is helping to represent McNamee, said that he had been assured that Novitzky and prosecutors from the Northern District of California would play a significant role in the investigation of Clemens, even though the F.B.I. has now intervened.

“They have the expertise and are the ones that debriefed and trusted Brian,” Emery said in a telephone interview, referring to Novitzky and the prosecutors. “They know more about the science and use of performance-enhancing drugs than any other prosecutors in the country.”

He added, “It may even lead to officials at the Department of Justice giving them the formal authority to proceed and run the case out of Washington.”

If any charges were brought against Clemens, they would have to be filed in Washington because that is where he made the statements to a Congressional committee.

Daniel C. Richman, a former federal prosecutor who is a law professor at Columbia, said it was not uncommon for questions to arise about who would lead an investigation when charges cross jurisdictions and agencies.

“Particularly in a high-profile case, agencies sometimes fight for credit and want to lead the investigation,” Richman said. “Occasionally, turf wars break out and the high-ranking officials have to intervene.”
14 2008-03-01 With four other women, Ms. Seaman founded the National Women’s Health Network, an advocacy group based in Washington, in 1975.

Barbara Ann Rosner was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 11, 1935. She earned a bachelor’s degree in history from Oberlin College in 1956 and a certificate in science writing from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1968.

In the early 1960s, Ms. Seaman, with her husband, Dr. Gideon Seaman, wrote a column on marriage for Brides magazine; Ms. Seaman was later a columnist for Ladies’ Home Journal and an editor at Family Circle. With Dr. Seaman, a psychiatrist, she wrote “Women and the Crisis in Sex Hormones” (Rawson Associates), published in 1977.

Ms. Seaman’s first marriage, to Peter Marks, was annulled. Her second, to Dr. Seaman, ended in divorce, as did her third, to Milton Forman. She is survived by three children from her marriage to Dr. Seaman, Noah, Elana and Shira Seaman, all of Manhattan; two sisters, Jeri Drucker and Elaine Rosner-Jeria; her stepmother, the journalist Ruth Gruber; and four grandchildren.

Though the publication of “The Doctors’ Case Against the Pill” made Ms. Seaman an enduring heroine of the women’s movement, her work did not find favor everywhere. As some reviewers saw it, Ms. Seaman’s passionate polemic sometimes got the better of scientific argument.

Writing in The Washington Post in 2003, Liza Mundy reviewed “The Greatest Experiment Ever Performed on Women,” about the potential risks of hormone-replacement therapy:

“Seaman is a conspiracy theorist by temperament and training,” Ms. Mundy wrote. “In her presentation, every drug company is working against the interests of its patients, and every journalist who fails to question this or that bad study has probably been bought off; she uses the phrase ‘organized medicine’ in what seems a direct echo of ‘organized crime.’ ”

In the 1990s, Ms. Seaman also began to speak out publicly against domestic violence, from which she said she had suffered during her marriage to Mr. Forman. Though she did not identify Mr. Forman by name in the news media, court records show that in 1988 he was arrested and charged with assault after Ms. Seaman accused him of punching her in the face. The criminal case against Mr. Forman was later thrown out, Dudley Gaffin, his lawyer at the time, said in a telephone interview on Thursday.

Reached by telephone on Thursday, Mr. Forman denied having assaulted Ms. Seaman, calling the accusation of assault “a divorce tactic” on her part.

In a career that lasted four decades, Ms. Seaman would remain best known for bringing women’s health to the forefront of the national consciousness. In an interview with The New York Times in 1998, the 40th anniversary of the birth control pill, she spoke about its long history:

“It may be the most-studied pill we have,” Ms. Seaman said, “but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t need more study. There’s an awful lot we still don’t know. There’s still a yellow light of caution. It’s blinking a lot more slowly than it was, but it’s still blinking.”
15 2008-03-01 IN a scene from the fourth season of the HBO mob saga “The Sopranos,” the crime boss Tony Soprano gathers his crew chiefs together for a dressing-down. The 2002 recession is in full swing, but that is no excuse, he tells them. They are not earning enough for the family. He asks his consigliere, Silvio Dante, to name the two industries that are known to be recession-proof. “Certain aspects of the entertainment business,” Mr. Dante says. “And our thing.”

With all due respect, Mr. Dante was wrong. Some economists argue that no industry is really recession-proof, or at least it depends on the characteristics of a given recession. Organized crime, in part because it meets much of the demand for vices, can be recession-resistant, as can “certain aspects of the entertainment business.” But while the cable television business, for instance, has historically done well during downturns, the situation gets complicated when it comes to premium and pay-per-view services, as Gary Kim noted this week at TMCNet.

There are plenty of other industries, though, that have historically done well in recessions — particularly those that serve basic needs like food, energy and health care.

This, Daniel Gross wrote this week in Slate, explains why Wal-Mart is doing so well lately, while many other retailers are struggling. “In a pinched economy, consumers are embracing their inner skinflint,” he wrote. “And Wal-Mart is a penny pincher’s paradise.”

The Wal-Mart example shows how recession resistance is a function of what economists would describe as a low income elasticity of demand — meaning that people will buy certain goods and services even as money gets tight.

What, then, explains the recent success of World Wrestling Entertainment, whose revenue depends on perhaps the most discretionary of discretionary spending? Terence Kennelly of SeekingAlpha, a blog about stocks, says it is all about strategy. After a series of major setbacks, the company overhauled its marketing and operations, he notes, and so far, the results are good.
16 2008-03-01 In a move that escalates the legal trouble faced by the mortgage lender, the Countrywide Financial Corporation, federal regulators have asked the courts to sanction the company for abusing the bankruptcy system.

United States trustees in Florida, Georgia and Ohio have asked the courts to enjoin “Countrywide’s sustained bad faith conduct” in its treatment of distressed consumers trying to save their homes in bankruptcy court, according to a complaint filed by a United States Trustee Donald F. Walton.

“Countrywide’s failure to ensure the accuracy of its claims and pleadings has resulted in an abuse of the bankruptcy process,” Mr. Walton, the trustee for the region that includes Atlanta, wrote in papers filed Thursday in the Federal Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Georgia.

Countrywide declined to comment Friday, saying it does not comment on pending litigation.

The action by an arm of the Department of Justice marks a rare concerted effort by the government to rein in Countrywide for behavior that has exasperated consumer attorneys for years: Misapplied mortgage payments, false court filings and unexplained extra fees.

“This is the first case that I know of where the U.S. trustee has actually filed an adversary proceeding in bankruptcy court against a creditor of this type,” said O. Max Gardner III, a consumer bankruptcy lawyer in North Carolina. ”The relief that it is asking for is based on a long pattern and practice of behavior that is all too familiar.”
17 2008-03-01 All three pieces showed that Mr. Taylor is a master of poetic theater as well as of dance. That’s as evident in the crowd-pleasing “Arden Court” as it is in the mysterious “... Byzantium,” which earns keen attention but only quiet applause. In the first section of “Arden Court” a man slowly walks onstage down the main stage diagonal: the angle of his head, the slowness of his walk (astounding after the faster dancing that has preceded it), tells us that he’s a dreamer, lost in thought.

Then suddenly, joined by others, he’s hurtling around at speed. Mr. Taylor makes the gear change look as if he had cut to a different take in a film, even though that same dancer is center stage. And that change takes us from penseroso contemplation to allegro energy in the twinkling of an eye. “Arden Court” abounds in such contrasts, and amid the irresistible pleasure of its dancing they also make it brimful of meanings.

In “De Sueños” (“Of Dreams”) Mr. Taylor gives us a changing dreamscape, peopled by a highly eclectic range of characters. It strongly recalls the Latin American world of Tennessee Williams’s 1953 play “Camino Real,” in which street cleaners cheerfully sweep up the remains of the condemned, and in which Kilroy the lost American and Don Quixote are among the people who arrive on the scene. Here, to the Kronos Quartet’s recording of “Nuevo” (a succession of Latin-related soundworlds by seven different composers and ideal for Mr. Taylor’s purposes), a flower girl finds herself caught up in a chain of events that have no logic and no connection to her life.

A butch drag queen tries to entertain four men but fails, is pushed about and is stripped of her wig. A tall golden goddess moves through a statuesque adagio. Acolytes follow her on their knees. A sinister, bowler-hatted man, bearing a skull, watches ominously and occasionally participates. (He and the goddess later take turns lifting each other.) One character brandishes a machete, and soon this same machete is brandished between two Latin American women who have earlier been friends.

An isolated man dressed as a stag with antlers is a figure of heroic pathos and is eventually shot down. Though some scenes are played before other cloths, the main backdrop (the designs are by Santo Loquasto) depicts piles of skulls stacked against tree roots and is shown transformed by lighting of different colors.

In the program Mr. Taylor quotes from Jung: “So difficult is it to understand a dream that for a long time I have made it a rule, when someone tells me a dream and asks for my opinion, to say first of all to myself ‘I have no idea what this dream means.’ ”

And that’s the main meaning here: the illogical fluency of dreams, in which innocence can turn to corruption, in which people from different worlds meet without conflict, in which vulnerability can become fatal, but in which death can be casual. Mr. Taylor is like Williams in that it often seems that he can’t help creating powerful situations or help making material that plays well moment by moment. And yet, as with “Camino Real” and several of Williams’s much later plays, “De Sueños” just isn’t as absorbing as it tries to be.

It wins a bigger audience ovation than “... Byzantium,” which plays to three strange and uncomfortable scores by Varèse. But I find “... Byzantium” the more truly original and haunting piece, even while it remains thoroughly inexplicable. A weird reimagination of human history, it is connected in the program to the final line of Yeats’s “Sailing to Byzantium”: “Of what is past, passing or to come.”

“Passing,” “Past” and “To Come” are successive scenes, and they show us lives with and without religious ritual. In the opening scene the brief depictions of anguished or wracked modern loners amid the passing crowd show one masterstroke after another, and my first reaction is to check when I can see it again.

I return to Mr. Taylor at this stage in his career with powerfully mixed feelings. While I love “Arden Court,” for example, I don’t adore the bright smiles the women adopt in it. Mr. Taylor’s women are more varied than his men, but their facial expressions often lend an air of strain or even phoniness: they even suggest that in male-dominated kingdoms like “Arden Court” women are not really as welcome as everyone is pretending. Most Taylor men are the muscular jock type, and though they are by no means uniform, I find the fascination of this so solid Taylor male ideal distinctly finite.

But Mr. Taylor remains a master. The sheer authority of these three works, even in their least successful passages, is exceptional. The Taylor season lies ahead, and with it come some of the most powerful contrasts and conceptions to be seen on any stage.
18 2008-03-01 NASA managers cleared the shuttle Endeavour for liftoff on March 11 to begin a 16-day mission to the International Space Station. The mission, which involves bringing part of a new Japanese science module to the station and five space walks, will be launched at 2:28 a.m. “The teams are ready to go launch,” said William Gerstenmaier, the agency’s manager of space operations, at a press conference at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Mr. Gerstenmaier said that analysis of the debris from a disabled satellite that the Navy destroyed last week created a “trivial” rise in risk.
19 2008-03-01 Some anticipated blockbusters seem to be just plain busts. The stocks of Merck and Schering-Plough sank last month, taking much of the sector with them, after a study found that their joint cholesterol treatment, Vytorin, formed by blending two other drugs, was not significantly more effective than Zocor, one of the components, which is available in generic form.

That provides a buying opportunity in Schering-Plough, according to Mr. Conover, who said the sellers of the stock have ignored several promising events, He highlighted its recent acquisition of Organon BioSciences, a European biotechnology company that should expand the parent’s pipeline and research efforts.

Other selections include Novartis, a Swiss company, and Pfizer, which trades at less than 10 times estimated 2008 earnings and has a 5 percent dividend yield and $20 billion of cash.

Barry Ogden, manager of the Ivy Capital Appreciation fund, likes the other Vytorin casualty. Merck is valued at just 12 times earnings, which he said underestimates its strength in cardiovascular and diabetes treatments and ignores efforts to cut costs by measures like trimming its sales force.

His other favorites include Abbott Laboratories, which produces diagnostic and nutritional products in addition to prescription drugs, and Gilead Sciences, a global leader in H.I.V. drugs.

Some investors have shifted into midsize biotechs like Gilead that have products on sale or in advanced stages of development. These companies could remain independent or become acquisition candidates for big drug makers with more money than ideas.

Mr. Conover’s biotech of choice is Biogen Idec. It has a strong portfolio of treatments for cancer and multiple sclerosis, and he thinks Pfizer could do worse than to use some of its cash stockpile to take over Biogen and “buy some growth.”

ONE reason there is so much growth in biotech companies is their focus on large, complex molecules called biologics. They are hard to make, so companies can charge more for treatments based on them, and their complexity makes it more difficult to produce generic versions, Mr. Conover said.

He finds the threat from generics the biggest impediment facing the industry and its shareholders. For Mr. Ogden, the main source of low price-earnings multiples is politics, not commerce or science. Concern that a Democratic president and Congress would try to force drug makers to lower prices has depressed the sector. Whether or not it happens, Mr. Ogden said, the anxiety about it is overdone.

“Even if reimbursement rates don’t change and there is no restructuring of the system, fear of it could pressure multiples further,” he said, “but at these valuations, you’ve got to be predisposed to build positions in some of these names.”
20 2008-03-01 The best finish by an American team in the Yeh Bros Cup, played in Taiwan two weeks ago, was by U.S.A. I, JoAnna and Lew Stansby of Castro Valley, Calif.; George Jacobs and Ralph Katz of Hinsdale, Ill.; and Howard Weinstein of Sarasota, Fla.

Sweden earned a bye into the final by being undefeated in the preliminary rounds. The once-defeated teams, Israel, Italy II and U.S.A. I, played a three-way semifinal, from which Italy moved forward. But the United States did well in the diagramed deal, which occurred in the match against Israel and featured careful defense by the Stansbys.

At the other table, Michael Barel (East) opened a very thin one heart. Jacobs (South) made a weak jump overcall of two spades, figuring that at the prevailing unfavorable vulnerability his partner would assume he had a decent hand. Katz inquired with two no-trump, and South showed a club feature (high honor) by rebidding three clubs. North then settled for three spades, which ended the auction.

Migry Zur Campanile (West) led her heart four. Declarer won with dummy’s ace, played a club to his king and returned a club to dummy’s jack. East won with his ace and shifted to a trump. After taking declarer’s queen with her ace, West, trying to beat three spades and hoping her partner had three diamonds headed by the ace-jack, led the diamond queen. Here, West’s luck was out. Jacobs took 10 tricks: five spades, two hearts, one diamond and two clubs.

More was at stake when the Yadlin brothers, Doron (South) and Israel, bid to four spades. (JoAnna Stansby’s double of one no-trump was for takeout, showing spade shortage and length in the other three suits.)

Lew Stansby (West) also led from his doubleton heart. Declarer won with the ace on the board and called for the spade ten, which held the trick. Now South played a club off the board, East going in with her ace and returning a club after declarer dropped his king under the ace. South took dummy’s two tricks in the suit, discarding a diamond from his hand, then played a trump to his king.
21 2008-03-01 Re “McCain’s Canal Zone Birth Prompts Queries About Whether That Rules Him Out” (news article, Feb. 28):

Surely “natural-born citizen” means a person who is born a citizen without a need to be “naturalized.” The phrase “native-born citizen” could easily have been used if anything else was intended.

There are many deliberately inexact phrases in the Constitution, such as “cruel and unusual” and “due process,” in need of interpretation and reinterpretation based on changing circumstances and ideas. This is not one of them.

I do not understand the controversy over Senator John McCain’s citizenship. The following from the United States Code could not be clearer:

“[8 U.S.C. 1403](a) Any person born in the Canal Zone on or after February 26, 1904, and whether before or after the effective date of this chapter, whose father or mother or both at the time of the birth of such person was or is a citizen of the United States, is declared to be a citizen of the United States.”

Although Senator John McCain was born on a military base in the Canal Zone, he is a “natural born” citizen qualified to serve as president under the Constitution.

One way to resolve doubts about the meaning of an ambiguous constitutional clause is to read it in the context of other provisions in the Constitution — most notably, the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment.
22 2008-03-01 “This signing formalizes and reaffirms the rights protected by each agreement, which my country has systematically been upholding since the triumph of the revolution,” he said.

One of the pacts, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees “civil and political freedom,” including the right to self-determination, peaceful assembly, freedom of religion, privacy, freedom to leave a country, and equal protection before the law. Cuba severely restricts the travel of its citizens, bans any political parties other than the Communist Party and prohibits independent political meetings.

Mr. Sánchez’s rights group estimates there are at least 230 political prisoners in Cuba’s network of 200 jails and detention centers. Amnesty International has said there are at least 58 “prisoners of conscience” on the island, making Cuba one of the most repressive governments in the world regarding free speech.

The other pact signed Thursday, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, requires countries to ensure the right to work, fair wages, freedom to form and join trade unions, social security, education and the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health.

In 2001, Fidel Castro criticized that covenant, saying it “could serve as a weapon and a pretext for imperialism to try to divide and fracture the workers, create artificial unions, and decrease their political and social power and influence.”

Mr. Pérez Roque said Cuba had not dropped its opposition to independent labor unions. He said the country was signing the covenants now because the old United Nations Human Rights Commission had been replaced by a new Human Rights Council in 2006. The new council dropped Cuba last year from the list of countries whose rights records warranted investigation, a move the United States opposed.

The Cuban foreign minister accused the United States of having used the old commission for “brutal pressure and blackmail” against Cuba.

While human rights advocates say it is premature to tell whether Raúl Castro will liberate political prisoners, there have been some small signs that the new president favors greater freedom of speech.

Raúl Castro, Fidel’s younger brother, has openly encouraged more debate and criticism in society. Some free-speech advocates took it as a good sign that the government held back in punishing a group of students who sharply questioned the president of the National Assembly recently over the travel ban.

In February, Cuba released four human rights activists who had been imprisoned in 2003 during a crackdown in which 73 people were arrested, and allowed them to migrate to Spain.

Though human rights advocates welcomed the prisoners’ release, most said Cuba had a long way to go before people could speak their minds freely.
23 2008-03-01 “I feel that my father has been resurrected,” said San Jawarno, 36, of Sulaimaniya in Iraqi Kurdistan. Eleven of his family members were killed in attacks directed by Mr. Majid. “Now he is resting in peace in his grave because Chemical Ali will be executed.”

No one within the senior ranks of the Iraqi or American governments had sought to spare Chemical Ali. He led the Anfal operation in the late 1980s that killed as many as 180,000 Kurds. He earned his grim sobriquet for ordering chemical gas attacks.

But for some Iraqi and American officials, the problem was that his case, and his fate, was tied to that of the respected former general, Sultan Hashem Ahmed al-Jabouri al-Tai, a Sunni and former defense minister, who was also sentenced to death at the same time. Mr. Hashem was a military leader of the Anfal operation.

Mr. Talabani and Mr. Hashemi have refused to ratify the death sentence of Mr. Hashem, who they have said was a professional military commander. Many Sunni leaders also say he was simply a soldier following orders. Senior American commanders feared executing Mr. Hashem partly because of how his hanging would affect efforts to persuade Sunnis to reconcile with a government now dominated by Shiites.

But other Iraqi politicians are far less willing to spare those involved in atrocities carried out under Saddam Hussein, fearing that could set a precedent allowing others condemned for their actions to also seek pardons.

Now, it appears that Iraqi leaders believe that they have been able to legally justify detaching Chemical Ali’s fate from that of Mr. Hashem and another condemned former commander, Hussein Rashid. No details of the legal justification were available.

It remains unclear what will ultimately happen to Mr. Hashem, who continues to be held by the American military. Powerful Shiite political leaders, including allies of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, have demanded that he be executed.

After the 2003 occupation, Mr. Hashem fled to Mosul, where Gen. David H. Petraeus, now a four-star general and the top commander in Iraq but then a major general in charge of military operations in the north, praised him as a “man of honor and integrity” and asked him to surrender in a letter stating that by doing so, he could “avoid capture, imprisonment and loss of honor and dignity befitting a general officer.”

Mr. Hashem’s son has said that his father believed that the letter was a promise that he would avoid lengthy incarceration, and that American officials vowed he would be released within weeks. Aides to General Petraeus have said that he made no such promises, and that an offer of immunity was never extended.

Elsewhere in Iraq on Friday, gunmen in Mosul abducted the city’s Chaldean Christian archbishop, Faraj Rahho, spraying his car with bullets and killing two of his guards. The archbishop, 65, had just finished afternoon Mass.

The chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform charged Friday that the large new American Embassy complex in Baghdad is riddled with critical deficiencies in its construction that contradict recent State Department assurances that the project is on schedule and within its budget.

In a letter addressed to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Henry A. Waxman, of California, the committee’s chairman, cited a recent report by federal inspectors who found severe problems with fire alarm systems, water supply and construction.

Tom Casey, a State Department spokesman, said any costs associated with problems that did not meet the requirements of the contract would have to be borne by the contracting company. The main contractor is the First Kuwaiti General Trading and Contracting Company.
24 2008-03-01 They went inside, spoke for more than an hour, Yao already guaranteeing his doctor’s estimation of a four-month recovery, just enough time to play his way back into shape for the ultimate home games.

For Yao, a trail blazer, an ambassador, the Olympics represent the fulfillment of a career-defining dream, the intensity of which may be incomprehensible to many of us and his N.B.A. peers. In New Orleans at the All-Star Game two weeks ago, when asked about Beijing, here is what Yao, in the midst of his best season and in the middle of a fierce Western Conference playoff chase, had to say:

“I wish the Games would be starting tomorrow, I really wish. I just can’t wait for it. I’ll be very proud.”

In a telephone interview from Houston, where he coached Yao for four years through last season, Van Gundy said: “This is not some fake national pride, some marketing thing. And some people are going to say it’ll be to his detriment, but how can you be bothered by that kind of commitment to his country?”

But where does fidelity become foolishness? When does commitment invite calamity? How much does Yao owe the Rockets, who have underwritten his wealth and have almost $50 million pledged to him beyond this season?

These were always companion questions underlying the conditional coming of Yao, as far back as November 2002, when he was a fouling, fumbling rookie and one look at him told you his body had a reservoir of only so many basketball minutes.

In Denver, before his second N.B.A. game, I asked him how he would survive the N.B.A. and the regimented Chinese national team training, which is not known to grant stars — or him, specifically — first-class accommodations, much less time off to be rich and famous.

“I think the Rockets have a plan,” Yao said diplomatically. To which Rudy Tomjanovich, then his coach, said, “It’s a good question.”

According to Van Gundy, the Chinese have made some recent concessions with regard to preparation for the never-ending international competitions. But with their big show looming, with the popularity of basketball booming, and with the hope, however realistic, of contending for a bronze medal, will undue pressure be put on Yao at a time when caution should rule?

“Let’s say he starts to play in some of the exhibition games leading into the Olympics and there’s some residual pain,” Van Gundy said. “Is there someone with his best interests at heart? They’ve got to be smart and he has to be, too. I told Yao three years ago, learning to say no is an important part of being a great player because you can’t be everything to everyone.”

Against the medical odds, Yao has nonetheless tried, Van Gundy said, “working hard to minimize the risk, the hardest worker I’ve ever been associated with — and I’ve been associated with some great workers.”

At 28, smack in his prime, the most prudent Olympic approach for Yao would seem to be a closely monitored level of limited participation, if that’s even possible. Then the Chinese should let Yao retire from the national team and become the symbolic face of their basketball federation.

Why try to make him risk the rest of his career and his long-term health? Or force him out of character one day soon to unilaterally declare himself done when his mission — to help China announce itself in the early 21st century — has already been achieved?

“I can tell you he’s never asked to be treated special, to be singled out,” Van Gundy said. Now is the time.
25 2008-03-02 Why McCain would actually do better against Obama than he would against Clinton....
26 2008-03-02 The United Technologies Corporation made public on Sunday an unsolicited $3 billion bid for Diebold, one of the largest makers of automated teller machines and voting machines. United Technologies, which first approached Diebold two years ago, ini...
27 2008-03-02 My disappointment rests with Bill Keller, the executive editor, and Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, who clearly should have summoned the prescience to know what the consequences would be, most especially of the anonymous aspect.

The conservatives have meanwhile made hay, twisting the story to suit themselves. It was all just plain unnecessary. May the consequences not bear any sustained damage to the paper.

I am so glad you wrote a column criticizing The Times for running the Feb. 21 McCain story. When it appeared, I was embarrassed and ashamed.

Your piece helps restore at least some faith in the paper.

The article wasn’t centered on an affair — it was centered on the reaction of staffers to Senator John McCain’s behavior and contacts.

If the staffers had only been concerned about the appearance of special favors for the lobbyist and her clients, they would have gone about doing their best to make sure Mr. McCain didn’t give away the store to those clients and not worried about how many times he and she rubbed elbows in the presence of others. But they were concerned about the closeness.

Your criticism reeks of someone afraid to buck the majority of e-mailers.

Because of my political allegiance, I welcomed the publication of information that challenged what appears to be Senator John MCain’s unwarranted reputation for uprightness. But I reluctantly must agree with you that The Times undermined its otherwise solid story by admitting “the scarlet elephant” of sexual innuendo into the story.

On the other hand, though it provided fodder for conservative talk show hosts to target The Times, it pales in contrast to the rants and lies of these same commentators about Senator Barack Obama.

While I know that two wrongs don’t make a right, in this instance I can’t resist making the comparison.

Re “The Doctors Are In. The Jury Is Out” (Feb. 17):

Mercury is indeed a slippery subject, and you managed to come down on both sides of the issue.

I am the father of an autistic son, whose disability developed in a pattern seemingly unrelated to vaccines. That said, I do believe that the condition is related to environmental poisoning.

Although vaccines are clearly an important part of an effective public health program, I don’t know how or why anyone might think that the use of a mercury-based preservative (thimerosal) is an appropriate additive for any human injection.

You say that “the controversy seems to be closing.” There is a difference between closing and closed. There is still no consensus on the cause of autism. I agree that the verdict on mercury-laced vaccines will not be in until publication next year of the study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But that continuing lack of certainty is insufficient to demand warning labels on a fictional television show or to demand that parents stop questioning pharmaceutical companies.

As someone who has been living with fibromyalgia since 2000, I went back to read the Jan. 14 front-page article after reading your column. You say the paper gave it a “balanced presentation.” I think not.

For the most part, the doctors quoted who believe the condition is real were those involved with the drug companies that are producing the next generation of drug treatment.

A truly balanced piece would have featured a physician actively involved with fibromyalgia patients.

There was a time, before the discovery of the bacteria that causes tuberculosis, that folks with consumption (as it was then called) were considered “sensitive” and not truly ill.

I venture to say we are seeing the same thing here with fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue and other chronic illnesses.

The point is that superdelegates are weighing in early in order to influence the popular vote.

By reporting and writing about delegate totals with no distinction between elected delegates and superdelegates, The Times and the rest of the media are playing right along.

Yes, I’m sure you can ferret out somewhere that the distinction was mentioned, but the point is the impression given to the casual reader.

Whether by design, ignorance or just laziness, the news media couldn’t be doing a better job for Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign on that.

I commend The Times for not running polls directly before primaries. Some people may be influenced by such polls, as everyone wants to vote with the winner.

It is almost a self-fulfilling prophecy: because one candidate is doing better in the polls, he or she often is the one who comes out ahead after the votes are counted.

While some of that can surely be attributed to what the polls show — widespread support for the candidate — it could also give a candidate an unfair advantage, as it makes that candidate look like the winner, even before the votes are counted.

In last Sunday’s column, I should have made clear that the photo of Donna Rice on Gary Hart’s lap did not surface until well after the first published allegation that they were involved with each other.

CLARK HOYT

Additional letters responding to public editor columns can be found at nytimes.com/publiceditorsjournal.
28 2008-03-02 James Geisler, United Technologies’ vice president of finance and the head of its mergers and acquisitions team, said in an interview Sunday that the company contacted Diebold about a possible deal two years ago, but was rebuffed.

On Feb. 19, Mr. David sent Diebold’s board a letter proposing deal talks. Two days later, Diebold’s chairman, John N. Lauer, responded that the company’s board had rejected any possible tie-up, saying none was in its best interests, and requested that United Technologies refrain from contacting any of its directors.

Mr. Geisler declined to say whether United Technologies would press the bid if Diebold formally declined it, saying only his company “knew what its options are.”

Founded in 1859, Diebold grew as a financial systems security provider. But it was thrust into a harsh public spotlight in the 2004 election, as the company was criticized for its electronic voting machines in Ohio and elsewhere.

The company has struggled recently with a variety of problems, both internal and external. In January, Diebold said it would restate its financial reports from 2003 through the first quarter of 2007 because of changes to its accounting methods.

Diebold previously disclosed that both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department had made inquiries into the way it recognized certain kinds of revenue.

The global credit crunch that has stung financial firms has affected Diebold as well. The company said last week that it would cut about 5 percent of its work force, or 800 jobs, in anticipation of slowing demand for A.T.M.’s.

Diebold also said it expected slower growth in its voting machines business. It reported $61 million in revenue from those operations in 2007, compared with $195 million in 2006.

Shares in Diebold have fallen more than 48 percent over the last year.

Based in Hartford, Conn., United Technologies has 225,600 employees spread out across businesses like the plane engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney, the helicopter maker Sikorsky and the elevator servicer Otis. The company has a market value of $69 billion.

Diebold, based in North Canton, Ohio, has 15,451 employees. As of Friday, it had a market value of $1.6 billion.

Morgan Stanley is working as United Technologies’ financial adviser, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz as its legal counsel.
29 2008-03-02 Like his prototype, Mr. McCain trumpets his long years of experience to an electorate that currently associates experience with and . He further channels Mrs. Clinton by belittling Mr. Obama’s oratory as an “eloquent but empty call for change” — a tactic that calls attention to how flat and uninspiring his own speeches can be. (Again like Mrs. Clinton, Mr. McCain is at his best in small groups and town-hall meetings.)

He also likes to counter hope with gloom — as if he wants to put Armageddon, rather than a chicken, in every pot. But after seven years of doom, Americans are as hungry for optimism as they were for Reagan’s “Morning in America” after Carter’s . As learned the hard way, the political potency of 9/11 has gone the way of and color-coded terror alerts.

Most luckily for Democrats, Mr. McCain is in even greater denial than Mrs. Clinton about Iraq. On Monday he cited a USA Today/Gallup poll to assert that “the majority of Americans believe the surge is succeeding.” In fact, that poll found that only 43 percent of Americans see an upturn in Iraq. Let’s posit that many or even most voters do believe (correctly) that the surge has improved security. Even so, the political needle hasn’t budged. The same poll found that a somewhat higher-than-usual 60 percent of Americans still call the war “a mistake,” as a majority has since the summer of 2005. For a year now, a majority has also favored a timetable for removing troops, no matter what happens on the ground.

Though Mr. McCain maintains that Republicans were routed in the 2006 midterms because of Congressional overspending and corruption, that’s wishful thinking. With all due respect to , and the bridge to nowhere, that election was mostly a repudiation of a war that was as unpopular then as it is on the eve of its fifth anniversary in 2008.

That’s why Mr. McCain was already on the defensive in his early skirmishes with Mr. Obama last week, after Mr. Obama dared point out that was not in Iraq prior to the American invasion. Mr. McCain was reduced to arguing that such annoying little details are out of bounds because they belong to “the past.”

You can’t blame Mr. McCain for trying. His role back then in enabling the fiasco was far more active than Mrs. Clinton’s, and it’s far more visible on videotape. He didn’t just vote to authorize the war; in response to a question from in September 2002, he lent his military credibility to the administration’s undermanned war plan. When Gen. , the Army chief of staff, challenged that strategy in a February 2003 Senate hearing by calling for “several hundred thousand soldiers,” Mr. McCain did not speak up in support. That month he went on “Hannity & Colmes” to say that the war “will be brief,” that post-Saddam Iraq is “going to be paid for by the Iraqis,” and that America will “send a message” from to that “democracy can take hold in the .”

The one part of his Iraq past that Mr. McCain does want us to recall now is his subsequent criticism of the war’s execution. But contrary to his current claims, he never publicly demanded Mr. Rumsfeld’s head. And when Mr. McCain did call for more troops in Iraq, he was again in sync with Democrats like , with whom he made that case on “Meet the Press” in August 2003.

Rather than dwell on this ancient history, Mr. McCain said last week, we should talk about “what we are going to do now.” But his answer to “what we are going to do now” in Iraq is merely more of what he did then.

If, as he says, the surge is “succeeding,” voters may well join the Democratic ticket (possibly including the Vietnam War hero ?) in asking why we’ll still have some 140,000 troops on indefinite duty in Iraq as of this summer, a year and a half after this “temporary” escalation was announced. It will be a slam-dunk for Democrats to argue that it’s long past time for the Iraqis to stand up on a sensible timetable that will allow the Americans to stand down.

It’s also possible, especially now that Iraq’s provincial elections have been abruptly scuttled by warring Shiite factions, that the surge will stop “succeeding” and Iraq will again erupt in sectarian violence. Then Mr. McCain will have to propose a new and larger surge — and explain how he’ll pay for it while the economy slumps and he extends the Bush tax cuts. Either way, he offers voters no tangible exit strategy beyond his constant refrain that the commander in chief should take his orders from Gen. .

Since the mere mention of Iraq is dangerous to Mr. McCain’s and Mrs. Clinton’s claims about the exalted value of their experience, they have countered by trying to portray Mr. Obama as a foreign policy moron. They’ve even alighted on the identical bogus charge, accusing him of threatening to recklessly bomb our dear ally . What Mr. Obama actually said last summer was that he would go after Al Qaeda operatives in Pakistan’s mountains when there was actionable intelligence even if a recalcitrant President Musharraf refused to act.

As with his early opposition to the Iraq war, Mr. Obama has proved to be prescient once more. His Pakistan stance anticipated both the latest Bush administration policy — the killed the senior Qaeda commander Abu Laith al-Libi in just such a unilateral strike within Pakistan in late January — and Mr. McCain’s own campaign posture. When Mr. McCain promises to follow to “the gates of hell,” he too is vowing to go after Al Qaeda in Pakistan without restraint.

In desperation to land some knockout punch, some McCain supporters, following the precedent of Clinton surrogates, are already invoking Mr. Obama’s race, middle name and tourist snapshot in Somali dress to smear his patriotism. The idea is to make him a Manchurian candidate, a closet anti-Semitic jihadist trained in a madrassa run by, say, .

What repeatedly goes unrecognized by all of Mr. Obama’s opponents is that his political Kryptonite is the patriotism he offers in lieu of theirs. His upbeat notion of a yes-we-can national mobilization for the common good, however saccharine, speaks to the pride and idealism of Americans who are bone-weary of a patriotism defined exclusively by flag lapel pins, the fear of terrorism and the prospect of perpetual war.

A few more “macaca” moments for the nearly all-white could spell its doom. Recognizing the backlash that has followed the racially tinged smears leveled at Mr. Obama so far, Mr. McCain wasted no time in publicly scolding the right-wing radio talk-show host who railed against Barack Hussein Obama at one of his rallies last week. Or perhaps, as those of us who like Mr. McCain want to believe, he is simply a man of honor: he knows that history will judge him exactingly on how he runs against America’s first black or female presidential nominee, win or lose.
30 2008-03-02 Across the nation, the labor market has been deteriorating. Many companies, long reluctant to add workers, are hunkered down and waiting for improved prospects, engaged in what Ed McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, calls “a hiring strike.” Americans with jobs are taking cuts to their work hours; those without jobs are staying out of work longer, or accepting positions that pay far less than they earned previously.

Teenagers are struggling to land minimum-wage jobs at fast-food restaurants, because those positions are increasingly being filled by adults. And those with poor credit are finding that this can disqualify them from getting a job.

IN many communities, dreams of upward mobility are yielding to despair and the grim realization that the economy — not strong for less-educated workers even when it was growing — may now be shrinking, making it tougher than ever to find a job.

Indeed, the increasingly anemic job market comes on the heels of six years of economic expansion that delivered robust corporate profits but scant job growth. The last recession, in 2001, was followed by a so-called jobless recovery. As the economy resumed growing, payrolls continued to shrink.

Even as job growth accelerated in 2005 and 2006 before slowing last year, it was not enough to return the country to its previous level. Some 62.8 percent of all Americans age 16 and older were employed at the end of last year, down from the peak of 64.6 percent in early 2000, according to the Labor Department.

“The economy never got its groove back after the tech bubble burst,” says Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com. “We’re still feeling fallout from the collapse of the tech economy and the accounting scandals. There are still psychological scars for the managers affected. Managers are less interested in taking risks.”

In many metropolitan areas, overall employment remains below levels reached before the last recession; the list includes New York, Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee and Buffalo, as well as Boulder, Colo.; Spartanburg, S.C.; and Topeka, Kan., according to Economy.com.

As the presidential contenders Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama crisscross Ohio ahead of its Democratic primary on Tuesday, they are stopping in many cities on that list — Canton, Cleveland, Dayton, Toledo. They are focusing on bread-and-butter economic issues, promising to increase the minimum wage, extend unemployment benefits and generate new jobs.

Oakland, long known as the blue-collar sibling to the aristocratic San Francisco across the bay, is among the metropolitan areas that never fully recovered from the last recession, with fewer jobs today than in March 2001, according to Economy.com. The technology boom of the 1990s and the real estate bonanza of more recent years created fewer jobs and less wealth here than they did in the moneyed enclaves like Silicon Valley. Yet if Oakland missed out on the festivities, it is already feeling the pullback.

“There’s more competition for every job,” said Gay Plair Cobb, chief executive of the Oakland Private Industry Council, a job training organization. “People are getting discouraged and depressed.”

Home to about 400,000 people, Oakland is enormously diverse, with blacks making up 36 percent of the population, Hispanics 22 percent and Asian-Americans 15 percent, according to the 2000 census. The city is racked by stubborn poverty, with one-fifth of all households living on less than $15,000 in annual income, according to the census.

Given that picture, Oakland reflects a national trend: The weaker labor market is especially pronounced for African-Americans, and black women in particular, a slide that has halted a quarter-century of steady gains.

From 1975 to early 2000, the percentage of African-American women who were employed jumped to 59 percent from 42 percent. Two years later, following a recession, the percentage had dropped to 55 percent. Since then, employment among African-American women has shown little change, reaching 55.7 percent at the end of 2007.

In a recent paper, the Center for Economic and Policy Research asserted that a recession in 2008 would be likely to swell the ranks of the unemployed by 3.2 million to 5.8 million, while raising the unemployment rate among black Americans to 11.3 percent to 15.5 percent, compared with 8.3 percent in 2007.

Nationally, the unemployment rate remains at a historically low level of 4.9 percent, though this does not include people who have given up looking for work.

The slide in employment is occurring at a time when jobs are more important than ever for millions of households headed by African-American women, because welfare changes in the 1990s forced many into the job market to compensate for a loss of public assistance.

“The labor market for low-income women is so poor that it’s almost a hoax,” says Randy Albelda, an economist at the University of Massachusetts in Boston.

For more than a decade, Dorothy Thomas, 49, an African-American and a mother of two, worked as an administrative assistant at various health care centers in Northern California. In her last job, she earned $16 an hour, as well as benefits, she said.

It was never enough to pay all the bills, she said, so she made choices, paying this one, not paying that one, all the while focused on one mission: getting her two daughters through school. She lived in apartments in better neighborhoods, paying more rent than she could afford to ensure that her girls attended better schools.

“I truly bought into the idea that education is the way out of poverty,” Ms. Thomas says. One daughter received a master’s degree in education and is a teacher in Hawaii, she says, and the other is still in college.

But the bills for Ms. Thomas are still coming due. She lost her car in November 2005 after she fell behind on the payments. Unable to drive to work, she lost her job. Since then, she has been unable to find a job.

Several times, she has landed interviews that seemed likely to bring offers, but the jobs required a credit check — a test she cannot pass.

“My credit is just so in shambles,” she told a classroom full of people gathered for a credit counseling session at the Private Industry Council. “More and more jobs are checking your credit. They’re saying that credit is a reflection of your character.”

Ms. Thomas deftly toggles between different modes of speech, from street-smart to receptionist-smooth. But getting to work without transportation and buying clothes for interviews without cash are beyond her abilities.

“Why can’t I get a job?” she asks, her eyes welling with tears. “Is it because of my age? Is it because I’ve gained weight? I’m articulate. I’m a positive thinker. I know how to conduct myself in an office setting. But I’m starting to lose all my confidence.”

Government data show that the labor market has weakened in recent years for nearly every demographic group. Women as well as men; whites, blacks, Hispanics and Asian-Americans; teenagers and the middle-aged; high school graduates and those with college degrees. In terms of employment as a percentage of population, all remain below the level reached before the last recession.

The source of this weakening and what it says about the overall, long-term health of the economy are the subject of fractious debate.

Some economists argue that the labor market has merely settled back to earth after years of ridiculously aggressive investment in technology, which created far more jobs in the 1990s than could be sustained.

“This is a return to normal,” says Robert E. Hall, an economist and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, a conservative research group at Stanford.

But others conclude that the sluggish job market reflects long-term, systemic forces reshaping the American economy. It represents, they say, the underbelly of the so-called new moderation that has made recessions less frequent and less severe.

Traditionally, the American economy has often expanded in extreme cycles. In periods of growth, companies hire aggressively. When they sense a slowdown, they cut back, laying off workers and curtailing investments, amplifying the ripples of retrenchment. Now, however, companies aim to keep their work forces lean all the time.

AS the American economy boomed in the late 1990s, so did business for the Bartlett Manufacturing Company, a circuit-board maker based in Cary, Ill. By 2000, it had about 200 workers — mostly in blue-collar assembly jobs at its original factory near Chicago, and an additional 50 or so at a new plant in Albuquerque, said the company’s chairman, Douglas S. Bartlett. Most of the positions paid $10 to $11 an hour.

But by late 2001, with the country in recession and many orders flowing to China, business was down two-thirds from the best years. So the company shuttered its Albuquerque factory and laid off more than 100 workers at its Chicago plant, bringing its total work force down to 87.

Business improved slightly in 2004 and 2005 and remained essentially flat over the last two years, but the company hasn’t added workers.

“We improved our process through automation,” Mr. Bartlett says.

If business now deteriorates, he does not expect to shed workers, because he is already down to the minimum needed to keep his plant running.

“When a customer calls, you need to be able to deliver parts in three or four days because, if they could wait longer, they would just go offshore and get it cheaper,” Mr. Bartlett says. “We don’t lay people off at this point. We just reduce hours. We pretty much can’t get any leaner.”

Bartlett Manufacturing’s experience is emblematic of forces at work throughout the economy. An anemic job market is not so much a product of layoffs — which remain relatively few — as it is a result of a sharp pullback in hiring.

In 1994, 30 million people were hired into new and existing private-sector jobs, according to the Labor Department. By 2000, the number of hires had expanded to 34 million. A year later, in the midst of the recession, hiring slackened to 31.6 million, while layoffs winnowed the work force.

In 2003, with the economy again growing, layoffs slowed, but the private sector hired only 29.8 million — a figure that has nudged up only a little in the years since.

Rather than hire and risk having to fire in another downturn, companies added hours for those already on the payroll and relied more on temporary workers, said Mr. McKelvey, the Goldman Sachs economist. Manufacturing companies continued to automate, to squeeze more production out of the same number of workers, while shifting jobs to lower-cost countries like China and Mexico. For lower-skilled workers, that intensifies the competition for the jobs that remain.

“Now, you’re not only competing against the guy next door,” Mr. McKelvey says. “You’re competing against the guy across the water.”

Some economists say the weakness of hiring in recent years may protect those with jobs against the usual impact of a recession: Many companies are so lean that the unemployment rate may not increase much.

“It’s not your grandfather’s recession anymore,” says Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group in Washington. “You’re probably going to see fewer layoffs, because you just don’t have the traditional model.”

But the same trend suggests that the impacts of the slowdown are likely to be felt deeply for several years, even after the economy resumes a swift expansion, Mr. Bernstein added.

Before 1990, it took an average of 21 months for the economy to add back the jobs shed during a recession, according to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute and the National Employment Law Project, a worker advocacy group. Yet in the last two recessions, in 1990 and 2001, it took 31 months and 46 months, respectively, for employment levels to recover fully.

In the recessions of the early 1980s and the early 1990s, the ranks of the so-called long-term unemployed — those out of work for 27 weeks or more — jumped to well above 20 percent of all unemployed people. But in both cases, that share eventually settled back to close to 10 percent of the unemployed.

After the 2001 recession, however, the long-term share stayed above 20 percent from the fall of 2002 until the spring of 2005. In the months since, it has never dipped below 16 percent. In January, 18 percent of those unemployed had been without work for at least 27 weeks, according to the Labor Department.

OAKLAND is typical of the lean hiring that has accompanied the winnowing of jobs. In recent decades, Oakland’s once-formidable manufacturing base has hollowed out as the city has lost food processing factories, auto plants and warehouses. Downtown, concrete-floor factories have been turned into chic residential loft spaces.

Yet the Port of Oakland is booming, with dozens of cranes arrayed at the bay’s edge, plucking containers full of cars and electronic products off of ships arriving from Asia, and depositing shipments of produce from the Central Valley of California.

The port has benefited from a surge in American exports. Port officials cite an economic development study showing that jobs connected in some way to their operations — in industries ranging from cargo and trucking to insurance and retail — doubled to more than 28,000 from 2001 to 2005. A planned $800 million expansion would add 7,000 more jobs, said James Kwon, director of the port’s maritime division.

Deborah Acosta, international trade project manager of the Community and Economic Development Agency of Oakland, says, “We’re talking about good-paying jobs that don’t require a college degree.”

So far, the growth at the port has not been enough to compensate for steady erosion of work elsewhere in the city. Since 2001, the metropolitan area has shed 22,000 manufacturing jobs, and thousands more in transportation and warehousing, and professional and business services, according to Economy.com.

For public officials grappling with the social and political impact of long-term joblessness, training has become a mantra.

“The jobs are there, but the people to fill the jobs are not,” says John Garamendi, the lieutenant governor of California. “The current demand for skilled individuals in medical fields, in biotech, for people capable of welding — there’s a demand for these people.”

But all too often, these job-training programs fail to find people the jobs they expect, said Marsha Murrington, vice president for programs at the Unity Council, a nonprofit social service organization that operates a job center in Oakland.

“People are getting training or high degrees in areas that are not supported by the job market,” she complains. “People are looking for those high-paying corporate jobs that aren’t there.”

Greg Bailey, another Oakland resident, is among those who banked on the benefits of job training. Last spring, after 15 years as a truck driver, an installer of household appliances and a warehouse stocker — jobs that left him nursing a bad back and high blood pressure — Mr. Bailey decided to pursue work that was less physically taxing. He enrolled in a government-financed training program to gain the skills needed to work at one of the many biotechnology plants sprouting up in the area.

“It sounded great; the opportunities were almost endless,” said Mr. Bailey, 40, tall, soft-spoken and personable.

A former high school basketball star, Mr. Bailey said he had to turn down several college scholarships when he graduated so he could find a job and support his mother, who was ill, along with his younger brother. Later, he enrolled several times in various college programs, but the demands of being the family’s primary breadwinner left too few hours for schoolwork.

The biotech training program was to be a way to jump ahead, putting him in position to earn $17 to $18 an hour, as well as health benefits, as a warehouse or maintenance worker in an industry that offered other chances for advancement. But despite applying for about 100 jobs over the last six months, he says, he has never been invited to an interview.

Last summer, a month after the course ended, he went to a job center in East Oakland and was surprised to bump into six of his classmates.

“I was like, ‘Oh man, you’re all here too?’ ” Mr. Bailey said. “We all started looking at anything at that point. It was kind of depressing.”

RECENTLY, he began applying for the same types of jobs from which he had hoped to escape. Now, even those jobs seem beyond reach. He did take one warehouse job that started at 5 a.m. and required him to walk two miles to and from work, but he quit in disgust after two weeks. It paid $10 an hour — two-thirds of what he used to make as a truck driver.

He applied for a minimum-wage job at Wal-Mart, but after two interviews the person doing the hiring was fired, he said, and Mr. Bailey was told that he had to start all over — this for a night shift at a store in an area plagued by crime. Disenchanted, he stopped pursuing a career at Wal-Mart.

“I’ll just look for anything now; it doesn’t matter,” he confided on a recent afternoon.

The next day, he accepted a job at a warehouse for $9 an hour.

“It’s just picking up boxes,” he says. “That’s all right. I’ve got to do something.”
31 2008-03-02 AS he stepped into the small storefront on Norfolk Street, Stephen Kushner, a hairdresser from Long Island, was transported to a youth spent steaming up car windows with his steady at drive-in theaters.

A movie screen hung in front of a single blue 1965 Ford Falcon convertible. A romantic starry sky — actually tiny light clusters peeking through sheer black fabric — stretched across to the side.

“Hey, can we make out?” he asked aloud, eliciting a giggle from Mr. Kushner’s wife and a gag from their 18-year-old daughter.

Stuffed inside the 250-square-foot space is DRV-IN, Manhattan’s only (and quite possibly the world’s smallest) drive-in cinema. The vintage Ford, parked in front of a 102-inch screen, has a shiny red interior that seats up to six cinephiles.

The setup inspires amorous instincts, but also confusion: Jordan Broadworth, the theater’s “projectionist” and usher, said that a patron once called, worrying that “we just realized none of us have our licenses.”
32 2008-03-02 Melissa Beth Mandelker, a daughter of Cheryl and Michael Mandelker of Manhasset, N.Y., was married on Saturday evening to Jay Steven Weinberger, a son of Sue and Donald Weinberger of Fairfield, N.J. Rabbi Irwin A. Zeplowitz officiated at the Fresh Meadow Country Club in Lake Success, N.Y.

Mrs. Weinberger, 29, is in her first year of study for a master’s degree in early-childhood special education at New York University. She graduated from Skidmore.

Her father is the vice president for advertising sales at the Fox News Channel in New York. Her mother is a speech-language pathologist in private practice in Manhasset.

Mr. Weinberger, also 29, is an associate in the financial restructuring group of the New York office of Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a Los Angeles investment bank; he provides advice on the reorganization of companies in bankruptcy or financial distress. He graduated from the University of Florida and received an M.B.A. from New York University.

His mother is a special-education teacher at West Essex Junior High School in North Caldwell, N.J. His father is a managing partner of Wolfe Axelrod Weinberger Associates, an investor and media relations firm in New York.
33 2008-03-02 Emily Steinhagen, the daughter of Gail Rothenberg Steinhagen and Dr. Randolph Steinhagen of Tenafly, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Allen M. Golbig, a son of Myra Golbig and Norbert Golbig of Merrick, N.Y. Rabbi Matthew A. Reimer officiated at Stage 6 at Steiner Studios, a film production complex in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

The bride, 26, is a fourth-year medical student at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. She graduated cum laude from Williams.

Her father is the chief of the division of colon and rectal surgery at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. Her mother is a partner in the Manhattan law firm Rosin Steinhagen Mendel, which specializes in family law.

The bridegroom, 28, is a systems administrator at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, where he supports and maintains computer systems for researchers. He graduated from the State University at Buffalo.

His mother retired as a caseworker with the Child Protective Services of the Nassau County Department of Social Services in Mineola, N.Y. His father retired as a supervisor at British Airways in Astoria, Queens, where he coordinated the installation and purchase of computer equipment in North and South America.
34 2008-03-02 According to Kent Pierce, whose Norwalk-based company Green Cross provides integrated plant management to keep such sylvan assets healthy, this “Disneyfication” began during what now seems like fairy-tale time. “In the late ’90s, during the dot-com boom, there was such a demand for large specimen plants — $25,000 mature maples and the like — that growers were caught short, and fairly astonished at how things were suddenly snapped up,” Mr. Pierce said. Bonus money was buying up 20-year-old “Autumn Gold” ginkgo balboa trees along with his and hers Ferraris. Mr. Pierce says he has noticed a slowdown in new planting with the onset of the housing market crisis, “but only at the $3 million and under level. The very wealthy get continually wealthier.”

To find out how these express Edens come together, I visited one of the Wright brothers’ preferred landscaper/installers, Young’s Nurseries in Wilton.

Besides their Route 7 nursery, Young’s grows stock on a 52-acre farm in Woodbury. David Gindek, vice president and one of four co-owners, gave me a laptop-assisted tutorial on the dicey logistics of digging and replanting huge trees — by sheer manpower, or with huge machines called tree spades. He pointed out a pair of large matching linden trees in photos of a majestic brick Greenwich home renovated by Wright Builders.

The homeowner, a retired executive, put it on the market for $18 million soon after moving back in; he has since reduced it to $17.5 million, according to Kelly Wright, who said the landscape budget, including some hardscaping, was “easily a half million.”

Mr. Gindek says owners who plan to live with the landscaping for a while may invest far more: “A lot of our customers want something that’s instant, and they don’t bat an eye at what it costs — even though they know they may be only living there for two years.” He has noticed that in these restless times, few wealthy families will be in a home long enough to see their children outgrow a tree swing.

With a quarter-century in the business, Mr. Gindek has observed some changes in the high-end client. “We’re in an impatient market,” he said. “It’s a lot of younger guys who are always glued to a computer screen. They’re busy making money and they don’t want to spend a lot of time outdoors, except maybe to golf. To entice them out there, and into the beauty of the landscape, they need outdoor kitchens, fire pits and hot tubs.”

Once pried from their headsets and Blackberries, Mr. Gindek said, they do come to appreciate the natural wonders they order up on flatbed fleets. But you will not see them borrowing hedge clippers. “Maintenance? Oh no, they’re not into that.”

Nor is Young’s, which does only design and installation. Mr. Pierce’s company, Green Cross, specializes in eco-friendly solutions to conserve and perpetuate the grandest schemes. And amid his clients in Fairfield, Litchfield and Westchester Counties, he is sowing some seeds of change. He aerates and amends soil compacted by construction, and banishes those “mulch volcanoes” piled deep and unhealthily against tree trunks. He may even persuade homeowners to forgo pristine emerald sod for something more the color of money — rumpled, old money.

“We try to get people not so obsessed with lawns,” he said. “The turf guys were using systemic pesticides that made bigger problems — mites and the like — for shrubs and trees. They were tossing on so much nitrogen it was all washing down streams, into the ground water and into Long Island Sound.”

Mr. Wright is an advocate of the Freedom Lawn, a more natural “patchwork” of grasses and weeds proposed by three scholars at Yale’s School of Forestry and Environmental Studies.

He admits that in pricier bluegrass neighborhoods, his is still a voice in the wilderness.

Not so in nearby Milford, where homeowners now compete yearly for a Freedom Lawn prize. I’m wondering whether we might capture a golden spade with our problematic sward in Weston, regularly churned up by deer, wild turkeys, teenagers and an inquisitive beagle. When it comes to lawn, we are lazy and laissez-faire, adopting the credo: If it’s green, great. Moss, chickweed, purple-flowered speedwell — all mingle unmolested. How uplifting to find that this puts us at the cutting edge of an eco-movement.

Better still, Mr. Pierce informs me that there is virtue in my favorite instant landscaping fix: I toss a handful of organic clover seed at any bare or nasty spot; it seems to germinate overnight, covering almost as fast as spray paint. And it requires no sackfuls of chemical growth stimulants.

Clover is cheap, it’s tough, it’s gloriously green and if you yank it up by its roots, you can see tiny nodules that hold nitrogen tighter than John D. Rockefeller could squeeze a dime. Low investment, high yield. And that, any Greenwich fund manager will tell you, is a really sweet deal.
35 2008-03-02 Several years and titles later, Gil was taking some cuts in the on-deck circle with San Diego when someone whispered “Gil!” through the chain-link fence. It was Ed Casada, the manager of the Palm Springs Nationals. Gil, by this point, was used to being a coveted senior free agent, so he pointed to Jo Nelle up in the bleachers and said, “Give her your name and number.” After the game, Gil became an outfielder with Palm Springs, his fourth traveling team. He won another championship ring there and later found himself back with San Diego, where he won four more. That Gil has never lived a day in Palm Springs, San Diego or Arizona bothers neither him nor, apparently, the authorities of senior softball.

But we were talking about the Great Collapse.

“Oh, that was in Las Vegas,” Gil said. “I was playing with Denver.” Denver was yet another stop on Gil’s free-agent tour of the West.

Before the tournament, he wrenched his hamstring — one of the more common injuries among 70-year-old softballers, whose muscles tend to stiffen at roughly 1,000 times the rate of those of 30-year-olds. His manager, Lou, told Gil to hang around in case he needed his bat. Gil hobbled to the plate in the last inning of the championship game with the bases empty and the score tied.

“I hit a line drive to right-center that rolled all the way to the fence,” he said. “I’m limping around first base. Then I’m limping around second. Lou’s the third-base coach, and I’m thinking, ‘Oh my God, I hope I can stop at third.’ ” But either Lou was suffering from temporary amnesia, or he had figured Gil, not unreasonably, for a superannuated Pete Rose. He waved Gil home.

Gil made the turn at third and then felt a fearsome pain shoot through his good leg. He belly-flopped about seven feet short of home plate.

“I called it the point of no return,” Jo Nelle said. She had left the other softball wives to document her husband’s trip around the bases in a remarkable series of photographs, which sadly have been lost to one closet or another. But I remember a montage of pumping arms and gritted teeth, followed by a final, heartbreaking shot of a prone figure lying in the dirt, as if my grandfather had dropped abruptly for Muslim prayers. But Gil — who was both a Marine and a high-school principal and has retained the flamboyant impudence of both professions — was not waiting for the paramedics. No, he pushed himself up onto all fours and began to crawl toward the plate. He lunged forward and touched home a few seconds ahead of the relay throw.

“All the wives were hugging me,” Gil said with a wink. It was hard to tell whether he regarded this or the gold trophy as the greater reward for winning the tournament.

Amid the Ace bandages, knee braces and ever-present smell of Ben-Gay, Gil’s squad arrived at the World Championships in Phoenix with a wrinkled but formidable lineup. In the outfield was Bob Kirchberger, an ex-banker who was also a star on the senior tennis circuit; Chuck Hughes and Charley Martinez, who had live bats; and 70-year-old Eusebio Duran, whom the players referred to as “Chevo” or “Louie,” and who had the rubbery batting stance of Vladimir Guerrero. Around the infield there was Daton Hill, a big man who hit for power; the gnomic shortshop Bobby Balphaser; and second baseman Charlie Romero, who maintained the eternal vigilance of someone raised in the Bronx. Ray Trujillo and Dick Brown played catcher — catcher being the senior softballer who is best able to bend down. Aside from a few nagging injuries — knee replacements, double vision — the New Concepts squad looked as well preserved as any group of 70-year-olds had a right to. “We sure do have a nice-looking team,” observed Peachie Brown, one of the softball wives. “I don’t see any big ol’ potbellies. And most of you have straight legs.”

An exception to the latter was Mike Saul, who pitched and played first base. Mikey ran like he was wearing skis. This condition helped when he played first, however, as he could stretch out his glove hand while doing a split.

Gil’s devotion to senior softball should not be thought of as a physical struggle against old age so much as a mental one. Playing right field with an enlarged prostate requires a certain singularity of purpose, a steadfastness of mind. A 2006 survey from the National Sporting Goods Association estimated that there are more than half a million senior softball players in the United States. There is no maximum age limit; Frank Murano, an 86-year-old ex-firefighter from Boston, claims to be the oldest traveling senior player. About one-third of all senior tournament players live, like the New Concepts team, in the southwestern United States, and every winter, the area of Arizona where we were staying becomes flush with free-agent “snowbirds” who come south for the weekly pick-up games in Scottsdale.

Senior softballers are divided into five-year age divisions—the 50s, the 55s and so forth up until the 80s. According to Terry Hennessy, the

C.E.O. of Senior Softball USA, there was a period in the late 1980s when younger players added a few years to their ages so they could move up divisions and pummel their elders. You now need two pieces of ID to play senior softball. There have been other reforms: the introduction of restricted-flight softballs to prevent injury; liberal rules about “courtesy runners,” as pinch runners are known in senior softball parlance, to aid the movement-impaired; and the “scoring plate,” which sits a few feet up the third-base line from the real home plate to avoid Ray Fosse-style collisions. Even with all that, the senior softballer lives in fear that the game has suddenly passed him by. “I have to tell the team, ‘Relax, everyone here is 70,’ ” says Charlie Romero.

As the New Concepts squad took their positions, Gil and I sat down in the dugout. Though he was dressed in game gear (up to and including knee pads), Gil wouldn’t be playing in Phoenix, his career having reached an unsatisfying impasse. No senior softballer has ever been 100 percent. But Gil’s body had undergone a thorough beating in the last decade. A partial roll call includes mild stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, macular degeneration and a form of intestinal cancer, which resulted in the removal of his pancreas, gallbladder and parts of his stomach in 2003 and led, as a result of the surgery, to adult-onset diabetes. “At 79, I ran well, I felt good, I had a lot of energy,” Gil said. But the injuries had forced him to retire to the position of manager and occasional pinch runner. Lately, even the latter was a struggle. “I picture myself going around the bases,” Gil said wistfully. “Then I go out and run and I realize it’s all in my head.”

A ring’s a ring, though, and as New Concepts took the field against Cape Cod, it was clear that Gil had transferred his boundless energy to managing. He stalked the dugout like John McGraw, watching as his ace, Ken Wischman, delivered the first high-arcing pitch. A senior softball game is like a baseball game played underwater. Everything moves at half-speed, but the game is marvelously well played. Double plays are turned with regularity, and some 65-year-old power hitters can regularly clear the 300-foot outfield fence. Some seniors can only “hit and sit” and are replaced by a pinch runner as soon as they reach first. Others can hardly bend down to snag a grounder, and though that describes no one on the New Concepts squad, the outfielders began the first inning against Cape Cod with some uncharacteristic errors and endured a thorough ribbing from teammates when they returned to the dugout. (“No sprinklers out there? You didn’t trip?”) Gil, who was unamused, kicked the chain-link fence in disgust. The game went rapidly south from there, Cape Cod winning, 17-10.

We stayed in the same dugout for the second game, against a team from Syracuse, which proved to be the first test of Gil’s managerial prowess. With Syracuse rallying from a five-run deficit in the seventh and final inning, Gil jogged onto the field to pull the pitcher. A mid-inning pitching change is rare in senior softball — few would even bother. But Miranda had a hunch and brought in Ken to pitch in his second outing of the day. He earned the save, and New Concepts ended its first day with a split. Several of the players invited me to meet them in the parking lot to celebrate with a cold Bud Light. It was 10:30 a.m.

Beer was passed around, shin guards removed. Senior softball has a strong undercurrent of black humor. As one player put it, “We’d play in a wheelchair if you gave us a shove.” The softballer makes no secret of his advanced age, and he is constantly reviewing his most recent game for mental mistakes, lapses in ability, “senior moments.” (Charlie Romero, to Mikey: “I jumped too late on that line drive.” Mikey’s reply: “You jumped?”)

The thing the senior softballer fears most is getting burned, which occurs when you’re playing the outfield and the ball gets hit over your head. This is generally humiliating at every level of softball, but in the senior game it can take several minutes to track the ball down and a half-dozen relay throws to get it back to the pitcher. I’ve seen guys get burned, and you could use the restroom, eat a hot dog and drive around the block by the time the pitcher throws the next pitch.

Death is somewhat less of a concern. It’s just part and parcel of getting old, and teammates see it as both a tragedy and a natural opportunity to shuffle personnel. “That’s how we move players around — they die,” Romero says. A well-managed team like New Concepts, which plays in the 70-and-up division, is constantly fortifying itself with young talent: the team arrived at the World Championships in Phoenix with four spry 70-year-olds and five youthful 71-year-olds. Death occasionally occurs on the diamond: at least five players have died during Senior Softball USA tournaments in the past 15 years. But senior softballers have a certain equanimity about death, and in at least one instance, as the deceased was loaded into an ambulance, his bereaved teammates elected to continue the game. Some years ago, one of Gil’s teammates suffered what turned out to be a nonfatal heart attack at a tournament in Arizona. When Jo Nelle ran to find help, a man told her, “Calm down, lady, they die around here all the time.”

As Gil nursed his beer (I noticed some of the other players had already had two or three), I could feel him struggling to maintain his composure. It was killing him not to play and, moreover, to leave his 12th ring to elements he could not control. When we left the ballpark, he told me, “When I see a guy hit a grounder with the bases loaded, I think that’s a disgrace.” He quickly added, “I don’t tell him that, though.”

For much as senior softball consumed his life, I have no memory of playing catch with my grandfather. I do remember him rousing me early on summer mornings, zipping me into my windbreaker and driving me to the field to serve as his one-man cheering section. He would point to a seat in the dugout and then jog to his position in the outfield. Once he overheard a teammate telling me that the guys were playing to have fun. Gil came up and offered a mild corrective: “It’s fun when we win.”

Success was Gil’s most obvious outward feature. One of 12 children born to a family in Lincoln, N.M., he became a highly decorated and much-admired figure in the Albuquerque public schools, the kind of principal who could dole out punishment and be loved for it the next day. Among his four children and two grandchildren he commanded a similar veneration. He was such an impossibly heroic figure that I sometimes found it difficult to think about him on a human level. Gil seemed to tower above the rest of us like a gold figure on one of his softball trophies.

The news that he was suffering from cancer, in 2003, did little to shake him from his perch. Cancer reduced him to a puny, jaundiced form, the opposite of the lithe figure who danced to the outfield. But his self-assuredness didn’t diminish, and shortly after a doctor told him he might survive surgery (if without several vital organs), I found myself standing beside him in the parking lot of an Albuquerque hospital. His first words, uttered sotto voce, were: “I guess I’m going to get to play a little more softball.” He was back on the field a year later, though mostly pinch-running.

“I never dreamed he would play again,” Dr. James Houle, his physician, said recently. “He had lost so much weight, he was struggling at that point. . . . If he wasn’t so strong going into it, if he hadn’t been so physically active — well, most mortals would not have made it through that.” Immortality is a satisfying attribute for a sports hero, but I found it a strangely puzzling one for a grandfather. It seemed that softball, where he made himself vulnerable to defeat and humiliation, was the one place to see him in his natural state.

‘Ballplayers hate to tell a manager when they’re hurting,” Gil said. The two of us were standing in the lobby of the Premier Inn, the team hotel, which had been selected because it met the most important criterion: it was cheap. “But the players tell each other when they’re hurting,” Gil continued, “and then the word gets back to the manager.” Indeed, on Tuesday afternoon, the second day of the tournament, Charlie Romero appeared before us with a bit of grim news.

“Marvin was getting out of a van and he hurt his knee,” Charlie said. Marvin Spallina was a well-built 75-year-old who hit for power.

“Yesterday,” Charlie said. “He would prefer not to play the field, but he thinks he can pinch hit.”

Miranda said later: “I knew someone was hurt.”

With or without Marvin, the tournament’s second and third days saw New Concepts turn a corner. The team’s play grew confident to the point of ostentatiousness. I saw Bobby Balphaser, the shortstop, turn a 6-2 double play: scooping up a grounder, tagging second and then firing home to catch a senior trying to sneak home from third. I saw Ray Trujillo throw himself into a fence while tracking down a foul ball. I saw the Murderers’ Row of Bob K., Chevo, Daton and Charley M. sock the ball to all fields with regularity. After the creaky performance against Cape Cod, New Concepts won its next six games in a row by a combined score of 91-44, including 20-run eruptions against teams from Texas and Sacramento. Moreover, the old men seemed to be gaining confidence, and for the first time, you heard the Albuquerqueans giddily whispering about the idea of winning the championship.

There was only one moment of discomfort. During a game against Colorado, Gil was coaching third base and waved a runner home from second on a hit to the outfield. It was obvious a second later that this was a bad decision — the runner was out by 10 feet — and Gil put his hands on his cheeks, as if to feel the burn of embarrassment. The team won anyway, and nobody breathed a word about it.

In penance, he recommitted himself to the lineup, putting in hours after the games were completed. The tournament was lining up perfectly. Cape Cod had been sent packing, a whole host of lesser teams had fallen by the wayside and New Concepts found itself staring at a berth in the World Championship game on Thursday. Most of the team took dinner in groups around 6 p.m. on Wednesday night and, having little interest in carousing, went to bed early. When Jo Nelle woke up at 4 o’clock Thursday morning, she saw that Gil was already up and out of bed. He was sitting across the room, bathed in lamplight, fiddling with the lineup card. He was already wearing his uniform.

The groans were loud and determined. New Concepts had begun its pregame stretch, a chance to warm up muscles that had endured a week’s worth — nay, 70 years’ worth — of pounding. As Gil surveyed his team before the championship, he didn’t like what he was seeing. Marvin still hadn’t fully recovered from his encounter with the minivan. Fred Chavez and Ray Salazar were limping. Bobby, the vacuum-cleaner shortstop, was rubbing SportsCreme on his quadriceps.

“If we get real desperate for runners, I can run,” Gil announced. “I can run better than the crippled guys.” He was completely serious. He began loosening up next to one of the ballfields, running sprints of perhaps 10 yards. Informed of this potential comeback, Jo Nelle made a face like she had bitten into a lemon. Coincidentally, the New Concepts players made miraculous recoveries and the subject was dropped.

The opponent was Syracuse, which had worked its way up from the losers’ bracket to earn another shot at New Concepts. Syracuse had a manager who wore his hair in a ponytail and a ferocious lineup that included a giant, mantis-like senior in left field. They came out hot. After a pair of errors by Mikey and Kenny, the New Concepts gang found themselves in a 7-1 hole. The game remained in a kind of uncomfortable stasis until the bottom of the fourth, as if both teams were too nervous to make anything happen. “You’d think, ‘They’re 70 — they never get like that,’ ” Charlie Romero had told me. “But they do, even at our age.” The dugout, which had been so jolly, began to fill with a frightful flop sweat. Gil exhorted the players to play with some “huevos,” and his batters reemerged from the dugout as if they’d just come out of the whirlpool. They rallied for five runs in the bottom of the fourth inning and another five-spot in the bottom of the fifth. Gil’s audacious new lineup was working. When Fred Chavez came to bat with two outs in the bottom of the sixth, Marvin called out, “Fred, remember your prowess!” I asked him what he meant. “Fred came up to me moanin’ and groanin’ about his place in the batting order,” Marvin said. “I told him, ‘Fred, there’s a good reason for that. It’s your prowess.’ He said, ‘My what?’ . . . I told him it was a compliment.” Fred’s prowess led a two-out rally, and New Concepts added five more insurance runs. The championship game had taken a miraculous reversal. Going into the seventh and final inning, the good guys led, 16-9.

Nobody could quite believe what was happening. Even Gil, the old pro, was wandering in a kind of daze, and Marvin had to remind him to sit down. Kenny was on the mound, lobbing balls into the teeth of the Syracuse order. After three singles to lead off the inning, the Syracuse left fielder burned Chevo in left field for a two-run triple. The score was 16-12, with nobody out, and Gil was up and pacing. A sacrifice fly scored another run. Now Gil was stationed at the far end of the dugout, bouncing on the balls of his feet. But then Bob K. made a beautiful running catch in left-center, and the next batter hit a foul ball with two strikes — which, in senior softball, counts as Strike 3. Game — and championship — to New Concepts, 16-13.

What happened next is largely a blur. I remember a bunch of old men doing joyful half-leaps. And then I remember the celebration coming to a quick and jarring conclusion, as if the guys had realized, all at once, that no good and much harm could come from this much exertion.

Gil shook hands with the conquered Syracusans and then took hold of a giant trophy near home plate. Through choked-back tears he said, “I’m so proud of you guys.” The guys yelled back, “We’re proud of you, Gil!” Then he straightened up. The moment of vulnerability was over.

It was enough. Baseball people talk about a player who’s “just a winner,” someone who possesses that intangible quality that goes beyond home runs and R.B.I.’s. Gil, I realized, was just a winner. Not so much for his ability to collect rings but for how he had mastered the quality of winning. Gil enjoyed it because it afforded him a kind of halo of respect. It was not aloofness, it seemed, so much as his comfort zone.

I walked out to congratulate him, and he received me like he would have received any other visiting sportswriter, patting my back and letting off a satisfied laugh. Within minutes he was talking about next season, about two 69-year-olds who would be senior enough to join his team, about his desire to strap on a glove in an 80-year-old league, provided he could find any 80-year-olds in Albuquerque who weren’t “crippled or dead.” Gil Miranda wasn’t immortal, of course; he was just most comfortable acting like it.
36 2008-03-02 From the perspective of the miserable clod on the treadmill, the sessions seem highly erratic, almost irrational in their unpredictability. You might run for 15 seconds, take a quick break, then sprint at a severe incline for 8 seconds. Next, you might sprint for 8 seconds, run while holding on to the bar for 10, then sprint for another 8. A few sessions into the program, I was given an extra treat: SprintCords, another of Frappier’s patented thingamajigs, which strap to the thighs and calves like monster rubber bands. I was to hold on to the treadmill’s bar and run at a full sprint while my trainer, John Feugill, a former professional football player, pulled against the cords. “You’ll really have to drive your knees,” he said. This was exceptionally unpleasant, but I could sense right away how it changed my stride. I had no choice but to thrust my thighs and knees high and to push off harder from the balls of my feet. It was a vague approximation of the form exhibited by top sprinters.

Feugill also worked on my counterproductive arm motion. For years, I’ve tended to tense up in my shoulders and clench my hands into fists when running. The correct form is to run with palms open and arms bent at 90 degrees. You know you’re swinging the arms enough if your fingers, as Feugill says, go from “chin to back pocket.” Many people angle their hands and forearms inward, causing the torso to twist and impeding a seamless forward motion.

In order to make you acutely aware of your mistakes, there’s a big mirror in front of the treadmills, and every session is taped and played back immediately on a machine called the Dartfish. “Look how much better you look,” Feugill said, pointing at a replay on the flat screen above us. “Your arms are at your sides. But I’d still like to see those knees a little higher.” He graciously made no comment about my contorted, purple face.

During the three months I trained at Bluestreak, I worked out alongside college athletes, out-of-shape financial types, decently fit office drones like myself and a seemingly endless stream of high school kids with generous parents. A 12-year-old hockey player barely reached my waist. I worried that he might be sucked into the barrels of the hockey treadmill.

It was humbling enough to share weight stacks with kids half my age, but even worse was taking part in soccer drills alongside them. Abuto King Nyanjong, one of the primary soccer instructors, took to calling me “Senior” because I was so often in the company of teenagers. A former member of the Kenyan national soccer team, Nyanjong once held the Guinness Book world record for juggling, having bounced a ball off his various body parts 98,800 times over the course of 16 hours and 27 minutes.

How did you do this? I asked him. “Focus,” he answered. “Focus” is what he often said when we were all gasping at the end of a drill that was supposed to have ended a minute earlier.

The objective of the soccer-skills training is to refine your “touch,” to learn to control the ball in almost any situation. As with the treadmill, it was often unclear if Nyanjong was working from a set method or making things up as he went along. He would scatter cones and put us through a drill in which we retrieved bouncing balls, and then, in quick succession, he’d hit balls off our heads and chests. His point being: Soccer is unpredictable; anything can happen. After a drill ended, Nyanjong would raise a hand for a round of high fives. “Could be better,” he would say, showing off a big, toothy smile. “Water break.”

Like his Soviet counterparts, Frappier also developed a sadistic fondness for plyometrics, a training method that involves jumping in pre-set patterns among numbered boxes painted on the floor. Sometimes you jump over actual boxes; other times you leap onto platforms. Later in the program, you might jump while holding a medicine ball. It’s about as fun as it sounds.

But I was noticing results on the soccer field. I was making better touches during my evening games, feeling a step quicker and even reaching some balls I wouldn’t have bothered to chase before starting Bluestreak.

It was almost impossible to gauge my progress from week to week in terms of actual speed — it would take a freakishly attuned sense of self to know what a few tenths of a second feels like — but for the most part I found myself handling the more advanced treadmill workouts with less struggle. Which doesn’t mean they were easy. During the sprints at the end of the workouts, I was hitting 18 m.p.h. on the mill, far faster than I could run on solid, unmoving ground.

The hardest workouts occurred under the watch of Tina Prickett, Bluestreak’s head soccer coach, who played soccer and lacrosse at Long Island University and now plays professional football — yes, football — for a team called the New York Sharks.

“Ooh, yours is cruel,” she said after glancing at my workout schedule one day. “It seems easy, with all these holds. Then it gets brutal.”

The belt on the treadmill was moving at 12.5 miles per hour. Prickett punched in some numbers, adjusting the angle so it approximated that of the roof on an A-frame chalet. In six-second intervals, I was to run unaided, run while holding the bar, then run again unaided, with only the briefest moments of rest in between. If not for Prickett spotting my lower back with her hand, I would have sailed off the belt, and by the end of the workout, I was panting like a sled dog.

“Why do you think they call it 666?” she said, and laughed as I collapsed onto the floor, covering my face with a towel. .

GETTING BACK IN THE GAME

There are countless speed-and-agility schools, but these two are the best established and the only ones with multiple locations across the country.

There are about 150 affiliates nationwide, including Chelsea Piers Bluestreak. Choose speed training only (favored by runners) or speed plus sport-specific skills in soccer, basketball, tennis, golf, football, volleyball, lacrosse, running, figure skating, gymnastics or hockey. The sport-specific programs at Bluestreak cost $1,200 for 20 sessions. chelseapiers.com/bluestreak. For other locations, go to athleticrepublic.com.

Former track all-American Bill Parisi started his program 15 years ago out of the back of a van in New Jersey. Now with more than 30 locations, the school tends to focus on young athletes and pros (the prep sessions for the N.F.L. combine are well known), but adult programs are offered. Clinics cover fitness, nutrition and team play, but the primary goal is to make you faster — fast. $30 to $35 per session. parisischool.com. J.D.

The Silent Scream Of Your Thighs

The following exercises can’t replace what you get from a program like Bluestreak, but they’re all easily done at home and can help build speed and agility by improving leg strength in the hip extensors and hip flexors. Do three sets of 15 to 20 reps two times per week.

SQUATS Put your hands behind your head and squat until your knees are bent at a 90-degree angle. Don’t let your knees lean out past your toes, and keep your back straight. For more of a challenge, do the squats while holding a pair of dumbbells.

SQUAT JUMPS Squat to 90 degrees and then jump as high as you can. Repeat immediately upon landing.

WALKING LUNGES Take a big step forward — about twice the length of your natural stride — and then lower your back knee until it’s approximately an inch above the floor. Push off the front leg and take another long step, and so on.

SPLIT JUMPS Start with one leg thrust forward, as in the walking lunge, with the rear knee almost on the floor. Jump as high as you can. Keeping your mind in a happy place, repeat the jump as soon as you land, alternating legs.

FLOOR BRIDGE Lie on your back with your feet flat on the floor and your knees at 90 degrees. Raise your hips and hold for two seconds; only your shoulders and the soles of your feet should be on the floor. Drop slowly into the starting position and repeat. J.D.
37 2008-03-02 “Good pitchers tend to plateau between age 28 and 32, while hitters start to see some decline,” said Nate Silver, a performance forecaster at Baseball Prospectus. “Pitching is more mental than physical in certain respects, and pitchers can change their approach or learn new skills. It’s very hard for a hitter to make those improvements.”

The bigger challenge for Santana will be staying healthy. As pitchers go, he is one of the best bets to hold up for the long haul. From a scouting perspective, he benefits from a sound, easy delivery and the fact that his primary off-speed pitch is a low-stress changeup. Moreover, the Twins used him cautiously early in his career, when pitchers are most likely to strain their arms, and the only blemish on his health record is minor surgery in 2003 to remove a bone chip in his elbow.

But a review of the pitchers whose statistical records most resemble Santana’s still provides cause for concern. Although Hall of Famers with long careers abound — Tom Seaver, Don Sutton, Steve Carlton and Juan Marichal are among the 20 pitchers with numbers most similar to his through age 28 — there are others, like José Rijo, Mario Soto and Sandy Koufax, whose careers were curtailed by injury. Silver estimated that Santana would probably lose at least one season to injury during the contract, and pitch at a substantially diminished level in at least one more.

So are three or four years of superstar-level Johan Santana worth the price? The answer may depend largely on when his best seasons occur.

Vince Gennaro, a consultant for major league teams and author of “Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball,” said the opening of the Mets’ new stadium in 2009 paradoxically decreases Santana’s value in the short term. Players earn money for their teams by improving their won-lost records, since good teams have better attendance, television viewership and merchandise sales than bad teams do. But the link between victories and revenue is diluted when a new ballpark opens because fans usually turn out in droves to see the stadium, even if the on-field product is mediocre.

This phenomenon means that the Mets are virtually guaranteed strong attendance both this year, their last at Shea, and in 2009, so they do not need to win to turn a profit, making their players’ performance less valuable financially. By contrast, starting in 2010, they will need to contend for the playoffs to keep maximizing the revenue potential of their new ballpark, Citi Field. So if Santana stars at the start of his contract and tails off in the middle, the deal will be a bust; while if he is at his best between 2010 and 2012, Minaya will come out ahead.

Most analysts conclude that the substantial risks and rewards of signing Santana are roughly in balance in his contract, and that both he and the team made out fairly well. For that, they have an unlikely actor to thank: the Twins, whose limited use of Santana during their playoff drives in 2002 and 2003 kept him fresh for later years. They might have been better off holding on to Santana and getting every possible pitch out of him before abandoning him to free agency.

“Minnesota probably lost some value because of the way they handled him,” said Will Carroll, Baseball Prospectus’s injury reporter. “They could have just taken him back and said, ‘Johan, you’re going to lead the league in complete games.’ ”
38 2008-03-02 Mr. Glasgow, who is the half-brother of a far less obscure crusader based in New York, the Rev. Al Sharpton, believes that not only do inmates and former convicts want to vote, but also that their ballots could alter the political landscape in this Republican-leaning state, adding that his group has registered more than 500 people by visiting a handful of county jails.

“There would be a lot of difference in our legislators, our elected officials and our presidents that we’ve had,” he said. “It would definitely change the political spectrum of Alabama.”

Republicans agree. They railed against a statute passed in 2003 that made it easier for some former felons to regain their voting rights by side-stepping a lengthy and backlogged pardon process.

“There’s no more anti-Republican bill than this,” said Marty Connors, the chairman of the state Republican Party, according to news reports at the time. “As frank as I can be, we’re opposed to it because felons don’t tend to vote Republican.”

In the two years after the 2003 statute took effect, more than 5,500 former felons had their rights restored, and interest in the November presidential election is running high, said Sarah Still, manager of the pardons department. In January, Ms. Still received more than 280 applications for voting rights, up from an average of 140 a month last fall.

Nationally, 5.3 million people are barred from voting because of their criminal history, according to a 2004 estimate cited by the Sentencing Project, a criminal justice policy group. In the last decade, as criminals who were swept into prison during the drug war have been released and the difficulty of re-integrating them into society has become clear, at least 16 states have made it easier for former felons to vote.

But in the South, where restrictions on former convicts are among the most severe and in many cases date to Jim Crow laws, there have been fewer changes. Last Monday the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit in protest of a 2006 Tennessee law that requires former convicts to pay back child support before regaining the right to vote. In Alabama, the Republican attorney general, Troy King, has proposed a constitutional amendment that would delete the moral turpitude clause, prohibiting all felons from voting.

Though he is an active Democrat, Mr. Glasgow, 42, says his main goal is not to aid his party but to help former inmates become productive members of society.

But for most of his own life he was hardly an exemplar of civic engagement. Mr. Sharpton, in his memoir, “Go and Tell Pharaoh,” says his parents’ marriage was wrecked when his father, Al Sharpton Sr., had an affair with his mother’s teenage daughter from a previous marriage, resulting in the birth of Kenneth.

By the time Kenneth was a teenager, his mother had taken him to her hometown, Dothan, Ala., where he began to get in trouble for selling drugs, became addicted to crack cocaine and did time in Alabama and Florida for armed robbery and other crimes.

It was during his longest stint in prison, nine years, that the genes of activism and oratory that run in Mr. Glasgow’s family emerged and he began to preach. When he was released in 2001, the bondsman who had repeatedly bailed him out of jail became treasurer of The Ordinary People Society and paid for Mr. Glasgow to attend seminary.

Mr. Glasgow opened a soup kitchen, held church services under a white tent and began to help former convicts like Anna Reynolds, a recovering addict, regain the right to vote — a process often made onerous by the moral-turpitude clause.

As a legal concept, moral turpitude refers to conduct that would be immoral even if it were not illegal, unlike, say, speeding. The delegates to the 1901 constitutional convention who used the term also took away voting rights for other infractions that they believed blacks were more likely to commit, like wife beating, adultery and vagrancy. In 1985 the United States Supreme Court struck down most of the law on the grounds that it was racially discriminatory, but the moral-turpitude clause remained.

Most officials in Alabama were unaware of the clause until 2005, when it came to light after a man on probation tried to vote in St. Clair County. The parole board requested clarification, and the attorney general responded with an incomplete categorization of felonies based largely on previous court decisions.

The opinion leaves a large gray area, said Ms. Still of the pardons department. It says, for example, that rape is a crime of moral turpitude and that assault is not, but offers no clarification on variations like statutory rape or assault with intent to kill.

The parole board settled on a policy of treating drug possession and drunk driving as crimes devoid of moral turpitude, but that has not put an end to the confusion, Mr. Glasgow said.

Initially Ms. Reynolds, 52, was told by the local registrar that she could not vote because of a conviction for drug possession. She applied to the parole board, which told her that it could not restore her right to vote because she had never lost it. Finally, The Ordinary People Society helped cut through the red tape.

On Feb. 5, Ms. Reynolds stood outside the public library handing out sample ballots before casting her own. “Voting, that’s part of getting back to normal life,” she said. “I’ve been out of the loop for a long time, and it was good to have help getting back into the loop.”
39 2008-03-02 To the Editor: Kudos to the photo editor of the "Why We Travel" feature of the Travel section. The photos are consistently wonderful.

I just finished papering a wall with many of these photos from the past six months. Please consider publishing a book of Why We Travel photos (with text).
40 2008-03-02 April showers, May powders. Thanks to its deepest snowfall in 30-plus years, Heavenly Mountain Resort (www.skiheavenly.com), along the California/Nevada border in South Lake Tahoe, has extended its season to Sunday, May 4. The resort had its snowiest January on record (more than 13 feet in 31 days), and when officials learned that the mountain’s snow pack was 23 percent higher than average, they decided to extend the season for two extra weeks. Meanwhile, Vail, Colo., has set a new record for snowfall — with 16 feet in both December and January. Elsewhere in Colorado, Beaver Creek (www.beavercreek.snow.com) has amassed about 24 feet of snow so far this winter, while Breckenridge (www.breckenridge.snow.com) and Keystone Resorts (www.keystone.snow.com) have had snowfall up to 33 percent above average. So far, however, Heavenly is the only resort to have extended its season into May.
41 2008-03-02 High rollers, get ready. Connecticut’s newest resort casino, set to open this May, will be taking reservations starting tomorrow. The MGM Grand at Foxwoods, located in Mashantucket, will feature 825 guest rooms and suites, a 4,000-seat MGM Grand Theater, a casino, a nightclub, 115,000 square feet of meeting space, a 5,500-square-foot outdoor swimming pool and a 21,000-square-foot spa with 12 treatment rooms. There will also be a retail concourse on the property and several celebrity-chef restaurants, like Michael Schlow’s Alta Strada and Tom Colicchio’s Craftsteak. Guests will have access to the Lake of Isles golf courses. Nightly rates start at $295. To make reservations, call (866) 646-0050 or visit www.mgmatfoxwoods.com.
42 2008-03-02 Looking for a pop culture-inspired adrenaline rush? Then head to Bloomington, Minn., where the entertainment company Nickelodeon is opening its first theme park in the 4.2 million-square-foot Mall of America on March 15. The seven-acre theme park, called Nickelodeon Universe, will feature several rides inspired by hit television shows, including the SpongeBob SquarePants Rock Bottom Plunge, above, a roller coaster that features vertical lifts, spirals and 90-degree turns. Another roller coaster, the Avatar Airbender, reaches a height of 70 feet and takes riders through the curl of a wave, while the Splat-O-Sphere takes riders almost 60 feet high before bringing them back downwards again and stopping just short of ... well, splatting. The cost of an unlimited-ride wristband is $29.95 (www.mallofamerica.com).
43 2008-03-02 HARDCOVER     1 5 WOMEN AND MONEY by Suze Orman (Spiegel & Grau, $24.95). How...
44 2008-03-02 WEISS--Gloria (Dymond), age 85, on February 26, 2008. Born in Brooklyn, NY, October 20th, 1922, Gloria graduated Erasmus Hall High School at age 16, Brooklyn College at age 20, and received her Masters in Education at Columbia University. A New Yo...
45 2008-03-02 PRUYN--Emilia D. It is with great sorrow that we acknowledge the passing of Emilia D. Pruyn, 80, who died Wednesday, February 27, 2008 on Long Island, NY. A retired NYC teacher, she directed countless choruses, and worked with the Queens Borough W...
46 2008-03-02 Most Connecticut syrup is sold directly to customers at sugarhouses, with some local product available at specialty stores and Whole Foods. The Connecticut Department of Agriculture provides the most complete list. (Click on link to ''Maple Sugarh...
47 2008-03-03 The owner of Gray’s Papaya did not waste any time after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ruled out a White House bid. His sign now supports a new candidate....
48 2008-03-03 Democrats and other lawmakers debate the rebidding of a contract for aerial refueling tankers....
49 2008-03-03 Since 1973, the griddled frankfurters at Gray's Papaya, home of the $3.50 "Recession Special" (two franks and a 14-ounce drink), have been served with fresh fruit juices, tangy sauerkraut and a side of politics....
50 2008-03-03 As Olivier Sarkozy prepares to move to the Carlyle Group from UBS, the Swiss bank is wasting little time in shifting personnel inside its financial institutions group to fill that gap. In an internal memorandum sent to its investment banking unit ...
51 2008-03-03 Get used to hearing the tagline "Fox is America's favorite." At the end of the television season, barring a last-month comeback by CBS, Fox will become the No. 1 TV network for the first time in its history. Fox regularly wins the TV season in the...
52 2008-03-03 Stephen Heine, an Ohio resident and a member of The Caucus's virtual round table of voters, talks about the 2008 election....
53 2008-03-03 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
54 2008-03-03 Claims of a failed attempt in 1969 by the Hells Angels....
55 2008-03-03 One argument I've been hearing a lot lately runs as follows: "Low interest rates got us into this mess, so it's crazy to think that low interest rates are the solution." Now, I don't actually buy the first premise: I blame Greenspan for ignoring w...
56 2008-03-03 The Carlyle Group, the private equity firm, said Monday that it had hired Oliver Sarkozy, one of UBS's top investment bankers for financial services deals, to work as co-head of a similar practice. Mr. Sarkozy, the joint global head of UBS's finan...
57 2008-03-03 China Merchants Bank is interested in buying into a planned initial public offering of shares by Visa, the credit card network, but any deal would first need Chinese regulatory approvals, its president Ma Weihua said on Monday. The move would bols...
58 2008-03-03 Phillip Goldstein, who two years ago successfully sued the Securities and Exchange Commission to overturn a rule requiring hedge fund managers to register as investment advisers, is planning to sue the regulator to lift its ban on hedge fund marke...
59 2008-03-03 A shareholder group pressing for change at The New York Times officially proposed its own set of directors for four vacant seats on Friday. The hedge fund Harbinger Capital, which, along with Firebrand Partners, now own about 19 percent of the com...
60 2008-03-03 “It’s indisputable that autism is on the rise among children,” Senator John McCain said while campaigning recently in Texas. “The question is what’s causing it. And we go back and forth and there’s strong evidence that indicates that it’s got to do with a preservative in vaccines.”

With that comment, Mr. McCain marked his entry into one of the most politicized scientific issues in a generation.

Mr. McCain is correct that autism diagnoses have increased in recent decades; indeed, no one disputes that. He is on much shakier ground when talking about the preservative as a cause.

While some parents’ groups and lawmakers assert that the preservative, called thimerosal, has caused an epidemic of new autism cases, most mainstream researchers strongly disagree.

Several large-scale studies have found no evidence of a link between thimerosal and autism, and medical groups including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Institute of Medicine and the American Academy of Pediatrics have publicly stated as much. In January, the state of California reported an increase in autism cases, despite the removal of thimerosal from most vaccines.

In February, an international team of researchers, analyzing blood samples from vaccinated children, found that blood levels of ethyl mercury “fell rapidly and had largely returned to baseline levels by day 11 after vaccination.” Those levels fell much more rapidly, for instance, than levels of the mercury people absorb by eating fish — suggesting that the injected thimerosal is less likely to build up in the blood, the researchers concluded.
61 2008-03-03 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will establish a new home appraisal watchdog to prevent fraud in valuing homes as part of a settlement with Attorney General Andrew Cuomo of New York, the companies and Mr. Cuomo said Monday.

Starting Jan. 1, 2009, the nation’s two largest sources of mortgage finance will be working under a new oversight body that ensures home appraisals are accurate, Mr. Cuomo’s office said.

“This is one of the greatest, most dramatic reforms of the housing industry in the last 20 years,” Mr. Cuomo said at a press event in New York announcing the deal. “We believe as a group that this will be a significant and dramatically positive reform.”

Because Wall Street gladly bought and bundled home loans for investors during the housing boom, lenders may have felt more comfortable inflating loan amounts, and Mr. Cuomo had filed subpoenas against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to determine whether the companies stood idle as that happened.

Monday’s deal removes the threat of lawsuits from Mr. Cuomo.

In a statement, Fannie Mae said it will provide $12 million over five years to help establish the appraisal oversight body that will operate within the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.

The main job of the new board will be to make sure that home appraisers remain at arm’s length from mortgage lenders.
62 2008-03-03 The filing of this petition with the World Trade Organization continued a trend that has emerged in the last year of the Bush administration’s taking a more confrontational approach toward China on trade issues.

While Republicans and Democrats in Congress have increasingly denounced Chinese economic practices, particularly on the safety of Chinese-made food and toys and Chinese steps to keep the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar, the administration has increased its demands on China on several fronts.

Since mid-2005, under American pressure, China has allowed the value of the yuan to appreciate more than 16 percent, which many economists say has caused the trade deficit with China to narrow somewhat. The currency appreciation has had the effect of making exports to China cheaper and imports from China more expensive.

Beyond the currency dispute, however, the administration has charged that China has used other tactics to keep out American products, in some cases adopting regulations that put foreign producers of goods at a disadvantage.

The Commerce Department also changed its policy toward China in 2006 and widened the number of cases in which it would impose duties on Chinese goods — ranging from paper to steel and tires — on the grounds that China was dumping them in the United States at below cost or engaging in illegal subsidies.

In another action, the United States in 2006 challenged what it said were restrictions on the sale of American-made auto parts in China. An initial finding in favor of the United States position was issued by the World Trade Organization last month, but it is still being reviewed.

The Bush administration has also gone to the World Trade Organization arguing that China has unfairly and illegally curbed market access of American and other foreign films, music and software programs, while at the same time failing to enforce laws against piracy of these products.

The Chinese, in what appeared to be their own protest against the American action on films and music, moved last December to suspend imports of American movies for Chinese consumers.

The movie issue became so bitter that in December, while they were in China for high-level economic talks, Ms. Schwab joined with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez to protest to President Hu Jintao and other Chinese leaders.

Since then, administration officials say that China has begun opening its market to American movies, at least somewhat. China, however, restricts foreign films distributed in China to only 20 a year, out of hundreds that Europeans and Americans say could find audiences in China.

The United States argues that these restrictions have the effect of encouraging piracy, since films that cannot be shown in China legally can easily be found in video stores throughout the countries. The Bush administration charges that 90 percent of the films that can be purchased in China are illegally copied.

On financial information, according to the United States Trade Representative’s office, China has since 2006 required foreign financial information suppliers to go through an entity designated by its regulators. The same regulation bars users of such services to directly purchase them from foreign suppliers, the United States charges.

These restrictions, the Bush administration asserts, are more severe than the ones in place when China acceded to the World Trade Organization in 2001.

In 1997, the United States won an agreement with China to ease restrictions on the distribution of financial news from foreign sources, but the administration says China has recently imposed new curbs.
63 2008-03-03 WASHINGTON (AP) — A divided Supreme Court is leaving intact a ruling favoring people who sued a pharmaceutical company, saying they had been harmed by a drug to combat diabetes.

The dispute stems from several suits against Warner-Lambert over its diabetes drug Rezulin. Warner-Lambert is now owned by Pfizer. The Supreme Court split 4-4 in the case, with Chief Justice John Roberts not taking part.

The users of the drug are relying on a Michigan law to allege that the pharmaceutical company engaged in fraud by misleading federal regulators to get the drug approved. The Michigan law shields pharmaceutical companies from product liability lawsuits, unless they committed fraud.

At issue in the case is whether that fraud exception, which allows lawsuits to proceed, is pre-empted by federal regulation of the pharmaceutical industry.

The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York ruled that the exception to the Michigan law was not pre-empted by federal regulations, enabling the plaintiffs to pursue the case.

Twenty-seven Michigan residents say they suffered personal injuries caused by Rezulin, a drug that federal regulators approved despite risks to the liver and cardiovascular system.
64 2008-03-03 For example, Calpers, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the largest United States pension fund, said last week that it might increase its commodities investments to $7.2 billion through 2010, a 16-fold increase, to benefit from an across-the-board surge in commodities such as gold, silver, oil and wheat.

The latest catalyst for the spike in energy prices has been the recent fall in the value of the dollar, analysts said. Currency traders are selling dollars and buying euros to take advantage of the difference in interest rates between the United States and Europe.

The dollar dropped to a record $1.5274 against the euro on Monday following steep declines last week. It also fell to its lowest level in three years against the Japanese yen.

Like many commodities, oil is priced in dollars on the international market. A falling dollar tends to buoy oil prices in part because consumers using stronger currencies, like the euro or yen, can pay more per barrel in dollars without feeling much effect at the gasoline pump.

“The question for oil is where is the dollar going,” said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. “That’s going to be the main market mover in the short term.”

Since 2000, oil prices have more than quadrupled as strong growth in demand from the United States and Asia outstripped the ability of oil producers to increase their output.

The rising prices of the past decade failed to dent global economic growth as consumers absorbed the higher costs. Even now, with the United States economy slowing markedly, the trend has now slowed much. Global oil consumption is still expected to increase by 1.4 million barrels a day this year, driven by demand in China and the Middle East.

Still, today’s record is markedly different from the energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s. These were brought about by sudden interruptions in oil supplies, such as the 1973 Arab oil embargo, the Iranian revolution of 1979, or the outbreak of the war between Iran and Iraq in 1980.

Also, the United States economy at the time was much more dependent on oil than it is today. The amount of oil needed to increase economic output by $1 has dropped by 25 percent since 1990.

In the early 1980s, energy accounted for about 8 percent of disposable income in American households. As the economy became less energy-intensive and prices declined, that share fell under 4 percent in the early 1990s.

But as prices keep rising, the share of energy spending has been increasing. It reached more than 6 percent of household disposable income in December.

Other energy futures also rallied on Monday. Gasoline and heating oil futures both jumped to new records. Natural gas prices, which are up 24 percent since the beginning of the year, closed unchanged at $9.346 per thousand cubic feet. In London, Brent crude oil futures rose 38 cents, to $100.48 a barrel.

Gold also reached a record after several days of large gains; it traded on Monday at $989.54 an ounce.

With oil setting fresh records, many analysts expect gasoline to approach $4 a gallon on average this summer. Gasoline prices have been rising sharply in recent days and have hit $3.16 a gallon on average, according to AAA, the automobile club. They are closing in on last year’s all-time record of $3.23 a gallon.

There is evidence that these high prices are finally forcing consumers to cut down on consumption.

According to the latest government figures, released Monday by the Energy Department, gasoline demand fell by 1 percent in December 2007 from the previous year. Oil demand was nearly flat last year as well.

Gasoline accounts for about half of the total oil used in the United States. In turn, the United States consumes one in four barrels of oil produced worldwide each day. Most experts believe that the price of oil is not about to drop any time soon. Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, Ali Al-Naimi, said crude prices were unlikely to fall below $60 a barrel because the cost of developing new supplies, from sources such as Canadian tar sands, is rising.

“Therefore, a line has been drawn below which the price cannot fall,” Mr. Naimi said in an interview published over the weekend by Petrostrategies, an industry newsletter in Paris.

Mr. Naimi’s comments came as the OPEC oil cartel prepares to meet on Wednesday and is expected to leave its production levels unchanged.

The oil producing group had suggested last month that it might curb production soon to make up for a seasonal decline in oil demand. But with oil prices at current levels, analysts said members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will find it politically difficult to curb their output now.

Some analysts expect oil producers to trim their production informally to avert an oil surplus in coming weeks. Others say OPEC, which controls 40 percent of the world’s oil exports, faces a “Hobbsian choice” and is being pulled apart by contradictory pressures.

“The market around the fringes is starting to fray,” said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. “Yet ironically, you are looking at triple-digit oil prices because the price is being set by non-physical investors.”
65 2008-03-03 The United States trade representative, Susan Schwab, said the current rules placed American and other foreign suppliers of information at a serious disadvantage. Although Washington had raised the issue repeatedly it had not been resolved.

“It is not in China’s interest to restrict access to the high-quality, comprehensive financial information provided by foreign service suppliers,” Ms. Schwab said in a statement.

Schwab noted that the rules introduced in 2006 were more restrictive than those prevailing when China joined the W.T.O..

The two trade powers clearly hope this could lead to a swift resolution at the consultation stage of the case as W.T.O. members are not supposed to restrict market access unilaterally.

Chinese officials have argued that national security interests require China to regulate the flow of news internally.

But the E.U. and the United States say the dispute is about financial data, such as stock prices and currency rates, rather than news. Financial experts say the Chinese market for financial information was worth over $100 million in 2006 and is still expanding.

“We are confident that consultations between the U.S., E.U. and Chinese governments within the W.T.O. framework will result in an outcome that will support the development of China’s financial markets by ensuring the effective flow of financial information,” a Reuters spokesman said.

The case is likely to add to strains between Beijing and Washington and Brussels stemming from China’s record and still expanding trade surpluses with both the European Union and the United States.

China suffered its first loss in a W.T.O. dispute earlier this month in a case involving imported auto parts, brought jointly by the United States, the European Union and Canada.

It is facing several other cases, brought mainly by the United States.

But China, whose international trade has benefited greatly since it joined the W.T.O. in 2001, settled a case with the United States and Mexico over tax breaks in November without going to a dispute panel, and has used the W.T.O. to bring its own cases.

Under W.T.O. rules, the European Union and the United States would hold consultations with China for 60 days. If those fail to resolve the conflict, Washington and Brussels would seek the formation of a panel.
66 2008-03-03 Meanwhile, the troubled dollar, depressed by interest rate cuts and steady inflation pressures in the United States, dipped to $1.5216 against the euro, a record low, and reached its lowest level in three years against the yen. That helped send gold to a record high after several days of large gains; the metal traded on Monday at $990.60 a Troy ounce.

This is a busy week for economic news, capped by Friday’s release of the February unemployment report, and some analysts speculated on Monday that for now at least, investors are looking to lay low. “They’re a little leery,” said James W. Paulsen, a strategist at Wells Capital Management.

That may explain the quiet reaction to reports that showed trouble in American industry.

Manufacturers lost business last month, according to the closely watched I.S.M. manufacturing index, which fell to 48.3 from a 50.7 reading in January. Readings below 50 signal contraction, but investors had feared an even worse showing as they look for signs of a significant economic slowdown.

Spending on construction projects fell in January by 1.7 percent — the worst monthly showing in 14 years — as commercial and residential developers cut back on new groundbreakings. The Commerce Department report showed that the housing crisis is beginning to creep into the commercial sector, where activity fell for the second month in a row. “The concerns are mounting, instead of easing,” said David Kovacs, a strategist at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa.

Despite the economic unease, American investors largely managed to avoid the painful overnight declines in the foreign markets. At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average stood at 12,258.90, down 7.49, or 0.1 percent. The S.&P. 500 ended at 1,331.34, up .71 point, or 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq composite showed a loss of 0.6 percent.

That was a stark contrast from the trading day in Asia, where the Nikkei 225-stock index fell 4.5 percent, to reach a 15 percent decline so far this year; the Hang Seng dropped 3.1 percent in Hong Kong; and the Kospi lost 2.3 percent in South Korea. The main indexes in Britain, Germany, and France all closed down about 1 percent.

Foreign investors appeared to be reacting to an outpouring of negative economic and financial reports that raised the specter of a recession in the United States and soured the mood on Wall Street. Banks and other lenders have further tightened credit in their struggle to contain damage from losses on mortgages, business loans and related debt. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 2.5 percent on Friday, capping its worst four months since 2002.

The emerging consensus among many economists, brokers and investors now seems to be that Asia will suffer some slowing of growth from a weak dollar and a weak American economy but that the economic harm is not likely to be as great as in the United States.

“Asia this time around is in great shape to be resilient for a couple quarters to this,” said William Belchere, the chief Asia economist in the Hong Kong office of Macquarie Securities.

Declines in stock markets across much of Asia on Monday underlined the extent to which many investors now doubt the rough consensus last summer that the region could escape an American recession unscathed.

Shipments to the United States may make up a dwindling share of many Asian countries’ exports as trade within the region has grown. But much of the region’s trade consists of increasingly specialized production in each country of components that are traded and then assembled in China for final sale to the United States.

Asian economies still retain considerable strengths. From China and Japan to South Korea and India, most Asian economies have accumulated sizable foreign exchange reserves. With the conspicuous exception of India, with its heavy reliance on imported oil, the region’s largest economies also tend to be running overall trade surpluses. With the euro strong, many are chasing buyers in Europe with considerable success.

The result is a feeling of insulation, but not immunity, from the troubles in the United States.

“From our position in Asia, though, this feels rather like standing on the shoreline watching a storm raging far out at sea,” Garry Evans, the chief Asia equity strategist at HSBC, said in a recent research note. “The sun is still shining where we stand, but the black clouds on the horizon make us worry that the storm will head in our direction. It could, though, just pass by, troubling us with little more than a few strong gusts of wind.”
67 2008-03-03 TOKYO — Asian stocks fell sharply and the U.S. dollar fell to levels not seen for three years against the Japanese yen on Monday, on speculation the Federal Reserve board may lower rates further to soften a possible recession. At the start of trading in Europe, most stocks were showing moderate losses.

The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slumped 610.84, or 4.49 percent to end trade at 12,992.18, the lowest close since Jan. 23. Japanese stocks have fallen approximately 15 percent since the start of the year. The Hang Seng Index was down about 3 percent in late trading; it has also declined 15 percent this year, while the CSI 300 Index has fallen 11 percent.

The dollar fell to 102.72 yen at one stage, the lowest level since Jan. 28, 2005, and dipped to $1.5228 against the Euro, near the $1.5239 set on Friday, which was the lowest since the common European currency’s debut in January 1999.

Concerns United States consumers may no longer be able to afford exports from the region also weighed on Asian stock markets. Exports of finished products to the United States, such as televisions and video cameras, make up between 5 percent and 10 percent of the Gross Domestic Product of the countries of East and South East Asia, said Yutaka Harada, chief economist with Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.

The fortunes of the Asian economies remain closely tied to those of the U.S., he added. “U.S. growth declines by 1 percent, Asian exports to the U.S. will likely fall 2 percent,” Mr. Harada said. “And that may reduce economic growth in the region by about 0.3 percent.”
68 2008-03-03 It has become the guessing game of N.F.L. free agency: where’s Randy?

Three days into the free-agent signing period, with every other marquee player already off the market — and interior offensive linemen becoming rich for the second year in a row — receiver Randy Moss remained available. Most observers expected Moss to be re-signed by the New England Patriots a few strokes after midnight Friday, when the signing period began.

Moss’s agent, Tim DiPiero, did not respond to an e-mail message seeking comment Sunday. The Patriots were mum. And Moss remained unsigned, free to join any team, or at least one that offers him a chance to win a Super Bowl, which has been his stated wish since his two-season debacle with the Oakland Raiders.

The Patriots chose not to use the franchise tag on Moss last week, raising speculation that a long-term deal was in place, or would be soon. Players generally hate the franchise tag because it severely limits their ability to sign with another team.

When Friday and Saturday came and went with no announcement, and the same appeared true for Sunday, the intrigue surrounding Moss’s future increased. And so did the chances that he would play elsewhere next season.

ESPN.com reported Sunday that Moss had “reached out” to quarterback Daunte Culpepper, his former Minnesota Vikings teammate, to talk about the good old days and to discuss the possibility of their reuniting with another team. (Culpepper is also a free agent.) The report also said that Moss had no scheduled visits with other teams.
69 2008-03-03 The world’s food situation is bleak, and shortsighted policies in the and other wealthy countries — which are diverting crops to environmentally dubious biofuels — bear much of the blame.

According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, the price of wheat is more than 80 percent higher than a year ago, and corn prices are up by a quarter. Global cereal stocks have fallen to their lowest level since 1982.

As usual, the brunt is falling disproportionately on the poor. The F.A.O. estimates that the cereal import bill of the neediest countries will increase by a third for the second year in a row. Prices have gone so high that the , which aims to feed 73 million people this year, said it might have to reduce rations or the number of people it will help.

The world has faced periodic bouts when it looked as if population growth would outstrip the food supply. Each time, food production has grown to meet demand. This time it might not be so easy.

Population growth and economic progress are part of the problem. Consumption of meat and other high-quality foods —mainly in China and India— has boosted demand for grain for animal feed. Poor harvests due to bad weather in this country and elsewhere have contributed. High energy prices are adding to the pressures.

Yet the most important reason for the price shock is the rich world’s subsidized appetite for biofuels. In the United States, 14 percent of the corn crop was used to produce ethanol in 2006 — a share expected to reach 30 percent by 2010. This is also cutting into production of staples like soybeans, as farmers take advantage of generous subsidies and switch crops to corn for fuel.
70 2008-03-03 Last fall, when children lost consciousness after eating toy beads, parents could not quickly find information about others who had endured the same harrowing ordeal. One reason is that there was and is no official government site that includes real-time reports of injuries or problems with products like toys with lead paint or deadly cribs or hazardous paint sprays.

An easily accessible database would make enormous good sense. It would be an early warning system for consumers, shame government and industry into faster recalls, and put greater pressure on Washington to reform a broken consumer safety system.

Congress is at last waking up to the problem. The Senate will shortly take up a bill that would strengthen the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which badly needs new muscle, and increase the flow of useful information. The bill as it stands is a good one and decidedly preferable to a measure passed by the House last year.

Like the House bill, the Senate bill would ban lead in toys, add more resources for consumer protection, require premarket testing for toys and increase penalties for those selling hazardous products. It would also provide protections for whistle-blowers and nearly double the commission’s resources, financing desperately needed technological upgrades and adding personnel to handle the advanced equipment.

The bill, sponsored by Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat, would also broaden the commission’s reach by allowing state attorneys general to enforce federal product safety laws in their states. And it would strengthen the ability to screen products from abroad.

Especially important is a provision for a database where citizens could register their problems with toys or other merchandise. Public Citizen has estimated that it takes an average of seven months to persuade the worst offenders to recall faulty goods. The new site would allow consumers to alert others even before the commission reached an official determination — and, indeed, possibly speed up what is now a cumbersome process.
71 2008-03-03 Louis Gallois, chief executive of EADS, said over the weekend that the deal would not only create jobs in the United States but would sustain employment in Europe for decades to come. He declined to specify how many jobs the tanker deal might create in Europe.

He said, however, that production of the planes, which are based on the Airbus A330, would add to the workload of the European plants that produce the wings, fuselage and tail sections for the A330.

Final assembly of the tankers will take place at a new plant that EADS plans to build near Mobile, Ala. To sweeten its bid, EADS offered in January to build a second assembly line in Alabama to produce a cargo version of the A330 for commercial use, raising the number of expected new jobs at the site to 1,300.

Northrop and EADS have said the tanker program will eventually create as many as 25,000 jobs in the United States through supplier contracts. Boeing said its plan would “support” 44,000 American jobs.

Such calculations are highly speculative, of course, especially given efforts by aerospace contractors to manufacture more efficiently. Moreover, the work is stretched out over decades.

Air Force officials said the creation of domestic jobs was not a factor in the decision. Members of Congress, particularly representatives from Washington State, however, expressed outrage. Boeing planes are assembled outside Seattle.

Analysts noted that the deal signed Friday was a preliminary one that committed the Air Force, for now, to buying just four test versions of the tanker, worth about $1.5 billion. Mr. Gallois said negotiations for the full 179-plane order would begin in the coming weeks.

“This is almost like they are inviting a challenge from Boeing,” said Doug McVitie, managing director of Arran Aerospace, a research firm in Dinan, France. “It seems strange that the production contract itself hasn’t yet been awarded.”

Boeing would not say if it would file a formal protest. A spokesman, William Barksdale, said Boeing would make a decision about its options after a Pentagon debriefing, expected later this month.

The Airbus 330 is far larger than the 767 that Boeing proposed using. For example, US Airways, which flies both planes, has 293 seats in its Airbus 330s and just 203 seats in its Boeing 767s. The Air Force said it was attracted by the Airbus plane’s greater fuel capacity, its cost and its ability to carry cargo and passengers.

Boeing had only 51 of the 767s on order as of the end of January, and current production rates would appear to mean that 767 production would cease around 2012. The company, however, has about $255 billion of commercial airliners in its order backlog, including more than 800 of its new 787s.

Even with the loss of the tanker work, Boeing is hiring at its Everett plant, a spokeswoman, Debbie Heathers, said.

The deal is the first phase of a multidecade program to replace the aging aerial tanker fleet, which dates from the Eisenhower-Kennedy era. The jet fleet, which has about 535 refitted Boeing 707s and DC-10s, is one of the largest and oldest in the world.

Replacing these tankers has been the Air Force’s top priority since 1996, when the government first proposed obtaining new planes. The first 179 tankers will be acquired at a pace of about 15 a year. And it is expected that, over time, nearly 400 new refueling planes will be needed, which could bring the program’s total cost to $100 billion.

Boeing appeared to have the tanker replacement work sewn up earlier this decade, but then lost it to scandal when it was revealed that the company recruited a Pentagon procurement official, Darleen Druyun, to work at Boeing while she was negotiating Pentagon contracts involving Boeing, including the tanker deal.

The Air Force then started over on bids for the tanker work.
72 2008-03-03 The risk, Republicans acknowledge, is that Mr. McCain may no longer be seen as above pandering and will be increasingly vulnerable to criticism from both sides.

“There will be potshots,” said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan. “But it’s not anything he can’t withstand.”

In May 2001, Mr. McCain was one of only two Republicans — the other was Senator Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island — to vote against President Bush’s $1.35 trillion 10-year tax cut. On the Senate floor, Mr. McCain said, “I cannot in good conscience support a tax cut in which so many of the benefits go to the most fortunate among us, at the expense of middle-class Americans who most need tax relief.”

Two years later, Mr. McCain was one of three Republicans to vote against additional Bush tax cuts — he and Mr. Chafee were joined by Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine — because, he said then, the costs of the Iraq war were not yet known. Specifically, he said he was open to the idea of tax cuts in the future, “but not until Congress and the administration have a better understanding of the costs of war and peace.”

Later, he said he also opposed the 2003 tax cut because it, too, disproportionately benefited the rich. “I just thought it was too tilted to the wealthy, and I still do,” Mr. McCain told Stephen Moore, a member of The Wall Street Journal editorial board, in an interview published on Nov. 26, 2005.

These days, Mr. McCain says at almost every campaign stop that he wants to make those tax cuts permanent rather than have them expire, as the law stipulates, because getting rid of them would have the effect of a tax hike. He rarely mentions that he originally opposed them or that he did so in large part because he thought they were too tilted to the rich — an objection that conservatives consider heresy.

When pressed, Mr. McCain now says he voted against the tax cuts because they were not accompanied by sufficient spending cuts, an explanation somewhat more palatable to the right. Asked last week on his campaign plane if he thought the tax cuts were too tilted to the rich, Mr. McCain sidestepped the question and replied that he preferred his own tax proposal at the time, which he said was “more tilted towards the middle class.”

Mr. McCain has also moved from his original position on immigration. In 2005, he joined forces with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to co-sponsor an overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws. Although the legislation included toughening border security, its center was a provision that would have provided a pathway to citizenship for many of the 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States.

Conservatives immediately branded the bill as amnesty and fired steadily at Mr. McCain. After seeing his campaign and his fund-raising efforts derail last summer — which his advisers attributed in large part to his position on immigration — Mr. McCain now says that he got the message from voters. These days he speaks almost exclusively about border security, although he does say that it is not possible to deport 12 million illegal immigrants and that he would never deport the mother of a soldier serving in Iraq.

Even so, Mr. McCain went so far at a debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in January to say that if his original proposal came to a vote on the Senate floor, he would not vote for it.

Last week, Mr. McCain was pressed by a participant at a town-hall-style meeting in Houston if he still believed that an immigration overhaul was possible. “I do believe it’s possible, but as you noticed, and I noticed, we failed,” Mr. McCain told his questioner at the Baker Institute at Rice University. “We failed, and the lesson is that Americans want the border secured first.”

In Houston, Mr. McCain did acknowledge that border security was not an end in itself because, as he pointed out, some 40 percent of illegal immigrants enter the county legally and then overstay their visas. “But there’s a symbolism out there of broken borders associated with drugs, associated with a lot of the bad things that have happened on our border,” Mr. McCain concluded.

On abortion, Mr. McCain has long been an opponent, but he has been dogged over the years by differing statements on the issue. In August 1999, in an often-cited interview with The San Francisco Chronicle editorial board, Mr. McCain surprised conservatives when he made comments about whether he supported overturning Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision that established a constitutional right to abortion.

“I’d love to see a point where it is irrelevant and could be repealed because abortion is no longer necessary,” Mr. McCain told The Chronicle. “But certainly in the short term, or even the long term, I would not support repeal of Roe v. Wade, which would then force X number of women in America” to undergo “illegal and dangerous operations.”

Since then, Mr. McCain has hardened his position. “I do not support Roe v. Wade — it should be overturned,” Mr. McCain told about 800 people in February 2007 in South Carolina, a crucial primary state with large numbers of conservative voters.

Asked about the differences in his statements as he talked to reporters on his campaign bus last week, Mr. McCain called Roe v. Wade “a very bad decision,” said he had long been “pro-life,” and added that in the interview with The Chronicle in 1999, “I either inartfully or incorrectly stated my position.”

More recently, Mr. McCain has overstated his original position on Mr. Rumsfeld. In 2004, Mr. McCain said repeatedly that he had no confidence in the defense secretary, whose management of the Iraq war was under increasing fire. He regularly criticized Mr. Rumsfeld as not having sent enough troops to Iraq and was withering on Mr. Rumsfeld’s strategy of moving troops from one violence-plagued part of Iraq to another, saying it was a game of “whack a mole.”

But unlike a group of retired generals who called for Mr. Rumsfeld’s resignation in the spring of 2006, Mr. McCain never did. He said it was the president’s prerogative to keep him. Mr. Bush “can have the team around him that he wants around him,” Mr. McCain told The Associated Press in December 2004.

Mr. McCain offered a different story to voters as he campaigned across the country in recent months. “I’m the only one that said that Rumsfeld had to go,” Mr. McCain said at the Reagan Library debate on Jan. 30, in typical comments. The campaign has since acknowledged that Mr. McCain was incorrect, and more recently the senator has stopped short of claiming he called for the defense secretary’s ouster.

Finally, Mr. McCain has been under fire from human rights advocates for his vote last month against a bill that would require the Central Intelligence Agency to abide by the restrictions on interrogating prisoners outlined in the Army Field Manual.

Mr. McCain has said he opposed the bill, which the Senate passed last month with a vote of 51 to 45, because he believes that C.I.A. interrogators should have the flexibility to use additional tactics not listed in the field manual. Mr. McCain has argued that none of those tactics would include torture because “cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment” is banned in the Military Commissions Act of 2006.

But human rights advocates say there is disagreement over what tactics are actually prohibited. Although Mr. McCain calls waterboarding, a simulated drowning technique, an illegal form of torture and the C.I.A. says it no longer uses it, the Bush administration has not ruled it out.

Mr. McCain was tortured as a prisoner of war in Vietnam and has led the battle in recent years to end torture by the United States. His vote against the bill puts him squarely on the side of Mr. Bush, who is expected to veto the legislation within days.
73 2008-03-03 Pettitte — who is reading the book “Quiet Strength,” by Indianapolis Colts Coach Tony Dungy — walked a batter in the first inning but erased him on a double-play grounder. In the second, he got a groundout and allowed an infield single, then picked the runner off first. Then he got a strikeout to end the inning.

Pettitte said his mechanics seemed rusty in the first inning, but he threw off-speed pitches for strikes in the second and felt smooth again. He was especially pleased to throw a strike while using the slide step, which he hopes will keep runners from stealing third base.

“There were a few guys who were a little bit of a headache last year for me in our division,” Pettitte said. “I need to shore that up, letting guys take a base on me from second. Just continue to try to figure out a way to get better. That’s one thing that might help me.”

Pettitte said he still felt slightly behind physically. The Yankees allowed Pettitte to report four days after the rest of the pitchers, to give him a mental break from the Clemens controversy. But he is not far off the others’ pace.

“No, because he has plenty of starts to catch up,” Girardi said. “He’s missed, through us, one throw session, that’s it. He’s pretty close to where everybody else is at this time. He might be a little bit behind, but I don’t worry.”

Pettitte has been working out early with the Yankees’ young starters and interacting easily with teammates and coaches, fans and reporters. Girardi said he was not surprised at how Pettitte had handled himself; he shined in the 1998 postseason, Girardi recalled, despite worrying about his father’s health.

“The best way is just to get out there and start playing again,” said Jason Giambi, no stranger to handling fallout from an admission of drug use. “Unfortunately, the Big G paved the way for him.”

Giambi helped Pettitte on Sunday, pulling a Cole Hamels fastball for a three-run homer in the first inning and slicing a run-scoring double to the left-center field gap in the third. Giambi said the double pleased him more because he had been working for months to revive his opposite-field stroke.

Jason Lane also homered against Hamels and had a triple in his next at-bat. Lane hit .192 over the last two seasons, mostly with Houston, after hitting 26 home runs for the Astros in 2005. He signed a minor league contract with the Yankees in January.

“They said they needed some right-handed hitters to even up the lineup against left-handers,” Lane said, adding that he was eager to work with the Yankees’ hitting coach, Kevin Long. “Anytime the Yankees are interested in you, I feel like you can’t really pass that up.”

If Lane makes the team, the Yankees could use him as a corner outfielder or possibly at first base, where Morgan Ensberg, Nick Green and Chris Woodward are among the others fighting for what figures to be the only available spot among position players.

The Yankees cut five players from their major league camp, including first baseman Eric Duncan, their No. 1 draft choice in 2003. Duncan, 23, hit .241 with 11 home runs last season at Class AAA.
74 2008-03-03 “Semi-Pro,” the raunchy basketball comedy starring Will Ferrell, took over first place in the weekend movie box office standings in its debut. The New Line release grossed an estimated $15.2 million, pushing last week’s leader, the thriller “Vantage Point” (Columbia Pictures), into the No. 2 spot with $13 million, according to the box office tracking company Media by Numbers. Also down one notch was “The Spiderwick Chronicles” (Paramount and Nickelodeon), which took in $8.8 million. Fourth place and $8.3 million in its debut went to “The Other Boleyn Girl” (Columbia Pictures and Focus Features), a tale of sisterly rivalry starring Natalie Portman as Anne Boleyn, Scarlett Johansson as Mary Boleyn and Eric Bana as the lustful Henry VIII. Rounding out the Top 5 was last week’s third-place finisher, “Jumper” (Fox), with $7.6 million.
75 2008-03-03 Penguin was initially going to join the eMusic service last fall, when it introduced its audio books download store. But it backed off when executives at Pearson, the London-based media company that owns Penguin, became concerned that such a move could fuel piracy.

Mr. Heffernan said the company changed its mind partly after watching the major music labels, like Warner Brothers and Sony BMG, abandon D.R.M. on the digital music they sell on Amazon.com. “I’m looking at this as a test,” he said. “But I do believe the audio book market without D.R.M. is going to be the future.”

Other major book publishers seem to agree. Chris Lynch, executive vice president and publisher of Simon & Schuster Audio, said the company would make 150 titles available for download in an unprotected digital format in “the next couple of months.”

An executive at HarperCollins said the publisher was watching these developments closely but was not yet ready to end D.R.M.

If the major book publishers follow music labels in abandoning copyright protections, it could alter the balance of power in the rapidly growing world of digital media downloads. Currently there is only one significant provider of digital audio books: Audible, a company in Seattle that was bought by Amazon for $300 million in January. Audible provides Apple with the audio books on the iTunes store.

Apple’s popular iPod plays only audio books that are in Audible’s format or unprotected formats like MP3. Book publishers do not want to make the same error originally made by the music labels and limit consumers to a single online store to buy digital files that will play on the iPod. Doing so would give that single store owner — Apple — too much influence.

Turning to the unprotected MP3 format, says Madeline McIntosh, a senior vice president at the Random House Audio Group, will enable a number of online retailers to begin selling audio books that will work on all digital devices.

Some bookstores are already showing interest. The Borders Group, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., introduced an online audio book store in November using D.R.M. provided by Microsoft. Its books cannot be played on the iPod, a distinction that turns off many customers. But Pam Promer, audio book buyer for Borders, said the company welcomed moves by the publishers and planned to begin selling MP3 downloads by early spring.

A spokesman for Barnes & Noble said the retailer had “no plans to enter the digital audio book market at this time.”

Publishers, like the music labels and movie studios, stuck to D.R.M. out of fear that pirated copies would diminish revenue. Random House tested the justification for this fear when it introduced the D.R.M.-less concept with eMusic last fall. It encoded those audio books with a digital watermark and monitored online file sharing networks, only to find that pirated copies of its audio books had been made from physical CDs or D.R.M.-encoded digital downloads whose anticopying protections were overridden.

“Our feeling is that D.R.M. is not actually doing anything to prevent piracy,” said Ms. McIntosh of Random House Audio.

Amazon and Audible would not comment on whether they would preserve D.R.M. protections on their own audio books, citing Securities and Exchange Commission restrictions surrounding the recent acquisition.
76 2008-03-03 LAS VEGAS — Just what this city desperately needed: a bracing injection of vulgarity.

Bette Midler, who ignited a career by giving a good name to bad taste, has arrived in this sprawling gambling mecca, a steroidal temple of tackiness. And she claims to be right at home.

For as she merrily boasts in her new extravaganza, “The Showgirl Must Go On,” she has been telling dirty jokes for three decades, and flashed her flesh way back in the day. (Not for the paparazzi either, like these crazy kids today, but for paying audiences, thank you very much.) Sin city, antiseptic and corporate though it mostly feels today, is her kind of town.

Ms. Midler has lost little of the verve, bawdiness and originality that first captivated gay audiences back in the early 1970s. That hip-wiggling strut — how many entertainers can be said to have a trademark walk, by the way? — is every bit as manic, even if the heels are a tad lower. The voice still throbs with palpable feeling, even when the sentiment would sound ersatz sung by almost any other performer.

But Ms. Midler’s movie career has brought her a wide audience, and the culture has happily embraced all that once seemed transgressive in her act. By the standards of today her winking brand of vulgarity — the old-school Sophie Tucker gags, the jubilant camping — seems positively wholesome.

So it is that Ms. Midler is now installed in the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, where Celine Dion recently held court for a five-year stint. Ms. Midler has moved in with her own $10 million spectacular, playing five nights a week for a total of about 100 performances a year for two years. Beginning in May, Cher will alternate with her in this cavernous space of more than 4,000 seats, where Elton John is also in residence. Noting the appeal of this showbiz trinity, Ms. Midler quipped, “Does it get any gayer?” Well, possibly — O Barbra, where art thou? Is it a little dismaying for longtime fans of Ms. Midler to find her installed in Las Vegas as the latest luxury product for high rollers in a city awash in them? (Ticket prices top out at $250, which could also buy dinner for one at Guy Savoy in the same hotel.) Well, possibly. And “The Showgirl Must Go On,” a career survey offering a sort of Midler 101, is clearly aimed at the masses who flock to this city in stupefying numbers in fervid search of ways to get rid of their money.

In a speedy 90 minutes (apparently the maximum time audiences here will agree to be entertained away from the slots and tables), and backed by a strong 13-piece band, Ms. Midler performs virtually all of her hits and signature tunes. She sings with a polish — and in a few cases, an emotional intensity — that belies the passing of the years and the many occasions on which she has been called upon to perform them before. Now 62, she makes self-pitying sport of her supposed infirmity in the course of her dash through her songbook, but when the encore arrives — the inexorable, the inevitable, dare I say the infernal “Wind Beneath My Wings” — Ms. Midler hits all the notes with breath to spare.
77 2008-03-03 In an industry where smaller is better, Intel announced on Sunday a new brand of processors intended to power what it hopes will foster the development of a new category of compact, low-cost wireless Internet computers known as netbooks.

Officially called the Intel Atom, the new chip family is designed specifically for devices that require both little power and a low price, and range in size from a hand-held gadget to a small, lightweight notebook computer.

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., is not saying how much the new chips will cost, but the devices based on them are expected to sell for less than $300, analysts say. The chips are expected to ship in the second quarter.

“It’s a significant opportunity for Intel,” said Dean McCarron, principal analyst with Mercury Research. The new chip measures less than 25 square millimeters, making it Intel’s most compact and lowest-power processor yet. “This is our smallest processor built with the world’s smallest transistors,” said Sean M. Maloney, Intel’s chief sales and marketing officer. “We believe it will unleash new innovation across the industry.”

Intel executives say that the Atom family is different from other chips found in today’s mobile devices because it is intended for the netbook applications, giving it faster performance and lower power consumption.

That demand for inexpensive mobile Internet devices is poised to take off is apparent in the brisk demand for Eee PC, a notebook computer from Asus of Taiwan that sells for as little as $300. That system, based on the earlier Intel Celeron chip, enjoyed brisk sales during the holidays. The computer company has said it expects to sell several million of the notebooks in 2008.
78 2008-03-03 In your Feb. 25 editorial “Liechtenstein’s Friendly Bankers,” you state that Liechtenstein has “lax financial controls” and needs “to start showing some real cooperation in fighting fraud, money laundering and tax evasion.” I differ with this assessment.

An engaged partnership with the United States on matters related to prosecuting financial crimes is in place. In 2003, Liechtenstein and the United States signed a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, which resulted in the successful conclusion of several cases related to tax matters.

American officials in Washington have confirmed at Congressional hearings years of excellent cooperation with their counterparts in Liechtenstein. Liechtenstein has carried out a number of significant reforms since 2001 in the financial services sector by considerably increasing the size and effectiveness of its financial supervisory mechanisms.

Liechtenstein’s improvements related to anti-money-laundering provisions and efforts to combat the financing of terrorism were assessed last year by the International Monetary Fund. An I.M.F. report will confirm Liechtenstein’s high level of compliance with international standards.

As a member of the European Economic Area, Liechtenstein is mandated to carry out European Union money laundering directives, putting Liechtenstein on par with the E.U. regulatory framework.

Liechtenstein will continue to work with its partners in Europe and the United States in the areas of financial crimes, including fraud, money laundering and tax matters.
79 2008-03-03 Google has added a new front to its assault on Microsoft's software applications business.     Last week, Google rolled out a rival to Microsoft's SharePoint, a program used for collaboration among teams of workers. Google's service, called Google...
80 2008-03-03 OPEC CUTBACK UNLIKELY Fearful of being blamed for a recession, OPEC is likely to keep output unchanged when its members meet on Wednesday.       EISNER'S ONLINE HITS Among the swarm of Hollywood developers scrambling to come up with original Inter...
81 2008-03-04 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
82 2008-03-04 Former Gov. Mike Huckabee conceded; Senator John McCain and his supporters celebrated....
83 2008-03-04 A new study helps explain what happens to the risks and benefits of hormones when women stop the treatment....
84 2008-03-04 French carmakers manufacture cheaper and lighter vehicles than their German counterparts. As a result, under proposed European Union legislation, French automakers won't have to cut their vehicles' emissions as much as the Germans. Not surprisingl...
85 2008-03-04 NBC News calls Tuesday's primaries "Judgment Day." ABC News says "Hillary Clinton needs to win today to keep her candidacy." But the broadcast networks are opting not to present any special political programming for what some analysts have called ...
86 2008-03-04 At three polling places in Austin, Obama volunteers outnumbered Clinton volunteers, but enthusiasm was strong on both sides....
87 2008-03-04 Pequot Capital Management, the giant hedge fund run by Arthur Samberg, said Tuesday that it would spin off its venture capital arm into a separate company. What now is known as Pequot Ventures will become FirstMark Capital on June 30, the firm sai...
88 2008-03-04 Senator Clinton's national-security ad elicits a voter's humorous aside, but the Republican candidate distances himself from it....
89 2008-03-04 John McCain today did not draw a link between autism and a preservative in vaccines, but offered sympathy and support to families of autistic children....
90 2008-03-04 A great lunch in Liguria, fresh from the garden....
91 2008-03-04 Credit: Eddy Mottaz for The New York Times
92 2008-03-04 Choppy markets, plus some other problems, are wreaking havoc with hedge funds - and denting their reputations as the heavyweights of high finance. Banks have reportedly seized the assets of Peloton Partners, a London-based firm whose bets on mortg...
93 2008-03-04 Eric Bolling is now a contributor on Fox Business Network. (Fox) In every skirmish, certain individuals become symbols of a much larger fight. In the competition between CNBC and the upstart Fox Business Network, Eric Bolling was that symbol. Unti...
94 2008-03-04 Now, we begin the most important part of our campaign: to make a respectful, determined and convincing case to the American people that our campaign and my election as President, given the alternatives presented by our friends in the other party, are in the best interests of the country we love. I have never believed I was destined be President. I don't believe anyone is pre-destined to lead America. But I do believe we are born with responsibilities to the country that has protected our God-given rights, and the opportunities they afford us. I did not grow up with the expectation that my country owed me more than the rights owed every American. On the contrary, I owe my country every opportunity I have ever had. I owe her the meaning that service to America has given my life, and the sense that I am part of something greater than myself, part of a kinship of ideals that have always represented the last, best hope of mankind.

I understand the responsibilities I incur with this nomination, and I give you my word, I will not evade or slight a single one. Our campaign must be, and will be more than another tired debate of false promises, empty sound-bites, or useless arguments from the past that address not a single American's concerns for their family's security. Presidential candidates are judged on their records, their character and the whole of their life experiences. But we are also expected to concentrate our efforts on the challenges that will confront America on our watch and explain how we intend to address them.

America is at war in two countries, and involved in a long and difficult fight with violent extremists who despise us, our values and modernity itself. It is of little use to Americans for their candidates to avoid the many complex challenges of these struggles by re-litigating decisions of the past. I will defend the decision to destroy Saddam Hussein's regime as I criticized the failed tactics that were employed for too long to establish the conditions that will allow us to leave that country with our country's interests secure and our honor intact. But Americans know that the next President doesn't get to re-make that decision. We are in Iraq and our most vital security interests are clearly involved there. The next President must explain how he or she intends to bring that war to the swiftest possible conclusion without exacerbating a sectarian conflict that could quickly descend into genocide; destabilizing the entire Middle East; enabling our adversaries in the region to extend their influence and undermine our security there; and emboldening terrorists to attack us elsewhere with weapons we dare not allow them to possess.

The next President must encourage the greater participation and cooperation of our allies in the fight against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The next President must lead an effort to restructure our military, our intelligence, our diplomacy and all relevant branches of government to combat Islamic extremism, encourage the vast majority of moderates to win the battle for the soul of Islam, and meet the many other rising challenges in this changing world.

I will leave it to my opponent to argue that we should abrogate trade treaties, and pretend the global economy will go away and Americans can secure our future by trading and investing only among ourselves. We will campaign in favor of seizing the opportunities presented by the growth of free markets throughout the world, helping displaced workers acquire new and lasting employment and educating our children to prepare them for the new economic realities by giving parents choices about their children's education they do not have now.

I will leave it to my opponent to claim that they can keep companies and jobs from going overseas by making it harder for them to do business here at home. We will campaign to strengthen job growth in America by helping businesses become more competitive with lower taxes and less regulation.

I will leave it to my opponent to propose returning to the failed, big government mandates of the sixties and seventies to address problems such as the lack of health care insurance for some Americans. I will campaign to make health care more accessible to more Americans with reforms that will bring down costs in the health care industry down without ruining the quality of the world's best medical care.

And I will campaign to reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil with an energy policy that encourages American industry and technology to make our country safer, cleaner and more prosperous by leading the world in the use, development and discovery of alternative sources of energy.

These are some of the challenges that confront us. There are others just as urgent, and during this campaign I'll travel across the country in cities and rural areas, in communities of all ethnic backgrounds and income levels, offering my ideas and listening to the concerns and advice of Americans. Americans aren't interested in an election where they are just talked to and not listened to; an election that offers platitudes instead of principles and insults instead of ideas; an election that results -- no matter who wins -- in four years of unkept promises and a government that is just a battleground for the next election. Their patience is at an end for politicians who value ambition over principle, and for partisanship that is less a contest of ideas than an uncivil brawl over the spoils of power.

Nothing is inevitable in America. We are the captains of our fate. We're not a country that prefers nostalgia to optimism; a country that would rather go back than forward. We're the world's leader, and leaders don't pine for the past and dread the future. We make the future better than the past. We don't hide from history. We make history. That, my friends, is the essence of hope in America, hope built on courage, and faith in the values and principles that have made us great. I intend to make my stand on those principles and chart a course for our future greatness, and trust in the judgment of the people I have served all my life. So stand up with me, my friends, stand up and fight for America -- for her strength, her ideals, and her future. The contest begins tonight. It will have its ups and downs. But we will fight every minute of every day to make certain we have a government that is as capable, wise, brave and decent as the great people we serve. That is our responsibility and I will not let you down.
95 2008-03-04 The presumptive nominee looks forward to competing, especially in large states like California that don't normally vote for a Republican presidential candidate....
96 2008-03-04 As companies begin to pile up bankruptcy protection - Sharper Image, Lillian Vernon and Plastech, just to name a few recent filings - Investment Dealers' Digest went to Harvey Miller of Weil Gotshal & Manges, one of the nation's most prominent ban...
97 2008-03-04 The fight over the future of Scrabulous, the latest bane of office productivity, may come down to a question of how many zeroes all the sides can score. The legal fight over the virtual knockoff of the Scrabble board game, which claims to have mor...
98 2008-03-04 Citigroup and Wachovia are facing separate lawsuits filed in a federal court in New York by a $58-million-asset hedge fund, according to The Wall Street Journal. The suit claims that the banks each improperly required the fund, VCG Special Opportu...
99 2008-03-04 Nike said Monday it had completed its acquisition of Umbro, a British soccer equipment company, and Umbro's chief executive officer has decided to leave the company. In October, Nike, the world's largest maker of athletic footwear and clothing agr...
100 2008-03-04 “Ohio has written a new chapter in this campaign and we’re just getting started,” she said. “For everyone who has stumbled but stood right back up, and for everyone who works hard and never gives up, this one is for you.”

Mr. Obama, in San Antonio, said he still considered himself the front-runner.

“No matter what happens tonight, we have nearly the same delegate lead that we had this morning, and we are on our way to winning this nomination,” he said.

The night’s results were more decisive for Senator John McCain, who won enough delegates in Tuesday’s races to clinch the Republican nomination, based on calculations by the television networks and The Associated Press.

Mr. McCain told supporters that he accepted the nomination “with confidence, humility, and a great sense of responsibility,” while his sole remaining opponent, former Gov. Mike Huckabee, conceded the race.

On the Democratic side, Mr. Obama won the Vermont primary by about 22 percentage points. Mrs. Clinton had a margin of about 17 percentage points in Rhode Island.

Mr. Obama had been hoping to firm up his front-runner status in the Democratic race, but the victory in Ohio provides a crucial psychological boost for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, which has struggled to regroup from Mr. Obama’s recent spate of victories.

Still, the race remains too close to call in Texas, where the rivals were virtually tied. Some of the pledged delegates will be awarded for winning the popular vote in the primary, though the caucus will award its own slate of delegates irrespective of the results of the primary’s popular vote.

Early exit polls showed that Democratic voters in Ohio and Texas were more concerned about the weakening economy than any other issue. Mr. Obama was considered more inspiring and more likely to win in November, but voters in each state were also more likely to say that Mrs. Clinton is more qualified to be commander-in-chief.

Still, broad majorities of Democratic voters in both states said they would be satisfied with either candidate as the nominee.

Voting officials in all four states marveled at the Democratic turnout. “Best I can tell it’s a tsunami of voters,” said Gerry Birnberg, chairman of the Harris County Democratic Party, which encompasses Houston and its environs. At some polling sites there, as many as 100 voters lined up before the polls opened at 7 a.m., Mr. Birnberg said.

An estimated 3.3 million Texans, a primary record, are expected to cast their ballots by the end of the day, according to state election officials. About 1.2 million Texans in the state’s 15 most populous counties already took part in early voting, four times the previous high set in 2000. The large numbers could slow the reporting of results.

In Ohio on Tuesday evening, the last voters braved a raging storm of snow and sleet to get to Giddings Elementary school right before the polls closed. Still wearing their wool hats and winter coats, they lined up to mark their ballots next to reading tests hanging on the walls.

Donell Ezell, 58, a therapist, made it just 15 minutes before voting closed. “I would have come this morning but I had an early patient and didn’t want to get tied up with the paper ballots,” he said after handing his to the election worker. He didn’t think the storm would deter turnout in this largely black neighborhood on Cleveland’s East Side. “I think that a lot of people went through a lot worse than this weather to vote,” he said. “They didn’t have the chance once, so this snow isn’t going to stop them.”

Mr. Ezell voted for Mr. Obama, and is excited that the country may have a black president. “I’m a child of the 60s,” he said, “to think we’ve come this far, for the nation to come this far says a lot.” He wasn’t always so enthusiastic. “I didn’t think he was going to catch fire, but his message came through and he energized people. I think he can get things accomplished.”

While Mrs. Clinton projected confidence leading up to Tuesday’s contests, the Obama campaign issued reminders of statements made last month by former President Bill Clinton, who said his wife must take victories in Ohio and Texas to remain a viable candidate.

“Three weeks ago, when they led polls in Texas and Ohio by 20 points, the Clinton campaign set their own test for today’s primaries,” Bill Burton, a spokesman, said in an e-mail statement. He set expectations for his candidate’s performance fairly low, saying only that Senator Barack Obama will maintain his delegate lead.

Behind the scenes, leading Obama supporters were working to persuade Democrats, particularly the superdelegates who could decide the nomination, to step forward and coalesce behind him as soon as Wednesday, according to Obama supporters and campaign officials.

“You know this is a long process,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters Tuesday morning outside a polling place in Houston. “Never underestimate the intelligence of the voters,” she said, referring to a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll in which voters expressed a preference for her campaign to continue if she wins either Ohio or Texas.

Her message was entirely different from the one delivered by former President Bill Clinton just a few weeks ago, when he told Ohio and Texas voters that his wife would not succeed without victories in those delegate-rich states.

But while the Obama campaign was issuing reminders about what Mr. Clinton said a few weeks ago, Mrs. Clinton reached back much further into the past, citing her husband’s nomination victory in June 1992 as well as the long-lost days when parties chose candidates at summertime conventions. Her campaign is just hitting its stride, Mrs. Clinton said, even though she has been running for well over a year, in a race that has gone on longer than anyone expected.

“We’re just beginning to draw those contrasts and those differences and that’s when voters start to zero in,” she said, expressing optimism despite 11 straight recent losses to Mr. Obama.

On a conference call with reporters, representatives from her campaign played up later contests particularly Pennsylvania’s April 22 primary, where Mrs. Clinton is the early favorite.

A few months ago, today’s voting was not expected to count much, thanks to a front-loaded calendar that was supposed to settle the nominations of both parties early. Faced with their unexpected responsibilities, some of Tuesday’s Democratic voters struggled until the final possible moments with their choice.

At Canterbury Elementary School in Cleveland, Ohio, Nicole Pecora, a graduate student at Case Western University said she had procrastinated until the very last minute, even dawdling over minor judicial selections in the voting booth. “I was filling out circles for random judges until I ran out of circles,” she said.

In the end Mr. Obama got her vote, in part because Ms. Pecora said she thought he would be more electable than Mrs. Clinton, and in part because of his stance against the conflict in Iraq.

“Hillary voted for the war, and I know she says she regrets it, but I can’t forgive her for that,” said Ms. Pecora, an immunologist.

She added that the Obama presence in Cleveland has overshadowed that of Mrs. Clinton, who has fewer ads on television and fewer signs on front lawns. “Everywhere you look, it’s Obama, Obama, Obama,” she said.

Rasheda Thomas said she had finally made up her mind on the drive over to the same polling place. “It took a Clinton to clean up after the first Bush and it will take a Clinton to clean up after the second Bush,” Asked if she had any qualms about not supporting Mr. Obama, Ms. Thomas, who is black, said, “I’m a woman first.”

Meanwhile, as Mr. McCain campaigned Tuesday morning in San Antonio, he said that he hoped to win enough delegates to clinch the Republican nomination and force Mike Huckabee from the race. And he took a swipe at the Democratic candidates, implying that they were harsher in their criticism of Nafta when they campaigned in Ohio, with its struggling industrial sector, than in Texas, which has benefited from trade with Mexico.

“I didn’t go to Ohio and say anything that I’m not saying here in the state of Texas,” Mr. McCain said. “I support Nafta. I support free trade. I support it in Ohio, I support it in Texas, I support it all over the country.”

The stark contrast between the hotly contested Democratic race and the all-but-decided Republican contest was on display at adjacent party polling places at a senior citizens housing complex on Allen Parkway, Houston’s greenbelt built by oil barons to beautify their commutes downtown. At the Democratic location, 125 voters had cast ballots by 11:30 a.m. At the Republican location, exactly 5, including the two election judges, Rene Aninao, and Tom Hicks, both 26 and financial advisers.

Jared Woodfill, the Republican chairman of Harris County, said his party’s vote elsewhere was “pretty heavy.” He said there were also “a lot of Republicans crossing over to vote in the Democratic primary,” as urged by some conservative commentators.

But on Allen Parkway, the minutes ticked by with no Republicans in sight. “Haven’t had a voter since 9:30,” said Mr. Aninao. Some Republicans voted in the Democratic contest in hopes of positioning either Mr. Obama or Mrs. Clinton as an easier target for Mr. McCain. Indeed, said Mr. Aninao, his parents and sister, staunch Republicans like him, had voted for Mrs. Clinton “because they think McCain actually has a better chance against her than Obama” — the same tactic that Rush Limbaugh recently suggested to listeners.

Just before noon, the lull was broken by Hien Nguyen, a cashier, and her husband, Phong, residents of the complex, who came in to vote for Mr. McCain. Now the tally was up to 7. “Percentage wise, a humongous jump,” Mr. Aninao declared.
101 2008-03-04 The Jets, the Patriots’ heated — and hated — rival, are apparently desperate to catch their nemesis and avoid another losing season. They continued their head-spinning free-agency spree Monday by signing linebacker/defensive end Calvin Pace and offensive lineman Damien Woody.

Woody, a former Patriots guard who most recently was with the Lions, is expected to play right tackle and is the second addition to the offensive line in two days.

The Jets also signed left guard Alan Faneca, and made him the highest-paid offensive lineman in history.

Pace, a hybrid player who will provide the pass-rushing linebacker that Coach Eric Mangini has sought for his 3-4 defense, is a former first-round pick of the Arizona Cardinals and had a breakout season last season, with six and a half sacks. According to ESPN, he will earn $22 million in guaranteed money as part of a six-year contract. He joins defensive tackle Kris Jenkins, who was acquired last week in a trade with Carolina.

“We feel really good where we are,” Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said. “I think all these guys should contribute here for a number of years. I also feel like we’ve added a lot of leadership, experience and toughness. I feel these players will help us off the field as well as on.”
102 2008-03-04 SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — The Intel Corporation, the semiconductor maker, lowered its profit forecast Monday for its first quarter, blaming a steep drop in prices for memory chips for the shortfall.

The company said slumping prices for a type of memory called NAND flash had depressed profits more than anticipated. NAND flash is used in portable electronic devices like digital cameras and MP3 players.

Intel said its gross profit margin — a crucial measure of profitability that gauges a company’s ability to control manufacturing costs — would come in at 54 percent of revenue, plus or minus a percentage point. That was down from its previous forecast of 56 percent, plus or minus a couple of percentage points.

The company said its other guidance had not changed, including its expectation of $9.4 billion to $10 billion in revenue for the quarter. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial on average expect Intel to ring up sales of $9.7 billion.

Other companies have also been hurt by falling memory-chip prices. The Samsung Electronics Company’s profit sank more than 6 percent last year, dragged down by plunging prices for NAND flash chips and DRAM, or dynamic random access memory, the most common type of memory chip in personal computers.
103 2008-03-04 Samsung, the world’s largest electronics maker, said it was starting a major push into the personal computer and office equipment markets, leveraging its position as the leading maker of computer monitors. Jong Woo Park, the president for Samsung’s digital media business, announced the sales offensive in Hanover, Germany, as he introduced an expanded line of laptop computers and laser printers for business customers at Cebit, the largest European technology convention. The new line of laptops is geared toward business users, with models beginning at about $1,215.
104 2008-03-04 Formaldehyde levels in the trailers provided to Gulf Coast hurricane victims vary greatly by brand, and four of the six most commonly used brands are among those with the highest levels, a federal study found. Air samples from trailers made by Gulf Stream, Keystone, Pilgrim and Forest River contained more than four times the formaldehyde levels found in newer homes in the United States, according to the study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The study is the first brand-specific information provided about formaldehyde levels in the tens of thousands of travel trailers and other temporary homes that victims have been living in since Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit in 2005.
105 2008-03-04 Thornburg Mortgage, the mortgage lender, said Monday that it had failed to meet a surge in margin calls, raising concern that it might need to seek bankruptcy protection.

Thornburg said it had faced $270 million of margin calls since last Wednesday, on top of more than $300 million in the previous two weeks. It said it was able to meet the earlier calls but could not meet a “substantial majority” of the new calls because of “limited available liquidity.” Margin calls force borrowers to pay back loans or post more collateral.

Thornburg, based in Santa Fe, N.M., said that it was trying to sell securities, offer debt or raise capital to bolster liquidity. It also said that its failure to meet a $28 million call caused one lender to declare a default, and that more failures could materially hurt its ability to operate normally.

Shares of another lender, IndyMac Bancorp, tumbled after the company said delinquencies and foreclosures increased in January. The stock fell $1.23, to $4.92.

IndyMac said the percentage of loans at least 30 days past due among the $199.1 billion of mortgages on which it collects payments rose to 7.79 percent in January from 7.50 percent in December and 4.37 percent in the first quarter of 2007.

The lender said delinquencies on prime loans rose to 6.85 percent from 3.83 percent in last year’s first quarter. It said subprime mortgage delinquencies rose to 28.18 percent from 18.55 percent a year earlier.

The MGIC Investment Corporation, the large American mortgage insurer, said Monday that it planned to sell shares to increase capital at its main subsidiary, Mortgage Guaranty Insurance.
106 2008-03-04 LONDON — A new Arabic-language television news channel from the British Broadcasting Corporation will cover events in the Arab world “without fear or favor,” as it seeks to set itself apart from other government-financed broadcasters in the region, Nigel Chapman, director of the BBC World Service, said Monday.

The channel, BBC Arabic TV, plans to start broadcasting 12 hours a day of news and current affairs programs to the Middle East, the Persian Gulf region and North Africa on March 11, followed by round-the-clock programming by the end of the year, the BBC said. It will have a $50 million annual budget.

As satellite broadcasters have proliferated across the Arab world, new ventures financed by Western governments — including Al Hurra, which is financed by the United States, and France 24 Arabic — have struggled to compete against channels with stronger regional roots, like Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya.

Mr. Chapman said BBC Arabic TV would distinguish itself through its independence and broad approach to world events.

“In the case of Al Hurra, it’s an American perspective,” he said. “In the case of France 24, it’s a French perspective. In the case of BBC Arabic Television, it’s an international perspective.”

The new channel, announced in 2005, will feature mostly news and current affairs programming. It will include interview and debate programs, and “Point of Debate,” which will allow participants to submit comments.
107 2008-03-04 It is hard to picture a wee monkeylike adult creature weighing no more than an ounce. But fossils of the 55.8 million-year-old animal, the earliest known primate to inhabit North America, have emerged from coastal sediments in Mississippi.

It is even harder to imagine that tiny primates of this primitive kind were able to migrate to this continent all the way from their Asian homeland.

The world then was much warmer, however, basking in tropical or subtropical conditions nearly everywhere as continents drifted apart. Over countless generations the tree-dwelling primates slowly crossed to America from Siberia, presumably by the Bering land bridge when it was probably heavily forested.

Some primates apparently continued through Greenland and Scotland, connecting links to Europe at a time of lower sea levels.

This new reconstruction of the early dispersal of primates, the order of mammals that now includes humans and apes, stems from an analysis of a fossil primate discovered in 2001 near Meridian, Miss. The identification and significance of the new species are reported in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

K. Christopher Beard, a paleontologist at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, wrote that the species, Teilhardina magnoliana, is older and more primitive than other early North American and European primates. It is less than 100,000 years older than related specimens found in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming and in Belgium and France.
108 2008-03-04 NAIROBI, Kenya — American naval forces fired missiles into southern Somalia on Monday, aiming at what the Defense Department called terrorist targets.

Residents reached by telephone said that three civilians were wounded, and that the only other casualties were three dead cows, one dead donkey and a partly destroyed house.

Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman in Washington, said the target was a “known Al Qaeda terrorist.”

The missile strike was aimed at Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a Kenyan born in 1979 who is wanted by the F.B.I. for questioning in the nearly simultaneous attacks in 2002 on a hotel in Mombasa, Kenya, and on an Israeli airliner taking off from there, said three American officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the strike.

An American military official said the naval attack on Monday was carried out with at least two Tomahawk cruise missiles fired from a submarine. The official said the missiles were believed to have hit their targets. Witnesses on the ground, though, described the attack differently.

“I did not know from where they were launched, but what I know is that they hit a house in this town,” said Muhammad Amin Abdullahi Osman, of Dhobley, a small town in southern Somalia near the Kenyan border.
109 2008-03-04 Dr. Robert Jarvik is neither a physician nor an actor, and yet he managed to sell medications for two years and, in so doing, deceived us all. Or so Congress implied as Dr. Jarvik’s performance as a spokesman for the cholesterol-lowering drug Lipitor came under intense public scrutiny last month. Pfizer finally pulled the ads last week.

Of course, Dr. Jarvik is indeed a doctor — but he lacks the one commodity usually sought by the pharmaceutical companies: he has no medical license and cannot write prescriptions. And he is indeed an actor; he stood before cameras and read from a script. He even had a body double doing his athletic work for him, rowing a scull in the background of his advertisements.

But when it comes to drug ads, we are used to actorly actors, with full heads of hair and such appealing charisma that we want to be near them — or to become them ourselves. Or conversely, we expect real doctors — our own doctors, with our own individual best interests at heart, despite that Lipitor pen protruding from their pockets.

And such was the confusion engendered by the hybrid neither-of-the-above Dr. Jarvik that the escalating chorus of disapproval actually, incredibly, argued for the status quo: Dr. Jarvik may design artificial hearts, but if he is not a “real” cardiologist, with real patients and a real prescription pad, then what qualifies him, the critics asked, to recommend this or any other drug?

In fact, a fully credentialed cardiologist touting Lipitor on television would simply be one more particularly visible iteration of a relationship the public is known to despise: a doctor paid in cash instead of goods for promoting a drug to millions, instead of one at a time.

Surely the best message we can derive from the Jarvik episode is that it may be time to rethink the advertising of prescription drugs. Both doctors and their patients need to be educated about these products, no argument there. But Madison Avenue’s usual embellishments can turn sinister when it comes to medication.

After all, we know that no pair of jeans or bottle of beer will bring us health, wealth, joy and a full head of hair. But when it comes to a pill, we all — doctors and patients alike — tend to succumb to wishful thinking.

Perhaps it is the time for all drug advertising to be reformulated according to the premise that a medication is too powerful, serious and subtle a commodity to be promoted by attractive or famous individuals — doctors or actors — making implicit or explicit promises while indulging in vigorous exercise and pocketing checks.
110 2008-03-04 Jenn was designed by a technology company in Spokane, Wash., the Next IT Corporation (www.NextIT.com), which has a goal of simplifying interaction between people and computers, using natural-language communications to retrieve information and even ask follow-up questions to clarify intent.

While the Next IT voice technology depends on typed questions to elicit oral responses, the field is evolving. In a recent speech at Carnegie Mellon University, Bill Gates said that Microsoft was committed to developing more sophisticated methods that used two-way speech technology to improve the give and take between users and databases.

“Searching for something on a Web site is not a great experience most of the time because you’re not sure exactly what you’re looking for, and it’s hard for the search engine to understand anything but the few keywords that you give it,” said Fred A. Brown, the founder and chief executive of Next IT.

Jenn learns from experience and interaction. “This technology is trained, but it gets smarter over time,” Mr. Brown said. Before Jenn went public, Alaska Air and Next IT asked focus groups to help define what information needed to be available and what type of voice and virtual personality would be engaging.

Next IT anticipated that people would test the technology. “We built out the personality, aware that people would want to test the bounds,” said Jeff Brown (no relation to Fred A. Brown), the senior vice president for sales at Next IT. “So if they ask questions such as ‘Are you married?’ or ‘Where did you go to school?’ she’s able to answer intelligently, and all of a sudden people’s trust in the overall knowledge goes up significantly. We’re in the business of making her very smart. Basically, besides knowledge, the virtual agent’s image has a past, a current and a future.”

With Jenn on the job, the Alaska Air Web site is definitely user-friendly. And Jenn does evolve, including learning when to stay quiet.

A couple of weeks ago, when I first tried out the system, I went through a list of serious and frivolous questions, all of which elicited good, or at least reasonable, responses. Then I threw a curveball, asking whether Alaska Air had ever had a plane crash. The response both amazed me with its honesty and chastened me for being glib. Jenn readily provided details of a tragic crash of an MD-80 in 2000 that killed 88 people. It was Alaska’s first accident in decades.

But when I asked the same question Monday, Jenn had obviously been sent to remedial class in public relations.

“I think you may be looking for more detail than I have,” she said sweetly. “Our goal is to always provide safe and reliable transportation at reasonable prices.”
111 2008-03-04 The move away from the dollar is partially a symptom of problems in the credit markets, which have left investors wary of even the safest debt.

The yield on municipal bonds — which runs opposite to price — has jumped, despite those bonds being considered some of the safest available.

“It’s just a listless market,” a strategist at ING Investment Management, Brian Gendreau, said. “People are hedging inflation.”

The Dow industrials opened lower on Monday after an overnight sell-off in Asia, but the blue-chip index abruptly recovered after a report on manufacturing activity came in better than expected.

At the close of regular trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was at 12,258.90, down 7.49 points. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 0.71 point, to 1,331.34, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 12.88 points, or 0.57 percent, to 2,258.60.

This is a busy week for economic news, capped by Friday’s release of the February unemployment report. Some analysts speculated that for now at least, investors are looking to lay low.

“They’re a little leery,” said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.

That may explain the quiet reaction to reports that showed trouble in American industry. Manufacturers lost business last month, according to the closely watched Institute for Supply Management index, which fell to 48.3 from a 50.7 reading in January. Readings below 50 signal contraction, but investors had feared an even worse showing as they look for signs of a significant economic slowdown.

Spending on construction projects fell 1.7 percent in January — the worst monthly showing in 14 years — as commercial and residential developers cut back. The Commerce Department report showed that the housing crisis is beginning to creep into the commercial sector, where activity fell for the second consecutive month.

“The concerns are mounting, instead of easing,” said David Kovacs, a strategist at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa.

Despite the economic unease, American investors largely managed to avoid the painful overnight declines in the foreign markets. In Asia, the Nikkei 225-stock index fell 4.5 percent, to reach a 15 percent decline so far this year; the Hang Seng dropped 3.1 percent in Hong Kong; and the Kospi lost 2.3 percent in South Korea.

The main indexes in Britain, Germany, and France all closed down about 1 percent.

The declines in Asia underlined the extent to which many investors doubt the rough consensus last summer that the region could escape an American recession unscathed.

Shipments to the United States may make up a dwindling share of exports by many Asian countries as trade within the region has grown. But much of the region’s trade consists of increasingly specialized production in each country of components that are traded and then assembled in China for final sale to the United States.

Asian economies still retain considerable strengths. From China and Japan to South Korea and India, most Asian economies have accumulated sizable foreign exchange reserves. With the exception of India, with its heavy reliance on imported oil, the region’s largest economies tend to be running overall trade surpluses. With the euro strong, many are chasing buyers in Europe with considerable success.

The result is a feeling of insulation, but not immunity, from the troubles in the United States.

“From our position in Asia, though, this feels rather like standing on the shoreline watching a storm raging far out at sea,” Garry Evans, the chief Asia equity strategist at HSBC, said in a recent research note.

Following are the results of Monday’s auction of three- and six-month Treasury notes:
112 2008-03-04 CASH TO SPARE Credit may be tight, but the typical American corporation probably has enough cash on hand to completely pay off its debts.      FEES CAN LEAD TO FORECLOSURE An Ohio couple's case illustrates a growing problem facing borrowers in for...
113 2008-03-05 Also in Morning Buzz: anonymous ways to give up babies for adoption or foster care, and a federal judge’s ruling that black Caribbean immigrants cannot be excluded from juries on the basis of national origin....
114 2008-03-05 Robert Wright of Bloggingheads.tv, left, and Mickey Kaus of Kausfiles debate whether Democrats can link the war's financial toll to the economic downturn.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
115 2008-03-05 CNBC interviews Rex Tillerson, ExxonMobil's chief executive, about meeting the world's growing demand for energy.
116 2008-03-05 John McCain's first stop after clinching the Republican nomination in last night's primaries was the White House, for lunch and an endorsement from President Bush. Mr. Bush's embrace is one Mr. McCain should be wary of. It's clear why Mr. McCain p...
117 2008-03-05 At a congressional hearing, the Democratic chairman of a military appropriations panel accuses the Republican presidential candidate of causing costly delays on a controversial contract....
118 2008-03-05 Soft Serve scans newspapers, magazines and Web sites for "soft news" - coverage of products, trends and matters of style. Just the fluff, ma'am. Soft Serve needs an exotic vacation... For the latest in online trip planning, head to InsideTrip. Thi...
119 2008-03-05 In Liguria, salmon and chili....
120 2008-03-05 "John showed incredible courage, strength of character and perseverance in order to get to this moment," President Bush said, of John McCain....
121 2008-03-05 At more than $17 billion, Visa's initial public offering is expected to be the largest ever in the United States. Along with that comes a wealth of fees for the banks underwriting the credit-card giant's offering - and a prominent voice is calling...
122 2008-03-05 Yahoo's announcement Wednesday that it would delay its nominations deadline poses an interesting question for Microsoft. Does Microsoft wait until the announcement of the meeting date and the nominations deadline to start a proxy contest or does i...
123 2008-03-05 What should Clinton do next?...
124 2008-03-05 One firm uses canine detectives to sniff out bedbug infestations....
125 2008-03-05 Top corporate executives often make large gifts of their company's stock to their family foundations shortly before the stock price drops sharply, according to a new study by a New York University professor. As a result, the executives are able to...
126 2008-03-05 After failing to charm investors the first time around, Brevan Howard Asset Management, a hedge fund group, is making another run at the public markets. The group said Wednesday it was considering forming a new publicly-traded multi-strategy hedge...
127 2008-03-05 After starting a campaign to press for changes at the department store chain Dillard's last month, the Barington Capital Group has taken its insurgency up a notch. In a securities filing late Tuesday, a group of investors led by Barington and the ...
128 2008-03-05 The move to craft a new futures exchange gained ground Tuesday as reports emerged that Goldman Sachs may join 12 other banks in creating an alternative to the market-leading Chicago Mercantile Exchange. According to The Wall Street Journal, Goldma...
129 2008-03-05 The SLM Corporation, the educational lender known as Sallie Mae, had its long-term credit ratings cut by Moody's Investors Service to two levels above junk Tuesday on concern that a change in the company's strategy will erode profitability. Moody'...
130 2008-03-05 A former executive at Broadcom will pay $1.4 million to settle claims she participated in a scheme to backdate stock options at the chip maker, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday. The executive, Nancy M. Tullos, 56, agreed to pay ...
131 2008-03-05 HSBC Holdings, The European bank, won antitrust approval in Seoul for its $6.45 billion takeover bid for the Korea Exchange Bank. While the Fair Trade Commission said that the purchase will not hinder market competition, a commission spokesman add...
132 2008-03-05 A biopsy of Bobby Murcer's brain found scar tissue, not a recurrence of cancer, and the former Yankee left the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston on Wednesday.

"It's what we hoped for all along," Murcer said in a statement. "I plan on resting at home over the next few weeks and focusing my energies on returning to the Stadium for its final opening day." He has said he plans to go to Tampa for spring training and to call Yankee games and work in the YES Network studio, as he did last year.

Murcer had surgery in December 2006 for glioblastoma, an incurable form of brain cancer. He flies regularly from his home in Oklahoma City to the Anderson cancer center for continuing experimental treatments; last week, a periodic magnetic resonance image scan showed an area of concern that prompted the need to take a biopsy on Monday.
133 2008-03-05 WASHINGTON — President Bush said Wednesday that the national drive toward ethanol production was also driving up the cost of corn and other foods, a problem he said needed to be addressed.

The boom in alternative fuels, he said, was “beginning to affect the price of food. And so we got to do something about it.”

Mr. Bush has previously pointed out that the price of corn has been pushed up by competition from ethanol manufacturers and that this had raised costs for companies that raise beef and hogs on corn. But addressing a conference on renewable energy on Wednesday morning, Mr. Bush said that this was also affecting the price that consumers pay for food.

But, he said, the solution was not to back away from ethanol, but to develop ways to make ethanol from agricultural wastes, wood chips or similar materials. The Energy Department has spent nearly $1 billion trying to incubate a “cellulosic ethanol” industry, he said.

Mr. Bush said it was “amazing to think how far our country has come” in ethanol production, which reached 6.4 billion gallons last year, he said up from 1.6 billion gallons in 2007. Under the president’s goal of reducing gasoline consumption by 20 percent between 2007 and 2017, ethanol production would rise to about 35 billion gallons a year, far more than could be made from corn kernels.
134 2008-03-05 “John McCain has worked hard over the last eight years to throw away his maverick image and morph into the ultimate Bush Republican,” the Democratic Party said in an e-mail message sent to the news media and party supporters. “As President Bush himself said today, a vote for John McCain is a vote for more of the same failed Bush policies.”

The president, for his part, made it clear that he would do whatever is asked to help Mr. McCain, who campaigned vigorously for him twice even after their bitter rivalry after the 2000 election. But of more immediate benefit to the McCain campaign may be the help of the Republican National Committee, which has $25 million on hand and a political staff that can now be put at the disposal of the McCain campaign, which has been short on money and staff.

The visit to the party headquarters showed one of the tangible benefits Mr. McCain reaped by wrapping up the Republican nomination, which allows him to basically take over the national party apparatus at a time when the Democratic National Committee cannot actively support either of its candidates until one is selected as the nominee.

Robert M. Duncan, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the party was there to serve the McCain campaign. “We’ve been preparing for the last several months,” he said. “We’ve been raising the money. We’ve been doing the research that’s necessary. We’ve been writing the victory plans that have been necessary to win the electoral votes. We’ve been putting the staff together. And all of that is available to Senator McCain, as our the presumptive nominee, as of today.”

At the White House, both Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush danced around awkward questions from reporters about how much Mr. Bush would campaign for Mr. McCain — which appeared to be not that much. Mr. Bush jumped in several times to answer the questions himself, perhaps sensing that it would be uncomfortable for Mr. McCain to have to signal that he needed to keep some distance from an unpopular president during a general election campaign.

“If my showing up and endorsing him helps him, or if I’m against him and it helps him, either way, I want him to win,” Mr. Bush said, standing at Mr. McCain’s side in the Rose Garden. “You know, look, this is the age-old question that every president has had to, you know, answer. And there’s appropriate amount of campaigning for me to do, but they’re not going to be voting for me.”

Mr. Bush added, “And if he wants my pretty face standing by his side at one of these rallies, I’ll be glad to show up.”

Mr. McCain gamely said that he would welcome having Mr. Bush campaign with him, but that he knew that the president already had a day job. “I’m pleased to have him as it fits into his busy schedule,” Mr. McCain said.

Later, at the Republican National Committee, Mr. McCain was asked again if the president’s endorsement might hurt him with the independent voters he often appeals to.

“All I can say is that on the fundamentals and the principles of our Republican Party and most of the specifics of our shared conservative philosophy, President Bush and I are in agreement,” he said.

Mr. McCain’s top advisers have said they are eager to enlist the president for his fund-raising prowess, but they do not want the candidate to appear too often at the side of Mr. Bush. They have insisted that their reluctance in having Mr. Bush campaign heavily for Mr. McCain has nothing to do with the president’s unpopularity and that they are not running away from the president.

Instead, they have insisted that they would not like any sitting president to appear too often with Mr. McCain because Mr. McCain needs to “stand in the sun” on his own, as one adviser recently put it. Another adviser, Charles Black, bolstered that argument when he said in an interview last month that President Ronald Reagan campaigned selectively and made only rare appearances at the side of George H.W. Bush when he ran for president in 1988, even though Mr. Bush was then Mr. Reagan’s vice president.

But Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was White House chief of staff in 1988, said Wednesday that Reagan had campaigned for and with George H.W. Bush in 16 states in that election, including rallies in California, Illinois, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida.

In contrast, Mr. Duberstein said, the McCain campaign would deploy the current President Bush in a more careful way. “They’re going to use him in a very select number of states where there are heavy concentrations of Republicans and military families, rather than in huge public rallies in swing states,” Mr. Duberstein said.

Despite his unpopularity, Mr. Bush has shown an ability to energize huge crowds of friendly Republicans with verve and bursts of enthusiasm that Mr. McCain has not yet matched. “He’s a great campaigner and he’s somebody who will focus the message,” said Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain who was once a top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney.
135 2008-03-05 As it scrambles to avoid defeat in its battle with Microsoft, Yahoo is trying to put a little more time on the clock.

Microsoft, whose offer for Yahoo is now worth $41.2 billion, was preparing to escalate its takeover fight by starting a proxy contest next week. But in an effort to delay that move, Yahoo said Wednesday that it was extending the deadline for nominating directors until 10 days after the announcement of a date for its annual meeting.

The maneuver comes as Yahoo has stepped up merger and joint venture talks with AOL, a unit of Time Warner, these people said.

Microsoft had been preparing to nominate a slate of directors to the board of Yahoo by next Thursday, the deadline for mounting a proxy contest. In its announcement on Wednesday, Yahoo said it was seeking more time to consider alternatives.

“As the company has not yet announced the date of this year’s annual meeting, the amendment will give stockholders who want to nominate one or more directors, including Microsoft Corporation, more time to do so,” the company said. “The amendment does not preclude any party from nominating one or more directors at any time prior to the new deadline.”
136 2008-03-05 The $6.3 billion purchase by HSBC Holdings of a stake in Korea Exchange Bank will not hinder market competition, the Fair Trade Commission said. But a commission spokesman added that the final decision on the deal belonged to the Financial Services Commission. HSBC had announced in early September that it agreed to buy a 51.02 percent stake in KEB from the private equity firm Lone Star.
137 2008-03-05 DALLAS — Now that Senator John McCain is headed to the nomination, he can begin thinking seriously about perhaps the most important decision he will have to make as the Republican presidential nominee: the selection of a running mate.

Mr. McCain and several senior campaign advisers insist that there is no short list of names, and no process to help him make his choice — merely a process to find a process. He directed his campaign to study past methods.

“If I win tonight, we will sit down tomorrow or the next day, whatever it is, and say, O.K., what’s the process that you are recommending that we start into, and that will be the first step,” Mr. McCain said on his bus Tuesday as it rolled through Dallas.

Mr. McCain said he was particularly interested in learning “what other processes were used in previous selections of the vice president, and, frankly, the ones that seemed to come out with a good product and those that maybe did not.”

The choice of a running mate is always important, but it may be particularly so in Mr. McCain’s case, given that, at 71, he is seeking to become the oldest candidate ever elected to a first term as president.
138 2008-03-05 Bankruptcy experts caution, however, that data from just one or two months can be misleading.

“The monthly bankruptcy filing rate has a lot of cyclicality,” Robert M. Lawless, a professor of law at the University of Illinois College of Law, wrote on Tuesday on the widely read bankruptcy blog, Creditslips.org. Some experts, for example, say bankruptcies often seem to rise in February as debts from the holiday season come due. Even so, the trend is definitely upward, Mr. Lawless wrote. States as disparate as Kentucky and Rhode Island joined the top 10 list, and the absolute number of filings rose significantly.

Mr. Williams expects the number of bankruptcies nationwide to reach 1.2 million to 1.4 million this year, up from 826,732 in 2007; Mr. Lawless expects more than one million. (In 2004, the last year with a normalized set of data, 1,597,462 petitions were filed, according to Automated Access.)

The states with the most significant increase in bankruptcy filings during the first two months of 2008 were California, with a 33 percent increase; Maryland, up 29 percent; and Florida, with a 26 percent rise, the data shows. Filings fell in 16 states, including Colorado, Indiana, Ohio, South Dakota, Kansas, and Wyoming.

Proponents of the bankruptcy law argued in 2005 that some consumers were abusing the law, using Chapter 7, or liquidation, to shed credit card debt. The bill, supported by both Republicans and Democrats, “increased the expense for everyone and reduced the protections for everyone,” said Mr. Williams.

Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and the author of books on bankruptcy, said, “The credit industry did its best to drive up the cost of filing but when families are in enough trouble they will fight their way through the paper thicket and higher attorneys’ fees to get help.”

Ms. Warren says that the increase also reflects changing attitudes about bankruptcy. Many Americans now understand that filing bankruptcy is legal, something many did not appreciate a few years ago. Studies last year showed that one of seven families were dealing with debt collectors, who often encourage families not to file for bankruptcy, she said.

“The word is leaking out that the bankruptcy courts are open for business,” Ms. Warren says.

Record home foreclosures have contributed to the rise in bankruptcies but on their own do not account for the latest increase.

“Rising bankruptcy certainly understates the stress because bankruptcy is not a refuge from foreclosure,” Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com, said. Under the current bankruptcy code, the courts cannot alter the terms of first mortgages. Proposed legislation in Congress seeks to change this, but few think it will pass.

This suggests more trouble for the broader economy.

“Everything is going wrong for households,” Mr. Zandi said. “They are struggling with rising unemployment; high debt loads, heavier because of mortgage resets and plunging housing values; soaring gasoline prices; wobbly stock prices. The data suggest bankruptcies will rise measurably through the remainder of the decade.”
139 2008-03-05 SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP) — A former executive at Broadcom will pay $1.4 million to settle claims she participated in a scheme to backdate stock options at the chip maker, the Securities and Exchange Commissions said Tuesday.

The executive, Nancy M. Tullos, 56, agreed to pay $1.3 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest, but she will not turn over any money because the penalty will be canceled out by the loss of her Broadcom stock options, the S.E.C. said. Ms. Tullos will pay a $100,000 fine.

Ms. Tullos did not acknowledge wrongdoing by agreeing to settle in the civil matter.

She pleaded guilty to one count of obstruction of justice earlier this year in a plea deal with federal prosecutors. She is expected to cooperate in an investigation of the founders of Broadcom, Henry T. Nicholas III and Henry Samueli, who have been called “unindicted potential co-conspirators” by prosecutors.

In January 2007, Broadcom reduced previous financial results by $2.2 billion to account for improperly backdated stock options.

The S.E.C. said it was the largest correction resulting from scores of investigations into how corporations accounted for backdating option grants to make them more valuable.
140 2008-03-05 Top corporate executives often make large gifts of their company’s stock to their family foundations shortly before the stock price drops sharply, according to a new study by a New York University professor. As a result, the executives are able to claim the maximum possible tax deduction and escape capital gains taxes.

The research by David L. Yermack, a professor of finance at the Stern School of Business at New York University, also found patterns to suggest that some gifts of stock might have been backdated to enhance their value, in much the same way that some companies backdated stock options.

“On average, the gifts have been extraordinarily well-timed to maximize the associated personal income tax benefits,” Dr. Yermack said in an interview on Tuesday, “and it seems to me fairly likely that some of these people making them may be monkeying around with paper trails.”

All gifts in the study were made by corporate chairmen or chief executives. Dr. Yermack compared the donations to insider trading. But he emphasized there was nothing illegal about such gifts because the rules that prohibited corporate insiders from selling stock during periods when they were privy to information unavailable to other investors did not apply to charitable contributions.

“There’s a huge loophole for giving away stock without any of the restrictions that normally apply to selling stock,” Dr. Yermack said, “and that allows donors an opportunity to profit, at least on a tax basis. They can donate a stock the day before a negative earnings announcement, for example, and get a much bigger deduction than they would have the next day.”
141 2008-03-05 Advanced Micro Devices said Tuesday that it was closing a technology gap with its rival Intel, cutting about in half the time required to move to a new manufacturing process.

The company also said it would soon begin selling a new graphics chipset called the 780 Series, which, it said, enables low-priced computers to display graphics with the speed and clarity previously found on expensive PCs sold to video game players and graphic artists.

A.M.D., based in Sunnyvale, Calif., told guests at a computer industry trade show in Hanover, Germany, that it was on track to make the leap to 45-nanometer processing technology this year. Such a transition has historically taken A.M.D. about two years, but the company now says it will achieve it in 12 to 18 months.

Shrinking the size of the circuitry on chips allows chip makers to put more transistors on each chip, improving the chip’s overall performance and enabling longer battery life. Intel has long benefited from its ability to make a faster transition to new chip-making processes than A.M.D. Intel began producing its first 45-nanometer chips in late 2007. The current standard in the chip industry is 65 nanometers.

“They’re doing everything in their power to improve their position,” Dean McCarron, principal analyst with Mercury Research, said of A.M.D.
142 2008-03-05 WASHINGTON (AP) — Boeing will get an expedited briefing from the Air Force to explain why a $40 billion aerial refueling tanker contract was awarded to a rival, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, and its partner, Northrop Grumman.

Boeing, which has been supplying air-to-air refueling tankers to the Air Force for nearly 50 years and was widely expected to win the deal, said it would not decide whether to protest the decision until it was debriefed by the Air Force.

The Air Force planned a March 12 debriefing, according to Boeing. That meeting will now be held on Thursday, according to Senator Patty Murray and Representative Norman D. Dicks, Democrats from Washington State, which stood to gain jobs had Boeing won the deal.

Awarding such a high-stakes deal to a foreign company has touched off a furor in Congress.

Two top Air Force acquisition officials — Sue C. Payton, assistant secretary for acquisition, and Lt. Gen. John L. Hudson — are to testify about the contract before a House Appropriations subcommittee on Wednesday.

The contract to build up to 179 tankers is the first of three Air Force awards worth as much as $100 billion to replace its entire refueling tanker fleet over the next 30 years.

Boeing would have performed much of the tanker work in Everett, Wash., and Wichita, Kan., and would have used Pratt & Whitney engines built in Connecticut. The company says winning the contract would have supported 44,000 new and existing jobs at Boeing and more than 300 suppliers in more than 40 states.
143 2008-03-05 The current law, which went into effect in 2005, was to be reviewed this year, and the European Commission, the administrative arm of the European Union, said Tuesday that it would accelerate the process.

The law is supposed to apply in 42 political jurisdictions: the 27 countries of the European Union plus Switzerland, Liechtenstein, San Marino, Monaco and Andorra, as well as 10 former British and Dutch colonies.

Most European countries exchange information on the deposits of nonresidents with the owners’ home countries. But Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg are allowed to levy a withholding tax themselves, which is then shared with a depositor’s home country.

Germany and Britain want those three countries to agree to exchange information so that the European Commission can exert pressure on nations and other jurisdictions outside Europe to do the same.

Broadly speaking, the tax is applied only on interest earned on cash deposits, not securities dividends or the type of trusts that were being used in Liechtenstein.

During a meeting Tuesday, the German finance minister, Peer Steinbrück, spoke of the “spectacular case of tax fraud” emanating from Liechtenstein, an official who attended the closed-door discussion said. The accusations have had effects in Germany and beyond, prompting the resignation of the Deutsche Post chief executive, Klaus Zumwinkel.

According to the official, Mr. Steinbrück said German taxpayers had been made fools of by wealthy people using the system to avoid paying tax.

The German position was backed by Britain, the Netherlands, Italy, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, diplomats said.

“Tax paradises in practice become tax parasites,” the Swedish finance minister, Anders Borg, said outside the meeting.

Laszlo Kovacs of Hungary, the European commissioner responsible for taxation, will produce a report in May and a formal review of the operation of the law on savings taxes in June. He said he expected to offer new proposals in the autumn, which could include extending the law’s provisions to “bonds, shares, funds and some other instruments.”

But the Europeans are expected to be split on banking secrecy.

Jean-Claude Juncker, Luxembourg’s prime minister, was said at Tuesday’s meeting to have made a veiled threat to stall any potential changes, raising a prospect of many years of basic discussions.

Trying to accommodate the position of Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, the European Commission agreed to present its report in June, before drafting proposed changes, rather than offering the report and the proposals as a package.

Mr. Kovacs described the withholding tax as a “transitional arrangement.”

“I am very much in favor of a final arrangement and a uniform arrangement,” he said. In the medium term, “all parties to the savings-tax directive will exchange information rather than a withholding tax.”

He also said he would intensify efforts to persuade officials in other areas to abide by the terms of the deal, including Hong Kong, Macao and Singapore. European officials are negotiating with all three on a double-taxation agreement, giving the Europeans some leverage.

The Belgian finance minister, Didier Reynders, said that banking secrecy was not absolute and that if other member nations requested information, it was ordinarily provided.

Andorra, Liechtenstein and Monaco are on a list of “uncooperative tax havens” published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of largely advanced economies based in Paris.

“Luxembourg is not a tax haven in the stricter sense,” Mr. Steinbrück said, “but we know it is difficult to get certain information. That’s also true of Austria.”
144 2008-03-05 The SLM Corporation, the educational lender known as Sallie Mae, had its long-term credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service to two levels above junk Tuesday on concern that a change in the company’s strategy will erode profitability.

Moody’s reduced Sallie Mae’s senior unsecured long-term debt rating to Baa2 from Baa1 and said the outlook was “negative,” according to a statement Tuesday.

Sallie Mae said it had hired a chief credit officer, filling a new position, as it makes more loans that are not guaranteed by the federal government.

The lender is trying recover from a sharp cut in federal subsidies to such guaranteed loans, an aborted $60-a-share buyout bid, money-losing investments in contracts to buy its own stock, higher borrowing costs and investors’ shunning of the kind of asset-backed debt that represented a large part of its financing.

A spokeswoman, Martha Holler, said Sallie Mae had no comment on the downgrading.

Sallie Mae said earlier in the day that John Hewes, 59, would oversee lending policies and management of credit risk. Mr. Hewes spent the last 22 years at the MBNA Corporation.
145 2008-03-05 “I’ve built a lot of buildings and did a lot of land deals, but that to me is not the hard part,” said Mr. Fry, 47. “It’s fun.”

Such transformations were precisely what Franklin & Marshall’s board had in mind when it selected Mr. Fry in 2002. Donald K. Hess, who headed the search committee, said the curriculum had recently been revised, and many people thought the college needed someone to spruce up its finances, along with its image, admissions profile and relations with the community.

“You have that mass of activity that a true academic doesn’t want to get his hands dirty with,” Mr. Hess said. “Colleges and universities are major enterprises, and they deserve the attention that I think many of them don’t get, in terms of the management. John is an exuberant president.”

Still, many professors were skeptical when the board appointed him. Did it make sense to have someone run the college who had not earned a doctorate or taught in college classrooms?

“You want to make sure that someone knows the difference between a business and an academic institution,” said Arny Feldman, a mathematics professor and chairman of the Faculty Council. “Initially many faculty were concerned, especially those who had not met him.”

He won over the faculty members, Professor Feldman said, by not interfering with academic programs. He also impressed people with his ability to set an ambitious agenda and get things done quickly.

“There are two speeds in Lancaster,” said Louise L. Stevenson, a professor of history and American studies. “There is Lancaster speed, and there is Fry speed. And Fry speed is fast.”

Mr. Fry has more ambitious projects ahead of him. In partnership with a nearby hospital and the city and state governments, Franklin & Marshall bought 32 acres that are across railroad tracks from the north end of campus. Dozens of buildings, once part of a factory producing flooring tiles, have been demolished.

Soon, the hospital will expand its nursing school on part of the site, and the college will move all of its athletic fields, now five blocks from campus, to the property. Then, in a $40 million project that will make the new fields contiguous with the campus, Franklin & Marshall will help build a new switching yard for a freight railroad, which will allow the railroad to remove the tracks.

The goal is to improve the college, heighten its profile and further raise its endowment, which has grown to a little more than $400 million from $273 million during his tenure.

The college may have made a deliberate decision when it hired Mr. Fry, but his route to the presidency was anything but.

After earning a bachelor’s degree in American civilization from Lafayette College in 1982, he went into accounting and received his master’s from New York University. One day he saw a notice requesting help at Virginia State University, a new client of his accounting company, which needed to restructure its finances. He volunteered, and the decision led eventually to a career in management consulting.

For 11 years, Mr. Fry worked as a consultant to colleges and universities, helping them to rethink organizational and financial structures. He eventually led the national higher education consulting practice at the company then known as Coopers & Lybrand.

“It was a very good business to be in,” he said, “because not many firms were doing this. It was very esoteric.”

Even so, Mr. Fry was noticed. After he consulted for the University of Pennsylvania, Judith Rodin, the new president, asked him in 1995 to become the university’s executive vice president, responsible for matters from physical development to finances to labor negotiations to public safety. He was 34 at the time, and the largest entity he had managed was a staff of 30 consultants.

“I had a huge learning curve, and, like a good liberal arts student, I tried to learn it,” he said.

In particular, Mr. Fry won recognition for his role in revitalizing the neighborhood around the Penn campus in West Philadelphia. Restaurants, coffee bars, a large new student bookstore and a luxury hotel began to transform the neighborhood, as did university initiatives with community groups.

This led to the offer from Franklin & Marshall. Mr. Fry was familiar with small liberal arts colleges, having been recruited to Lafayette as a cross-country runner, although an injury ended his athletic career. He still works out most mornings and plays squash. He enjoys bicycle trips with his wife, Cara, and their three children.

Mr. Fry reads fiction in his spare time and collects books, primarily histories of colleges and universities. Even during his years as a consultant, he said, colleges held a special allure.

“I think I always had in my mind the idea of, boy, wouldn’t it be fun to work on a campus?” he said. “I love the vibe. I love the rhythms and patterns of these places.”
146 2008-03-05 Would it not be a novel approach if Americans, instead of cutting back on other expenditures to compensate for the rising price of gas, made a serious effort to cut back on fuel consumption?

In New York City and other areas where effective, affordable public transportation is readily available, this could mean taking the train or bus whenever possible, or (revolutionary thought!) even walking or biking from time to time when manageable distances are involved.

In more car-dependent parts of the country, it could mean ride-sharing, or trading in those gas-guzzling monsters for a greener model — maybe even a hybrid! All of this would be a win-win situation for the economy, the environment and the health (both physical and financial) of the average citizen and perhaps even decrease our dependence on foreign oil.

No wonder no one in our dysfunctional, hand-wringing government has made the slightest move — much less offered any practical incentive — to encourage it. Louise T. Guinther

European countries have become accustomed to gasoline at $4 a gallon. In several countries it has been above $5 for years. These countries have long taxed motor vehicle fuel at a much higher rate than the United States does and used the revenue to build mass transit systems that really work.

Gas will reach $4 and $5 a gallon here as well, but unless our politicians show more courage and foresight than they have in the past, we still will not have mass transit that works well enough to park or sell our cars.
147 2008-03-05 CW, the fifth-place broadcast television network, handed pink slips to more than 25 staffers on Monday. The network eliminated its comedy department and merged two other programming units to create a single office for scripted shows. It also cut some marketing jobs from its cable channel operation. The moves were described by network officials as a restructuring of “some programming and marketing functions as part of an effort to streamline both areas.” The two-year-old network, which has lost 20 percent of its audience this season, currently schedules only one night of comedies, relying more heavily on unscripted fare like “America’s Next Top Model” and dramas like “Gossip Girl.” Also on Monday, the network announced the early renewals of six series for next fall, including the sitcom “Everybody Hates Chris” and the drama “Smallville.” Among the shows that are new this year, only “Gossip Girl” was picked up.
148 2008-03-05 One of the biggest benefits of hormone drugs, an improvement in bone health, all but disappeared during the three years after women stopped taking the drugs. But risks like blood clots, stroke and heart attacks originally seen among older hormone users in the study also quickly dropped back to normal rates once women stopped the drugs.

The research was halted in mid-2002 because older women in the study were at higher risk for heart attacks if they began using hormones. The findings changed the medical community’s views on hormone therapy, which was once used as a treatment to prevent chronic disease. Today, menopause hormones are advised only for the treatment of moderate to severe hot flashes and other menopause symptoms, and doctors typically prescribe far lower doses of the drugs than those used in the study.

The report focuses on the three years after the end of the study, comparing the health of women who took hormones with that of participants who took placebos.

The Women’s Health Initiative investigators have not yet analyzed the part of the study concerning women with hysterectomies who used only estrogen. (Progestin is taken only if a woman still has a uterus, to protect her from endometrial cancer.) In that group, overall breast cancer rates were lower among hormone users, but the data failed to reach statistical significance.

Future papers will analyze cancer trends in the study. During the three years women stopped taking hormones, there was some suggestion that their breast cancer risk began to drop from peak levels, but the overall risk remained the same. The breast cancer data were not statistically significant, suggesting chance could play a role, but researchers say the trends are credible because they are consistent with previous research.

Other data on cancer risk also failed to reach statistical significance. For instance, there was a suggestion that lung cancer risk was slightly higher among former hormone users, but that trend could also be due to chance.

It was only after researchers combined all the data from various types of cancers that they were able to show a statistically significant difference between the former hormone users and those who had used placebos.

“I think the findings provide further support for recommendations to not use hormone therapy for chronic disease prevention,” said Dr. JoAnn Manson, a study co-author and chief of preventive medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. “Younger recently menopausal women have very low rates of adverse events related to hormone therapy, so if they’re getting symptom and quality of life benefits, those benefits are still likely to outweigh the risks.”

Wyeth said the data do not change the fact that women should consult their doctors when making a decision about hormone therapy.
149 2008-03-05 MADRID — José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Socialist prime minister, prevailed over his conservative rival, Mariano Rajoy, in a televised debate on Monday night, according to polls taken immediately afterward. However, Spaniards hoping for a glimpse of the candidates’ plans for the country would have been disappointed, analysts said Tuesday.

In an angry argument dominated by the Iraq war, terrorism and high food prices, Mr. Rajoy, the leader of the Popular Party, and Mr. Zapatero raked over the opposing parties’ records and accused each other of lying. They interrupted each other and quibbled over the statistics they had used in their first debate. “The first debate was a summary of the past,” said Emilio Lamo de Espinosa, a political commentator. The second “was a summary of the first,” he said.

Spaniards will vote Sunday in what is expected to be a close election.

Mr. Rajoy on Monday repeatedly called Mr. Zapatero a “liar” who falsely denied negotiating with the Basque group ETA after it broke a cease-fire with a deadly car bomb in December 2006. “You always lie,” Mr. Rajoy said.

Mr. Zapatero said Mr. Rajoy had lied to justify Spain’s participation in the invasion of Iraq and “intoxicated people and fabricated tall tales” about ETA’s alleged role in the Islamist bombings of March 11, 2004, which killed 191 people in Madrid three days before Spain’s last election.

The Popular Party lost that vote, partly because it insisted, despite evidence to the contrary, that ETA had been involved.

A poll in the newspaper El País found that 53 percent of viewers said Mr. Zapatero won the debate and 38 percent said Mr. Rajoy did. A poll for the newspaper El Mundo said 49 percent thought Mr. Zapatero won, to Mr. Rajoy’s 40 percent.
150 2008-03-05 Mr. McCain’s main remaining rival, Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, announced he was dropping out minutes after the polls closed and pledged his cooperation to Mr. McCain. Aides to Mr. McCain said he would head Wednesday morning to Washington to go to the White House and accept the endorsement of President Bush, his one-time foe, and begin gathering his party around him.

Mr. McCain, of Arizona, delivered his victory speech in subdued tones to a boisterous crowd of supporters in Dallas.

“Now, we begin the most important part of our campaign,” he said, “to make a respectful, determined and convincing case to the American people that our campaign and my election as president, given the alternatives presented by our friends in the other party, are in the best interests of the country we love.”

Mr. McCain proceeded to offer a preview of attacks for his Democratic rival. “I will leave it to my opponent to propose returning to the failed, big-government mandates of the ’60s and ’70s to address problems such as the lack of health care insurance for some Americans,” he said. “I will campaign to make health care more accessible to more Americans with reforms that will bring down costs in the health care industry without ruining the quality of the world’s best medical care.”

Mrs. Clinton’s twin victories in Ohio and Texas gave her, at the least, a psychological boost after a tough month in which she watched Mr. Obama, of Illinois, roll up victory after victory and build a lead in delegates. There was virtually no chance that Mrs. Clinton could have survived had she lost Ohio and Texas; her husband, former President Bill Clinton, said last month that his wife needed to win both states.

Mrs. Clinton was already planning ways to capitalize on her performance; she was scheduled to appear Wednesday on all the morning news programs. But she will continue to find herself in a difficult position mathematically. Given the way the Democratic party allocates delegates, it remained unclear whether Mrs. Clinton would close Mr. Obama’s lead on that front.

Even before the polls closed, Mr. Obama’s aides said that given their lead in delegates over Mrs. Clinton, it was not possible for her to catch up in the few remaining contests.

Mr. Obama came out shortly before midnight to speak to a crowd in San Antonio, and laid out the argument his campaign would make in the days ahead.

“No matter what happens tonight,” he said, “we have nearly the same delegate lead that we did this morning, and we are on our way to winning this nomination.”

But Mrs. Clinton’s supporters, exultant over the victory, tried to cast the results in Ohio and Texas as a turning point.

Mrs. Clinton took the stage in Columbus before a sea of waving white-and-blue “Hillary” signs and immediately portrayed her victory in Ohio as an indication of her electability in a general election. And she reprised a line of criticism against Mr. Obama that appeared to have gained her some traction in this contest.

“Americans don’t need more promises,” she said. “They’ve heard plenty of speeches. They deserve solutions, and they deserve them now.”

As she spoke, the crowd responded with chants of “Yes, she will!” — apparently an orchestrated response to Mr. Obama’s trademark “Yes, we can!”

Turning one of Mr. Obama’s themes against him, she said, “Together, we will turn promises into action, words into solutions and hope into reality.”

The results left the two parties at very different stages of the race. Mr. McCain’s nomination has been all but assured for almost a month. His campaign looked to the results on Tuesday as an opportunity to begin framing the contest ahead. In contrast to his previous victory speeches, Mr. McCain made no mention of Mr. Obama, presumably because the result when he spoke was hardly clear.

Nonetheless, Mr. Obama called Mr. McCain at 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday from his hotel room in San Antonio to congratulate him and to say he looked forward to running against him, said Mr. Obama’s press secretary, Robert Gibbs. Mrs. Clinton said much the same in her speech.

The voting proceeded on a day of problems at the polls in both states, in part because of a recurrence of the huge turnouts that almost every contest to date has experienced. In Ohio, the Obama campaign asked a judge on Tuesday to keep polls open longer in Cuyahoga County because of paper ballot shortages.

The Texas vote was actually two contests: a primary, where two-thirds of the delegates were selected, followed by a caucus, where the remaining one-third were selected. The Clinton campaign claimed irregularities by Mr. Obama’s supporters who, Mrs. Clinton’s aides said, sought to gain improper advantage in the caucuses.

In an illustration of the tension between the two campaigns, Bob Bauer, an election lawyer for Mr. Obama, called into a conference call arranged by the Clinton campaign. The call had been set up to discuss the Texas caucuses, and Mr. Bauer challenged the assertions being made by Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton’s communications director. The men, referring to each other by first names, engaged in a testy seven-minute exchange.

For Democrats, and particularly for Mrs. Clinton, the contests were as consequential as any to date. To that end, Mrs. Clinton delivered some of the toughest attacks of her campaign over the weekend, including a television advertisement in Texas that challenged Mr. Obama’s national security credentials and attacks on Mr. Obama in Ohio over free trade and a meeting his economic adviser had with a Canadian diplomat about the North American Free Trade Agreement.

There was evidence that the attacks had some effects. Mrs. Clinton did well among the 20 percent of voters in both states who said they made their decision in the last three days. She won about 60 percent of those voters in Texas and about 55 percent of those who voted in Ohio, according to exit polls conducted statewide by Edison/Mitofsky for the National Election Pool.

Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed Mrs. Clinton doing well among Hispanics in Texas, a major target for her there, as well as among lower-income voters and women in Ohio, suggesting that she was reassembling the coalition that had broken down in her losing 11 straight state contests to Mr. Obama over the past month. Mr. Obama was showing strength among black voters who made up 20 percent of the Democratic electorate in both states.

In Ohio, Mrs. Clinton’s emphasis on economic issues helped her to some extent. Three-quarters of respondents said they were concerned about their families’ financial situation, and more than half of those voted for Mrs. Clinton. She also won a majority of union households in Ohio and, in a reversal of her standing in early races, won decisively among white men.
151 2008-03-05 He praised Mr. McCain as an honorable man who ran an honorable campaign. But he also said he was proud of his own campaign, which started out with little attention and few resources and ended with some attention though still bare-bones — just 30 aides, he said — and still underfinanced.

Quoting from the Apostle Paul, Mr. Huckabee said: “We’ve kept the faith. And that for me has been the most important goal of all. I’d rather lose an election than lose the principles that got me into politics in the first place.”

Some of Mr. Huckabee’s supporters said they were not surprised that he had pulled out, and hoped that he would stay in political life. “I hope he doesn’t disappear,” said Pat Christopherson, who with her husband, Tommy, brought 10 of their 13 children to see Mr. Huckabee.

“We just wanted to smile at Mike and let him know we were with him,” said Mrs. Christopherson, who lives in Arlington, Tex.

Mr. Huckabee gave no clue to what he intended to do next, other than to return to Little Rock, Ark., on Tuesday night. But he vowed to keep working for the issues he and his supporters believe in, including opposition to abortion and a major change in the tax system.

Mr. Huckabee’s withdrawal removes a quick-witted and quirky candidate who appealed strongly to conservative Christian voters, many of whom have not embraced Mr. McCain. He was hardly a blip on the Republican screen until he emerged as the winner in the Iowa caucuses, the first nominating contest. He went on to win other contests in the South, including in Alabama and Georgia, as well as in Kansas.

But the Huckabee campaign platform, which included eliminating the Internal Revenue Service and instituting a national sales tax, did not seem to catch on with mainstream Republicans. And his record in Arkansas, where he raised taxes to build roads and favored programs to aid immigrants, made him unpopular with some fiscal conservatives.

Though Mr. Huckabee served as the governor of Arkansas from 1996 until 2007, he may be best known nationally for losing more than 100 pounds.

Mr. Huckabee’s followers said they would follow his lead in supporting Mr. McCain. But they are holding out hope for the future.

“Me, personally, I’m looking at 2012, 2016,” said Jack Somers, from Little Rock, who used the Internet to help stir up grass-roots support for Mr. Huckabee. His candidate “is still young” at 52, Mr. Somers said. “I wouldn’t do this if he were McCain’s age.”
152 2008-03-05 A recipe for Rum and Chili Roasted Chicken Thighs With Pineapple....
153 2008-03-05 AGGRESSIVE STEPS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, called for more effective actions to prevent distressed homeowners from falling into foreclosure.      SLEUTH TO THE STARS Anthony Pellicano, below, a private detective accused of wir...
154 2008-03-06 Because of a sharp increase in the cost of flour, the price of a plain slice of pizza is now $2.50 to $3 in many parts of Manhattan, up from $2 to $2.25. At what point would you stop buying?...
155 2008-03-06 Soothing news of market panic (well, I find it more soothing than politics, anyway): "Every day is like the 1987 stock market crash," said Thomas Tucci, head of U.S. government bond trading at RBC Capital Markets in New York, the investment-bankin...
156 2008-03-06 Apple has created tools for programmers to build interesting applications to run on the iPhone. But all programs must be distributed through Apple, which will take 30 percent of the sale price....
157 2008-03-06 Another highly placed Wall Street banker is jumping to a new job. Louis Friedman, Bear Stearns's vice chairman of investment banking and global chairman of mergers and acquisitions, will join P. Schoenfeld Asset Management to lead a new investment...
158 2008-03-06 "There are still serious concerns about credit markets, particularly about where the U.S. economy is heading," said Tony Russell, senior equities adviser at ABN AMRO (NYSE:ABN) Morgans in Australia.

"We're probably close to re-testing our lows seen earlier this year."

The MSCI measure of Asian stocks excluding Japan fell 1.6 percent as of 0100 GMT.

The index is headed for its worst weekly loss since mid-December after already dropping 2.9 percent this week as of Thursday's close.

Japan's benchmark Nikkei average and Australia's key share index fell more than 3 percent, while South Korean stocks slid 2.1 percent.

Shares of financial firms such as top Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (NYSE:MTU) and South Korea's Kookmin Bank (NYSE:KB) took a beating after Thornburg Mortgage Inc (NYSE:TMA) , a high-profile U.S. mortgage lender, said it failed to meet a $28 million margin call from JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM PRH) (NYSE:JPM PRX) (NYSE:JPM PRK) (NYSE:JPM PRJ) (NYSE:JPT) (NYSE:JPM) & Co, sparking fears the mortgage lender might go bankrupt.

"Credit fears are spreading. Things like that probably won't be over after one or two cases and investors are worried there will be more," said Takahiko Murai, general manager of equities at Nozomi Securities.

"We now have more pessimists in the market in terms of whether the U.S. will tip into a recession or it will be just a temporary slowdown," he said.

Some economists believe the United States, Asia's biggest export market, has already slid into recession and Japan, the world's second largest economy, is not far behind.

Exporters were also pressured as Asian currencies firmed against the ailing dollar, with Toyota losing 3 percent. Stronger Asian currencies can hit earnings from abroad when converted into Japanese yen or South Korean won, and erode export competitiveness.

The crisis in the U.S. subprime mortgage market is being felt worldwide, with data on Thursday showing U.S. home foreclosures hit a record late last year.

Concerns about a slowing global economy are being compounded by surging commodity prices, leaving some central banks around in the world dealing with the prospects of slowing growth yet rising inflation, or what is known as stagflation.

U.S. crude futures were steady at $105.42 by early Asian trade, close to the record $105.97 hit on Thursday, on the back of a weak dollar and a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to hold output steady.

The euro rose as high as $1.5396 its highest level since its launch in 1999, and was trading at $1.5371, little changed from late U.S. trade.

The dollar fell to an all-time low against a trade-weighted basket of major currencies, with the dollar index falling as low as 72.849

The dollar fell to a new three-year low of 102.45 yen and hit a record low against the Swiss franc at 1.0210

Traders said the dollar remained under pressure before February U.S. jobs data due later in the session, which is forecast to show a rise in jobs after a surprising loss in January.

But bonds gained, as they tend to do in uncertain times, with Japan's March 10-year futures rising as high as 139.50, their highest since September 2005.
159 2008-03-06 From our colleagues at Bits: A Swiss bank on Wednesday moved to withdraw a lawsuit that it had filed against a Web site that it claimed had displayed stolen documents revealing confidential information about the accounts of the bank's clients. Law...
160 2008-03-06 Microsoft has brought in some muscle to help it clinch a deal for Yahoo The software maker has enlisted Bear Stearns's chief, Alan D. Schwartz, to advise it on the $42 billion deal, according to The Wall Street Journal. The Deal.com noted that Mr....
161 2008-03-06 With more hedge fun portfolios falling victim to the credit crunch, managers by the dozen are freezing investor redemptions, preventing a mad rush to the exits that would force funds to sell beaten-down assets to raise cash. Among them are GPS Par...
162 2008-03-06 Phil Duff, co-founder of FrontPoint Partners and a former executive at Morgan Stanley and Tiger Management, opened his own hedge-fund firm Wednesday, using a $500 million investment from a private-equity firm. Armed with the initial investment fro...
163 2008-03-06 Merrill Lynch said on Wednesday that it would stop making subprime mortgages through its First Franklin Financial unit and would eliminate 650 jobs. Merrill said it was quitting the subprime lending business because of the deteriorating market for...
164 2008-03-06 Ziff Davis Media, publisher of technology and video game magazines, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, citing a decrease in revenue from print advertising and subscriptions as contributing to its decline. The company said it expected to...
165 2008-03-06 "Remember, this is a long journey," Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said. But "long" is a relative term....
166 2008-03-06 Renewed anxiety about the availability of bank loans — and fears that the Federal Reserve may be unable to curb the credit slump — sent stock markets down sharply on Wall Street on Thursday.

The broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index shed 2.2 percent, or 29.36 points, reaching its lowest close since September 2006. The index, which finished at 1,304.34, is off more than 16 percent from its peak last fall.

Shares of financial services firms led the sell-off, which spread to every major sector of the stock market. Investors were spooked by high-profile loan defaults at Carlyle Capital, a London-based investment firm that handles $21.7 billion in assets.

It was a double-barreled bit of bad news. Carlyle’s assets have lost value in recent months, to the point where the firm cannot pay back some its loans. And the fact that the banks called in the money in the first place suggests they are anxious about maintaining the size of their credit lines.

That touched off recessionary fears among investors, who sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 214.60 points, or 1.75 percent, to 12,040.39, its fifth loss in six trading sessions. All but one of the Dow components declined. The Nasdaq composite index ended down 52.31 points, or 2.3 percent, at 2,220.50.
167 2008-03-06 In recent weeks the Senate bill was watered down to gain the support of a core group of Republicans, most notably Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, the senior Republican on the commerce committee and Senator Susan Collins of Maine. The bill was sponsored by Senator Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, who said it is “more comprehensive and provides for greater transparency and enforcement” than the House bill. By a vote of 57 to 39, the Senate rejected the House bill last Tuesday.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been hampered by the failure of the White House to fill a vacancy on the three-member commission, which has prevented the agency from issuing new rules or penalizing companies that violate the existing ones. The commission has a staff of about 400, roughly half of its size in the 1980s. Fifteen inspectors monitor all imports of consumer products under the agency’s supervision, a marketplace that last year was valued at $614 billion.

Both the House and Senate legislation would increase the budget and staffing of the Consumer Product Safety Commission and would grant it the authority to issue rules and penalize companies even though the agency lacks a quorum. Both measures would also significantly reduce the acceptable levels of lead in toys.

But the Senate measure goes further. It would create a public data base of complaints. It would permit the attorneys general to seek court injunctions if products endanger residents in their states and the federal government is not acting. It would make mandatory many of the toy safety standards that are now voluntary and in so doing, require that toys are tested to comply with a comprehensive set of rules.

The Senate bill would also increase the possible maximum penalty for violations to $20 million, from the current $1.25 million. And it would create a new crime for any company that sells a product that has been recalled.

During a week of debate, Republican critics lead by Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina attacked the legislation as being too onerous on businesses and would “create a playground for plaintiffs’ attorneys.” The measure’s Democratic and Republican supporters responded with a parade of stories and pictures of children who were killed or injured from a variety of defective products such as cribs that collapsed, toys made with lead and small magnet toys that were swallowed.

The White House announced a lengthy list of objections to the Senate legislation. It criticized one provision that would give an enforcement role to state prosecutors and another that would extend whistle-blower protections to company employees who disclose safety violations. The administration also opposed provisions that would create a public data base of consumer safety complaints, and that would require that the laboratories that test certain children’s products for safety be independent and privately owned.

“These provisions threaten to burden American consumers and industry in unproductive ways, and may actually harm a well-functioning product safety system,” the administration statement said. The statement did not threaten a veto.

The Congressional action has been prompted by a spate of food and product recalls beginning last year that has highlighted the difficulties facing federal regulators.

“We’ve seen toy after toy recalled in this country — 29 million toys were recalled in 2007 alone,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota and the author of the bill’s provision sharply reducing lead levels in toys. “We’ve seen a record number of imports coming in from other countries that don’t have the safety standards that we do.”

“The current system has been broken by years of neglect, an agency that hasn’t told the truth about the problems and an administration that has turned its back on the problems,” Ms. Klobuchar said.

Echoing the sentiments of some manufacturers and the administration, Mr. DeMint attacked many of the features of the bill as he unsuccessfully sought to derail it. He said that the whistle-blower protection provision “makes it legally impossible to fire disruptive employees.”

He said the public database would be used “to anonymously smear companies” by circulating “frivolous complaints filed by left-wing interest groups.” He said the provision providing new authority to state prosecutors “undermines a cooperative relationship between businesses and the Consumer Product Safety Commission.”
168 2008-03-06 CUPERTINO, Calif. (AP) — Apple Inc. wants the iPhone to become a corporate e-mail gadget — and a portable video game machine. It’s also teaming with a prominent venture capital firm to offer a substantial kitty — $100 million — to lure developers to the iPhone.

The Cupertino-based company unveiled new software Thursday that reflects its intensifying effort to court business customers and placate third-party developers who want to build iPhone applications but have been locked out. A beta version of the free software update went out Thursday; the full version will not be available until June.

Apple’s requirement that it approve every application for the iPhone is likely to turn off some developers, however.

Its decision to allow developers any access to the closed device represents an about-face for Apple, which previously allowed developers to build iPhone applications only through the Web and didn’t let them use the same software Apple developers use.

Apple is tweaking the iPhone to support Microsoft’s Exchange software, which addresses a key weakness in the consumer-oriented gadget and puts it in more direct competition with Research in Motion’s BlackBerry and Palm Inc.’s Treo smartphones.
169 2008-03-06 LONDON — A fund linked to the private equity firm Carlyle Group became the latest investment firm to run into trouble amid deteriorating credit markets when it said on Thursday that it failed to meet some margin calls and had received a notice of default.

The Carlyle Capital Corporation, which is based in Guernsey, Channel Islands, and invests mainly in triple-A rated mortgage securities, missed four of seven margin calls worth a total of $37 million and said it expects to receive at least one more default notice as banks call in loans.

“As the market continues to go down it becomes ever more difficult to meet margin calls,” said Joseph A. Biernat, director of research at the fund manager, European Credit Management, in London. “Even if there is no risk for the securities, no one wants to support high levels of leverage these days.”

Hedge funds and other investment companies have found it increasingly difficult to guarantee liquidity and reduce leverage since the credit squeeze, which started with subprime mortgages in the United States last year, spread to other debt products. At the same time, banks remain reluctant to issue new debt as long as they are working to reduce a $230 billion backlog. Only a year after reporting record returns, some hedge funds are now forced to shut down or freeze redemption payments as investors shun any securities related to mortgages, even remotely.

Peloton Partners, a London-based hedge fund founded by former Goldman Sachs partners, said last week that it planned to liquidate its Asset Backed Securities Fund because of losses on mortgage-backed debt, just a year after it won the title of best new fixed-income fund 2007 by EuroHedge magazine. Two hedge funds managed by Bear Stearns collapsed and Sowood Capital Management, run by a former manager of Harvard University’s endowment, shut down last year.
170 2008-03-06 A Russian opposition leader has gone on a hunger strike in St. Petersburg after being arrested before a march on Monday to protest the presidential election. Maxim Reznik, leader of the city’s branch of Yabloko, a liberal opposition party, was detained on charges of insulting and fighting with police officers. The party called the charges ridiculous. A judge has ordered Mr. Reznik held for two months, an unusually harsh ruling. The election on Sunday was won by Dmitri A. Medvedev, a close aide to President Vladimir V. Putin.
171 2008-03-06 Even as the state’s lawyers claimed that Zyprexa was dangerous, Alaska’s Medicaid program continues to pay for the medicine, said Nina Gussack, a lawyer for Pepper Hamilton, which represents Lilly.

Ms. Gussack said that Lilly would call Dr. R. Duane Hopson, the medical director of the state-financed Alaska Psychiatric Institute, to bolster its case that Zyprexa’s benefits outweigh its risks.

Another lawyer for Pepper, George A. Lehner, said that Lilly had always properly disclosed Zyprexa’s side effects to the Food and Drug Administration.

Judge Rinder has divided the trial into two parts. In the first part, the jury will determine whether Lilly is liable for hiding Zyprexa’s risks. If it finds that Lilly did nothing wrong, the case will end.

If it finds Lilly liable, a second jury will be chosen to hear a trial that will determine whether Zyprexa caused the maladies of people who took it and how much the company must pay in restitution.

The state has not made a specific demand for restitution. Ed Sniffen, the senior assistant attorney general for Alaska, said that damages could rise to the “hundreds of millions” of dollars if the state wins and is awarded treble damages for the cost of the care it has provided.

Zyprexa is among the world’s top-selling medicines, with sales of $4.8 billion in 2007, about half that in the United States. About 23 million people have taken the drug since it was introduced.

But Lilly has faced mounting legal problems over Zyprexa as evidence of the drug’s tendency to cause weight gain and diabetes has emerged. Lilly has already spent about $1.2 billion to settle about 30,000 claims from people who say that Zyprexa caused them to develop diabetes or other diseases.

In addition, federal prosecutors are conducting civil and criminal investigations into whether Lilly played down Zyprexa’s risks and marketed the drug “off label,” for patients who did not have schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.

Federal law prohibits drug makers from promoting medicines for uses that have not been approved by the F.D.A., although doctors can prescribe drugs for any use they see fit.

The company also faces suits from many states that want to be reimbursed for the cost of providing medical care to Medicaid patients who took Zyprexa. Most schizophrenia patients are unemployed and receive medical coverage through Medicaid. In all, states and the federal government spent about $1.5 billion on Zyprexa last year.

Lilly and the prosecutors in Pennsylvania are discussing an overall settlement of the state and federal investigations and lawsuits that would require Lilly to pay $1 billion to $2 billion in fines and restitution to federal and state governments.

The negotiations in Pennsylvania increase the importance of the Alaska trial, lawyers say. If Lilly wins, its hand will be strengthened in the settlement talks. If Alaska wins, other states and federal prosecutors are likely to demand even more money.

Many of the memorandums and e-mail messages presented by Mr. Allen, the lawyer for the state, were disclosed in two articles in The New York Times in December 2006. They show that Lilly executives were concerned as early as 1999 that Zyprexa’s sales might be hurt if doctors believed that the drug caused diabetes.

In one memorandum in October 2000, a Lilly manager wrote that a panel of doctors convened by the company had warned that “unless we come clean on this, it might get much more serious.”

Nonetheless, Lilly continued to encourage its sales representatives to play down the risk of weight gain and diabetes, the memorandums showed. In a July 2001 memorandum, a Lilly executive said the company was “betting the farm on Zyprexa.”

Only last year, under pressure from the F.D.A., did the company acknowledge in the label that Zyprexa appears to have bigger risks for high blood sugar than other medicines for schizophrenia.

Mr. Allen ended his remarks with a reference to the July 2001 memorandum. “It’s time to call that bet,” he told the jury.
172 2008-03-06 The rally in oil prices on Wednesday was caused in part by tensions on the border between Venezuela, a major oil exporter, and Colombia, as well as by government data in the United States showing a drop in stockpiles of oil and some of the fuels made from it.

Oil prices settled at a record of $104.52 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a gain of $5. Prices, which have risen 73 percent during the last year, have settled above $100 a barrel for seven of the last 12 trading sessions.

While members of OPEC chose not to increase supplies, they were not entirely oblivious to the political and economic impact of $100 oil. Gasoline prices have been rising rapidly in the United States in recent weeks, hitting a nationwide average of $3.18 a gallon Wednesday. That is only a nickel below the record set last May.

The sharp surge in oil prices in recent days has deterred the group from cutting its production, a move that some members like Algeria and Iran were seriously contemplating a few weeks ago.

With the United States economy slowing down, oil prices have risen as investors flee the stock market and seek refuge in hard assets like commodities. The fall in the value of the dollar gives OPEC an incentive to keep prices high. Since oil is sold in dollars, petroleum producers see the value of their exports decline any time the dollar drops.

The dollar has lost 17 percent of its value against the euro in the last year. On Wednesday, it fell to a new low against the euro, trading at $1.53.

“OPEC is angry that President Bush wants them to increase production while the dollar is sinking and the administration is doing nothing about that,” said Fadel Gheit, an oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. “It’s really not surprising that they have ignored him.”

The falling dollar has complex economic effects in the United States, not all of them bad. The drop is helping to fuel a surge of American exports, one of the few bright spots in a struggling economy.

Higher energy prices, which have been rising relentlessly for nearly a decade, are creating tensions between consuming nations and producers around the world. Oil-rich countries like Russia and Venezuela have become more demanding in their dealings with foreign oil companies, often restricting access to prime drilling locations.

In the United States, rising energy costs are weighing on an economy that is struggling with a housing slump and a credit crisis. As a sign of growing impatience, Mr. Bush criticized OPEC this week for not increasing supplies.

“I think it’s a mistake to have your biggest customer’s economy to slow down” because of high energy prices, he said.

Most energy analysts dismissed the call for additional supplies as political rhetoric. In comments on Wednesday, the president said the United States needs to reduce consumption.

“America’s got to change its habits; we’ve got to get off oil,” Mr. Bush said at a conference on renewable fuels in Washington. “Until we change our habits, there’s going to be more dependency on oil.”

Mr. Bush’s earlier comments echo remarks he made more than eight years ago, while running for president. Then, the onetime Texas oilman said that if prices rose, he would not hesitate to call OPEC producers and persuade them to increase supplies.

“I would work with our friends in OPEC to convince them to open up the spigot, to increase the supply,” Mr. Bush said at the time. “Use the capital that my administration will earn, with the Kuwaitis or the Saudis, and convince them to open up the spigot.”

But OPEC members are proving difficult to sway. Chakib Khelil, Algeria’s oil minister and OPEC’s president this year, said on Wednesday that the high price of oil was not because of a lack of supply, but instead resulted from the “mismanagement of the U.S. economy” that has helped send the dollar tumbling.

“If the prices are high, definitely they are not due to a lack of crude,” Mr. Khelil said in Vienna. “They are due to what’s happening in the U.S.”

He added: “There is sufficient supply. There’s plenty of oil there.”

Most energy analysts agree there is no shortage of oil. Commercial oil inventories are high, and refiners are not lacking oil.

“The market continues to be well supplied,” Rex W. Tillerson, the chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, said at a conference in New York. “There has been no interruption of supplies.”

Still, OPEC recognizes the threat posed by a slowing economy on its business. In its final statement, the group said that the United States economic slowdown and housing crisis could damp global oil demand this year.

Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, said there was no need to increase supplies by “even one barrel of oil.” But he stressed that Saudi Arabia, the world’s top exporter, would keep oil markets well supplied. As a sign of how seriously it sees its role, Mr. Naimi told reporters that the kingdom was pumping 9.2 million barrels, “day in, day out,” or roughly 300,000 barrels a day above its formal OPEC target.

The oil cartel, which is next scheduled to meet in September, indicated it might call for an emergency meeting earlier depending on “market conditions.”

OPEC producers account for about 40 percent of the world’s oil exports. Some of its members, like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, are United States allies; others, like Iran and Venezuela, are political foes.

“OPEC’s biggest fear is that this is a bubble and that prices will drop by $30 a barrel,” said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, who was in Vienna to attend the meeting. “So they keep tightening supplies and prices keep going up.”
173 2008-03-06 The San Jose City Council has rescinded its decision to call a Vietnamese retail area Saigon Business District. But the council members stopped short of renaming it Little Saigon. And that name was precisely what hundreds of speakers who showed up on Tuesday night wanted and did not get. Instead, the council voted 7 to 4 to set up a process for naming business districts in the future and give business owners the right to ultimately determine the names.
174 2008-03-06 Merrill Lynch said on Wednesday that it would stop making subprime mortgages through its First Franklin Financial unit and would eliminate 650 jobs.

Merrill said it was quitting the subprime lending business because of the deteriorating market for subprime home loans, which go to people with poor credit. The company said it would try to sell Home Loan Services, a unit of First Franklin that handles billing and collections.

It expects to incur $60 million of charges related to First Franklin, mainly for severance payments and the cost of closing offices.

Merrill bought First Franklin and much of its loan portfolio from the National City Corporation of Cleveland for $1.3 billion in December 2006. First Franklin had employed 2,100 people as recently as May.

Dozens of mortgage lenders have closed or cut staff in the last year because of the housing slump.

Three other Wall Street banks — Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers Holdings and Morgan Stanley — have also announced mortgage-related job cuts since last summer.

A Merrill spokesman, Bill Halldin, said most of the job cuts at First Franklin, which is based in San Jose, Calif., would take place this month. About 70 workers will remain, he said.
175 2008-03-06 The Republican officials said they could not discuss the details of their findings on the record because of the continuing criminal investigation.

A lawyer for Mr. Ward, Ronald C. Machen of the Wilmer Hale law firm in Washington, had no comment. A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Washington field office acknowledged that the bureau had opened an investigation at the request of the Republican committee.

The F.B.I. investigation comes at an especially awkward time for House Republicans, who are struggling to raise money for Congressional races in November.

Their job has been made even more difficult by the large number of Republican lawmakers — more than two dozen from the House — who have announced their retirements, and by a series of unrelated criminal and ethics investigations of other Congressional Republicans.

Mr. Ward had been treasurer of the national Republican committee since 2003. He had also been a partner in a private campaign consulting firm, Political Compliance Services, that gained notice in the 2004 presidential campaign because of its work on behalf of Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that ran advertisements that criticized the military record of Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic presidential nominee.

Committee officials said that bookkeeping irregularities were discovered in January after the chairman of the panel’s auditing committee, Representative Mike Conaway of Texas, a certified public accountant, repeatedly asked to meet with representatives of the audit firm that was supposed to be reviewing the committee’s books.

“I just kept insisting that we meet with the auditors,” Mr. Conaway said in an interview. “It finally came into my head, and as the circumstances unfolded, that no audit had been done.”

He said that Mr. Ward had promised to set up a meeting with the auditors and scheduled the gathering in late January.

But 30 minutes before the scheduled meeting, committee officials said, Mr. Ward sent an e-mail message to colleagues announcing that, in fact, no audit had been done. The officials said the fund-raising committee had since determined that its books had not been audited since 2003 and that Mr. Ward had submitted a series of falsified audits. The committee then called in the F.B.I. It is not clear, lawmakers said, if any fees were paid to audit firms in recent years by the committee, or where that money ended up.

“This was a longtime trusted employee and there were no obvious signs that he was living beyond his means,” Mr. Conaway said.

Mr. Conaway said that the many Republican lawmakers who used Mr. Ward for their campaign funds or for bookkeeping for their political action committees were now hurriedly reviewing their own books for evidence of missing money or other improprieties.

“If you were one of the members who had a relationship with him, you should go back through your records extensively to see if you were caught up,” he said.

Committee officials said that at least two Republican lawmakers who were clients of Mr. Ward’s had reported to the committee in recent weeks that they had also found discrepancies in their campaign accounts.

Representative Rodney Alexander, Republican of Louisiana, said he ended his ties to Mr. Ward in February after learning of the concerns at the national committee. “Until then, we hadn’t seen anything to indicate there was a problem,” Mr. Alexander said, adding that his bookkeepers had found no evidence of missing money or other wrongdoing.

Mr. Ward was named treasurer of the national Republican committee five years ago by Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, who stepped down as the committee’s chairman last year. Mr. Reynolds has found himself under attack on the campaign trail at home because of the reports of financial irregularities at the committee.

“Does Tom Reynolds ever accept responsibility for his poor leadership or does he just pass the buck?” asked John Gerken, campaign manager for Jon Powers, a Democrat who is challenging Mr. Reynolds.

Mr. Reynolds said in a statement that he and the national Republican committee were possible victims of “an elaborate scheme resulting in financial irregularities” by a “long-serving professional staff member,” a reference to Mr. Ward. “At no time were there any red flags raised,” the lawmaker said.
176 2008-03-06 Ziff Davis Media Inc., publisher of technology and video game magazines, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, citing a decrease in revenue from print advertising and subscriptions as contributing to its decline.

The company said it expected to reorganize quickly and exit court protection by summer.

Ziff Davis, which is based in New York, said in a court filing that it had total debt of $500 million to $1 billion and total assets of $100 million to $500 million.

The company is the publisher of PC Magazine and Electronic Gaming Monthly and Web versions of those magazines.

Ziff Davis reached an agreement with senior creditors, to whom it owes $225 million. Under the deal, the senior creditors will be owed $57.5 million and at least 88.8 percent of the common stock in the company once it emerges.

The company was unable to reach an agreement with more junior creditors, and is looking to use the court process to resolve that dispute. Another 11.2 percent of the reorganized company’s stock is available for distribution to those debt holders.

Creditors have set aside $24.5 million to finance the company’s operations during the case and after it concludes.

The company reaches 26 million consumers through 16 Web sites, 3 magazines and direct marketing. It is a remnant of a publishing empire established in the 1920s by William B. Ziff Sr. and Bernard G. Davis, who introduced titles like Popular Aviation and Popular Electronics.
177 2008-03-06 Goldman Sachs & Company will donate $100 million to give at least 10,000 women a business education and, more broadly, to develop and enhance business education programs at universities in Africa, the Middle East and other developing regions, the firm announced Wednesday.

The gift is one of the largest corporate donations since 2000, according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University.

“No country will ever achieve its full potential if half of its talent pool is stymied or underrepresented,” said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman’s chairman and chief executive.

The program will span five years and include programs to benefit disadvantaged women in the United States.

Mr. Blankfein said investing in educating women in the developing world for managerial roles and in building educational programs to develop business expertise and talent would benefit the economies of the countries where Goldman’s money will be spent, and that would be to the firm’s benefit. Goldman follows economic growth around the world, Mr. Blankfein said, “but also we try to create it, because that’s how our bread gets buttered as a business.”
178 2008-03-06 Gaming PCs have long had hefty specs and even heftier price tags. But gaming beasts like the Dell XPS 630 are paving the way for new machines with impressive performance and impressively low prices.

While most respectable gaming rigs start at $1,500 or so, the lowest-end 630 costs $1,250 and comes with a 2.4-gigahertz Quad-Core processor, 2 gigabytes of memory and an Nvidia GeForce 8800 GT graphics card with 512 megabytes of on-board memory. This adds up to adequate performance on most games — only hard-core gamers will notice the difference.

Upgrades include $130 for four gigabytes of RAM and $770 for two terabytes of hard drive space. The PC is available on dell.com.

The 630 has a stylish case with the requisite saurian front panel. It comes in black or red and features see-through grilles and L.E.D.’s along the top of the built-in optical drive and inside the case.

Two of the featured systems on Dell’s Web site run Windows Vista and are at least $100 cheaper than the $1,380 and $1,730 models running Windows XP. It seems gamers don’t always demand the latest and greatest after all. JOHN BIGGS
179 2008-03-06 There is little incentive to download a game rather than buy a tangible disc: it is rarely cheaper to download. Downloadable versions of best-selling PC games like Unreal Tournament III and BioShock cost the same as the discs.

For people who like playing video games, whether they are hard-core players or occasional dabblers, downloading won’t be the main way to procure games. But online delivery is becoming very handy for the players who want to build quickly on the experience they had in a favorite game like the shooter Halo 3 or the role-playing adventure Oblivion. It will also be useful for those who want to relive an experience of a favorite game played a generation ago, like Pac-Man or King’s Quest.

Here are a few ways to get the most out of downloads.

PC GAMING The leading downloadable PC game distributors are Valve Software and GameTap. Both offer full-size games to download to a gamer’s hard drive. GameTap also offers smaller titles meant to appeal to a broader audience than the hard-core gamers Valve’s lineup serves.

Valve charges per game, with big-hit titles like Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare and BioShock priced at $49.95 (Circuit City’s price for each is typically $49.99). GameTap offers two all-you-can-download subscription options, $9.95 a month or $59.95 a year, for access to its library of nearly 1,000 titles. About 50 titles are free to anyone who registers with the site. GameTap also allows people who are not subscribers to download games at prices closer to those of the retail editions.

While GameTap recently began offering Mac games, Valve is strictly for Windows users.

Both services provide system requirements and recommended specifications for any given game so you do not download a game your computer cannot run.

My download from GameTap of Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Anniversary, a 1.1-gigabyte Windows game that was available in stores and on GameTap the same day, took about 45 minutes to complete over my cable broadband connection.

I downloaded from Valve the highly acclaimed thinking man’s first-person shooter, Half-Life 2, ($19.95 on Valve, and $19.99 at a nearby Target store) in about half an hour despite its relatively compact 900 megabytes.

Both games played exactly as they would if I had installed them from discs.

But those pieces of plastic can be reassuring. If the computer is damaged, the discs would be handy to reinstall on a repaired or new computer.

But a similar safety net can come with downloaded games. A GameTap subscription allows games to be redownloaded anytime, and up to two computers in a household can run the games at the same time. Valve and other smaller download services like GameStop, IGN and EB Games grant buyers activation codes that can be used on one or more machine. The downloaded game can also be deactivated on one PC and then reactivated on another. If a Valve game bites the dust because of a crash, the registered owner can redownload and reinstall the title and jump right back into the game.

Both services offer online forums for discussing games and swapping tips, though Valve goes further by offering a feature for meeting game-playing friends that also tracks statistics and helps to schedule group events.

Many hard-core PC gamers eagerly seek free modifications, or “mods,” of popular games. Mods are created by dedicated players and programmers, usually with no connection to the company that created the game. The software adds new content like weapons, characters, scenarios and multiplayer maps. Mods have been written for some of the most popular PC games, including Half-Life 2, Gears of War, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars and Unreal Tournament. Gamers say that some of the best sites for downloading mods are fileplanet.com, gamespot.com, gamespy.com, fileshack.com and filefront.com.

VIDEO GAME CONSOLES The makers of the game consoles, like Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Wii, want you to buy discs for new releases, even though all the machines have Internet connections and PlayStation 3 has a built-in hard drive like a PC. But they do encourage gamers to download old games. Microsoft’s Xbox Live Marketplace for Xbox 360 gamers offers more than 100 “arcade” titles like Uno, Ms. Pac-Man and Frogger, as well as add-on content for the latest titles like the Halo 3 Heroic Map Pack and new songs for the music game Rock Band. (Indeed, no discs are available for some Halo 3 expansion packs; they can only be downloaded.) The company also sells several “Xbox Classics,” the titles that ran on the 360’s predecessor, the original Xbox. Unfortunately, to buy any of them, Microsoft forces gamers to use an annoying points system that converts $1 to 80 points.

Sony’s PlayStation Store for the PlayStation 3 takes players down a similar retro game memory lane. It sells games that played on the original PlayStation. Several of the titles can be played on either the PlayStation 3 console or downloaded from the PS3 to Sony’s PlayStation Portable hand-held game device and played on that. (And like the PC game download business, previously purchased games and add-ons can be redownloaded in the event of a console crash or accidental deletion.)

The biggest retro download store belongs to Nintendo, the maker of the Wii. Its Virtual Console feature offers downloadable games created for the original Nintendo Entertainment System as well as the subsequent Super Nintendo and Nintendo 64 consoles. Donkey Kong, Super Mario Brothers and Pac-Man can be found there. The store also sells games that were first released for Nintendo competitors like the TurboGrafx, the Neo Geo and the Sega Genesis.

Although games cannot be transferred to the Nintendo DS hand-held game system, Nintendo recently announced that it would soon offer DS demos to be downloaded to the hand-held’s main memory and playable until the device is powered off, at which point they disappear.

But don’t expect the old-fashioned game discs to disappear so easily.
180 2008-03-06 Yet given the pace of gentrification, the future of the neighborhood’s artists — and of Dumbo’s artistic character — remains uncertain. Two months after Dumbo, named for its area Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass, was designated a landmark in December, the City Planning Department proposed last week that the neighborhood be rezoned to allow taller buildings in high-density areas. Dumbo is historically considered to be the area between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges and between the East River and Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, but blocks on the other side of the Manhattan Bridge are now often considered part of the area.

Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, gives David Walentas points for figuring out how to make a neighborhood vital. “He understands that you have to have creative energy,” Mr. Moss said. “This is an intelligent and strategic move.”

But some artists are troubled by the notion of developers using artists to help invigorate or market a neighborhood even as artists are priced out of more established areas. “This really represents the broader picture, where cities are becoming impossible places for creative producers to live and work, where the notions of loft living and ‘bohemian’ become selling points in the development of real estate,” the artist Barbara Kruger said. “Artists have nowhere else to turn so they take those work spaces. It’s their work to make the neighborhood cool; then they can be moved out.”

Other artists say David Walentas has a long-term commitment to culture in Dumbo and is simply speeding along a process that can’t easily happen on its own because of rising commercial real-estate prices. “He’s doing artificially what used to happen naturally over a longer period of time, like forcing a tulip bulb,” said the artist Chuck Close, who serves on the board of the Marie Walsh Sharpe Art Foundation, which is based in Dumbo. “It doesn’t happen organically the way it used to. Now you need a break.”

“Clearly, he wants to make a buck,” he added. “But it’s community building.”

The Two Trees developers, who own about three million square feet of property in Dumbo, tell their tenants that they will try to find other places for them in the area if their spaces are sold or developed. But they make no guarantees. “Things change,” David Walentas said. “Some will stay, some will die, some will move, some will go out of business. We can’t solve all their problems.

“It’s like everything in life. It’s not forever.”

The developers are up front with the tenants about the short-term nature of their leases. “It was always straightforward,” said Kathleen Gilrain, the executive director of Smack Mellon. “He doesn’t spring stuff on us. Buildings are developed all over New York City, and those landlords don’t give any space away.” When Two Trees converted 70 Washington Street to condos, it offered almost every artist in the building below-market rates at one of its other buildings, 20 Jay Street or 55 Washington Street, and 80 percent accepted. “We’re in a unique position to do these things because we own the whole neighborhood,” Jed Walentas said.

They don’t own all of it. While the Walentases say they would eventually like to move the St. Ann’s Warehouse organization to the brick ruins of the 19th-century Tobacco Warehouse in Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, that property belongs to the state. They also want to convert the Empire Stores Warehouse, on Water Street between Dock and Main Streets, into studio and gallery space, but the state owns that too.

Affordable studios, galleries and stages are hard to come by in New York City. The Galapagos Art Space was on the verge of leaving Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for Berlin because its monthly rent had risen by $10,000. David Walentas offered the company below-market space. “He’s doing what the city should be doing,” said Robert Elmes, director of Galapagos. “He’s proving that it works.”

The city, for its part, appreciates what Two Trees is doing. “In an ideal world everyone would have space to work in perpetuity,” said Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner. “That’s not the reality of New York real estate.”

“He doesn’t sweep in in the middle of the night and evict people,” she added. “Providing space for people to make work and for people to come see it is a huge commitment.”

David Walentas clearly enjoys coming to the rescue. “We’ve been very, very generous because I like it,” he said. “I don’t need the money. It’s a way of putting people in my buildings.”

On a recent tour of Dumbo he walked through some of these buildings, like the paint-splattered studios of the Triangle Arts Association at 20 Jay Street (rent: free), where a visiting French artist, Gregory Forstner, was working on canvases of dogs in combat helmets. Mr. Walentas also showed off Smack Mellon’s soaring new two-level gallery space on Plymouth Street, where huge pieces of sculpture were installed, and other tenants like the Brooklyn Arts Council, the Brooklyn Stained Glass Conservation Center and Dancing Diablo, an animation company (as well as the chocolate shop Jacques Torres and the bakery Almondine on Water Street).

“I’m very proud,” Mr. Walentas said. “I tell people I’ve done a lot of things. They matter; they don’t matter. In 100 years Dumbo will matter.”

Two Trees has handpicked its tenants along the way, and David Walentas makes a point of saying that he is not responsible for Dumbo’s Starbucks and doesn’t want chain stores in the neighborhood. The rents the developers charge are all over the map. In the 55 Washington building, for example, the James Glass Studio pays $6.77 per square foot per year; Chris Perry Woodworking, $11.39; and the Robinson & Grisaru architectural firm, $19. At 45 Main Street, Lynn Veitzer, an artist, pays $14.61; Jennifer Riley, also an artist, $12.79; and the Dumbo Arts Center, zero. The Galapagos has a 15-year lease, but many leases are for two years.

“It depends on the space and who they are and what they contribute,” David Walentas said. “A number have personal relationships or catch us on a good day and get a slightly different deal.”

As a result arts groups would seem to have to stay on their toes and in the good graces of the Walentas family. Since St. Ann’s Warehouse moved to Dumbo in 2001 after 21 years in a Brooklyn Heights church, the performance organization has been drawing audiences and helping to attract retail stores and residents. But the developers have made it clear that the organization will eventually have to move. (David Walentas serves on the St. Ann’s board.)

“They said, ‘As long as you’re contributing to the neighborhood, you can be our guests here,’ ” said Susan Feldman, the artistic director. “David and Jed kept saying: ‘Don’t get attached. We’re going to take the building down.’”

“There are moments when it gets scary,” she said. ”We’re at their mercy.” But she added: “That was the deal when we came in. They are developers.”

Because the situation is temporary, St. Ann’s has held off on making some changes to the theater, like installing air conditioning. “There are limitations with the building because we’re only on borrowed time,” Ms. Feldman said.

“I always think in two-year increments,” she said. “I can live with that.”

In 2003 the Walentases told Smack Mellon that it had to vacate its gallery and studio space at 56 Water Street to make room for a 1922 carousel restored by David Walentas’s wife, Jane, an artist. But the developers moved Smack Mellon into a former boiler house at 92 Plymouth Street, gratis, and helped pay for the renovation.

“It’s a big undertaking to relocate a whole organization,” said Suzanne Kim, the director of exhibitions at Smack Mellon. But she said the new space “turned out to be even better” and that “free rent is always worth it,” adding, “There’s no way we could afford a space like this.”

Similarly Mr. Dombek said he was grateful for his studio, which allows him to have a New York presence, although he is based in Arkansas. But he concedes that the uncertainty can be unsettling.

“I’m going to spend money and time putting up walls,” he said. “I’m concerned you’re coming in someday and saying, ‘Leave.’ I don’t know if it will take 5 years or 10 years or 2 years.”

“I would assume artists are going to be pushed out,” he added. “They always are.”
181 2008-03-06 In “Game of Chicken in the Andes” (editorial, March 2), you correctly point out the important role that the Andean trade preferences have played in fighting the illegal drug trade in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia.

What should also be mentioned is the role that these preferences play in curbing illegal immigration to the United States.

I recently led a Congressional delegation to Ecuador and Bolivia to see the impact of these trade preferences in the economically and politically fragile Andean region.

In Ecuador, we visited with producers of flowers, broccoli, coffee and cacao. Without the Andean trade preferences, workers in these sectors would undoubtedly lose their jobs. While some would turn to the illegal drug trade, thousands of others would most certainly try to illegally immigrate to the United States.

Those who worry about illegal immigration should embrace the Andean trade preferences, which help keep the citizens of the Andean region in sustainable jobs in their home countries.

The writer is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere.
182 2008-03-06 After Mississippi, Pennsylvania, which votes April 22, will be in the rarefied position of having no competition for candidates’ attention for six weeks, a situation akin to the period before the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3. In the eight weeks beginning with the Iowa vote, more than three dozen states have shared the kind of limelight that Pennsylvania — the most populous state remaining on the calendar — will now occupy alone.

“It could be like Iowa on steroids,” T. J. Rooney, the state Democratic chairman, told The Philadelphia Inquirer.

The stretch of time should allow the candidates to campaign in regions of the state that are usually ignored in national campaigns; Pennsylvania has not played a significant role in a Democratic primary since 1976.

Even so, the campaign here is not expected to resolve much in the bigger picture. Even if one candidate took all of the state’s 188 delegates (which will not happen because it is not a winner-take-all system), neither could reach the number needed to win the nomination.

But analysts here say the state is fertile ground for Mrs. Clinton, who has opened two offices in the state and plans to open a half-dozen more by the weekend. They say that her victories Tuesday in Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island could change the dynamic.

“She comes here as the favorite,” said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College who has surveyed the state for decades. “Obama is playing on her turf. If he beats her here, it will devastate her argument that she can win the big industrial states.”

The state’s demographics reflect those of Clinton voters elsewhere. Pennsylvania has one of the largest populations of voters over 65 after Florida. It is largely blue collar and heavily Catholic. And, significantly, only registered Democrats can vote in the primary, denying independents the opportunity to bolster Mr. Obama’s candidacy as they have in other states.

But Mr. Obama has a receptive audience, too, with a significant number of black voters in Philadelphia, liberals here and elsewhere, and a vast number of college students. It was the students Ms. Clinton had been dispatched here to woo.

At this stage, various polls and analysts suggest that the state could break down this way:

Philadelphia, where more than half the voters are African-American, is likely to favor Mr. Obama. The Philadelphia media market reaches 40 percent of the state’s voters.

Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania, with its depressed steel industry, are generally similar to Ohio, with blue-collar workers and a struggling economy. That region could favor Mrs. Clinton.

Mrs. Clinton is also likely to do well in the northeast, which is largely Catholic, conservative and blue collar, and is where her father was buried in 1993.

The upscale Philadelphia suburbs are almost always a crucial part of any winning coalition in the state. They are home to affluent, well-educated voters for whom the war in Iraq remains the most important issue, and Mr. Madonna said he expected they would favor Mr. Obama.

But Gov. Edward G. Rendell, Mrs. Clinton’s chief champion in the state, said he intended to work the suburbs and would spend his considerable political capital there on her behalf.

“In this area they have me, and that’s where I’m the strongest, and I intend to communicate a lot with suburban voters,” Mr. Rendell said in an interview.

While the suburbs were long a Republican stronghold, they voted Democratic for the first time in the modern era in 1992 — for Bill Clinton. Mr. Rendell said that both Clintons visited the area frequently during Mr. Clinton’s presidency and had maintained many ties.

Two other potential swing areas of the state are the Lehigh Valley and south-central Pennsylvania, around Lancaster and York Counties. Though largely Republican, those are growth areas with a significant number of Democrats.

Perhaps the major swing constituency will be blue-collar white men, the Reagan Democrats of yore. Labor is stronger here than in many states, but the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. has not endorsed anyone.

Mr. Rendell predicted that Mrs. Clinton would win the state. “But,” he said, “you can’t underestimate Senator Obama as a candidate. He’s a great campaigner, and give him seven weeks to work the state and that will make this a great challenge.”

The Obama campaign is pursuing the strategy it used successfully in Iowa and is conducting a heavy registration drive. Officials said their goal was to register as many new voters as possible by March 24, the deadline. So far, they said, they have added 40,000 voters to the rolls.
183 2008-03-06 “John McCain has worked hard over the last eight years to throw away his maverick image and morph into the ultimate Bush Republican,” the party said in an e-mail message to the news media and Democratic supporters. “As President Bush himself said today, a vote for John McCain is a vote for more of the same failed Bush policies.”

The president, for his part, made it clear that he would do whatever was asked to help Mr. McCain, who campaigned for him in 2004 even after their bitter rivalry in the 2000 campaign.

But of more immediate benefit to the McCain campaign may be the help of the Republican National Committee. Mr. McCain visited its Washington headquarters on Wednesday, pointing to one tangible benefit of wrapping up the nomination. It allows him to basically take over the national party apparatus, which has $25 million on hand and a political staff, while the Democratic National Committee cannot actively support a candidate until one is selected as the nominee.

Robert M. Duncan, the chairman of the Republican committee, said the party was there to serve the McCain campaign.

“We’ve been preparing for the last several months,” Mr. Duncan said. “We’ve been raising the money. We’ve been doing the research that’s necessary. We’ve been writing the victory plans that have been necessary to win the electoral votes. We’ve been putting the staff together. And all of that is available to Senator McCain, as our presumptive nominee, as of today.”

At the White House, both Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush danced around awkward questions from reporters about how much Mr. Bush would campaign for Mr. McCain. Mr. Bush jumped in several times to answer the questions, perhaps sensing that it would be uncomfortable for Mr. McCain to have to signal that he needed to keep some distance from an unpopular president in a general election campaign.

“If my showing up and endorsing him helps him, or if I’m against him and it helps him, either way, I want him to win,” Mr. Bush said. “You know, look, this is the age-old question that every president has had to, you know, answer. And there’s appropriate amount of campaigning for me to do, but they’re not going to be voting for me.”

Mr. Bush added, “And if he wants my pretty face standing by his side at one of these rallies, I’ll be glad to show up.”

Mr. McCain gamely said he would welcome having Mr. Bush campaign with him, adding that he knew that the president had a day job. “I’m pleased to have him as it fits into his busy schedule,” Mr. McCain said.

Later, at the Republican National Committee, Mr. McCain was asked again if the president’s endorsement might hurt him with independent voters. “All I can say is that on the fundamentals and the principles of our Republican Party and most of the specifics of our shared conservative philosophy, President Bush and I are in agreement,” he said.

As Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain ate their hot dogs, senior aides to both men had lunch with Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff, to talk about coordinating communications, policy and scheduling between the campaign and the White House. Mr. Bolten was joined by Ed Gillespie, the former Republican National Committee chairman who is now counselor to the president, as well as Barry Jackson, the White House political director. Senior aides to Mr. McCain at the lunch included Rick Davis, Charles Black, Mark Salter, Steve Schmidt and Mark McKinnon.

Mr. McCain’s top advisers have said that they are eager to enlist the president for his fund-raising prowess but that they do not want him to appear too often with Mr. McCain. They have insisted that their reluctance in having Mr. Bush campaign heavily has nothing to do with the president’s unpopularity.

Instead, they have said they would not like any sitting president to appear too often with Mr. McCain because he needs to “stand in the sun” on his own, as one adviser recently put it. Mr. Black bolstered that argument when he said in an interview last month that President Ronald Reagan campaigned selectively and made only rare appearances at the side of George Bush in the 1988 campaign, even though Mr. Bush was his vice president.

But Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was White House chief of staff in 1988, said on Wednesday that Reagan had campaigned for and with Mr. Bush in 16 states in that election, including rallies in California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

In contrast, Mr. Duberstein said, the McCain campaign would deploy the current President Bush more carefully. “They’re going to use him in a very select number of states where there are heavy concentrations of Republicans and military families, rather than in huge public rallies in swing states,” he said.

Despite his unpopularity, Mr. Bush has shown an ability to energize huge crowds of friendly Republicans with verve and bursts of enthusiasm that Mr. McCain has not matched.

“He’s a great campaigner, and he’s somebody who will focus the message,” said Mr. Schmidt, who was once a top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney.
184 2008-03-06 OIL TENSIONS RISE OPEC left its oil production levels unchanged, saying that the market had plenty of oil and that high prices were the result of America's economic problems.      AMBAC TO RAISE CAPITAL The Ambac Financial Group said it would seek...
185 2008-03-06 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has often responded to criticisms about the prolonged Democratic battle with a nod back to another Clinton campaign.     She did it again Wednesday. ''Remember, this is a long journey,'' she said on ''The Early Show'...
186 2008-03-06 O'LEARY--Kathleen (nee McCormack), on March 4, 2008 after a brief illness, surrounded by her family, in New York Presbyterian Hospital. Kay was born in New York City in 1939 to the late Sabina and John McCormack. Predeceased by her husband, Joseph...
187 2008-03-07 John McCain displayed some of the temper that he has largely kept under control in this campaign....
188 2008-03-07 Brussels authorities order a nationwide manhunt, only to find her a few hours later....
189 2008-03-07 In a sign that he's earning the trust of staunch conservatives, a few of John McCain's key supporters were named to top positions within the Republican National Committee....
190 2008-03-07 To some, the more Clinton and Obama belittle each other's national security experience, the better John McCain looks....
191 2008-03-07 NBC says a deal has not been reached yet. And DirecTV has no comment. But fans of "Friday Night Lights" are hopeful that the rumors of a third season deal for the football drama are true....
192 2008-03-07 Do wireless earbuds exist? They do....
193 2008-03-07 Some commentary on the surge in business card offerings....
194 2008-03-07 The Federal Trade Commission has given NYSE Euronext the go-ahead to acquire the American Stock Exchange, the companies said Thursday. The F.T.C. informed the companies that it granted early termination of the waiting period that gives regulators ...
195 2008-03-07 Visa has two big challenges ahead. The first is its plan for what is expected to be an $18 billion initial public offering, which would be the biggest ever in the United States. The other, says the Legal Times, is outlined in the Securities and Ex...
196 2008-03-07 The credit markets came under renewed stress Thursday as investors sought absolute safety and even moved away from debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage lending enterprises. The intensifying credit crisis cam...
197 2008-03-07 The following is the exchange between Senator John McCain and The Times's Elisabeth Bumiller as transcribed by The New York Times.

Elisabeth Bumiller: Senator, can I ask you about Senator Kerry? I just went back and looked at our story, the Times story, and you told Sheryl Stolberg that you had never had a conversation with Kerry about being, about vice president. Is that …

John McCain: Everybody knows that that I had a conversation. Everybody knows that, that I had a conversation. There’s no living American in Washington that knows that. There’s no one. And you know it too. So…

Q: What was it ...

A: No, you know it, so I don’t know even know why you ask.

Q: Well, I asked because I read in the ...

A: No, you do know it. You do know it.

Q: I just read in the Times of May of ‘04 ...

A: I don’t know what you may have read or heard of and I don’t know the circumstances. Maybe in May of ‘04 I hadn’t had a conversation.
198 2008-03-07 Jean-Marie Guéhenno, the under secretary general for peacekeeping, and Louise Arbour, the Geneva-based high commissioner for human rights, have told their staffs that they will be leaving their posts in July. Ms. Arbour, a former Canadian Supreme Court justice and United Nations war crimes prosecutor, said she would not run for a second four-year term, and Mr. Guéhenno, a French career diplomat who has been peacekeeping chief for eight years during which the number of soldiers abroad rose to a record 100,000, said he would depart after his contract expired at the end of June. In another move, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon told the Security Council that he was naming Kai Eide, a former Norwegian ambassador to NATO, as his new envoy for Afghanistan. He replaces Tom Koenigs of Germany and became a candidate after Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, rejected Mr. Ban’s reported first choice, Paddy Ashdown of Britain.
199 2008-03-07 Officials in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir have poisoned 500 dogs and intend to kill all 100,000 strays in Srinagar, the region’s main city, saying the dogs pose a risk to humans and make urban life unbearable. Animal rights activists vowed to go to court.
200 2008-03-07 Two Democrats introduced a bill that would overturn the Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to block California from issuing its own standard for automotive carbon emissions. Representatives Peter Welch of Vermont and Brad Sherman of California introduced the measure, which would grant California its waiver and also allow 12 other states to put those standards in place. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House. The E.P.A. ruled Dec. 19 that states are barred from regulating carbon emissions because a bill signed by President Bush seeks cuts in heat-trapping gases through mileage standards.
201 2008-03-07 The story of the Dunmores is the story of the nation’s housing crisis writ small, familial and mean: three generations of home builders who got rich from the go-go years of the California real estate boom, only to fall victim to the housing bust. And it is a tale of greed, hubris and denial of economic reality.

Dysfunctional families, of course, can be found in every business, but the bursting of the housing bubble in the Central Valley, where there was once so much money to be made, accentuated any problems this family might have had.

Not only was George Dunmore a fair businessman, friends and acquaintances say, but he was an avowed family man as well. Of Mr. Dunmore’s three children, Sidney, now 53, showed the most interest in taking up the family trade. After years of apprenticing under his father, the younger Mr. Dunmore started his own firm, Dunmore Homes.

Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Dunmore Homes expanded. The company formed more than a dozen subsidiaries throughout the state, with more than two dozen developments, many of them catering to first-time home buyers in need of subprime and nonconventional loans. The company eventually built a total of 22,000 homes.

The region was one of the fastest-growing real estate markets in the country. In Sacramento County, from 2000 to 2005, the median price of homes more than tripled, to $385,000, according to DataQuick Information Systems.

“It was the type of market that floated all boats,” said Greg Paquin, president of the Gregory Group, a real estate market research firm in Folsom, Calif. “Builders, buyers, investors: everyone was happy.”

For Sidney Dunmore life was good. His own opulent home — all 12,000 square feet of it — is in Granite Bay, an affluent Sacramento suburb. He also has a $2 million 4,600-square-foot second home in the resort town of Palm Desert, Calif.

Then, in late 2005, the housing slowdown hit the region, falling squarely on the corridor south of Sacramento, from Modesto to Merced, where the Dunmores had once been so successful. Builders began offering incentives to move homes as if they were cars on a dealer’s lot: low-interest financing, free appliances, anything to make a sale.

By last year, the subprime mortgage industry was in crisis, credit had dried up and the younger Mr. Dunmore became no less reflective of an era than his father was of his. “I think Sid always built a nice product, but he was always very aggressive,” Mr. Paquin said.

Delbert Rapini, a longtime Sacramento contractor who said he was an admirer of George Dunmore, said, “Sid had it made, but he acted like an idiot” by extending himself too far.

Mr. Rapini, who does not do business with Sidney B. Dunmore, said that Mr. Dunmore would have been well advised to remember that downturns in real estate are “all part of a cycle that happens every 10 or 12 years.”

Mr. Dunmore refused several requests for an interview.

By last August, the company had halted construction altogether, leaving vast tracts peppered with partly finished homes.

At one new ghost town in Yuba City, which is north of Sacramento, the scene looks as if construction workers just picked up and left. Some homes are mere frames, barely suggestive of a dwelling.

Dunmore’s rapid expansion may have been unwise, analysts say, but it was not unusual.

“Any builder, even the best-capitalized builders, drank the Kool-Aid and bought too much land and loaded up at the peak,” said Ivy Zelman, a home building industry analyst. Ms. Zelman, who said she had no direct knowledge of Dunmore Homes, said she believed that the company might have taken on “way too much risk and just assumed values would go up.”

“I imagine that’s what they were thinking and didn’t have good disciplines in place.”

John Slaughter, a spokesman for Dunmore Homes who left the company this week, recalled how “so much happened with the mortgage industry, and prices dropping, and all the foreclosures.”

“It got to where we were a private company, competing with the large billion-dollar companies that could continue to reduce prices, and we just couldn’t compete with that,” he said.

In September, Dunmore Homes changed its name to DHI Development and sold its assets for $500 to a New York entity called Dunmore Homes Inc. The new Dunmore Homes is owned by Michael Kane, a Sacramento mortgage broker. He declined to comment.

Mr. Kane got not just the assets, but debts amounting to more than $250 million owed to a lengthy list of creditors that includes banks, contractors, landscapers, electricians, plumbers and paving companies.

Mr. Dunmore’s creditors cried foul over the sale, as well as the bankruptcy court filing in New York, a continent away.

Mr. Dunmore apparently had his reasons for the quick, cheap sale. According to court documents, by declaring his losses in the sale of the business, Mr. Dunmore is due a 2007 tax refund of approximately $11 million — money that he will use to pay off an $11 million obligation to Dunmore Homes.

“He couldn’t have financial gain without showing a loss,” said James Curran, a lawyer representing Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America, which has a separate lawsuit pending against DHI Development and Mr. Dunmore to recover $9.65 million. “He went into bankruptcy for a reason, and it was to capture those losses for his financial gain.”

In December a federal judge in San Francisco granted Travelers a writ of attachment against both of Mr. Dunmore’s homes.

Meanwhile, William M. Niemi, the former president of Dunmore Homes, has sued Mr. Dunmore, contending, among other things, breach of contract.

“It’s about as horrible as it could be,” said Howard Nevins, a lawyer who represents Hemington Landscape Services, which, according to legal papers, is owed $827,941 by Dunmore Homes. “There just appears to be inadequate resources to get creditors paid.”

In January, a bankruptcy judge in New York agreed to have the case moved to California.

“It seems like the company is in a shambles, but Sidney Dunmore is still alive and well,” Mr. Curran said. “I’m sure we haven’t seen the last of Mr. Dunmore or Dunmore Homes.”

Indeed, the real estate vein runs deep in the Dunmores. People close to the family say that Sidney Dunmore keeps his distance from his two sons, Sidney and Jeremy, now in their 30s. Their company, Dunmore Capital, a real estate venture firm, has troubles of its own. Umpqua Bank, based in Oregon, is suing the two for repayment of several million dollars in loans.

The bank named Ruth Dunmore, their grandmother, and the estate of George Dunmore in that suit. Umpqua Bank points to them as cosignatories for the loans. But in her cross-complaint to that suit, the elderly Mrs. Dunmore says the two young entrepreneurs “embarked on an aggressive and unending campaign to, among other things, scare, pressure and manipulate” her.

The booming real estate business in the Central Valley has ground to a halt, but another business is booming here. For Mr. Nevins, whose specialty is bankruptcy law, “it’s been very busy.”
202 2008-03-07 “The potential for iPhone is huge,” Mr. Doerr said.

Matt Murphy, the Kleiner partner overseeing the fund, said he expected the fund to last two to three years, after which the company might decide to add more capital.

Mr. Jobs said Apple would offer a developer kit for free that would allow programmers to create everything from games to business programs, though the company is charging $99 for the right to distribute finished programs to iPhone users. On Thursday, and demonstrated applications they created for the iPhone using the kit.

The programs that are created will then be available to iPhone users exclusively through a new service on all iPhones called the Apps Store, an aspect of the plan that may discourage some developers. Apple will keep 30 percent of the sale price.

Mr. Jobs said that Apple would offer only those programs that it approves, rejecting pornography, for example, and programs that might not provide adequate security for users.

He argued that developers would benefit from Apple’s being the sole distributor because only Apple could give third-party programs such wide exposure to customers. All iPhone users will be able to browse the available programs directly from their devices. Customers will also benefit, he said, from Apple’s weeding out of malicious programs.

“We can track the developers and we can tell their parents,” Mr. Jobs said, joking about the demographic profile of many Apple entrepreneurs.

In an attempt to lure corporate customers, Apple executives also announced that the iPhone would be able to work directly with ’s Exchange software, allowing it to interact closely with corporate networks and e-mail systems in much the way that BlackBerry devices do. Apple said and were among the companies that were already taking advantage of this feature.

The new business abilities will be added to the iPhone in June and will come to existing owners in a free upgrade. The software will include extensive security features, like the ability to lock and erase the system remotely in the event of loss or theft.

“The majority of the objections I.T. managers have had about the iPhone have been addressed today,” said Van L. Baker, an analyst with , referring to corporate information technology managers. “It’s a very valid and robust device, and for that reason it’s a viable platform for the enterprise in competition with the BlackBerry and others.”

But attracting a huge following among corporations is something Apple has not been able to achieve with the Macintosh, and it remains to be seen whether the iPhone will take sales from the BlackBerry, the popular business communicator sold by of Waterloo, .

“It’s a better device and platform that does more things than the BlackBerry,” Mr. Murphy said. If people have been questioning whether the iPhone is a business tool, the integration with Exchange “takes the issue off the table,” he said.

The iPhone is already the second most popular smartphone after the BlackBerry, with a 28 percent share of the market, but its inability to communicate with corporate computer systems running Microsoft Exchange has hindered its growth in that market.
203 2008-03-07 The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been hampered as the White House has left vacant a position on the three-member commission, which has prevented the agency from issuing new rules or penalizing companies that violate the existing ones. The commission has a staff of about 400, roughly half its size in the 1980s. Fifteen inspectors monitor all imports of consumer products under the agency’s supervision, a market that last year was valued at $614 billion.

Both the House and Senate legislation would increase the budget and staff and would grant the agency the authority to issue rules and penalize companies even when the commission lacks a quorum. Both measures would also allow far less lead in toys.

But the Senate measure goes further. It would create a public database of complaints and would permit the attorneys general to seek court injunctions if products endanger residents and the federal government is not acting. It would make mandatory many toy safety standards that are now voluntary and as part of that change require that toys be tested in compliance with a comprehensive set of rules.

The Senate bill would also increase the possible maximum penalty for violations to $20 million, from the current $1.25 million. And it would make it a crime for a company to sell a product that has been recalled.

During a week of debate, Republican critics led by Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina attacked the legislation as being too onerous on businesses, saying it would “create a playground for plaintiffs’ attorneys.” The measure’s Democratic and Republican supporters responded with a parade of stories and pictures of children who were killed or injured by defective products like cribs that collapsed, toys made with lead and small magnet toys that were swallowed.

The White House announced a lengthy list of objections to the Senate legislation. It criticized one provision that would give an enforcement role to state prosecutors and another that would extend whistle-blower protections to employees who disclose safety violations. The administration also opposed provisions that would create a public database of consumer safety complaints and that would require laboratories that test certain children’s products for safety to be independent and privately owned.

“These provisions threaten to burden American consumers and industry in unproductive ways, and may actually harm a well-functioning product safety system,” the administration statement said. The statement did not threaten a veto.

The Congressional action was prompted by a spate of food and product recalls beginning last year that has highlighted the difficulties facing federal regulators.

“We’ve seen toy after toy recalled in this country; 29 million toys were recalled in 2007 alone,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota and the author of the bill’s provision for sharp reductions in lead levels in toys. “We’ve seen a record number of imports coming in from other countries that don’t have the safety standards that we do.”

“The current system has been broken by years of neglect, an agency that hasn’t told the truth about the problems and an administration that has turned its back on the problems,” Ms. Klobuchar said.

Echoing the sentiments of some manufacturers and the administration, Mr. DeMint attacked many features of the bill as he unsuccessfully sought to derail it. He said that the whistle-blower protection provision “makes it legally impossible to fire disruptive employees.”

He said the database would be used “to anonymously smear companies” by circulating “frivolous complaints filed by left-wing interest groups.” And he added that the provision to provide new authority to state prosecutors “undermines a cooperative relationship between businesses and the Consumer Product Safety Commission.”
204 2008-03-07 Renewed anxiety about the availability of bank loans — and fears that the Federal Reserve may be unable to curb the credit slump — sent shares down sharply on Thursday.

The broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 2.2 percent, or 29.36 points, reaching its lowest close since September 2006. The index, which closed at 1,304.34, is off more than 16 percent from its peak last fall.

Shares of financial services firms led the sell-off, which spread to every major sector of the market. Investors were unnerved by high-profile loan defaults at Carlyle Capital, an investment firm based in Guernsey, Channel Islands, that handles $21.7 billion in assets.

It was a double-barreled bit of bad news. The assets of Carlyle have lost value in recent months, to the point where the firm cannot pay back some loans. And the fact that the banks called in the money in the first place suggests they are anxious about maintaining the size of their credit lines.

That touched off fears among investors, who sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 214.60 points, or 1.75 percent, to 12,040.39. All but one of the Dow components declined.
205 2008-03-07 LONDON (Reuters) — Britain’s home secretary said Thursday that the government would begin in months to carry out its plan for national identity cards.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said that the government would start distributing cards to foreigners in November.

The nation’s 200,000 airport workers, who are expected to receive cards next year, will be the first British citizens required to have them, because of the high level of security needed for their jobs, Ms. Smith said.

Beginning in 2010, students will be encouraged to apply voluntarily for identity cards, which will store the holder’s fingerprint on a chip.

“It will make it easier to enroll on a course, apply for a student loan, open a bank account or prove your age,” Ms. Smith said at a meeting with a research agency in London.
206 2008-03-07 The credit market jitters were blamed for a sharp drop in stock prices, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index falling 2.2 percent. Financial stocks were the hardest hit, with an index of such shares falling to its lowest level in more than four years. Fannie Mae shares fell $2.57, or 10.6 percent, to $21.70, and Freddie Mac shares dropped $1.50, or 6.7 percent, to $20.14. Both are at their lowest level in more than a decade.

As the economy grew through most of this decade, much of the growth was fueled by borrowing, both by individuals taking out mortgages and by investors who sought high returns through highly leveraged investments. Some of those investments are now unraveling because lenders will not lend enough money to enable investors to hold on to them. That reluctance forces the sale of investments, which lowers prices and makes lenders even less willing to risk their capital.

“Leverage is acceptable in a stable economic environment, but not in an economic crisis,” Geraud Charpin, a strategist at UBS, wrote last week.

At the end of last year, Carlyle Capital had $21.76 billion in assets, of which $21.69 billion had been pledged as collateral against loans. It had borrowed $31 for every dollar of equity, and even a $150 million line of credit from its parent, the Carlyle Group, was not enough to keep it out of trouble as lenders demanded more collateral to back up their loans.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose debt has been viewed as almost as safe as that of the government itself, have played an essential role in keeping the mortgage markets functioning. That is because many mortgage companies have gone out of business and investors have been unwilling to buy mortgage-backed securities unless the government, or one of the enterprises, guaranteed the mortgages.

The difference between the yield on long-term debt guaranteed by Fannie Mae and that of similar Treasury debt rose to its largest level in more than 20 years, providing a new sign of the nervousness that has affected financial markets.

In Congressional testimony, William B. Shear, an official with the Government Accountability Office, warned that Fannie and Freddie, “with more than $6 trillion in outstanding obligations,” could pose “significant risks to taxpayers” if they ran into difficulty.

Each of the two enterprises has a $2.25 billion line of credit with the Treasury, but that is a small fraction of what they owe. Mr. Shear said it was “generally assumed on Wall Street that assistance would be provided in a financial emergency.”

With the trading levels indicating that some traders were no longer as confident of that assumption as they had been, rumors swirled that the Treasury Department was preparing to issue an explicit guarantee of the debts of government-sponsored enterprises, or G.S.E.’s, to calm the market. A Treasury spokeswoman denied those rumors.

“The rumor of an explicit government guarantee for the G.S.E.’s speaks to the gravity of the current situation,” said Margaret Kerins, a strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.

The index of yields on Fannie Mae guaranteed loans rose to 5.96 percent on Thursday, an increase of 13 basis points from the previous day. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.) At the same time, the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds fell 9 basis points, to 3.58 percent.

The difference in the two yields, of 2.38 percentage points, was the largest since 1986 and was more than twice the difference of a year ago, before credit fears began to grow.

The credit crisis began last year with indications of rising defaults on subprime mortgage loans, a problem that bankers and regulators said could be easily contained. But it gradually spread as confidence declined in the financial engineering that has remade the financial system in recent years.

The bond rating agencies have been forced to reduce the ratings on some structured finance products — many of them ultimately backed by mortgage loans — from AAA to very low levels. That has damaged the credibility of the agencies at the same time that it has made investors wary of taking on any risk.

Many of those structured finance products had been guaranteed by bond insurers like MBIA and Ambac, and the fact that they could face significant claims has led to concerns about their solvency.

An effort to bail out Ambac with guarantees from banks foundered on the reluctance of banks to commit capital they might need for other purposes, and a plan announced Wednesday for the company to raise additional capital by selling stock was greeted with hostility by investors, causing its share price to lose nearly a third of its already depressed value in the last two days.

Concerns have also grown about a recession, with economists forecasting an increase in the unemployment rate when February’s job figures are released Friday. On Thursday, the Federal Reserve reported that the net worth of households fell in the first quarter, the first time that had happened since 2002.

The Mortgage Bankers Association reported that the proportion of borrowers more than 30 days delinquent rose to 5.82 percent, the highest since 1985. The situation was worst among subprime borrowers who had taken out adjustable rate mortgages, but the proportion of prime mortgages that were delinquent also rose, to 3.24 percent.
207 2008-03-07 Mr. Abdullah, who came to power in 2003 promising sweeping reforms and crackdowns on corruption, has struggled to convince voters that he can deliver, said Ibrahim Suffian, director of the Merdeka Center, an independent polling agency.

“He looks a bit out of touch,” Mr. Ibrahim said. At a time of rising crime, higher food prices and ethnic tensions, he added, “He’s basically telling people that there are no problems.”

Mr. Abdullah led the National Front coalition to a landslide victory in 2004, winning more than 90 percent of the seats in Parliament. But his administration has been beset by scandals and controversies that have challenged the prime minister’s now widely mocked nickname, Mr. Clean.

A top aide to the deputy prime minister is on trial, charged with abetting the slaying of his Mongolian mistress, a killing that two police commandos who also served as Mr. Abdullah’s bodyguards are charged with carrying out. And the nation was stunned last year by the release of a videotape of a prominent lawyer apparently brokering judicial appointments with a top judge. The videotape was made before Mr. Abdullah came to power but has led to renewed calls for reforms of the judiciary.

In the face of the repeated criticism that he figuratively and literally sleeps on the job, the prime minister has come across as defensive.

“We are not deaf, for we hear what the people say,” Mr. Abdullah said this week, according to the state-run news agency Bernama. “We are not asleep, for we are working.”

If the governing coalition’s majority is narrowed significantly, Mr. Abdullah’s position would be weakened inside his party, and he could face pressure to step down at a party conference scheduled for later this year, analysts say.

From the vantage point of central Kuala Lumpur, the country appears to be booming. The sounds and sights of jackhammers, cranes and backhoes across the city are testament to the continued transformation of what was once a sleepy backwater into a thriving, cosmopolitan Southeast Asian capital.

But many Malaysians say they are worried about the country’s economic prospects.

In a survey of 1,026 registered voters released by the Merdeka Center in January, only 19 percent of ethnic Chinese, who form the cornerstone of the country’s business community, said they expected the economy to improve in the coming year.

Price increases for food and fuel, both of which are subsidized here, are major campaign issues. Voters surveyed listed inflation, inequality, ethnic relations and a rise in crime as their top concerns.

Income distribution in Malaysia is the least equal of all Asian countries but Papua New Guinea, according to United Nations statistics.

“Bread and butter issues have been essential in all the constituencies,” said Bridget Welsh, a specialist in Malaysian politics at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.

Analysts expect the governing coalition to lose ground in several states, including Penang and Terengganu. But the coalition has the formidable advantage of five decades of incumbency. The leading newspapers in Malaysia are owned or linked to parties in the coalition and are widely criticized as slavishly pro-government during election campaigns.

The group Human Rights Watch said in a statement this week that irregularities in the electoral rolls and curbs on media freedom would make the election “grossly unfair.”

This week, Malaysia’s election commission unexpectedly rescinded a decision to use indelible ink on voters’ fingers to prevent people from using identity cards of deceased voters and casting votes several times. Opposition parties have long complained of “phantom” voters — dead people who have never been struck from the election rolls.

The election commission says that 8,666 registered voters on the election rolls are more than 100 years old, including two people who are 128, which seems unlikely in a country where life expectancy is 72.

Ms. Welsh said the monitoring of vote counting was made more difficult after a ruling by the election commission to allow only one representative per party in counting centers.

“Changing of the rules at the last minute undermines faith in the electoral system,” she said.

The opposition is made up of the Islamic Party of Malaysia, which has a strong base in the northern peninsula, the Chinese-led Democratic Action Party, which has a loyal urban following, and the relatively young National Justice Party of Anwar Ibrahim, a former deputy prime minister who was dismissed from office after an internal squabble in the governing party in the late 1990s.

Mr. Anwar is barred from running for office in this election because of a 1999 conviction for abuse of power in a highly politicized trial. But he has campaigned on behalf of the other candidates from his party, including his wife and daughter.
208 2008-03-07 But officials at the Kennel Club, which administers Crufts, argue that there is no conflict. Such events, they say, complement the traditional competition, in which 183 different breeds of dog are judged according to stringent aesthetic standards in a series of knockout competitions, culminating in the Best in Show on Sunday.

“Our position is that the heart of Crufts is a serious dog show, but we have a number of other events going on that encourage dog ownership,” Bill Lambert, a spokesman for the Kennel Club, said in an interview. “Watching dogs be judged isn’t necessarily the most exciting thing for the public to watch.”

Or, as Mr. Richardson put it: “If you see a dog show, the public doesn’t understand why one dog is better than others. You have 10 Labradors — they all look the same.”

Nearly 23,000 dogs are competing this year at Crufts, a four-day extravaganza with hundreds of events and more than 600 trade stands spread over the National Exhibition Center here. But just as there are visitors like Kate Winters, 52, whose passion for “Heelwork to Music,” or Dancing With Dogs, as it is known informally, means that she is “not that into” conventional dog show events, so too there are traditionalists who take the opposite view.

“People might love to see a bunch of collies rushing forward to see who gets the ball first, but it bores me to tears,” said Nadine Harryman, whose Yorkshire terrier, Basil, was competing in the regular show. “It drives me nuts.”

But there are other complaints.

Lorraine Wright, here to show her 18-month-old German spitz, Treacle, said the show had become far too commercialized, with exhibitors peddling items like high-tech anti-barking devices, doggie raincoats, cutesy pooper-scoopers and pet gravestones.

“There’s a store up there selling knitted romper suits for dogs — pink ones, blue ones,” she said, gesturing toward the exhibitors’ stands. “To me, that’s degrading. You tell me a dog likes to walk around in a knitted hat.”

In his remarks, Mr. Keevil also complained that the show had become glitzy and Americanized, with the dogs now primped like “Hollywood starlets — all teeth and hair.”

Ms. Wright, the owner of the German spitz, was inclined to agree. Owners are not allowed to use coloring or styling products on their dogs’ coats — the dogs are subject to spot checks, much the way Olympic athletes undergo random drug tests — but they do it secretly anyway, she said.

“I’ve seen them use mousse and hair spray,” she said. Talcum powder, too. “When the dogs shake, it’s like a small snowstorm.”

Controversy erupted in 2003 when the Best in Show winner, a Pekingese named Danny, was accused of having had plastic surgery. He was exonerated when it turned out that while he had indeed had surgery, it was for a sinus condition.

The number of foreign dogs competing at Crufts has grown steadily in the last few years, since Britain relaxed its quarantine laws. There are 1,165 foreign dogs this year, 39 from the United States, and there is a feeling that the outsiders have changed the tone a bit.

Diana Rich, who owns a Chinese Crested and was watching an early round in the Yorkshire terrier competition, said it was easy to spot the foreign Yorkies — they were the ones with back-combed, puffy hair accessorized with fake-diamond ornaments rather than traditional red bows.

“I’m not that keen on that, myself,” she said of the fancy hairstyles.

But although there did seem to be a divide of sorts between traditionalists and modernizers, there were also those who, like Julie Hockold, believed that change was inevitable and that Crufts could accommodate both camps.

“It does detract from the actual dog show,” said Ms. Hockold, 68, who was pushing a baby carriage containing her contestant — Ozzie, a 19-month-old Chinese Crested clad in a handmade multicolored wool jacket. “But it’s another part of the dog world. At least it’s got something to do with dogs.”
209 2008-03-07 Supporting Mrs. Clinton does not make me a racist any more than it makes a supporter of Mr. Obama a misogynist. The struggle to have a qualified person elected president has gone on too long for it to be reduced to catch phrases and false syllogisms.

It’s unfortunate that some people regard a vote for Senator Barack Obama as a vote for a black man and against a woman, and a vote for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as for a vote for a woman and against a black man.

Suffering is useful when it forces upon us the recognition that others’ misfortunes are as important as our own, and then unites us in a shared sympathy and understanding, even when we’re in disagreement.

A contest over whose suffering is worse, particularly when it carries a heavy load of symbolism, means that the lesson of suffering is lost and foolish spite continues.

I can already hear the words in my head: President John McCain. And it doesn’t make me happy at all.

Maureen Dowd does an excellent job of assessing the frustration that some of us fortysomething professional women who aren’t exactly enthralled with Hillary Rodham Clinton are experiencing with our increasingly hostile “Rah-rah Hillary” female counterparts.

I’d go one step further in addressing the “identity pileup” that so aptly describes the tone of this entire Democratic campaign. What’s up with the trend where we’re addressing Senator Clinton as “Hillary” and Senator Barack Obama as, well, “Obama”?

Don’t answer that. I think we already know the answer ...

Maureen Dowd writes that Hillary Rodham Clinton was “carried on the padded shoulders of the older women in Texas, Ohio and Rhode Island who loved her ‘I Will Survive’ rallying cry that ‘I am a little older and I have earned every wrinkle on my face.’ ”

Is Ms. Dowd suggesting that women who are excited, passionate and motivated to vote for Mrs. Clinton are walking around with blinders on, and that she won Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island because of “old-school” feminism?

You need to win a lot more demographics to do what Mrs. Clinton did last Tuesday night.

Are African-Americans who are excited, passionate and motivated to vote for Barack Obama doing so only because of his race? Aren’t these stereotypes insulting to the voters?

Maureen Dowd reports that one woman told her, “Hillary doesn’t make it look like fun to be a woman.”

I can’t think of anything that looks like more fun than to be a strong, beautiful, mature woman at the peak of her powers, doing the work she loves, surrounded by cheering crowds, with chants of “Madam President” ringing in her ears, with her happy, confident grown-up daughter and her husband of over 30 years by her side.

I’m a woman and a Generation Xer, I’ve never worn a shoulder pad, I’m not angry, and I’ll be voting for Hillary Clinton, thanks.

She looks like she’s having fun to me.

I’m a biracial female Democrat, and I’ve never been tempted to support either Barack Obama or Hillary Rodham Clinton because of their genes. Perhaps because my loyalty to the female experience equals my loyalty to the black experience, neither trumps the other.

While some struggle to wrap their heads around which minority to support — or which historical wrong to right — others take the view that (1) no single election will rectify wrongs like slavery and disenfranchisement, and (2) what’s really interesting is that the Democratic Party produced a field reflective of this country’s rare and real diversity, while the Republican Party, well, didn’t.

That Maureen Dowd framed her thoughts in terms of loyalty to aggrieved groups is disappointing — yet not as disappointing as the news media’s befuddled obsession with voters who do base their decision on genetics.

Given that centuries passed with white men being elected to office at least in part because they were white men, you’d think we’d find the like-supports-like logic utterly mundane.
210 2008-03-07 In a move expected for at least a week, CBS News on Thursday fired Shelley Ross, executive producer of its morning news program, “The Early Show.” But the network is not naming a full-time replacement yet. Instead it announced that Rick Kaplan, executive producer of the “CBS Evening News With Katie Couric,” would take on the added responsibility of overseeing the morning program on an interim basis. Mr. Kaplan will turn over some day-to-day duties on the evening news program to senior staff members, led by Chris Dinan, a senior broadcast producer. Mr. Dinan was in charge of the newscast for a month this year while Mr. Kaplan recuperated from a broken hip. Ms. Ross joined “The Early Show” only in September, but her management style stirred some harsh reaction from its staff. CBS had removed two executive producers, Michael Bass and Steve Friedman, to make room for Ms. Ross. She had led ABC’s “Good Morning America,” which was a competitive second to the morning program leader, NBC’s “Today.”
211 2008-03-07 On Thursday, Mr. Kibaki urged Parliament to swiftly pass the legislation needed to turn the political agreement into law. Lawmakers on both sides have predicted more skirmishes over the next few weeks as they negotiate how much power Mr. Odinga actually gets and how cabinet positions are reassigned.

Mr. Kibaki said that once the new government was solidified, it would dive into an ambitious agenda that would include helping the fishing and tourism industries and building better housing for the millions of Kenyans who live in shanties.

“We still have many challenges, but we still have a lot to celebrate,” Mr. Kibaki said.

His speech seemed to be a pep talk for a country that sorely needed one. Kenya erupted into violence in late December after the national election commission declared Mr. Kibaki, the incumbent, the winner of a closely contested presidential race over Mr. Odinga, who claims to have won the most votes. Election observers have been unanimous that the results were tainted, with some saying that the government rigged the tallying of votes to give Mr. Kibaki a slender 11th-hour edge.

The controversy set off fighting across the country between supporters of Mr. Odinga and those of Mr. Kibaki, who are from different ethnic groups, and it stirred up long-festering political, ethnic and economic grievances. More than 1,000 people were killed, and hundreds of thousands fled ethnically mixed areas, creating a degree of ethnic segregation that had never existed in this country before. The violence has greatly diminished in the past few weeks, but the tension and displacements have continued.

Mr. Kibaki, who has been in Parliament since Kenya’s independence in 1963, said the government would set up a truth and reconciliation commission and address head-on the country’s painful ethnic issues. He also promised to pay for new homes for displaced people and to distribute free seeds to displaced farmers.

Mr. Odinga sat quietly throughout the speech. His party holds a slight edge in Parliament, which has 210 elected members and 12 appointed seats, though two of his colleagues were killed after the election, narrowing the opposition’s majority. Despite all the talk of a new coalition government, Mr. Odinga and his top lieutenants sat on the opposition side of the chamber on Thursday, across the room from Mr. Kibaki’s political allies, who occupied the government seats. There was mingling, though, among some freshmen lawmakers from the different parties.

Kenneth Marende, the Parliament speaker and a member of Mr. Odinga’s party, said, “The recent events have exposed the fault lines in our system of governance.”

“If Parliament descends into anarchy,” Mr. Marende added, “the Kenyan nation will not just sink, it will drown.”
212 2008-03-07 Stocks slid on Wall Street on Friday as investors digested a discouraging employment report that revived fears the nation may already be in a recession.

The Dow Jones industrials dropped at the opening bell after the Labor Department reported that the economy lost 63,000 jobs in February, an unexpected and ominous decline. The blue-chip index recovered in morning trading but fell back in the afternoon, dipping nearly 200 points before pulling back.

At the close, the Dow had lost 146.70 points, or 1.2 percent, to 11,893.69. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index was off 0.8 percent, or 11 points, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index declined 0.4 percent. The S.& P. is at its lowest level since September 2006.

While the employment report underscored anxieties about a broad-based economic slowdown, it also raised anticipation that the Federal Reserve will cut its benchmark interest rates again later this month, perhaps by as much as a full percentage point.

The central bank has signaled it will set policy to avoid a steep drop-off in growth when it meets on March 18. Futures markets have begun to price in a full percentage-point cut, though most investors who bet on the Fed’s actions think the central bank will lower rates by three-quarters of a point.

But tumult in the credit market also weighed on Wall Street’s outlook. A series of missed margin calls at an investment fund affiliated with the Carlyle Group raised fears that banks are running low on credit lines. Trading on the publicly traded fund was suspended in Amsterdam to avoid a panicked sell-off.
213 2008-03-07 RENEWED STRESS Credit woes intensified after an increase in mortgage foreclosures was reported and two financial companies said they had defaulted on some obligations.      A WAVE OF DEFAULTS Foreclosures surged to a record high in the fourth quar...
214 2008-03-08 As he prepares for a general election in which his Democratic opponent will press him hard on his war stance, Senator John McCain allowed for the possibility of a partial troop withdrawal in a recent interview....
215 2008-03-08 WASHINGTON — Federal agencies have opened a criminal inquiry into Countrywide Financial for suspected securities fraud as part of the continuing fallout over the mortgage crisis, government officials with knowledge of the case said on Saturday.

The Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are looking at whether officials at Countrywide, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, misrepresented its financial condition and the soundness of its loans in security filings, the officials said.

The investigation — first reported on Saturday in The Wall Street Journal — is at an early stage, said the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss ongoing criminal matters. It is unclear whether anyone will ultimately be charged with a crime.

Richard Kolko, a spokesman for the F.B.I., declined on Saturday to confirm whether the agency had started an investigation of Countrywide related to its securities filings.

A Countrywide spokeswoman, Susan Martin, said, “We are not aware of any such investigation.”

The inquiry comes as the F.B.I. investigates 14 companies as part of a wide-ranging review of business practices in the troubled mortgage industry.
216 2008-03-08 TUCSON — The case of a Border Patrol agent who faced charges of second-degree murder and other crimes in the shooting death of a Mexican immigrant last year resulted in a mistrial on Friday when a jury could not reach a verdict.

The case, a rare prosecution of a Border Patrol agent on murder charges, played out in rising tension on the Mexican border and was closely followed by human rights groups, the Mexican government and Border Patrol supporters.

They differed over whether the case was an example of an overly aggressive agency that abuses immigrants or an overzealous prosecution indifferent to the increasing violence and threats that agents encounter in their work.

The mistrial illustrates the difficulty prosecutors have in trying to hold Border Patrol agents criminally accountable for on-duty actions. The only other agent tried on murder charges in recent decades was acquitted in 1994, also in Arizona.

Ed Rheinheimer, the district attorney in Cochise County, who brought the case, said the agent, Nicholas W. Corbett, would be retried. Mr. Rheinheimer said he would proceed despite criticism from constituents, some of them members of civilian border watch groups hostile to illegal immigrants.
217 2008-03-08 The drug maker Eli Lilly & Company said Friday that it would terminate development of an inhaled insulin treatment for diabetes, which it was conducting in partnership with Alkermes, after deciding that the product’s commercial potential was not strong.

The biotechnology company Alkermes said earlier in the day that it expected Lilly to drop out of their program to develop the treatment.

Lilly’s decision is the third setback in recent months for inhaled insulin formulations, once deemed potential blockbuster products because of their greater convenience than standard injectable insulin.

Alkermes, which makes the alcohol addiction drug Vivitrol, said Lilly had the right to terminate its license to the inhaled treatment, Air Insulin, at its discretion.

“While Lilly may elect not to commercialize Air Insulin, Alkermes believes that the Phase 3 safety and efficacy trials should be completed,” Alkermes said in a statement.
218 2008-03-08 DETROIT (Reuters) — The Ford Motor Company said Friday that it had awarded its chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, restricted stock worth $4.1 million and 3.56 million stock options after a year in which the automaker lost $2.7 billion.

The compensation, which was detailed in a filing with securities regulators, came two days after Mr. Mulally announced that all Ford employees in the United States and Canada would be paid bonuses for 2007.

Ford’s larger rival, the General Motors Corporation, said on Thursday that it had approved a 33 percent rise in the base salary of its chief executive, Rick Wagoner, to $2.2 million, and would give him a bonus of $2.43 million if G.M. hits its performance targets. G.M. lost a record $39 billion last year.

Ford did not assign a value to Mr. Mulally’s stock options, which carried an exercise price of $6.14, the closing price of Ford stock on the day the payout was approved by Ford’s board.

Mr. Mulally, who joined Ford from Boeing in late 2006, was paid $37.5 million during his first 14 months in the top job at the automaker and had the potential to earn a bonus of an additional $3.1 million.

Ford plans to provide more detail on compensation for Mr. Mulally and other senior executives when it files its proxy statement for investors in April.
219 2008-03-08 When asked to address when the conversation with Mr. Kerry occurred, Mr. McCain once again replied sharply. “No, no,” he said, “because the issue is closed, as far as I’m concerned. Everybody knows it. Everybody knows it in America.”

The issue has become a highly sensitive one to Mr. McCain, who is actively courting conservatives.

In May 2004, in an article in The Times about prominent Democrats who wanted Mr. McCain to be Mr. Kerry’s running mate, Mr. McCain was asked by the paper whether he had ever discussed the offer of the vice-presidential spot, even casually, with Mr. Kerry. He paused for a moment and said, “No, we really haven’t.”

An article in June 2004 in The Times reported that Mr. Kerry made his first direct overtures to Mr. McCain about the vice-presidential spot about three weeks after he had locked up the Democratic nomination that March, according to a person who had discussed the matter with the two senators.

Since 2004, senior aides to Mr. McCain have readily discussed Mr. McCain’s conversations with Mr. Kerry about the No. 2 spot, but Mr. McCain has himself rarely talked about those conversations publicly. For that reason, his reply to the question at the public forum in Atlanta stood out.

Mr. McCain did briefly talk about those discussions in May 2005 in an interview with Chris Matthews on “Hardball” on MSNBC.

“I got the idea that he wanted to discuss it, clearly,” Mr. McCain said then. “But I would not like to go much further.”

He added that “all this stuff is water under the bridge.”

Later, before speaking to a conservative group here, Mr. McCain repudiated the views of a prominent Texas televangelist, the Rev. John C. Hagee, who endorsed him last month. Mr. Hagee has called the Roman Catholic Church the “anti-Christ” and a “false cult system.”

Despite calls from the Catholic League to renounce the endorsement, Mr. McCain said last week that he was proud of Mr. Hagee’s spiritual leadership and his commitment to Israel and that “when he endorses me, it does not mean that I embrace everything that he stands for or believes in.”

On Friday, Mr. McCain told The Associated Press that he took issue with Mr. Hagee’s comments on the Catholic Church.

“I repudiate any comments that are made, including Pastor Hagee’s, if they are anti-Catholic or offensive to Catholics,” Mr. McCain said, adding that he had sent two of his children to Catholic school.
220 2008-03-08 Critics call Ms. Ahearn’s zealous pursuit of sex offenders counterproductive and unconstitutional, and contend that overexposure can deter the offenders from checking in with the authorities.

“Mapping out sex offenders makes them greater social lepers than they already are,” said Seth Muraskin, executive director of the Suffolk County chapter of the New York Civil Liberties Union. “You’re fostering punishment, not rehabilitation, and you’re leaving them very vulnerable to mob justice. You’re basically challenging vigilantes to come to their doors.”

Notification has also caused some complications. In Southbury, Conn., neighbors recently petitioned the local authorities to reduce their property tax assessments, claiming that a registered sex offender’s recent move into the area had brought down the value of their homes.

But Ms. Ahearn is constantly pushing for more restrictive laws against sex offenders on local, state and federal levels. She worked with lawmakers on state legislation limiting online activities of sex offenders, and on the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.

She supports state legislation that would require real estate brokers to provide house hunters with sex offender registry material, as well as a proposed Suffolk County regulation against renting to more than one sex offender per residence. She opposes, however, a proposal to prohibit registered sex offenders from residing within a quarter-mile of homes for the elderly, worrying that it could be used to overturn existing residency requirements prohibiting sex offenders from living near schools, parks and day care centers.

After Ms. Ahearn fought to keep paroled sex offenders out of homeless shelters, Suffolk County in 2006 began placing them in a trailer it promised to move from location to location to avoid overburdening any one area; lately officials have been keeping the trailer next to the county jail in Riverhead.

Long Island has had its share of nationally covered sex crimes — from the Friedmans of Great Neck, whose strange tale was documented in the film “Capturing the Friedmans,” to the Katie Beers dungeon case — and Ms. Ahearn has harnessed the issue to attain national prominence.

She is on a first-name basis with elected officials and has gained folk-hero status in many neighborhoods dense with sex offenders.

Ms. Ahearn, a mother of two, was studying to become a social worker when New York State enacted Megan’s Law in 1995, and she found that it was difficult, despite the new disclosure requirements, to get the names and addresses of local sex offenders from the authorities. So she began pressuring politicians and the police, all the while compiling her own local registry and posting it online, complete with offenders’ addresses and graphic details about their crimes.

Publicizing such details has provoked anger among those on Ms. Ahearn’s registry, and after numerous threatening phone calls, she moved her office out of her home in 2000. At the strip mall, one room holds a mock witness stand and stenography machine that are used to familiarize children with the setting before they testify in court. Ms. Ahearn’s office walls are lined with photographs of politicians and notorious sex offenders, and drawings by victimized children.

On Tuesday, workers were cross-checking registry information and preparing updates for school districts and community groups, based on the latest state data and notifications mailed from dozens of local police departments, a vital source of information on Level 1 offenders.

Early on, volunteers would gather information by visiting local police departments and hand-copying details to type later into the database. The group distributed the information to schools and community groups by mail or in person. Though much of the latest information is now computerized, the group still has a huge number of files in binders, labeled by ZIP code, by last name and by offender level.

“These people navigate under the radar screen,” Ms. Ahearn said of the offenders. “We want them to know they’re being watched.”
221 2008-03-08 TOKYO (AP) — The government picked Toshiro Muto, a deputy governor at the Bank of Japan, as the country’s next central bank chief on Friday, but the nomination could face opposition in Parliament over his political ties to the finance ministry.

Economists and investors considered Mr. Muto a safe successor to Gov. Toshihiko Fukui, whose five-year term ends on March 19.

A former finance ministry bureaucrat, Mr. Muto has been groomed by Mr. Fukui to be his successor and is expected to make a smooth transition.

“We’ve made a very good choice,” Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said. “We need to choose someone who can tackle agendas when we need to implement monetary policies and run the economy very carefully.”

But the opposition party says Mr. Muto is too politically connected as a former official in the finance ministry, adding that the central bank should be clearly independent.
222 2008-03-08 Greco-Roman mythology, misgivings about the Catholic Church and thoughts of Atlantis wouldn’t seem to be the makings of a No. 1 album. Yet they were just that in Italy, where Carmen Consoli’s 2006 album “Eva Contro Eva” (“Eve Against Eve”) topped the charts. (It has been released here by Universal Music Latino.)

Ms. Consoli slipped into New York City for a concert Thursday night in Long Island City, Queens, at the La Guardia Performing Arts Center’s Mainstage Theater. She introduced songs in fluent English, although the rapt audience was full of Italian-speaking fans.

Ms. Consoli is a remarkable combination of rocker and intellectual. She sings about invented characters — an AIDS patient in “Per Niente Stanca” (“Not Tired at All”), an older woman obsessed with plastic surgery in “Contessa Miseria” (“Countess Misery”) — with passion and immediacy, in a voice that holds sorrow, compassion and strength.

In the albums she has released over the past 12 years, Ms. Consoli has sung defiant pop-rock along the lines of Shakira or Alanis Morissette and dipped into smoother pop, sometimes with a Latin tinge. As she has grown more popular, she has revealed more local roots. “Eva Contro Eva” looks toward the traditional music of her native Sicily and its Mediterranean environs, with acoustic instruments and hints of folk tunes.

On Thursday night her band used unplugged instruments, including a fiddle, an accordion, a bouzouki and a Sicilian shepherd’s flute; for one song, Ms. Consoli played a kind of large tambourine frequently used in southern Italian music. They played with buoyancy and finesse, hinting at Celtic, Greek and Arabic modes as well as Italian ones, or turning toward bolero and bossa nova.

Yet Ms. Consoli’s older rock songs — like “Fiori D’Arancio” (“Orange Blossom”), in which a bride is left waiting at the altar, or “Geisha,” about a woman who marries for money — needed no electric guitar to carry their distress and fury.

Her songs don’t pretend to be antique in their music or lyrics. They tell stories with modern ambiguities or leap to poetic abstractions — like the song that started the set, “Sulle Rive di Morfeo” (“On Morpheus’s Shores”), which says, “Before the dawn they might discover us ravished by a dream/Where clear waters devour our footsteps.” Ms. Consoli often sings about women who are unfulfilled or in undeserved predicaments, like “Maria Catena” (“Mary Chain”), a woman in a small town who is slandered by gossip and then publicly refused communion by her local priest.
223 2008-03-08 Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, awarded $67.5 million each to its co-presidents, Gary D. Cohn and Jon Winkelried, increasing their pay 27 percent as the company evaded the mortgage losses spreading through the economy.

Mr. Cohn, 47, and Mr. Winkelried, 48, received 40 percent of their compensation in cash and 60 percent in restricted stock and options, Goldman said Friday in a proxy filing

The awards “are not doing anything to take the focus off executive compensation,” said Laura G. Thatcher, head of the executive pay practice at the Alston & Bird law firm in Atlanta. “Those numbers innately are high.”

Goldman set a record for Wall Street executive pay in December when it granted its chairman and chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, $68.5 million in salary and bonuses for 2007, topping the previous year’s $54 million award. Goldman’s profit increase of 22 percent and share-price gain of 7.9 percent last year outpaced Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, which ousted their chief executives after posting losses from the collapse of the subprime mortgage market.

Goldman, in its filing on Friday, said the awards were based on the company’s record earnings.

The firm’s proxy also showed that the chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, received $57.5 million and that Edward C. Forst, who oversees investment management, received $44 million.
224 2008-03-08 Gerard Mortier, the director of the Paris National Opera, has said he will focus on contemporary works when he becomes general manager and artistic director of the New York City Opera next year. Though Puccini will presumably not remain in the spotlight on Mr. Mortier’s watch, there may still be room for Mark Lamos’s strikingly elegant, spare production of “Madama Butterfly,” which returned to the New York State Theater on Thursday.

The centerpieces of Michael Yeargan’s tastefully minimalist sets are large sliding screens and stagewide stairs, enhanced by evocative touches like a kimono placed on one side of the stage. Robert Wierzel’s sophisticated lighting adds drama and nuance.

The Chinese soprano Shu-Ying Li was convincing and vocally impressive as Cio-Cio-San, the naïve teenage wife of Pinkerton, a callous United States Navy lieutenant. She was sweet and timid at first, patient and hopeful throughout her husband’s long absence and finally distraught on learning the truth of his unfaithfulness. Her strong, clear, expressive voice easily penetrated Puccini’s lush orchestration.

Initially cocky and then remorseful as the swaggering Pinkerton, James Valenti sang with ardent vigor, although his tenor didn’t always project. He also appeared stiff at times, assuming stock poses. Jennifer Tiller was effective as Suzuki, Cio-Cio-San’s maid, protective and anguished on behalf of her mistress.

Michael Chioldi sang well as the prescient Sharpless, and the smaller roles were also aptly portrayed, including Jeffrey Picón’s Goro. Steven Mosteller conducted a lively, bristling reading with energetically sweeping climaxes.

The only questionable idea in this otherwise admirable production is the use of a flag motif. It seems silly, for example, to have Cio-Cio-San drape Sorrow (her son with Pinkerton) in a robe resembling an American flag, and the gesture drew giggles from the audience.

Sorrow has a more fully choreographed role than usual in this production. Tyler Christopher Backer’s winning performance proved that a real, vibrant child is always preferable to a puppet, even one as expertly manipulated as that in Anthony Minghella’s beautiful production at the Metropolitan Opera.
225 2008-03-08 Yet, calm remains sufficiently suspect that Admiral Mullen walked within a large cordon of well-armed American and Iraqi foot soldiers (although some of the Iraqis had to be reminded to keep their rifle barrels pointed at the ground while on patrol, and not waving occasionally in the direction of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs).

But that was only the inner layer of security that included rooftop snipers, Apache and Kiowa helicopters, remote-controlled Predator reconnaissance aircraft and even an F-16 fighter overhead. “A few weeks ago, you or I could not have walked here on the streets of Hawija,” Admiral Mullen said. He also acknowledged, though, that while “security is dramatically improved, it clearly remains fragile.”

In several interviews over five days of travel, ending Wednesday, Admiral Mullen repeatedly said he had not made up his mind on what recommendation he would offer the president on the way ahead in Iraq. “Honestly, I am not there yet,” he said.

But by his actions and comments, the chairman gave ample evidence that his thinking was closely aligned with that of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.

Philosophically, Admiral Mullen is committed to getting more American troops out of Iraq before the end of the year. But he and other commanders are trying to come up with ways to do that without sacrificing improvements secured with the toil and lives of American troops, including the five extra combat brigades scheduled to leave by July.

“An Iraq in chaos would be extremely dangerous for all of us,” Admiral Mullen said, stressing that his recommendation would reflect the “need to sustain these efforts to achieve success over time.”

As chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen is also responsible for managing risks across this region and around the globe, which means freeing up forces from Iraq as rapidly as possible to assure the military can pivot to another crisis.

As he visited bases, training centers and neighborhoods across Iraq, Admiral Mullen expressed frustration that the Iraqi leadership was not doing enough to cement security gains in the provinces. “Dora and Hawija brought this out, that the central government must be in contact with, and engaged with, the local community,” he said. “I went into many of the shops. They need sewage services. They need water. They need electricity.”

His walking tours of the two markets also proved that there continued to be wrangling over sufficient troops for the war.

Baghdad has been defined as the American center of gravity, with the five brigades of reinforcements focusing their efforts there. The Bush administration said it needed to make Baghdad secure to accomplish its objectives; that meant it needed the north of Iraq just to hold steady.

The fight in the north, where most of the fighting is under way today, especially in Mosul, is thin of American troops. It is what the military calls an “economy of force” mission. That thinning of American troops, and the necessary reliance on Iraqi forces to step into the fight, certainly foreshadows the future of the American mission across the nation.

Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, met several times with Admiral Mullen during his tour of Iraq and declared that the “key is to hang on to what you’ve got.”

Indicating that the American focus will remain on security in the capital after the extra brigades leave in July, he cautioned against an “eagerness to go after something new,” if that put at risk gains achieved by the troop increase.

In an interview, General Petraeus said that when he made his separate reports to Congress and the president in April, his recommendation on future troop levels would be based on such criteria as numbers of attacks nationwide; American combat deaths and injuries; Iraqi civilian and security forces losses; and the ability and size of the Iraqi police force and army.

“If the population supports what we want to do, it won’t let Al Qaeda put roots down,” he said.
226 2008-03-08 BEIJING — A Chinese lawyer who has urged the Communist Party to improve its human rights record in advance of the Summer Olympics has disappeared, according to his wife, who said Friday that she was worried that the authorities might have detained him because of his political advocacy.

The lawyer, Teng Biao, 34, disappeared on Thursday evening after calling to say he would be home in 20 minutes, said his wife, Wang Ling. Shortly afterward, she said, she heard shouting in the parking lot below the family apartment and later found her husband’s empty car. Witnesses told her that two men had dragged someone out of the car and taken him away, she said.

“I just hope he will be home soon, safe and sound,” Ms. Wang said by telephone on Friday.

In recent months, Mr. Teng has attracted attention because of his commentary on China’s human rights record and his call for the release of his friend Hu Jia, who was a clearinghouse for information about dissidents and human rights cases. Mr. Hu was detained in December and later charged with subversion. No details about his case have been made public.

Last year, Mr. Teng and Mr. Hu wrote a letter posted on the Internet titled, “The Real China and the Olympics.”

“When you come to the Olympic Games in Beijing,” said the letter, according to a translation provided by Human Rights Watch, “you will see skyscrapers, spacious streets, modern stadiums and enthusiastic people. You will see the truth, but not the whole truth.”

Mr. Teng has also been in a group of lawyers who represent dissidents and take politically delicate cases. His disappearance could be a criminal abduction and not a political detention.
227 2008-03-08 KFAR ETZION, West Bank — They carried the body of Avraham David Moses, 16 years old, on a stretcher down the slope of the vibrant green cemetery here, shaded by tall pines, overlooking a valley, in utter silence.

The boy was wrapped in a black-and-white prayer shawl, and as the pallbearers slipped him into the grave on Friday, the long silence was broken by quiet weeping and occasional sobs.

Men recited psalms, and Naftali Moses, the boy’s father, his garments torn in grief, said the Hebrew prayer for the dead, his voice breaking, before moving back up the slope to the parking lot, through a somber line of mourners, men on one side, women on the other.

The boy’s stepmother, Leah, described Avraham David, as he was known, as “a really good kid — he would come home and unload the dishwasher without being asked.” If the adults started gossiping at the table, she said, he would recite mishnayot, or oral teachings. “He was just an incredible blessing,” she said.

Avraham David was one of eight seminary students killed Thursday night in an act of terrorism, shot by a Palestinian from East Jerusalem who sprayed them with hundreds of rounds of automatic weapons fire before being killed himself. Ten other students were wounded, three of them seriously.

It was unclear what group, if any, was responsible for the massacre. The radical Islamic Hamas movement praised the deed on Thursday but did not claim it.

On Friday an anonymous caller claiming to be from Hamas took responsibility in a phone call to Reuters and said that details would come later. But Fawzi Barhoum, a senior Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said that no claim was official unless made in a written statement signed by the military wing of Hamas. The family of the gunman, identified as Ala Abu Dhaim, 25, said he had been intensely religious, but did not belong to any militant group.

Mark Regev, spokesman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, said Israel would act after proper investigation and deliberation, and he condemned those, like Hamas, who celebrated the killings with parades in Gaza. “That Hamas calls this a heroic act, and praises it, this exposes them for what they are,” he said.

The young men died as they were studying in the library of the Mercaz Harav yeshiva in Jerusalem, a major center for the religious Zionist movement that supports Israeli settlement in the West Bank — settlements like this one, which Israel intends to keep in any future peace treaty.

The dead, most of them 15 or 16, with the oldest 26, were all buried Friday, in separate funerals drawing thousands of weeping and angry Israelis.

The funeral processions began together earlier on Friday at the yeshiva itself, where thousands of people, many of them in the traditional black clothing of the ultra-Orthodox or wearing knitted skullcaps, characteristic of more modern religious Zionists, lined the streets. In the large courtyard, where the blood had been washed away, eight benches were marked with the names of the dead, and one wall of the yeshiva was covered with large posters listing them.

As each body was brought forward to rest on its bench, the crowds outside the gates parted to let the pallbearers pass, with cries and screams from relatives and friends.

In every corner, students hugged and cried, and many went to see and touch the closed library door, shattered by bullets. In his eulogy, the yeshiva’s chief rabbi, Yaakov Shapira, said that the gunman had made targets of “everyone living in the holy city of Jerusalem” and criticized the Olmert government for its willingness to negotiate the return of some occupied land to the Palestinians.

“The time has come for all of us to understand that an external struggle is raging, and an internal struggle, and everyone believes the hour has come for us to have a good leadership, a stronger leadership, a more believing leadership,” he said.

Weeping, Rabbi Shapira said, “The murderers are the Amalek of our day, coming to remind us that Amalek has not disappeared, just changed its appearance.” The Amalekites were indigenous nomads who attacked the Israelites on their flight from Egypt, and were annihilated by King David. “God asked Abraham to sacrifice his only son,” the rabbi said. “We had to sacrifice eight.”

The ceremony ended as it began, with the procession of bodies taken out of the gates, one by one, for their separate burials.

The Israeli government declared a high alert on Friday and barred Palestinians in the West Bank from traveling to Jerusalem over the weekend, deploying thousands of police officers and limiting the numbers of Muslims allowed to pray at the Al Aksa Mosque in Jerusalem.

The killer was a Palestinian with permanent residency in Jerusalem. His home in the Jebel Mukaber neighborhood of East Jerusalem was adorned Friday with the flags of Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah. According to his family, he was a driver for a private company that had made deliveries to the yeshiva, but the police would not confirm that.

His family said that although he had been intensely religious, he was not a member of any militant group, and he had planned on marrying this summer. But he had been transfixed by the bloodshed in Gaza, where 126 Palestinians died from Wednesday through Monday, his sister, Iman Abu Dhaim, told The Associated Press. Several of his relatives were detained for questioning.

The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, condemned the killing of civilians by both sides, and Israel said it would continue peace talks with him. Mr. Abbas had suspended such talks after the Gaza deaths.

Mr. Regev urged Mr. Abbas to do more to stop terrorism. “They have clear obligations to act against terror cells,” he said. “While we understand that they have limitations on their capabilities today, we believe that they could be doing much more.”

A senior Israeli official who spoke anonymously because of the delicacy of the issue said many details about the killing were unclear and no major decisions had been made. Mr. Olmert, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni “understand that there is no quick fix for Hamas, that this will take time, and the goal is to continually apply pressure on the Hamas leadership — economic, military, diplomatic and political,” the official said.
228 2008-03-08 Following is the text of President Bush’s radio address to the nation for Saturday, as released by the White House.

Good morning. This week, I addressed the Department of Homeland Security on its fifth anniversary and thanked the men and women who work tirelessly to keep us safe. Because of their hard work, and the efforts of many across all levels of government, we have not suffered another attack on our soil since September the 11th, 2001.

This is not for a lack of effort on the part of the enemy. Al Qaeda remains determined to attack America again. Two years ago, Osama bin Laden warned the American people, “Operations are under preparation, and you will see them on your own ground once they are finished.” Because the danger remains, we need to ensure our intelligence officials have all the tools they need to stop the terrorists.

Unfortunately, Congress recently sent me an intelligence authorization bill that would diminish these vital tools. So today, I vetoed it. And here is why:

The bill Congress sent me would take away one of the most valuable tools in the war on terror — the C.I.A. program to detain and question key terrorist leaders and operatives. This program has produced critical intelligence that has helped us prevent a number of attacks. The program helped us stop a plot to strike a U.S. Marine camp in Djibouti, a planned attack on the U.S. consulate in Karachi, a plot to hijack a passenger plane and fly it into Library Tower in Los Angeles, and a plot to crash passenger planes into Heathrow Airport or buildings in downtown London. And it has helped us understand Al Qaeda’s structure and financing and communications and logistics. Were it not for this program, our intelligence community believes that Al Qaeda and its allies would have succeeded in launching another attack against the American homeland.

The main reason this program has been effective is that it allows the C.I.A. to use specialized interrogation procedures to question a small number of the most dangerous terrorists under careful supervision. The bill Congress sent me would deprive the C.I.A. of the authority to use these safe and lawful techniques. Instead, it would restrict the C.I.A.’s range of acceptable interrogation methods to those provided in the Army field manual. The procedures in this manual were designed for use by soldiers questioning lawful combatants captured on the battlefield. They were not intended for intelligence professionals trained to question hardened terrorists.
229 2008-03-08 FEDEX KINKO CHIEF LEAVES  The FedEx Corporation said Kenneth A. May had resigned as president and chief executive of its FedEx Kinko's office supply and copy centers, three months after the company said it would slow expansion at the unit. Mr. May...
230 2008-03-09 Credit: Phil Marino for The New York Times
231 2008-03-09 Even in an America that worships victimhood, you can't run for president as a victim.

As his prolix, caffeinated bus sped through Manhattan, Mr. McCain railed against Sam Wyly, the Texas businessman and Bush contributor who saturated New York, California and Ohio with ads trashing Mr. McCain's environmental record and promoting George W. Bush's lame environmental record.

''This is a textbook study,'' he said. ''This whole thing is the most perfect example of why I have been so zealous in my pursuit of campaign finance reform.''

He was right. An outsider or a special interest should not be able to come into a primary state and drop millions to sway voters with misleading ads.

But Mr. McCain was not satisfied with merely being right about sleazy pro-Bush tactics. He tried to make his rightness into the only rationale of his campaign. In Boston, exhorting a crowd to rebel against the Wyly ads, he echoed the 1996 Bob Dole line about Clinton campaign finance abuses: ''Where's the outrage?''

It didn't work for Mr. Dole. And John McCain, who was at his side in '96, should have known it wouldn't work for him in 2000. Voters do not respond to mere rectitude. They want to know, in concrete terms, what you are going to do for them.

The senator kept saying he didn't want to fall into self-pity or negative attacks. But then he fell into self-pity and negative attacks. He kept saying he didn't want to act like Bill Bradley, and make the race about his own moral superiority. But then he acted like Bill Bradley and made the race about his own moral superiority. On his bus last Friday, Mr. McCain sounded almost wistful. ''If I made a mistake in this campaign, it's because I allowed myself to be diverted over tactics,'' he said. ''The ability to inspire young Americans is what this campaign is all about.''

He started out with a bracing message about casting the money-changers out of Washington. But he ended up aggrieved, and he wanted reporters and voters to feel aggrieved with him. ''He became bitter and angry,'' says Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster. ''Someone around him should have said, 'Senator, stop, you're becoming just another politician.' ''

Mr. McCain confused virtue with substance. He got so absorbed in his performance as Luke Skywalker that he forgot about the issues. In a weird way, he became as contentless as Mr. Bush.

The senator went beyond making the case that the Bush campaign played out of bounds. He took the smarmy tactics too personally, and tried to make the case that he was good and everyone who opposed him was evil. His righteousness slowly morphed into a kind of narcissism, in which he became the personification of everything worth voting for.

He was a crusader, and crusaders are easily outplayed. The Bush strategy was to gaslight the volatile senator. They always knew that when they turned up the heat, Mr. McCain would become inflamed. Sure enough, his campaign began to seem like a huge inflammation.

His extreme language and defensive tone alienated the voters who once found him exciting. He thought he was showing them his strength, but he was showing them his weakness.

And nobody finds weakness exciting for very long.
232 2008-03-09 Because of illness, the tenor Ben Heppner will be unable to sing the role of Tristan in the revival of Wagner’s “Tristan und Isolde” at the Metropolitan Opera on Monday evening. He will be replaced by John Mac Master, and Deborah Voigt will sing Isolde.
233 2008-03-09 In 1999, during Mr. McCain’s first race for president, he gave the public an extraordinary look at his medical history — 1,500 pages of medical and psychiatric records that were amassed as part of a United States Navy project to gauge the health of former prisoners of war. This reporter, who is a physician, interviewed the senator’s doctors in 1999 with his permission.

But this time around, Mr. McCain has yet to make his full medical records or his physicians available to reporters. At least three times since March 2007, campaign officials have told The New York Times that they would provide the detailed information about his current state of health, but they have not done so. The campaign now says it expects to release the information in April.

So Mr. McCain’s prognosis for the recurrence of melanoma can be gauged only by talking to experts not connected with his case. Those experts say his prospects appear favorable.

The melanoma removed in 2000 was Stage IIa on a standard classification that makes Stage IV the most serious. For Stage IIa melanoma, the survival rate 10 years after diagnosis is about 65 percent. But the outlook is much better for patients like Mr. McCain, who have already survived more than seven years.

For patients with a melanoma like Mr. McCain’s who remained free of the disease for the first five years after diagnosis, the probability of recurrence during the next five years was 14 percent and death 9 percent, a study published in 1992 found.

No spread has been detected in the three or four dermatologic checkups Mr. McCain has undergone each year since 2000, stress tests show no evidence of heart disease, and “his doctors consider him in very good health,” his campaign staff said in a recent statement.

The campaign also said Mr. McCain regularly took Vytorin to lower his cholesterol, a baby aspirin to help prevent heart attacks, a multivitamin and, occasionally, Claritin or Flonase for allergies.

Mr. McCain has proved resilient in the past, surviving serious injuries that he sustained when his airplane was shot down over Vietnam and then when he was captured, and sometimes tortured, as a prisoner of war for five and a half years.

Now he is hoping to be the oldest man ever elected to a first term as president. Even if the melanoma returns, he would not be the first sitting president to have had cancer.

From what information Mr. McCain has disclosed, he is at increased risk for melanoma and other skin cancers because of his medical history, fair skin and prolonged sun exposure at a young age — long before the wide use of sunscreen.

Since the 2008 campaign began, doctors not connected with Mr. McCain’s case have expressed intense interest in the extent of the face and neck surgery that he underwent on Aug. 19, 2000, at the Mayo Clinic Scottsdale in Arizona.

Some of these doctors have noted in e-mail messages and in comments to reporters that the surgery appeared to be so extensive that they were surprised his melanoma was not more serious — perhaps Stage III, which would give him a bleaker prognosis. These doctors said they would be surprised to learn that such an operation would be performed without evidence that the melanoma had spread.

But a number of melanoma experts said in interviews that such an operation was understandable according to the medical standards of 2000 and that the extensive surgery did not necessarily imply Stage III melanoma.

“It was not out of line,” said one of the experts, Dr. Richard L. Shapiro, a melanoma surgeon at New York University. Dr. Shapiro added that he would feel more comfortable in making a judgment if he saw a full pathology report.

“It was a complex problem,” he said, “that was handled very skillfully by a team of experts.”

Dr. Denis Cortese, Mayo Clinic’s president and chief executive, said in a recent interview that experts in all three of the clinic’s sites discussed details of Mr. McCain’s operation before it was performed.

In trying to discover whether the melanoma had spread from his temple, Mr. McCain’s doctors made an incision down the side of his face and partly removed the lymph nodes in his neck, the campaign said in the statement.

“No spread of melanoma was found in any of these locations,” the campaign said. “However, this preventative procedure had cosmetic side effects for Senator McCain, including swelling at the site of the incision. Thus, the large scar and attendant swelling that Senator McCain has on the left side of his face is not the result of the melanoma itself, which was small and localized, but rather of the more extensive surgical procedure utilized out of a high degree of caution.”

Mr. McCain has had four melanomas.

In 1993, he waited more than six months before seeking care after a Navy doctor recommended that he consult a dermatologist for a lesion on his left shoulder that turned out to be his first melanoma. It was excised and has not recurred.

Pathology tests showed that the two other melanomas — detected on his upper left arm in 2000 and on his nose in 2002 — were of the least dangerous kind, in situ. In that type the malignant cells are confined to the outer layer of skin.

The most serious melanoma was spotted on his temple in 2000 by the attending physician at the United States Capitol after it had escaped the eye of Mr. McCain’s personal physician at Mayo Clinic Scottsdale. (The Capitol physician also spotted another melanoma that was in situ.)

The melanoma on Mr. McCain’s left temple was 2 centimeters in diameter and 0.22 centimeters deep, and was fully excised with wide margins, 2 centimeters in each direction, his campaign staff said.

To determine whether the cancer had spread to lymph nodes in his neck, the Mayo doctors injected a radioactive dye into the melanoma in a procedure known as a sentinel node biopsy hours before surgery. The doctors waited for the dye to flow in the lymph fluid to the node in the neck to which the cancer is statistically most likely to spread first.

Then they used a gamma counter — an instrument like a Geiger counter — to identify the node, and removed it. Pathologists quickly froze the tissue while Mr. McCain was on the operating table, looked at it through a microscope and did not detect cancerous cells.

But this kind of biopsy is not 100 percent reliable for melanoma, partly because the chemical stains that help pathologists identify breast and other cancers in frozen sections do not work as well on melanomas. Also, the cancer could have spread to a nonsentinel node.

So Mr. McCain’s surgeons, following what was then an accepted practice, removed the surrounding nodes as part of the sentinel operation.

The operation to dissect the lymph nodes in the face and neck can be tricky as the surgeon works to avoid injuring the nerve that controls various facial movements and expressions.

In Mr. McCain’s case, the Mayo Clinic team of surgeons reconstructed the skin and soft tissue overlying the left temple, face and neck by pulling up skin to close the wound.

Doctors advise melanoma patients to have regular checkups to detect new skin cancers and the spread of old ones because melanomas can be quirky. Mr. McCain’s staff has not said what tests his doctors have used to monitor his case.

Most recurrences of melanoma occur in the first few years after detection. Survival figures for melanomas are often measured in 10-year periods rather than the 5-year periods for many other cancers.

“With melanoma, a patient is never completely clear,” said Dr. Shapiro, the N.Y.U. expert.

If melanomas do recur, standard treatment options are limited for many to surgery and a difficult form of chemotherapy. The chances of long-term survival diminish.

Now, on the campaign trail, Mr. McCain appears to take care to shield himself from the sun, slathering on powerful sunscreen before outdoor events, finding spots of shade from which to speak and sometimes wearing baseball caps while outside.

Mr. McCain is occasionally asked on the campaign trail about his age. But he is almost never asked about his health.
234 2008-03-09 For years these contests drew little attention. But that began to change in Chicago on Feb. 24, when a sport utility vehicle struck and killed a 29-year-old man who ran a red light while participating in a street race called the Tour da Chicago.

As a result of that death, organizers in New York called off the alleycat race that was part of a competition known as Monster Track, which had been scheduled for the ninth straight year this weekend. Some organizers wonder whether the increasing popularity of the races has somehow made them less safe.

Skinned elbows and bent wheel rims are not uncommon during alleycats, and sometimes they are even viewed as badges of honor. The races are intended to test the type of judgment and reflexes honed by urban couriers; the reward for winning is mainly bragging rights among peers. Racers frequently employ unorthodox riding styles, and the degree to which they obey traffic signals could be summed up by the title of a recent documentary on alleycats, “Red Light Go.”

Alleycats, which are believed to have started in the 1980s, are now held throughout the United States, Canada and Europe. Last year, about a dozen were held in New York.

Although the earliest races involved relatively small groups of messengers, recent contests have included large numbers of participants who are not messengers and whose skills vary. While some veterans have welcomed the newcomers, others have suggested that the influx has diluted the purity of the races. Then there are those who maintain that less experienced riders may be placing themselves in harm’s way by trying to keep up with seasoned messengers who are accustomed to whizzing through traffic at top speed.

More than 100 racers had been expected to take part in the Monster Track alleycat. Entry was limited to people riding track bikes that are not equipped with hand brakes, and thus require an extra level of expertise. Other events connected to the Monster Track at sites in Brooklyn and Queens, like a bike tricks competition and a track race, were still scheduled.

“We decided to cancel the main part of the race because we were concerned that it was getting dangerous,” said Kevin Bolger, one of the Monster Track organizers. “When we heard about what happened in Chicago we were really stunned.”

But some riders believe that the death in Chicago was more of an aberration than an inevitability, and they insist that alleycats and similar contests will flourish in New York and elsewhere.

Supporters say that the races, replete with what one bicyclist described as “mavericks, outlaws, rapscallions and misfits,” should continue precisely because they are the sort of brash, raffish events that seem to be increasingly rare in a more antiseptic New York. Many also see the races as important rallying events that foster camaraderie among bicyclists and encourage the wider public to use nonpolluting transportation.

Among those who would like to see the contests continue is Michael Green, who maintains the Web site BikeBlog (bikeblog.blogspot.com) and made a short documentary, “Track Kaiju,” about a messenger from Tokyo who, he said, finished fifth in the 2007 Monster Track.

“It’s cultural propaganda that promotes cycling,” Mr. Green said. “The loss of that would be monumental.”

John Dinn, a former messenger in Washington, agreed and said he has advocated broad participation in races. Still, he said that he was so shaken by the death in Chicago that he decided to cancel an alleycat he was organizing in Washington called the Giro dc Mayhem that was scheduled for Memorial Day weekend.

“It might be a good time to reflect on what alleycats have become and who participates in them,” Mr. Dinn said recently by telephone. “I think there’s sort of a moratorium at the moment.”
235 2008-03-09 Rabbi Zev Segal, who as president of one of the most influential Orthodox Jewish organizations in the country in the 1960s clashed with leaders of what he called “more liberal Jewish alternatives,” but who also worked with Conservative and Reform Jews on social issues, died Wednesday in Jersey City, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan.

Rabbi Segal was found dead after the car he was driving plunged into the Hackensack River as it turned onto a dead-end street beneath the Pulaski Skyway. The Hudson County prosecutor, Edward J. De Fazio, ruling out foul play, said on Thursday that several cars had driven into the river at that spot in the past.

From 1968 to 1971, Rabbi Segal was president of the Rabbinical Council of America, which represents about 1,000 Orthodox rabbis in 14 countries. He had been a vice president of the group for 10 years.

“He was someone who stood up for Jewish tradition and heritage while at the same time tried to build bridges to all types of Jews,” Rabbi Segal’s son Nachum said. “But when it came to certain issues where he felt that people were misrepresenting authentic Judaism, he would take a powerful stand.”

Nachum Segal is the host of a radio show of Jewish music and news on WFMU in Jersey City. Rabbi Segal went to the station on Wednesday to celebrate the show’s 25th anniversary.
236 2008-03-09 UConn Coach Geno Auriemma seldom overpraises his players. In Moore’s case, restraint is difficult.

“Circumstances being what they are, Maya is in a situation no other freshman has been since I’ve been here,” said Auriemma, who was hired at UConn in 1985. “Her impact on this team has been greater than any other freshman we’ve ever had. She did things that Diana Taurasi, Sue Bird and Svetlana Abrosimova never had to. There are a lot of good players in this country, but I don’t know if anyone has ever done what she’s done at 28 minutes a game. I can’t say she’s the best freshman ever here, but she’s the most influential we’ve ever had.”

Moore became a starter in December, when Kalana Greene was lost for the season after a knee injury.

A month later, a similar injury ended the college career of Mel Thomas, UConn’s shooting guard. Her minutes have gone to Ketia Swanier and the freshman Lorin Dixon.

“Not too many teams can lose two starters and still be No. 1 in the country,” Louisville Coach Jeff Walz said. Still, Auriemma said he did not think his remaining players would become too tired.

“You always have that in the back of your mind, but I think most of the styles of basketball change game to game,” Auriemma said. “The fact that you’re playing three games in three days, a lot is made out of it, but most teams practice hard three days in a row. These players are pretty good, and given what is at stake I think that will more than carry them.”

UConn had a scare March 1 before winning at DePaul, 77-76. Two days later, it defeated Rutgers, the national runner-up last year, 66-46, after Rutgers had won the first meeting of the season. Rutgers Coach C. Vivian Stringer was frustrated by her team’s latest game.

“We have to play with a sense of urgency,” she said. “At times, we are kind of lethargic. Connecticut played a great game against us, but I don’t know where the Scarlet Knights were. I don’t know that we’ve played three good games this season. We have the most inconsistent team I’ve seen in my life.”

Auriemma likes the way UConn is playing. “At this time of year, you just want most of your players to be playing with a high level of confidence, and now we probably have more people at a high level of confidence than we had before,” he said.

It comes down to whether any team in the Big East can beat UConn here. Marquette Coach Terri Mitchell offered no candidate.

“I think Connecticut is incredible now,” she said. “It keeps getting better and better.”
237 2008-03-09 This is hardly the time for what O’Neal called “the experimental phase” of working him into what had been a full-tilt, high-octane style.

O’Neal, who turned 36 on Thursday, has brought what the Suns wanted to their game.

He was averaging 11.1 points and 10.8 rebounds for Phoenix, with a high of 18 rebounds Wednesday at Denver, and he has erased the offensive rebound woes that had hindered the pre-Shaq Suns. But the team’s perimeter defense has been awful, its shooting inconsistent and the ball-handling often atrocious.

“All of that I believe is a byproduct of just guys trying to get accustomed to what we’re doing now, the different personnel and different spacing on the court,” Bell said. “You know Shawn was a guy who was definitely a spacer. That allowed Steve and the guys who make a lot of plays to have a lot of room to make those plays. When you add a big body like Shaq, plus his defender, that space that was wide open isn’t there.”

Steve Nash, who had 30 turnovers in the first eight games with O’Neal, left without talking to reporters Thursday, but his previous comments echo those of his teammates: that the Suns need more time to work things out. O’Neal said Nash should take more shots.

“Steve is the most unselfish player ever created,” O’Neal said. “A lot of times when he has the shot, he’s looking to get somebody else the ball. Sometimes he’s just too unselfish.”

The Suns have been better defensively inside, but perimeter players have burned them . Marion is one of the league’s best defensive players. Bell, also a top defender, has been left to guard some bigger players, as has Grant Hill.

D’Antoni also said opponents were confident because of the Suns’ reputation for being soft defensively.

“Right now, people come in thinking, Oh, we’re going to get a lot of easy shots,” D’Antoni said. “Whether they’re easy or not, they’re knocking them down.”

O’Neal said it was a matter of constant defensive effort, something that was lacking even in the best of times for the Suns in the past.

“I’ve been here two, three weeks now, and I know that when we get into guys and play with a lot of energy, we’re a hard team to beat,” he said. “We just have to do that almost every game and you know it’s going to take some time.”

It didn’t take much time for Pau Gasol to blend in with the Los Angeles Lakers, but that was not nearly the drastic change of adding a 7-foot-1, 320-pound behemoth into the middle of what had been a flock of gazelles.

“For the fans, I know they’ve got to be a bit frustrated, but all I can say as a player is we are, too,” Bell said. “There’s no book on how long these things take.”
238 2008-03-09 There is no shortage of scientific studies documenting the degradation of the world’s oceans, the decline of marine ecosystems and the collapse of important fish species. Several have appeared in the last month. What is in short supply is a sustained effort by world governments and other institutions to do something about it.

Last month, a team of American, British and Canadian researchers concluded that not a single square foot of ocean had been left untouched by modern society, and that humans had fouled 41 percent of the seas with polluted runoff, overfishing and other abuses.

A narrower but no less scary study from Oregon State University found that a dead zone off the Oregon coast had spread south to California and north to Washington and devastated marine life in one of the world’s most productive fisheries. The culprit is believed to be global warming, which has changed the interaction between wind and sea in ways that rob the fish of oxygen.

A third study is the latest legislative report card from the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative, established to push Congress and the administration to do a better job of protecting America’s waters and to play a more active role globally. Washington policy makers get no grade higher than a “C” in any category, ranging from financing for scientific research to fisheries management.

The United States has to do better but so, too, must the rest of the world. A case can be made that the United States has been more sensitive to ocean issues than other major fishing nations, including Japan and the maritime members of the European Union. The problems are global and so, in the end, are the solutions.

The United Nations could do far more. Successful in banning huge drift nets, it has made few inroads on bottom trawling, a ruthless form of industrial fishing. And it has gone nowhere in its effort to persuade Japan and the European Union to stop their assault on the world’s shark populations, which have been decimated beyond belief. The World Trade Organization could also usefully limit the huge government subsidies that allow most of the world’s industrial fleets to stay afloat.

Last year, President Bush, who is weak on many environmental issues, created one of the largest protected marine reserves in the world — 138,000 square miles of largely unspoiled reefs and shoals near Hawaii. He should replicate that achievement elsewhere in American waters and persuade other leaders to do the same.
239 2008-03-09 It is no different with the Yankees, especially in training camp, where teammates flock to Rivera for guidance. Much of the lessons he imparts are from Heron, the Yankees scout who found Rivera in Panama in 1990.

Heron was like his second father, and he saw something special in Rivera, a gangly 20-year-old who threw only 85 miles an hour. It was Heron who recommended that Herb Raybourn sign Rivera for $3,000, and Heron who nurtured Rivera for the next 17 years.

“He was twice older than me, but I loved that man,” Rivera said. “He used to tell me to work hard, be committed, be respectful, trust what you have and trust the Lord, be able to do it in tough situations. And he was always, constantly encouraging me to just do it, don’t give up — even before he passed away.”

Heron was in his 70s, Rivera said, and he had been sick for a while. Rivera lives in Westchester County year-round now, but he visited Heron in Panama shortly before he died, to see him one last time.

“He was one of those men that if I call him any time, anytime that I need something from him, he would have done it on the spot,” Rivera said. “That’s how close he was to me. I respect that man till the day he died. I buried him with honor.”

When Rivera speaks of Heron, he mentions his willingness to give advice to anybody who asked. It is trait that has made Rivera as important a leader on the Yankees as Derek Jeter, the team’s designated captain.

“He cares about helping people, period,” General Manager Brian Cashman said. “It’s as simple as that.”

When reliever Ross Ohlendorf was called to the majors in September, he was startled when Rivera peppered him with questions about the Yankees’ Class AAA team. It was important to Rivera, Ohlendorf noticed, to know how the minor league affiliates were doing.

Joba Chamberlain, who had never been a reliever before the Yankees made him the setup man in August, was nervous at first around Rivera. All he knew were Rivera’s accomplishments.

Chamberlain tried to learn Rivera’s cutter, but quickly discovered that the pitch was impossible to duplicate. But the more he talked with Rivera, the more he learned how to approach his new job. Pay attention in the early innings, Rivera told him. Watch for the strengths and weaknesses of the hitters. Be alert.

And when Rivera struggled, Chamberlain learned from that, too.

“To watch his demeanor and watch the way he handled it, every day he put ice on his shoulder and said: ‘I’m only human. Tomorrow, if the game’s close, I’m going to get the ball and do everything I can,’ ” Chamberlain said. “He’s won and lost some of the biggest games in the history of baseball, and he’s no worse for the wear when he gives up a home run. Some people think the world’s going to end.”

Perspective is one of Rivera’s great gifts. His first experience as a postseason closer was failure, in the 1997 playoffs against Cleveland. He celebrated on the mound at the end of the next three World Series, but failed again in Arizona in 2001. A savior against Boston in 2003, he was a goat the next fall.

Win or lose, Rivera’s demeanor does not change. Conquering the mental side of baseball, he said, is harder than his physical feats.

“When you start thinking, a lot of things will happen,” Rivera said. “Emotions take place, and you have to know how to control your emotions. If you don’t control your emotions, your emotions will control your acts, and that’s not good.”

Rivera’s extraordinary athleticism lets him repeat his delivery, the most important factor in a pitcher’s success. He also knows his craft well enough to notice flaws in others, the way he did last season with Luis Vizcaíno.

“Mo’s the reason Vizcaíno turned his game around last year — Mo’s efforts,” Cashman said. “He wasn’t going to let a teammate struggle.”

Now, the young reliever Edwar Ramírez often sits in Rivera’s locker before practice, chatting softly while Rivera gently blows the ink dry on the baseball cards he has carefully signed. A clubhouse attendant waits nearby, sealing the cards in envelopes, returning the prizes to fans.

When Ramírez was called to the majors last July, Dave Eiland, then the Class AAA pitching coach, told him, “If you need something, ask Mo.” Ramírez became Rivera’s pregame catch partner, and he eagerly sought Rivera’s counsel.

“He told me if you want to stay in the big leagues with the Yankees, you have to stay straight,” Ramírez said. “You don’t have to go to the clubs, you don’t have to drink. That’s what he showed me, because he doesn’t drink and he doesn’t go to the clubs.”

Rivera coordinates Bible study, and Ramírez and another reliever, José Veras, are among those who participate. Like Ramírez, Veras is a native of the Dominican Republic. Growing up, he said, his family knew to suspend all activity when Rivera was pitching on television.

Over and over, Veras used the word dream to describe how it felt to be teammates and friends with his idol. They talk shop, about Veras’s staying tall in his delivery, or gripping his pitches, or attacking certain lineups. They also talk about life, and the responsibilities of being in the majors.

Even now, in his third season with the Yankees, Veras seems amazed that Rivera cares so much.

“It’s hard to find people like that,” he said. “That’s why we appreciate everything he does, because if you’re 20-something and he’s 30-something, he doesn’t want to be my baby sitter. But he can say, ‘Don’t do this; that’s bad.’ It just takes a couple of seconds, but some guys think it’s hard to say. So when you find people like that that can teach you the right way, it’s awesome. It’s unbelievable to find people like that.”

It would be unbelievable, except that Chico Heron made it real. For the best $3,000 the Yankees ever spent, Heron found an extraordinary talent in Rivera, who learned from him the value of community.
240 2008-03-09 At the same time, according to Mr. Kohona, Chinese assistance has grown fivefold in the last year to nearly $1 billion, eclipsing Sri Lanka’s longtime biggest donor, Japan. The Chinese are building a highway, developing two power plants and putting up a new port in the hometown of the president of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapaksa.

Sri Lanka also buys a lot of weapons from China and China’s ally Pakistan.

Chinese diplomacy in South Asia, grounded as it is in a policy of “harmony” and deep pockets, is of obvious concern to India. So are the sentiments of Tamils at home. Overt support from India for the Sri Lankan counterinsurgency program can be explosive among India’s Tamils. But coming down hard on the government here could push Sri Lanka deeper into China’s embrace.

“There is little choice,” said Ashok Kumar Mehta, a retired general who was a leader of an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka nearly 20 years ago. “India’s policy is virtually hands off.”

Mr. Kohona, the Sri Lankan foreign secretary, noted that India’s contributions had also grown, to nearly $500 million this year. India is building a coal-fired power plant and Indian companies have been invited to build technology parks and invest in telecommunications. New Delhi, like Washington, has shut the tap on direct military support, but it can still help with crucial intelligence, particularly in intercepting weapons smuggled by sea.

The picture in Sri Lanka is emblematic of a major shift from 20 years ago, when India was the only power center in the region. Now come China’s artful moves in India’s backyard. As C. Raja Mohan, an international relations professor at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, points out, China has started building a circle of road-and-port connections in India’s neighboring countries, and it has begun to eye a role in the Indian Ocean, as its thirst for natural resources makes it more important to secure the sea lanes.

That offers countries like Sri Lanka ample opportunities. “Now the smaller countries have increasingly turned to China to influence India’s strategic interests, and thus silence it on human rights issues,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch. She cited Burma, where, in the 1990s, India pressed for democracy and watched the military junta sidle up to Beijing. “Now India is concerned about China’s role in Sri Lanka because of control over the Indian Ocean,” she said.

Iran is the latest entrant. Late last year came the promise of a whopping $1.6 billion line of credit, primarily to help Sri Lanka buy Iranian oil.

Washington still counts. Sri Lanka is sore at losing American military aid and development assistance. The United States has also irritated the government by pressing for United Nations human rights monitors after the visit last October of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour. She said at the end of her visit that “the weakness of the rule of law and prevalence of impunity is alarming.”

That infuriated the government. Sri Lanka’s mission in Geneva sent out acerbic opinion pieces published in Sri Lankan newspapers. One, an editorial in the pro-government newspaper, The Island, declared that “those U.N. knights in shining armor tilting at windmills in small countries should be told that the protection of human rights is next to impossible during a fiercely fought war.” Still, criticism over human rights continues to dog Sri Lanka.

Last Thursday, a report by Human Rights Watch blamed the government for a pattern of disappearances. The same day, an international Group of Eminent Persons that the government had invited to monitor Sri Lankan investigations into human rights violations said it was leaving; it cited “a lack of political and institutional will.”

The attorney general’s office responded by saying that the government would reconstitute the panel with “an alternate group of eminent persons.”

But however free Sri Lanka feels to dismiss Western concerns about human rights these days, there are still long-range costs it may find itself confronting one day. The real Achilles’ heel for the government is looming economic trouble, as its war chest expands and inflation reaches double digits.

And in that, the world matters. For its failure to ratify certain international conventions, Sri Lanka already risks losing trade preferences with the European Union at the end of this year. And, however much China has risen in importance, Europe remains this country’s largest trading partner.
241 2008-03-09 SKIMMING those periodic State Department travel-warning lists is enough to make you want to book a trip to Las Vegas instead of some far-flung foreign spot where kidnappings, insurrections, epidemics, machete attacks, robberies, militia shoot-outs, terrorist bombings and bus hijackings seem part of the routine. Yet sometimes, for one reason or another, people just have to go to one of those places.

It isn’t exactly news that the world can be unsafe and that many business travelers are wandering farther off the beaten path into emerging markets. But these days, companies dispatching employees to distant places are increasingly being held to account for the workers’ safety and well-being.

Last summer, a survey of 1,000 world business travelers for Control Risks, a travel security company, found that almost half of business travelers from the United States had “no clear security policy” at their companies, that 80 percent believed that their companies had a legal responsibility to advise them of potential trouble and to support them if they got into it, and that more than half would consider legal action against their company if an emergency were mishandled.

“Travelers expect their companies to do something for them” if they have an emergency, said Laura Winthrop, the vice president for support and analysis at Control Risks, one of several security companies with worldwide operations that provide written and on-the-spot risk analysis and respond on the scene to incidents.
242 2008-03-09 ONE weekday afternoon last August, a stout 44-year-old Bangladeshi hot-dog vendor named Mohammed Liaket Ali left his apartment on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, and 30 minutes later arrived at a gray warehouse in TriBeCa, where he pays $400 a month to park his silvery cart. After loading the cart with hot dogs, pretzels, soft drinks and condiments, he wheeled it downtown with the intermittent help of a finicky, battery-operated motor.

But when Mr. Ali arrived at the sidewalk along Cedar Street near Broadway, his long-preferred spot, he discovered that it was occupied by a row of white tents under which vendors were offering fresh produce and baked goods.

The tents were part of the newly opened Cedar Street Greenmarket, one of many operated by the Council on the Environment of New York City, the nonprofit organization that oversees the city’s greenmarkets. The Cedar Street Greenmarket, which used to operate at the base of the World Trade Center, has not had a permanent home since 9/11 and has bounced around to various locations in the cramped canyons of Lower Manhattan.

The conflict with Mr. Ali on that day in August led to a telephone call to the police, the issuing of summonses, a confiscated cart and a lawsuit involving the loss of buns, condiments and several pounds of hot dogs and drinks, now pending in federal court in Manhattan.

Mr. Ali, who in the suit contends that his civil rights were violated when his cart was seized by the police, also said that he had a sneaking suspicion, one not uncommon among vendors whose carts are confiscated, that the police may have enjoyed a few refreshments at his expense. The Police Department did not respond to four requests for comment on the matter, by telephone and e-mail, over the last two weeks.
243 2008-03-09 This would be a lovely thing if true, and the best of all ideas, the “something for nothing” idea. In fact, tax cuts lower federal revenue and generate federal deficits. It is also true that they do stimulate the economy and after a long period of years, federal tax receipts go back to where they were before the tax cuts.

For example, when President Bush enacted his tax cuts in the early 2000s, income tax receipts fell dramatically. It took almost six years for them to reach the level they had been in the last year of the Clinton administration, while G.D.P. in that period rose by roughly 30 percent. In the eight years Ronald Reagan was president (and I love and worship him), tax receipts did not fall anywhere near as much, but they rose more slowly, on a percentage basis, than they did in any other comparable eight-year period after World War II.

In other words, tax cuts do not pay for themselves, at least not on any basis I can see. Certainly, they are not worthless. They make taxpayers feel good and they generate growth. But basically, they shift the tax burden from us to our progeny and add immense amounts of interest expense to the federal budget. At this point, taxpayers shell out about $1 billion a day just for that item.

Moreover, immense federal deficits in modern life are financed largely by foreign buyers of our debt. This means that the American taxpayer must work a good chunk of the year to send money to China, Japan, the petro-states and other buyers of United States debt. In effect, we become their peons.

By flooding the world with debt, we in effect beg foreigners to take our dollars, and this leads to a lower value of the dollar and a higher cost of imports, including oil. If you feel pain filling up the tank, you can partly thank those tax cuts. If you feel the sting of inflation, you can partly thank the supply siders. Deficits matter.

What to do? You appear to have changed your mind over time and have recently shown more support for the Bush tax cuts than in the past. If you become president, you can just keep up the (latter-day) Republican game of make-believe. You can propose still more tax cuts, create still more deficits and add to the debt, and say to yourself, like Louis XV, “Après moi, le déluge.”

Or, you can raise taxes. But whom to tax? The poor are, well, poor. The middle class is struggling to pay for its middle-class life. That leaves the rich. It would be lovely if we did not have to tax them. Many have worked hard for their money. Many have created useful businesses. Many of them are fine people.

But as Willie Sutton said when asked why he robbed banks, “Because that’s where the money is.” By definition, the truly rich have a lot more money than they need. If they don’t, then they are not rich by my standards. The first step toward putting our house in order, once we are past the seemingly looming recession, is much higher taxes on the truly rich and serious enforcement to prevent offshore tax evasion.

TO put it even more starkly, the government — which is us — needs the money to keep old people alive, to pay for their dialysis, to build fighter jets and to pay our troops and pay interest on the debt. We can get it by indenturing our children, selling ourselves into peonage to foreigners, making ourselves a colony again, generating inflation — or we can have some integrity and levy taxes equal to what we spend.

You are probably the bravest man to have a chance at being elected president in my lifetime. Do you have the guts to stand up to the myth makers and tax cutters and the rich? Or will you just kick the can down the road?
244 2008-03-09 At the opposite end of the affordability spectrum was the little Nano, the $2,500 car that will be produced by Tata Motors of India. Though Tata said it had no plans to sell the Nano outside of India, the huge public interest in the car, even among the blue bloods at Geneva, could help to change that thinking.

Small cars loomed large at Geneva this year. There was a huge inflatable Fiat 500, a reminder of what a big success that little car has been. The 500 has been named the 2008 European Car of the Year.

American fans of Alfa Romeo await the brand’s impending return to the United States, first with the 8C Competizione coupe. An 8C Spider convertible, also coming to America early next year, was unveiled here as well. Other models, including the 500, will follow if the first wave is successful, the company said

Coming as close as it does this year to the New York show, Geneva was also something of a sneak preview for several models that will make their North American debuts during the March 21-30 show at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.

The European version of the Honda Accord was unveiled at Geneva; in New York, it will be introduced as the new Acura TSX, with modest refinements in ride and creature comforts.

Mercedes-Benz took the wraps off several models here that will also be in New York. A vehicle of special note was the GLK diesel hybrid. This S.U.V. was seen at the Detroit auto show in January with a diesel engine; here, it had a mild hybrid electric system capable of raising fuel economy to 40 miles a gallon. Mercedes plans a big introduction in New York for its Bluetec diesel engine technology. The GLK hybrid goes on sale in Europe later this year and in early 2009 in the United States.

BMW also showed a diesel-electric hybrid X5 crossover utility vehicle here, which the company said achieved 36 m.p.g.. But it is still two to three years away from being available for sale.

America may also have to wait that long for the Ford Fiesta subcompact unveiled in Geneva; the company still has not set a date for its American introduction. Europeans will also get to enjoy other interesting Ford models shown here, like the Focus Coupe-Cabriolet and Kuga small utility wagon. Kuga fans might do well to also look at a Volvo XC60. Introduced here, the shapely XC60 will offer a braking system that Volvo said would prevent low-speed rear-end collisions.

Other notables among the 60-plus models unveiled in Geneva were the Morgan LifeCar, a hydrogen fuel-cell concept from the eccentric British sports car company; the Rinspeed

sQuba, capable of submersing and running underwater; a 560-horsepower Lamborghini Gallardo; high-concept design studies from the Italian specialists Giugiaro and Pininfarina; the $400,000 Rolls-Royce Phantom Coupé; and a $650,000 Bentley GTZ by Zagato.

Geneva’s ultimate symbol of excess, however, is the Bugatti Veyron Hermès edition with calfskin seats and dashboard. For the vulgarians who must ask the price of such things, it will be 1.55 million euros (about $2.4 million) when it is offered later this year.
245 2008-03-09 Marissa Rose Scalia, the daughter of Lynn Conley of Lakewood, N.J., and Joseph Scalia of Farmingville, N.Y., was married on Saturday to Philippe Sucosky, the son of Marie-Thérèse and Claude Sucosky of Nice, France. Rabbi Ronald D. Gerson officiated with Msgr. Henry C. Gracz, a Roman Catholic priest, at the Trolley Barn, a historic site in Atlanta now used as an event space.

The bride, 29, is an epidemiologist in the lead-poisoning prevention branch of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. She graduated from the University of Rochester and received a master’s degree in public health from Emory. Her father is a lawyer with Mazzei & Blair in Blue Point, N.Y. Her mother is a bookkeeper with the law firm Kelaher, Garvey, Ballou, Van Dyke & Rogalski, in Toms River, N.J.

The bride’s stepfather, Charles H. Conley, who is retired, was the aviation manager and a pilot for the Texas Pacific Group in Fort Worth. Her stepmother, Sonja Scalia, is a paralegal and secretary to Judge Andrew A. Crecca of Suffolk County Court on Long Island.

The bridegroom, 31, is a postdoctoral researcher in the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Tech, where he studies heart valves; he also received master’s and doctoral degrees in mechanical engineering from that school, and graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering from the École Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers in Paris and Aix-en-Provence, France.

His mother, who is retired, taught at the École Fuon Cauda, an elementary school in Nice. His father, also retired, was an administrator in Nice for a government education ministry.
246 2008-03-09 She now works as a Hebrew school principal in Great Neck. “And I see the signs of what happened there happening here now,” Ms. Tsuruoka said.

Like Cedarhurst, Great Neck is known as a Jewish community. But not everyone agrees that what happened in Cedarhurst is happening here.

“The closings are not a result of ‘black-hat’ Judaism,” said Ed Jutkowitz, president of Young Israel of Great Neck, an Orthodox synagogue whose membership has grown so much it has taken over and rebuilt the former bank building next door to incorporate it into its temple.

Yoseph Geisinsky, rabbi of Chabad of Great Neck, an ultra-Orthodox Hasidic Jewish group, said, “I hardly know about store closings on Shabbat besides the kosher restaurants.”

But dozens of storefronts here were dark on a recent Saturday afternoon, mostly on the northern part of the Great Neck peninsula in the Old Village. These included a kosher pizza parlor, several specialty grocery stores, beauty shops, a discount party store, real estate agencies, clothing boutiques, gift shops, jewelers, a carpet store, a tailor shop and a barbershop.

Some stores even routinely close early on Fridays, as shopkeepers head home to prepare for the Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown. One liquor store on Middle Neck Road, the main artery through Great Neck, has two large signs in the window announcing that the owner is Shomer Shabbat.

Technically, Shomer Shabbat refers to a person who traditionally observes the legal requirements of the Jewish Sabbath, which prohibit work on Saturday. Informally, the term is used as the functional equivalent of Orthodox Jewish identity.

Many of the stores that close on Saturday, like the liquor store, however, are open on Sunday.

“It annoys me to no end that stores are closed on Saturdays,” said Ms. Allen, who has lived here all her life. “It affects the ability of nonobservers to live their normal life. Everyone is entitled to practice their religion as they choose, but please don’t push it on me.”

Norman Gersman, who lives in the Old Village, said: “We’re going Orthodox, no doubt about it. Sometimes towns are targeted, and I think that might be what’s happening here.”

Gregory Bitterman, the owner of Gregory Hardware and Lumber for about a year, said the store, which used to be open seven days a week, is now closed on Saturdays because of his deep religious conviction. “I do it my way, but I make sure I don’t hurt anyone,” he said, adding that he extended Sunday and weekday hours.

But several other storeowners who are closed on Saturdays would not explain why, saying they feared retribution in the form of a boycott if they did.

Ms. Pierce, who has lived in Great Neck for 32 years, said she was concerned about what she saw as the increasing amount of property being used for religious purposes and taken off the tax rolls as a consequence, saying that could lead to an increase in her property taxes. “I’m not alone in worrying about this,” she said. “A few of my friends have already moved away.”

Ms. Allen said she believed that the Village of Great Neck was in the midst of being resettled. “A generation of particularly observant people have moved in throughout the peninsula,” she said, “but I don’t see other villages allowing houses of worship to sprout in storefronts.”

Dr. Jutkowitz, who has lived here for five years, denied that merchants had been intimidated into closing on Saturday and said he had heard about pressure from a group only once, a few years ago. “This was a renegade group, a private group, and it was very unfavorably looked upon by the Orthodox community,” he said. “The rabbis were appalled, so the issue died out.”

While many Long Island communities with a developed downtown are filled with people on Saturday evenings, Great Neck’s main shopping and dining area is considerably quieter than it used to be, said Telia Malwitz, who has lived here for 31 years.

Mr. Kerievsky said several store owners had told him they felt coerced to close on Saturdays, but none would say by whom.

“I can understand being afraid of retribution if you name names,” he said. “But why would you close voluntarily and lose all the Saturday business if you’re not even Jewish?”
247 2008-03-09 One paragraph after a list of his accolades, Richard Price is cited as admitting to regular use of illegal substances in the past.

Fortunately for him, authors are granted absolution unavailable to superstar athletes in this country. Otherwise he would be stripped of his awards and banned from writing professionally for life.
248 2008-03-09 And then, the heroin. Ultimately, Horsley’s arch lifestyle begins to disintegrate in that most sincere of all places: rehab. It turns out there are no dandies in foxholes.

There he learns that his “self-creation” was an “act of obscure revenge” against his father. (Wait — you too?)

This is the perfect book for every fey, victimized 20-year-old with dyed black hair in your family. It is as wonderfully lewd as any trip to an Edinburgh chip shop. It’s also so epigrammatic as to crawl into itself. His grandmother “died at 82 of embroidery.” And: “The problem with compassion is that it is not photogenic.” And: “I regret everything. But so what? At least I have cause.”

Somewhere past the halfway point Horsley begins to show self-awareness beyond all this stylishness. He hates his traitorous, drug-ravaged body; he loves money because it is power; and he really, really likes himself. “I had fallen in love with myself,” he writes. “To have a girlfriend would now be unfaithful.”

Of course, this sincerity and insight undermine his desire to be all style and no substance. One problem: the memoir proclaims at its start that “what follows is true,” but elsewhere in the book Horsley describes his time as a journalist (he wrote a column for The Erotic Review) as a process of “locking yourself in a room and inventing characters and conversations which do not exist.” In 2006, in The Independent’s ABC Magazine, he questioned the task of his work on the memoir at all: “Why lock yourself in a room and invent conversations?”

In any event, in 2000, Horsley definitely ventured off for the Philippines, where he was crucified, an event that brought him infamy over in London. His accounts of this, and of diving with sharks, are spectacular. And after that, not much happens, because apparently he spent most of the last decade writing his memoirs. Like his forthrightness about vulgarity and degradation, that’s admirable. He labored long over something that looks dashed off; most addiction memoirs look quite the opposite.
249 2008-03-09 As a result, the letter from the Armed Services Committee says, “we believe that it has been overwhelmingly U.S. taxpayer money that has funded Iraq reconstruction over the last five years, despite Iraq earning billions of dollars in oil revenue over that time period that have ended up in non-Iraqi banks.”

The letter was signed by Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the committee chairman, and Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who is a former chairman. Senator John McCain of Arizona, the ranking Republican on the committee and the presumptive Republican nominee for president, did not sign the letter.

Iraqi officials say they face many obstacles in what might seem to be a straightforward task: spending their plentiful money. Workers are attacked, engineers and contracting experts have fled government ministries, construction companies refuse to take jobs in risky areas and building materials are not available.

And if all of those factors were not daunting enough, the various Iraqi and American government entities involved cannot even agree on how much the notoriously opaque Iraqi bureaucracy has in fact spent on reconstruction.

Last fall, as Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, and Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador to Iraq, reported to Congress on the state of the war, the Bush administration provided figures that contrasted sharply with those of the accountability office. The administration reported that by July 2007, Iraq had spent 24 percent of the $10 billion in oil revenue set aside for reconstruction that year.

The accountability office disputed those figures, saying they were based in part on projections that proved inaccurate. But in a recent phone interview, a senior Iraqi official gave even more bullish estimates of the expenditures. Citing official Iraqi Finance Ministry figures, the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to provide information that had not yet been publicly released, said by the end of last year, Iraq had spent 63 percent of its capital budget, a leap over the previous year that would indicate rapid progress in governmental efficiency.

“It’s totally unacceptable that there’s no decent accounting for their money,” Senator Levin said in a telephone interview Saturday. “But the problem is our money. Why are we spending our money five years later when they have a surplus? That’s just extraordinary.”

In order to resolve some of these discrepancies and track down where the oil money has gone, the letter by Senators Levin and Warner asks the accountability office to answer a series of basic questions.

The senators requested detailed information on the amount of Iraqi oil revenue from 2003 to 2007, how much of that money has gone unspent, and “how much money does the Iraqi government have deposited, in which banks, and in what countries?”

Finally, Senators Levin and Warner ask the question looming over the entire rebuilding effort: “Why has the Iraqi government not spent more of its oil revenue on reconstruction, economic development and providing essential services for the Iraqi people?”

Also on Friday, Iraqi security forces discovered a mass grave containing the remains of about 100 people in Diyala Province, said Maj. Winfield Danielson, a spokesman for Multinational Forces-Iraq.
250 2008-03-09 But only with the Barceloneta case, they say, did anything start to happen. It spurred threats of a tourism boycott, inspired the government to begin addressing more forcefully the issue of animal welfare and precipitated soul-searching among the Puerto Rican people.

“In our culture we have not addressed these issues because, probably, we did not think they were important,” said Carlos M. Carazo, director of the animal disease division of Puerto Rico’s State Office for Animal Control, in an interview in San Juan last month. “In Puerto Rico, we have so many issues to address, we haven’t had the leisure time to think about animals. But this is probably the time to start thinking about it.”

Puerto Rico, among United States territories, has long had a poor international reputation for the treatment of animals. There is no government program for mass sterilization or registration of pets and little animal welfare education in the schools. The island has only about a half-dozen animal shelters, and while municipalities are charged with rounding up strays, that duty has largely been ignored, government officials and animal advocates say.

Puerto Rican pet owners will often dump unwanted animals along roads or on beaches, animal advocates say. Roaming packs of mangy dogs are common in many towns.

One of the most notorious dumping grounds is a spit of land on the southeastern coast near the town of Yabucoa. It is known as Dead Dog Beach. According to animal welfare advocates, thousands of dogs have wound up there in the last decade.

“I’ve found dogs poisoned in the bushes,” said Sandra Cintron, 37, an animal rescuer who lives in Yabucoa and drives to the beach every morning with a sack of dry food and jugs of fresh water for the shifting population of abandoned animals. “Sometimes they put them in bags and toss them in the jungle.”

Ms. Cintron, whose volunteer work is supported by several Puerto Rican and international animal welfare groups, has been tending to the stray dogs at Dead Dog Beach since 2001. She has taken hundreds to be neutered and has found homes for dozens. She has named them all and keeps photographs of them in albums. Animal rights groups say that over the years they have been inundated with letters and e-mail messages from tourists offended by the stray dog problem.

One rights group in San Juan is the Save a Sato Foundation. The group’s Web site explains that sato is slang for “street dog.”

An e-mail message sent to the group by a woman who identified herself as Susan, was typical: “I visited P.R. a few years ago and was appalled and literally sickened by the homeless dog situation. I spent my entire vacation feeding stray dogs. The trip was miserable and horrible and I swore never to return and to tell everyone I knew about the experience.”

A 2002 study by the Puerto Rico Hotel and Tourism Association estimated that the stray animal problem was costing the commonwealth about $5 million a year in lost tourism. “Numerous groups and conventions have canceled plans to hold meetings in Puerto Rico after observing the stray dog and cat situation,” the report said.

Still, it was five years before the government acted.

“In Puerto Rico, nobody has taught our culture animal control and protection concepts,” said Mr. Carazo of the animal control office, which was formed last year. “We are now beginning to address those issues.”

Since the Barceloneta case, the animal control office has accelerated new regulations and guidelines for animal control specialists, shelters and law enforcement agencies on how to manage strays, adoptions, spay clinics and licensing.

Completion of the guidelines will result in the disbursement of $1.5 million in seed money to establish animal shelters in each of the commonwealth’s 78 municipalities, said Wilma Rivera, executive director of the office.

The government has also created a program to educate two police coordinators in every region, who will train the rest of the police force in the proper handling of pet cruelty cases.

The commonwealth’s tourism agency has also formed a committee to push for more government action, complementing an animal welfare committee that operates under the auspices of the hotel and tourism board.

Meanwhile, a group of lawyers is drafting more comprehensive animal protection legislation with stiffer penalties.

Still, animal welfare advocates are concerned that as the Barceloneta case wanes, the government’s interest may flag. But Edilia Vazquez, director of the Save a Sato Foundation, said the Barceloneta case has unified the once-fractured animal welfare community.

“We realize we need to work with each other and keep the finger in the side of the government,” Ms. Vazquez said.
251 2008-03-09 The portion of the Kibo module that is riding with the Endeavour will be put in a temporary position on the station until the main laboratory is taken up this spring. Takao Doi, a Japanese astronaut on the flight, will take part in installing the pressurized room — not much longer than a Mini Cooper automobile — and will be the first to enter it.

Other spacewalks will involve assembling the nine large pieces of Dextre and inspecting a damaged rotary joint that is supposed to turn half of the station’s immense solar panels to face the sun. The joint has been out of commission since last year, and NASA has a team dedicated full time to figuring out how best to get it moving again.

Another spacewalk is devoted to a bit of unfinished business after the loss of the shuttle Columbia five years ago: testing an orbital goo gun that could be used to fix minor damage to shuttle tiles during a mission.

The other members of the crew are the pilot, Col. Gregory H. Johnson of the Air Force; Dr. Richard M. Linnehan; Capt. Michael J. Foreman of the Navy; Maj. Robert L. Behnken of the Air Force; and Garrett E. Reisman, an astronaut who will be staying aboard the station for long-term duty. He will take the place of Gen. Léopold Eyharts, a French astronaut who has lived aboard the station since last month.

Colonel Johnson, Captain Foreman, Mr. Reisman and Major Behnken are rookies. This will be the fourth flight for Captain Gorie and Dr. Linnehan, and the second for Mr. Doi.

A forecast issued Friday at a space agency news briefing put the likelihood that weather conditions will allow launching at 90 percent. To avoid scheduling conflicts with an Air Force satellite launching at Cape Canaveral, NASA will only attempt launchings on Tuesday and, if there is a delay, on Wednesday before waiting until March 17.

At 16 days, this will be the longest mission devoted to station construction. It is also, however, part of the winding down of the shuttle program, which will have just a dozen missions more after this one to complete the station and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope before 2010.

This knowledge of an ending makes each mission somewhat bittersweet for those involved, Major Behnken said in an interview. “When I was a kid, I got to see the shuttle’s transit across the country” on the back of a 747, he said.

“It’s a little bit sad to see something that has been a part of your life” go into retirement, he said, “but it’s also kind of what needs to be done in order to move on.”

The fleet will be grounded to make way for the development of a new generation of spacecraft capable of taking people back to the Moon and beyond, which should be flying by 2015. During the gap between the old and the new, NASA will be dependent on the Russian space program for access to the station.

Major Behnken said, “I think it really is important for NASA to have something that goes beyond just low-Earth orbit, and so if it takes retiring the shuttles to move on, you need to rip that Band-Aid off” and press on.
252 2008-03-09 There’s something about Los Angeles that has kept the latest wave of fine specialty coffee at bay. So the August opening of Intelligentsia Coffee in Silver Lake, complete with some imported Pacific Northwest baristas, was a quantum leap.

The shop, on a busy stretch of Sunset Boulevard, is a bold stab westward by the Chicago-based Intelligentsia Coffee and Tea. The bright space is divided into an outdoor seating area, for lounging with a laptop, and an indoor workshop with counter-only seating for focused caffeine administration.

Inside, a cool marble work surface floats above a sea of white-and-blue Nicaraguan tile. Above, a ceiling of shiny plywood (originally meant to be a conceptual skate ramp, as experienced mid-back flip) accentuates the hollow hiss of two gleaming Synesso espresso machines.

The cash registers are recessed into the work surface, making them refreshingly invisible. Something else is missing, too: Intelligentsia offers no drip coffee, opting instead for a pair of Clovers — high-tech brewers that make each cup fresh with a stream of hot water and a precisely machined inverse plunger. It’s a bold move: anything but the best beans show glaring imperfections with the Clover.

I had a cup of Flecha Roja, from Costa Rica ($2.50), which, lightly roasted, embodied the ringing, fruity acidity favored by cutting-edge roasters. It’s quite a counterpoint to Intelligentsia’s signature Black Cat espresso blend. Black Cat is syrupy and naturally sweet, and dark as crude. Served as a ristretto with a small glass of water on the side ($2), this could be the acme of the American third-wave espresso style.

Unlike most cafes, Intelligentsia has a menu simplified to a handful of espresso drinks (lattes, topped with finely wrought milk foam designs, start at $3.25); single-origin Clover brews, starting at $2; and bags of freshly roasted, rare beans, from $13 a pound). A few coffee fetish items are also available, including Baratza Virtuoso burr grinders ($200) and Intelligentsia skateboard decks ($55).

On weekends, the line extends out the door onto the sidewalk. The wait is social, but for serious coffee drinking go midweek and take a seat at the marble bar. Watch the action, chat with the eager baristas, and down cup after cup of the best coffee in Los Angeles.
253 2008-03-09 Fire prevention authorities recommend that smoke alarm batteries be changed twice yearly, at the start and the end of daylight saving time. The time change occurred this morning....
254 2008-03-09 WEISSER--Alice, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Paterson, NJ. Widow of Emil Weisser. She is survived by her children, Carl and Judie Weisser of Knoxville, TN; Lois and Gene Cosloy of Wayland, MA; Joanne Salomon of Tea Neck, NJ; her grandchildren an...
255 2008-03-09 PERHAPS, like falling hemlines, it's an indication of a slowed economy, but this season, sunglasses are looking like face shields. Bernhard Willhelm's collaboration with Linda Farrow yielded space goggles; and for his first eyewear collection, Mar...
256 2008-03-10 Andrew Tirrell, a lawyer with the nonprofit organization Advocates for Children of New York, is taking questions from readers through March 14 on the rights of parents and students in New York City schools....
257 2008-03-10 Matthew Yglesias, left, of The Atlantic and Jonathan Chait of The New Republic discuss where John McCain's views on foreign policy actually lie.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
258 2008-03-10 The Republican candidate promised to release his medical records in mid-April....
259 2008-03-10 Attacks that once seemed off-limits suddenly have been pushed to the front of the stage. Will that come back to hurt the Democrats in the fall?...
260 2008-03-10 Jeff Scher's posthumous portrait of a friend and mentor using an assemblage of images he carefully selected.
261 2008-03-10 Up Next in CNBC
262 2008-03-10 Nationwide Financial said Monday that its parent company, Nationwide Mutual, had offered to buy shares in the subsidiary that it does not already own for $2.2 billion in cash. The offer applies to Nationwide Financial's 46.7 million Class A shares...
263 2008-03-10 "If you have leverage, you're stuffed." That was the blunt assessment about the hedge-fund industry from Alex Allen, chief investment officer of a London-based firm that invests its clients' money in hedge funds. He was speaking to Bloomberg News ...
264 2008-03-10 Microsoft would not rush to merge its technology platform with Yahoo's after a takeover of the Internet company, even if meant delaying some of the potential benefits to shareholders from any deal, Microsoft's chief software architect told The Fin...
265 2008-03-10 Last year, The New York Times Company fended off a major investor who complained of poor decision-making and was bent on shaking up the company. This year, management is facing another challenge from dissident investors with similar criticisms. Bu...
266 2008-03-10 Subprime-related losses at global financial institutions have so far totaled as much as $215 billion, with about 55 percent of that coming from the United States, the head of Japan's financial regulator said on Monday. Japan's Financial Services A...
267 2008-03-10 Warburg Pincus has agreed to lower the purchase price for some shares certain MBIA executives have agreed to buy and to extend the deadline for the purchases. The move lowers the investment that MBIA will receive. In a filing with the Securities a...
268 2008-03-10 BCE, seeking approval for a 52 billion Canadian dollar ($52.4 billion) buyout, scored a victory after a Canadian judge dismissed a lawsuit by a group of bondholders opposed to the deal. The proposed buyout of Canada's biggest telephone company is ...
269 2008-03-10 Shenzhen is ready to start a Nasdaq-style second exchange for start-up shares as soon as the Chinese government gives it the go-ahead, the mayor of the southern Chinese city said Sunday. Chinese government officials have said that the long-planned...
270 2008-03-10 WASHINGTON — The Boeing Company said Monday that it would seek to overturn the award to rival manufacturers of a multibillion-dollar contract to build aerial refueling aircraft.

“Our team has taken a very close look at the tanker decision and found serious flaws in the process that we believe warrant appeal,” Jim McNerney, Boeing’s chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement on the airplane giant’s Web site. “This is an extraordinary step rarely taken by our company, and one we take very seriously.”

The company said it would file a formal protest on Tuesday asking the Government Accountability Office to review the Air Force’s decision to award the tanker contract to a team of Northrop Grumman and the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company.

Boeing had until Wednesday to decide whether to appeal the Air Force’s decision, which was announced on Feb. 29.

Boeing had been favored to win the $35 billion contract — which could eventually be worth far more — so its defeat to the Northrop Grumman-EADS team was a stinging blow not just to Boeing’s corporate pride but its long-range outlook as well. So its announcement that it will appeal was not that unexpected.

Boeing said that after getting a “debriefing” from the Air Force on Friday, company officials spent the weekend reviewing the service’s case for awarding the contract to the rival group.
271 2008-03-10 WASHINGTON (AP) — Boeing said Monday that it would formally protest a $35 billion Air Force contract awarded to the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company and Northrop Grumman.

Boeing’s chairman and chief executive, Jim McNerney, said in a statement that the Chicago-based aerospace company “found serious flaws in the process that we believe warrant appeal.”

The award to replace 179 air-to-air refueling tankers is the first of three major Air Force contracts to replace its entire fleet of nearly 600 aging tankers and could be worth $100 billion over the next 30 years.

Boeing, which was debriefed by Air Force officials on Friday about why the European company, known as EADS, and Northrop Grumman won the high-stakes deal, said Monday that it had “serious concerns” about the fairness of the competition, citing “inconsistency in requirements, cost factors and treatment of our commercial data.”

“This is an extraordinary step rarely taken by our company, and one we take very seriously,” Mr. McNerney said.
272 2008-03-10 Still, it is one thing for Mr. McCain to say he would be better at protecting the American people from danger than Mr. Obama. It is another for Mrs. Clinton to say it.

Should Mr. Obama win the nomination, Mr. McCain will cite Mrs. Clinton as an expert on Mr. Obama’s shortcomings as a commander in chief many times. And should Mr. Obama lose in November, it’s a good bet that when the when the finger-pointing starts, Mrs. Clinton would be one of the top targets for recriminations.

But this new tack could have reverberations for Mrs. Clinton should she win the nomination. In recent days, Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton have, with obvious calculation — with an eye to courting Democrats entranced by Mr. Obama but nervous about whether he is ready for the Oval Office — floated the idea that Mrs. Clinton might ask Mr. Obama to be her running mate should she win the nomination.

Presidential candidates invariably say that their first consideration in choosing a running-mate is finding someone who is ready to step in and be president. What would Mrs. Clinton say when asked why she was choosing, in Mr. Obama, someone whose readiness to defend the nation she has questioned? (Whose qualifications to be a commander in chief rested on the fact that he, as she put it, “gave a speech.”)

Yes, presidential candidates often pick as their running-mates one-time rivals, and thus have to endure a few days of stories recounting all the nasty things the two said about one another in the heart of the primary battle. This, arguably, rises to another level: Mrs. Clinton has suggested that the Republican candidate for president was more qualified than Mr. Obama when it comes to defending the nation.

There is no mystery why this is happening. The Clinton campaign was running out of options. Mr. Obama’s lead in delegates barely changed after Mrs. Clinton won Ohio and the popular vote in the Texas primary. This race is in a whole new stage now: Everything — even the upcoming contests in Pennsylvania and Indiana — is about what it takes to influence the uncommitted superdelegates, the elected Democrats and party leaders whose voters are ultimately going to determine the outcome of the race.

This audience is far different than the voters Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are facing as they campaign. These are Democrats who are going to think about electability and are going to consider just how vulnerable Mr. Obama is to these kind of attacks — and more than that, whether he has the fortitude to withstand them. It is a high-risk strategy for Mrs. Clinton — one that might come to define her legacy as much as anything else. But it may be the only choice she has.
273 2008-03-10 The Norwegian sprinter Thor Hushovd won the Paris-Nice prologue in Amilly, France, racing along with 159 other riders despite threats of sanctions from the International Cycling Union.Hushovd, of the Crédit Agricole team, completed the 2.9-mile prologue around Amilly in 5 minutes 28 seconds. He was four seconds faster than Markel Irizar of Spain and five seconds ahead of Stefan Schumacher of Germany.Pat McQuaid, the president of the cycling federation, had urged riders to boycott the season’s first major stage race, calling it “illegal” because the race owner — the Amaury Sport Organization — was holding it under French laws and outside U.C.I. rules.McQuaid had threatened teams with six-month suspensions, fines of up to $9,700 and bans from the track world championships later this month, which would affect cyclists trying to qualify for the Beijing Olympics.The Paris-Nice race finishes March 16, with Monday’s first stage taking the pack on a mostly flat 114.4-mile route from Amilly to Nevers.
274 2008-03-10 Buried inside Sunday’s papers was a noteworthy election result. In a special election to replace former Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican, first-time Democratic candidate Bill Foster emerged victorious. George Bush easily carried the district in 2004, as has every recent G.O.P. presidential candidate.

This Democratic pickup suggests that, for now, we’re in an electoral environment more like 2006 than 2004. Foster’s eight-percentage-point improvement on John Kerry’s 2004 performance in the district mirrors the general shift in the electorate from 2004, when Bush won and the Republicans held Congress, to 2006, when the Democrats took over Congress and ran on average about eight points ahead of the G.O.P. Most surveys have shown the Democrats retaining that sizable advantage over the last 16 months. Saturday’s special election would appear to confirm these polls.

This isn’t encouraging for G.O.P. prospects in 2008. Nor is this: It’s rare for a party to win a third consecutive term in the White House. The only time it’s been done since World War II was in 1988. Then the incumbent, Ronald Reagan, had a job approval rating on Election Day in the high 50s. George Bush looks likely to remain stuck in the 30s. Factor in the prospect of a recession (the bad housing and job market reports at the end of last week were politically chilling) and the fact that a large majority already thinks the country’s going in the wrong direction. Add to the mix a huge turnout so far in the Democratic presidential primaries, far above that for the Republican contests, even when both parties still had competitive races.

As former Obama foreign policy adviser Samantha Power would say: Ergh!

Nor should Republicans be too cheered by the prospect of a drawn-out and bitter Democratic nomination battle. That battle is personal, not ideological — and, Republican hopes to the contrary notwithstanding, Democrats will unite behind Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, or behind a ticket with the two of them.

Don’t Obama and Clinton have more vulnerabilities than a typical nominee? Perhaps. Obama is more liberal and inexperienced than any winning presidential candidate in modern times. Clinton is a problematic carrier of a message of change. And both have taken positions appropriate for the Democratic primaries — for a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, against making it easier for telecommunications companies to cooperate with the government in spying on terrorists, for tax hikes and against a ban on partial-birth abortion — that should cause difficulties in a general election.
275 2008-03-10 The McCain campaign will also try to give incentives to its fund-raisers by bestowing them with honorary titles, each coming with new perks and levels of status, in much the same way the Bush campaign did by naming its biggest fund-raisers Rangers and Pioneers. One proposal that has not been officially announced calls for dubbing fund-raisers who bring in $100,000 Trailblazers, those who bring in $250,000 Innovators, and those who bring in half a million dollars co-chairmen of the campaign.

Mr. McCain raised money in Florida last week and is planning events this week in Boston, Missouri, New York and Pennsylvania. “You can see the great job that our opponents have done in fund-raising,” Mr. McCain said. “We’ve got a lot of work to do.”

The campaign will also have help: Mr. McCain is inheriting not only many of the advisers to President Bush, but also important fund-raisers who helped him raise record amounts of money.

Meanwhile, Mr. McCain’s staff has been busy putting its imprint on the Republican National Committee, which has $25 million on hand and a staff of operatives that can be used to augment his campaign’s meager resources. The campaign remains somewhat bare-bones, having been under a hiring freeze since last fall. But there are no plans to increase its staff until Rick Davis, the campaign manager, figures out which functions can be handled by the national party.

On Friday, the McCain campaign installed several loyalists at the top of the R.N.C. to begin coordinating efforts between the party and the campaign. Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, who campaigned with Mr. McCain in Florida and Michigan, will serve as the party’s victory fund chairwoman, and Lew Eisenberg, a former partner at Goldman Sachs, will be its victory fund finance chairman.

Frank Donatelli was named a deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Mike DuHaime, who managed Rudolph W. Giuliani’s presidential campaign, was brought on as a senior adviser for political operations.

Now that the party is working on his behalf, Mr. McCain can urge donors who have given him the $4,600 maximum allowable by law to make large contributions to the party. Charles Black, a senior adviser to the McCain campaign, said the national committee could help with tasks like voter identification, canvassing, communications, research and scheduling surrogates to speak on Mr. McCain’s behalf.

The pause will also give Mr. McCain the chance to campaign in nontraditional ways. This month, he hopes to travel to Europe and the Middle East with a Congressional delegation to take stock of international affairs, and then deliver a foreign policy speech upon his return.

He said he was not worried about taking time out. “When you’ve got an eight-month campaign, I think you probably have time to catch up on issues that are important,” he said.

In April, nearly a year after kicking off his battle for the nomination, Mr. McCain will restart his campaign with what aides are calling a national “bio tour,” meant to reintroduce himself to voters by traveling to places that have been important in his life — including Annapolis, where he graduated fifth from the bottom of his class at the United States Naval Academy, and Mississippi, where McCain Field at Naval Air Station Meridian is named after his grandfather, who was an admiral in the Navy.

One of the challenges Mr. McCain now faces will be how to preserve some of the spirit of the insurgent, underdog campaign that carried him to the nomination even as his campaign builds into a national operation with all the attendant trappings.

As the presumptive Republican nominee, Mr. McCain said he planned to continue using his favorite format from the primaries, the town-hall-style meeting. He often appears far more comfortable fielding questions from voters at such forums than he does at formal speeches or big rallies, where he can appear awkward — even if the meetings occasionally expose him to hostile questions.

And Mr. McCain said he planned to continue to hold forth with reporters on the back of his bus, the Straight Talk Express.

Aides believe that doing so makes Mr. McCain less likely to be the subject of what they call “gotcha” journalism, and not merely because he tries to develop a rapport with journalists, whom he has jokingly called “my base.” They believe that giving journalists access to the candidate, and the chance to hear about his positions at length, will make them less likely to jump on statements taken out of context.

That seemed to be borne out last week, when Mr. McCain briefly tripped over the name of the new Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev. Reporters, who have been known to quiz candidates on the names of foreign leaders, did not pounce.

While Mr. McCain has shown in the primary season that he can speak on the record for hundreds of hours without making gaffes, such media access can drive candidates off their messages in the tightly scripted world of a general election campaign. On Friday, a testy exchange between Mr. McCain and a reporter for The New York Times aboard his campaign plane quickly attracted attention and news coverage.

There are some signs that Mr. McCain’s dedicated, if exhausted, staff is feeling the strain of the transition. Last week, after Mr. McCain dined with Mr. Bush at the White House and visited the Republican National Committee, the cold reality of being chronically short-staffed resurfaced. Mr. McCain was left waiting on an airplane at Washington Dulles International Airport, late for a fund-raiser in Florida, because his campaign had accidentally left the press corps behind for more than an hour outside the party headquarters.

“This machine,” Mr. McCain said afterward, when the candidate and the journalists were reunited, “still needs to be tweaked to some degree.”
276 2008-03-10 “People are increasingly exposed to the idea of surrogacy in India; Oprah Winfrey talked about it on her show,” said Dr. Kaushal Kadam at the Rotunda clinic in Mumbai. Just an hour earlier she had created an embryo for Mr. Gher and his partner with sperm from one of them (they would not say which) and an egg removed from a donor just minutes before in another part of the clinic.

The clinic, known more formally as Rotunda — The Center for Human Reproduction, does not permit contact between egg donor, surrogate mother or future parents. The donor and surrogate are always different women; doctors say surrogates are less likely to bond with the babies if there is no genetic connection.

There are no firm statistics on how many surrogacies are being arranged in India for foreigners, but anecdotal evidence suggests a sharp increase.

Rudy Rupak, co-founder and president of PlanetHospital, a medical tourism agency with headquarters in California, said he expected to send at least 100 couples to India this year for surrogacy, up from 25 in 2007, the first year he offered the service.

“Every time there is a success story, hundreds of inquiries follow,” he said.

In Anand, a city in the western state of Gujarat where the practice was pioneered in India, more than 50 surrogate mothers are pregnant with the children of couples from the United States, Britain and elsewhere. Fifteen of them live together in a hostel attached to the clinic there.

Dr. Naina Patel, who runs the Anand clinic, said that even Americans who could afford to hire surrogates at home were coming to her for women “free of vices like alcohol, smoking and drugs.” She said she gets about 10 e-mailed inquiries a day from couples abroad.

Under guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, surrogate mothers sign away their rights to any children. A surrogate’s name is not even on the birth certificate.

This eases the process of taking the baby out of the country. But for many, like Lisa Switzer, 40, a medical technician from San Antonio whose twins are being carried by a surrogate mother from the Rotunda clinic, the overwhelming attraction is the price. “Doctors, lawyers, accountants, they can afford it, but the rest of us — the teachers, the nurses, the secretaries — we can’t,” she said. “Unless we go to India.”

Surrogacy is an area fraught with ethical and legal uncertainties. Critics argue that the ease with which relatively rich foreigners are able to “rent” the wombs of poor Indians creates the potential for exploitation. Although the government is actively promoting India as a medical tourism destination, what some see as an exchange of money for babies has made many here uncomfortable.

The Ministry of Women and Child Development said in February that it was weighing recommending legislation to govern surrogacy, but it is not imminent.

An article published in The Times of India in February questioned how such a law would be enforced: “In a country crippled by abject poverty,” it asked, “how will the government body guarantee that women will not agree to surrogacy just to be able to eat two square meals a day?”

Even some of those involved in the business of organizing surrogates want greater regulation.

“There must be protection for the surrogates,” Mr. Rupak said. “Inevitably, people are going to smell the money, and unscrupulous operators will get into the game. I don’t trust the industry to police itself.”

He said that the few doctors offering the service now were ethical and took good care of the surrogates but that he was concerned this might change as the business expanded.

Mr. Gher and his partner, who asked not to be named to preserve his privacy, have worked through their doubts and are certain they are doing a good thing.

“People can believe me when I say that if I could bear the baby myself I would,” he said. “But this is a mutually beneficial answer. The surrogate gets a fair amount of money for being part of the process.”

They are paying about $30,000, of which the surrogate gets about $7,500.

“Surrogates do it to give their children a better education, to buy a home, to start up a small business, a shop,” Dr. Kadam said. “This is as much money as they could earn in maybe three years. I really don’t think that this is exploiting the women. I feel it is two people who are helping out each other.”

Mr. Gher agreed. “You cannot ignore the discrepancies between Indian poverty and Western wealth,” he said. “We try our best not to abuse this power. Part of our choice to come here was the idea that there was an opportunity to help someone in India.”

In the Mumbai clinic, it is clear that an exchange between rich and poor is under way. On some contracts, the thumbprint of an illiterate surrogate stands out against the clients’ signatures.

Although some Indian clinics allow surrogates and clients to meet, Mr. Gher said he preferred anonymity. When his surrogate gives birth later this year, he and his partner will be in the hospital, but not in the ward where she is in labor, and will be handed the baby by a nurse.

The surrogate mother does not know that she is working for foreigners, Dr. Kadam said, and has not been told that the future parents are both men. Gay sex is illegal in India.

Israel legalized adoption by same-sex couples in February, but such couples are not permitted to hire surrogates in Israel to become parents. A fertility doctor recommended Rotunda, which made news in November when its doctors delivered twins for another gay Israeli couple.

Rotunda did not allow interviews with its surrogate mothers, but a 32-year-old woman at a fertility clinic in Delhi explained why she is planning on her second surrogacy in two years.

Separated from her husband, she found that her monthly wages of 2,800 rupees, about $69, as a midwife were not enough to raise her 9-year-old son. With the money she earned from the first surrogacy, more than $13,600, she bought a house. She expects to pay for her son’s education with what she earns for the second, about $8,600. (Fees are typically fixed by the doctor and can vary.) “I will save the money for my child’s future,” she said.

The process requires a degree of subterfuge in this socially conservative country. She has told her mother, who lives with her, but not her son or their neighbors. She has told the few who have asked her outright that she is bearing a child for a relative.

So far, for the Israeli couple, the experience of having a baby has been strangely virtual. They perused profiles of egg donors that were sent by e-mail (“We picked the one with the highest level of education,” Mr. Gher said). From information that followed, they rejected a factory worker in favor of a housewife, who they thought would have a less stressful lifestyle.

Mr. Gher posts updates about the process on Facebook. And soon the clinic will start sending ultrasound images of their developing child by e-mail. Highly pixelated, blown-up passport photos of the egg donor and surrogate mother adorn a wall of their apartment in Israel.

“We’ve been trying to half close our eyes and look at it in a more holistic way to imagine what she would actually look like,” Mr. Gher said of the donor’s blurred image. “These are women we don’t know, will never know, who will become in a way part of our lives.”
277 2008-03-10 Boeing received a detailed briefing from the Pentagon on Friday about why its bid fell short. Now it must decide by Wednesday whether to file a formal appeal.

The company and its allies in Washington have already made a number of arguments. Among them are that too many American jobs are being lost overseas, and that sensitive military contracts should not be in the hands of a foreign company.

The debate about the impact on American jobs is a murky one, because large manufacturing projects typically involve operations in many parts of the world, regardless of which company has a contract.

If Boeing tries to reverse the decision, it could find itself in a difficult position, accused of further delaying critically needed equipment in a time of war.

Boeing could also be forced to revisit the corruption scandal in 2004 that derailed a $20 billion deal for the company to lease refueling tankers to the Air Force. Two Boeing executives went to jail as a result, and the chief executive stepped down.

The parent of Airbus, known as EADS, and Northrop Grumman proposed a tanker made from a refitted A330 jetliner that could carry more fuel than the rival proposal, a modified Boeing 767. It also offered more flexibility for carrying cargo, transporting troops, airlifting refugees and delivering humanitarian aid.

Boeing, the heavy favorite to win the contract, having built earlier tankers, promised a new boom but did not build a prototype. One analyst who followed the contest said that Boeing, based in Chicago, seemed arrogant and offered a plan that Air Force officials thought would deliver only 19 tankers by 2013 compared with 49 by the Airbus team.

“The Boeing team was not responsive and often was not even polite,” said Loren B. Thompson, a defense analyst at the Lexington Institute in Arlington, Va., based on conversations he said he had with defense officials. “Somehow that all eluded senior management,” Mr. Thompson said. “They were not even aware there was a problem.”

William Barksdale, a Boeing spokesman who attended the Air Force debriefing on Friday, said Boeing asked “whether we were hard to get along with.” He said Air Force officials had no complaints in that area.

On Capitol Hill, the blow to Boeing has set off a protectionist furor among many lawmakers. And on the campaign trail, the Democratic candidates for president, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, suggest that the Boeing loss reflects other Bush administration policies that have resulted in jobs moving offshore.

But the hot rhetoric could sound overly nationalistic, and even hypocritical, once the real implications for jobs and national security become clear. Boeing, for example, would have made many of its own tanker parts overseas, and some experts say that claims of job losses to a foreign company seem exaggerated.

For now, though, the pro-Boeing, pro-America talk is showing no signs of letting up.

“We really have to wake up the country,” said Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington State, where Boeing is a significant employer. “We are at risk of losing a major part of our aerospace industry to the Europeans forever.”

Representative Todd Tiahrt, Republican of Kansas, said: “It’s outsourcing our national security. An American tanker should be built by an American company with American workers.” Boeing would have done some of its tanker assembly in Kansas.

Some officials have even suggested that it would have been better to revise the tainted lease deal than to let Airbus compete.

Defense industry analysts, however, say that the Airbus deal in many ways does make sense and that fears of lost military secrets are misplaced.

“We’re not talking about missile defense issues,” said Jon B. Kutler, chief executive of Admiralty Partners, a firm that invests in defense companies. “This is as plain vanilla as a major contract gets.”

The Airbus and Boeing aircraft are both global products — Boeing has said roughly 85 percent of its tanker components would be American-made, the Airbus group about 60 percent — making the impact on jobs unclear.

Boeing said its bid would create or support 44,000 American jobs. The Airbus team’s figure was 25,000 jobs in 49 states. Both numbers are impossible to verify. Industry analysts point out that, employment claims aside, the manufacturers have a profit motive in building the planes with as few workers as possible.

In fact, no layoffs are expected at the Boeing plant in Everett, Wash., where the 767 is assembled, as a result of losing the contract. On the contrary, the company is hiring workers because of a $255 billion backlog for jetliners. Airbus, too, has a huge backlog.

But while politicians continue to make election-year speeches about protecting jobs, industry analysts say a more useful debate might be over whether there was too much consolidation of American defense manufacturers in the 1990s when military spending slowed, leaving the government with limited domestic options.

With the award to the Airbus group, Mr. Kutler, the defense company investor, said: “The Defense Department is sending a message: on major contracts, don’t be assuming we have no other options. It’s a global marketplace.”

Another crucial question is how such big contracts will be awarded in the future given the indications that many American officials seem to favor competition, but only if American companies win.

“If Cessna wants to start building bigger airplanes, I am happy to see that happen,” said Senator Murray, of Washington. “I don’t disagree with the concept of more competition, but there is a second bigger question and that is military capability and losing military capability.”

Experts warned that excluding foreign competitors could prompt other countries to take similar steps against American defense manufacturers and that choosing inferior domestic products would only put military service members at risk. That tendency, acted on in other countries, has already created what one analyst, Richard Aboulafia of the Teal Group, called “a hideous mix of higher costs and reduced combat effectiveness.”

Boeing and its allies in Congress have raised a number of objections that they say could justify reversing the Air Force decision, including whether the bid evaluators properly considered subsidies that Airbus may receive from European governments, or even the fact that Boeing pays higher health care costs because much of Europe has national health insurance.

In a statement after Friday’s briefing, Mark McGraw, a Boeing vice president in charge of the tanker program, said that the company would “give serious consideration to filing a protest.” He added: “What is clear now is that reports claiming that the Airbus offering won by a wide margin could not be more inaccurate.”

If the company appeals, it would be to the Government Accountability Office, which would then have 100 days to issue a ruling.

The Air Force, meanwhile, insists that it chose the better plane.

Sue C. Payton, the assistant secretary of the Air Force, at a contentious hearing before the Defense Appropriations subcommittee last week, said: “Northrop Grumman brought their A game.” Northrop is based in Los Angeles.

Ms. Payton also disagreed with assertions that the Air Force had tipped the scales for Airbus. She said officials had carefully followed procurement rules and an array of laws, including the Buy American Act, which she noted calls for certain countries, including Western European allies, to be treated as if they were the United States.

“Let me say I view Northrop Grumman as an American company,” she said. “I view General Electric, who has jobs from this in Ohio and North Carolina, as an American company. I view the folks in Mobile, Alabama, and Melbourne, Florida, as Americans. But that did not enter into my decision here.”

“You said we want a fair and open competition under the laws,” she told the panel. “I complied with those laws.”

General Electric is to make the engines and Northrop Grumman expects to hire hundreds of engineers in Melbourne for the Airbus group’s tanker, which will be assembled in Mobile, Ala.

The victory on the Air Force contract could mark the arrival of Airbus as a major builder of tankers after decades of dominance by Boeing, which manufactured the only widely used boom.

The Boeing spokesman, Mr. Barksdale, said his company could easily pull together the new boom it promised the Air Force. “It’s not a huge leap of technology,” he said. “It would not be a huge deal.”

But to Northrop Grumman and EADS, building the boom on spec presented a chance to demonstrate their competitive hunger.

“They had to start from scratch,” said Tim Gann, a retired Air Force tanker pilot and group commander who now works for the Airbus group, EADS North America. “Up until we developed our boom, only Boeing had a boom. Boeing wasn’t going to sell us the boom.”
278 2008-03-10 “When training camp came and went, and I wasn’t there, that was when the official break happened,” said the 36-year-old Bledsoe, who announced his retirement last April. “I left that phase of my life and moved on to the next one.”

Last week, quarterback Brett Favre joined Bledsoe in the retired quarterbacks club. Next season, Favre will experience what Bledsoe went through this year, a transition from veteran signal caller to real-world rookie.

On a recent two-day tour of his new life in the city of Bend, Ore., Bledsoe conducted a business meeting over wine, coached third graders on the basketball court and closed a business deal on the ski slopes at nearby Mount Bachelor.

Bledsoe began planning his transition six years before his retirement, about the same time his tenure ended with the New England Patriots. They selected him out of Washington State with the first overall pick in the 1993 draft, and Bledsoe’s entire family traveled to New York City, their first trip together on an airplane.

“Like the Waltons go to New York” Bledsoe said.

During his ninth season in New England, against the Jets in late September 2001, Bledsoe took the most vicious of hit of his career. Linebacker Mo Lewis smacked Bledsoe along the sideline as he tried to run for a first down. Four liters of blood flowed into Bledsoe’s chest cavity, until his lungs failed to inflate.

Bledsoe went back into the game, but he could not remember plays he spent years practicing. He needed assistance getting dressed after the game.

In Bledsoe’s absence, the Patriots turned to a young and unknown quarterback named Tom Brady. Bledsoe threw a touchdown pass in the American Football Conference Championship game that year, but Brady started in the Super Bowl, and the Patriots’ dynasty began with Bledsoe on the sideline.

“I don’t play the what-if game much,” Bledsoe said. “And of course, I believe had I not gotten hit, we would have done the same thing. As an athlete, you have to believe that.”

After that season, Bledsoe felt a strong urge to walk away. Instead, he went to Buffalo, where he made his fourth Pro Bowl, then to Dallas, where he was benched again. His career ended with more than 44,000 passing yards and 251 touchdown passes.

The Cowboys pulled Bledsoe at halftime of a game against the Giants in late October 2006. He said he decided to retire then, but waited until the season ended to make sure he was not simply making an emotional decision.

Bledsoe says he is still bothered by the perception at the end of his career that he was too slow and his skills were declining. He insists his skills “had not diminished to any measurable degree.”Bledsoe wished he could show up at the scouting combine wearing a disguise, pretending to be from a small school, essentially starting over.

“Perception always bugged me,” said Adam Bledsoe, his younger brother. “In the latter half of his career, he became a whipping boy.”

Bledsoe relished standing on the field, the center of attention, 80,000 fans packed in the stands. But after the second benching, after teammates started addressing him by Mister, he decided to fade into the background. He started to decline interview requests and began starting businesses.

He knew the statistics of recently retired players, the marriages that crumbled, the money that disappeared, the friend who refused to watch football for three years after retirement. Gone were the people who made his doctor’s appointments, gave him directions and planned nearly every minute of his day.

His biggest fear: finishing football and having no reason to get out of bed in the morning. As a result, Bledsoe said yes to everything. During his career, a winery deal with three other N.F.L. quarterbacks — Damon Huard, Rick Mirer and Dan Marino — fell through, so Bledsoe started his own vineyard. He planted the grapes three years ago, and the winery will start producing in 2010.

A coffee business, 11 Roasters, is in full swing. Bledsoe proudly shows off the fire-engine red roaster in his Bend offices and talks about his blends like a Starbucks chairman. (He says the Esmeralda special is a favorite.)

The idea behind all his endeavors, whether wine, coffee, real estate or the Drew Bledsoe Foundation, is to start slow, build small and then expand. Bledsoe said he believed every coffee blend, every bottle of wine, should tell a story.

His advice to Favre? Stay busy. Adam Bledsoe jokes that after his brother retired, he took golf as seriously as he used to take football. He raised $600,000 in four months to put in FieldTurf at the local high school.

Along the way, the strangest thing happened. Bledsoe sometimes awoke at 4:30 in the morning, excited to start the day.

He coached flag football in the fall and basketball in the winter. He and his wife, Maura, will celebrate their 12th wedding anniversary in May. Finger paintings from four children — Stu, 10, John, 8, Henry, 7, Healy, 4 — hang from the refrigerator.

Sometimes, Bledsoe’s family wonders the same things as everybody else. Like when Healy asked the other day, “Daddy, when are you going to play football again?”

Arizona, Carolina, Cincinnati and Jacksonville called this past season. Jacksonville’s offer intrigued Bledsoe. The Jaguars had a strong running game, a solid offensive line, a coach Bledsoe liked, and they were offering an easy seven-figure paycheck.

Bledsoe seriously considered it, but he decided to turn down the offer. When he woke up the next morning with a giant smile on his face, he knew he made the right decision.

Toward the end of his career, Bledsoe learned he had chronic head trauma migraines. Every time he was hit in the back of the head, he lost his peripheral vision.

“I really don’t have any regrets,” Bledsoe said. “Most people leave the game angry, at least for a little while. I had that with the Patriots, but I got over it, moved on.”

Humor eases the transition. His e-mail address starts exqb11. The Bledsoes’ Christmas card pictured the family dressed in holiday gear, with its recently retired father sitting oblivious in the middle, watching television.

There were times when Bledsoe missed the game. At a restaurant in Montana, the Cowboys’ first preseason game was on television, and there were all his teammates, guys he played with only a few months earlier, moving on.During the Super Bowl, the Bledsoes went skiing in Jackson Hole, Wyo. They planned to leave on a Sunday, but snow forced them back inside the cabin, where they watched the Giants’ victory on television.

When the game ended, Maura held a glass of wine and toasted her husband on surviving his first season out of football. She noticed tears forming in his eyes.

At the end of the two-day Bend tour, Bledsoe pulled his Mercedes into the lot where the family is building its second dream home. The house will be about 10,000 square feet, with a wine cellar and a theater and an underground basketball court.

The last time Bledsoe built a home like this, he played for the Patriots, his career still in front of him. Scanning the mass of concrete, Bledsoe smiled. New dream house, new dreams, new life. This transition is complete.

“His career didn’t end the way we thought,” Maura said. “I always wanted it to end in the Super Bowl, ride into the sunset. But this works. He’s happy and busier than he’s ever been.”
279 2008-03-10 Fusi Nchabeng, the provincial secretary for the women’s union, the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union, said the women did not know the video was made to protest integration, nor that, as they now believe, the food was urinated on. He declined to make the women available for an interview because the case is under criminal investigation, but he said they had worked at the residence for years and felt betrayed by the students and degraded by the video.

As the video and postings about it spread to YouTube and Facebook, it has provoked ever more bitter racial division on the campus and soul-searching across the country. “It’s bigger than the university,” said Billyboy Ramahlele, who heads the university’s diversity office. “It’s bigger than the four students. It’s really a challenge of the project of nation-building and reconciliation we started in 1994.”

That was the year white rule finally ended in South Africa. The University of the Free State has come a long way since the heyday of apartheid, when it was a training ground for the Afrikaner civil servants who became cogs in a racist political order.

Like many South African institutions, the university has undergone a transformation that is sweeping, but still incomplete. A majority of the university’s 25,000 students are now black. They are taught in English as well as Afrikaans, the language of the Afrikaners.

The hostels where students live, however, were still segregated after an earlier effort at integration ended in violence a decade ago. Then in January, after months of debate, the university moved again to integrate the residences, assigning black first-year students in white, Afrikaner hostels and whites in black residences. The white students generally did not take the spots allotted to them in the black residences, university officials said.

Eight black first-year students were sent to live with 128 white male students at Reitz.

“They seriously don’t want us here,” said Buzwe Tsawu, 19, an aspiring architect whose painterly self-portrait hangs on the wall.

At 3 o’clock one morning in mid-January, the eight black students were awakened with a bang as firecrackers were tossed through the open windows of the four bedrooms of their bungalow, they said. In the weeks that followed, they said, their windows were repeatedly broken as they slept. One weekend, as the seniors gathered at the social club next door to drink and party and braai, as barbecuing is called in South Africa, the newcomers were subjected to verbal abuse.

“They were trying to scare us, make us leave,” said Kulani Mngadi, 19.

But the black students made a pact to stick it out. “We’re going to change this place,” said Ruddy Banyini, a 19-year-old who is studying bioinfomatics, using computer tools to search genetic databases. “We’ll prevent next year’s black first-years from feeling what we felt.”

Many Afrikaners see what they call “forced integration” as a threat to the cultural identity of their embattled minority, descended from Dutch settlers.

Symbols of the apartheid-era past are still to be found in the Afrikaner hostels. The Hendrik Verwoerd residence, named at its opening in 1968 for the assassinated architect of apartheid, was given a new name, Armentum, two years ago. Armentum is Latin for herd. A bust of Mr. Verwoerd, a white supremacist, remains in a meeting room, and his portrait and memorabilia line the walls of the senior social club.

The hostel now has 18 blacks among its 160 residents, and its leader, Van Aardt Cloete, a 21-year-old senior, acknowledged the need to change the name because it “was sensitive for black people.” But he also said Armentum would keep a room in the hostel as a museum to showcase the Verwoerd past.

Pieter Odendaal, a 23-year-old senior who is the head of Reitz house, said: “There’s a fear, especially among young white South Africans, that there isn’t a future in this land anymore, that there’s all this black empowerment. We don’t have anything to do with apartheid. Why must they take away our job opportunities? Why must we give up our language? People just want to hold onto the last thing we still have: our Afrikaans-speaking hostel, playing rugby, braaiing, listening to Afrikaans music.”

The Reitz student video was made last year as the integration debate raged. “Once upon a time,” one student says in the opening frames, “the Boers had fun living on Reitz Island up until a day when the previously disadvantaged found the word ‘integration’ in the dictionary.”

Frederick Fourie, the rector of the University of the Free State, heard about the video on Feb. 26 and watched it that morning. An Afrikaner whose father was a professor here, Mr. Fourie said he wept when he reached one scene.

It showed a muscular white student starting a race of four hefty black cleaning women, set in slow motion to the theme music from “Chariots of Fire” — a scene Mr. Fourie felt humiliated good-hearted women who deserved better from students they had looked after.

When he saw the urination scene, he knew he had a public relations disaster on his hands.

The next day, he met with the tearful cleaning women. “My heart was sore,” he said. “They’d trusted these boys as their own sons. I apologized for what had happened to them at the university. I told them: ‘My heart is broken. I cry with you.’ ”
280 2008-03-10 The investors say they want the company to sell assets like those newspapers, a minority stake in the Boston Red Sox and the new corporate headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, using the proceeds to invest more aggressively in Internet companies.

Executives of the hedge funds would not state their criticism for publication, but a person close to them said: “I think it’s safe to say that the whole is less than the sum of its parts. It’s not clear how a newspaper, a baseball team and Midtown real estate add value to one another.”

The nominating committee of the Times Company board has agreed to meet with the hedge funds’ four nominees for directors to be elected by Class A shareholders, raising the possibility of a negotiated deal rather than a proxy fight. At last year’s meeting, dissidents did not nominate a slate of directors, but in a sign of displeasure with the company’s performance, investors withheld votes representing 42 percent of the Class A shares.

If Harbinger, which is part of the Harbert Management Corporation, and Firebrand persuade enough shareholders to vote with them, the Times Company could be faced with the uncomfortable prospect of having directors nominated by dissident shareholders on its board.

But the challenge provokes a larger question: What can the Times Company do to battle the industrywide downturn that has brought sharply reduced budgets, smaller newsrooms and the sale of newspapers across the country?

The company contends it has a strategy that is already paying off: deepen the news Web sites that already draw some of the heaviest traffic and advertising on the Internet, introduce glossy magazines that attract high-end advertisers, and shop judiciously for Internet acquisitions.

One by one, many of the old newspaper families — the Chandlers who controlled Times Mirror, the Ridders of Knight Ridder and, most recently, the Bancroft family of Dow Jones — have given up their companies, either through consolidation or outright sales. That leaves The Times as the largest paper in the country still controlled by a family that sees ownership as a public trust.

The industry endured one of the worst revenue declines on record in 2007, and 2008 is off to an even worse start. The Times Company recently reported that advertising revenue in January fell 9.8 percent from January 2007. The Times newspaper, a longtime holdout against downsizing, recently announced plans to reduce its news department of 1,332 people by 100 positions.

Cuts like that are hardly likely to persuade nervous investors who have watched the company’s share price slide to less than $18 from more than $50 in 2002. Harbinger’s long-term goals are unclear, and representatives of the funds declined to be interviewed.

People briefed on the funds’ plans say that they want to remain involved with the Times Company for several years at least, help change its direction and build up its value. One such person said, “A short-term investor doesn’t run for board seats.”

To the hedge fund investors, the point is not that the company’s assets are necessarily bad ones, but that they neither benefit the core business nor benefit from them, while tying up a lot of capital that could be better used in aggressively pursuing Internet opportunities.

“The company needs to exponentially increase or supercharge the growth of their Internet revenues,” a person briefed on the funds’ plans said. “This is a great time to be sitting on cash and be looking for consumer Internet media companies,” especially for a company with “a fire hose of traffic they can spray on these assets.”

Many analysts, though, doubt that the Harbinger group’s proposals make sense. “We do not believe a radical near-term remake of the New York Times Company is likely nor do we believe it would translate into a dramatically improved valuation for the shares in the short term,” Peter P. Appert of Goldman Sachs wrote in a recent investors’ note.

Times Company executives and some analysts argue that the company and its newspapers are making the transition to the Internet better than rivals. Since Ms. Robinson became chief executive in 2004, the company has made the kinds of Internet investments the hedge funds propose — among these the purchase of About.com, a profitable information and advice site — but it has moved more cautiously than Harbinger and Firebrand would like.

John Janedis, a Wachovia Capital Markets analyst, took a cautious view. “I think any company needs to be careful not to be bigger on the Internet just to be bigger on the Internet,” he said, because online businesses carry high prices and many fail. “It would be difficult to find any kind of transforming acquisition.”

What the Sulzberger family thinks is not clear. People who know the family say that, unlike the Bancrofts or the Chandlers, they have remained unusually tight-knit and devoted to the company. Nor is there any hint that Mr. Sulzberger or Ms. Robinson has lost the confidence of the board or the family, which owns almost 90 percent of the Class B stock. That stake gives the family sole power in electing 9 of the 13 directors, though its holdings total only about 19 percent of the company’s overall shares — roughly the same as the Harbinger group.

But a few things have puzzled some investors, like the company’s moves to expand its television holdings, only to sell all of them a few years later, or the 2002 purchases of the stake in the Red Sox and a New England cable sports channel.

In a struggle for shareholder support before the April 22 annual meeting, the Times Company management may be troubled by a memory of past missteps. Many critics point to the $2.7 billion spent to buy back shares at high prices from 1998 to 2004.

There is also a question of the funds’ interest in a long-run commitment. Harbinger is better known for buying stakes in distressed properties and looking for ways to revamp them, quickly increasing the stock price and creating opportunities to sell at a profit. That has led some analysts to speculate that the hedge funds are hoping for a deal to take the company private or for a sale of the company — something Mr. Sulzberger has ruled out and the analysts say is very unlikely.

While Harbinger has put up most of the money for the hedge funds’ big purchases of Times Company stock, the chief strategist behind their bid is Scott Galloway, founder of Firebrand, who is also one of their director nominees. He also has a marketing consulting firm and teaches marketing at the Stern School of Business at New York University.

Mr. Galloway, 43, is a tall, animated man with a gift for self-promotion, associates say, and he has experience in proxy fights, mostly with troubled companies, with mixed results. After founding Red Envelope, an Internet gift retailer, in the 1990s, he lost his board seat in a power struggle, then regained it several years later. In recent years, the company has struggled.

Working with Harbinger in 2006, he secured a seat on the board of the computer maker Gateway, with much the same argument he has made about The Times — that it had a valuable but underexploited brand name. Gateway continued to flag and in 2007 agreed to be bought by Acer.

In its approach to The Times, Harbinger has hired a proxy solicitation firm, but several investors said they had not heard directly from the hedge funds. Two big investors, who insisted on anonymity to avoid alienating either side, said they had doubts about both camps and had not decided how to vote, but that given the poor performance of the stock, they had to listen seriously to Harbinger and Firebrand.

“They’ve got a good shot,” Mr. Janedis said of the hedge funds. “The question is, do the institutional shareholders feel more comfortable with Harbinger or not?”
281 2008-03-10 Vulcan, a small Canadian prairie town, is bidding to be the host of the world premiere of the next “Star Trek” movie, Agence France-Presse reported. Situated among the oil wells, wheat fields and cow pastures of Alberta, the community is already home to a three-day annual “Star Trek” convention. Dayna Dickens, a spokeswoman for Vulcan, said: “Because the film’s story line is based on a young Mr. Spock and a young Captain Kirk in their early days at Starfleet and because we think of Mr. Spock as our native son, it would be a neat tie-in to bring Spock home for the movie launch. I mean, Vulcan is his birthplace.” Actually, a surveyor named the railroad stop in 1910 for Vulcan, the Roman god of fire. Ms. Dickens said the town had sent a proposal in September to the executive producers of the film, tentatively titled “Star Trek Zero,” and was told last month they were considering it, she said. Ms. Dickens noted that Vulcan has “logistical issues,” including no movie theater. But she said, noting that movies are regularly screened in the school gymnasium, “we can work around them.”
282 2008-03-10 Curators at Britain’s National Portrait Gallery, researching an exhibition that is to open on Thursday, rediscovered a painting of an 18th-century female scholar who was a member of the Bluestocking group of intellectuals who promoted the advancement of women, the BBC reported. The oil portrait, above, regarded as a major work, was created between 1735 and 1741 by John Fayram and depicts Elizabeth Carter as Minerva, goddess of wisdom and warfare. Carter was known for her translation of the Stoic philosopher Epictetus, but her friend Samuel Johnson said that besides her talent for translation, she could also make a pudding, work a handkerchief and compose a poem. The curators knew of the existence of the painting from a poem published in 1741 and a photograph sent to the gallery in the 1940s and found it in a private collection. Never previously on public display, it will be seen in “Brilliant Women: 18th-Century Bluestockings,” running until June 15.
283 2008-03-10 This isn’t unusual terrain for a prominent rapper approaching his late 30s, the standard age of obsolescence for more than one high-stakes profession. Still, it’s striking that Snoop Dogg can barely get half a minute into the album before defensively acknowledging his cartoonish television persona. Then, as one sultry, vintage sample (Marvin Gaye) segues into another (Isley Brothers), he lets loose with the first litany of boasts, in his laid-back yet shifty style.

Throughout “Ego Trippin’ ” Snoop Dogg tries to burnish his credentials as a party-ready high roller, a street-toughened gangster, an insatiable lothario and a nurturing husband and father. He never acknowledges the incongruity of all these attributes, except by juxtaposition: “Those Gurlz,” a groupie-seduction vignette, leads into “One Chance (Make It Good),” an avuncular bit of relationship advice.

Acutely aware of his reputation for misogyny, Snoop Dogg grouses momentarily about freedom of speech. He dedicates “Been Around tha World” to his wife, but that track doesn’t inspire much faith in his chivalry, let alone his fidelity. Naughtiness is still more his style, even if the album’s explicit version of “Sensual Seduction” — his current Top 10 single, a robotic synth-pop track — is so clumsily suggestive that it verges on comedy.

“Sensual Seduction” was made by Shawty Redd, one of the few outside producers on the album. The greater portion of “Ego Trippin’ ” was overseen by QDT Muzic, a new production team consisting of DJ Quik, Teddy Riley and Snoop Dogg. They turn out an effective tangle of allusions to 1980s pop and present-day hip-hop, with diversions like “My Medicine,” a slight but likable nod to Johnny Cash that was produced by Whitey Ford, a k a the rapper Everlast.

In keeping with the album’s title, Snoop Dogg lets only a few guests into his spotlight. (One of these, the rapper Too $hort from Oakland, Calif., will join him on Tuesday at the Blender Theater at Gramercy.) Snoop Dogg reserves a place of honor for Charlie Wilson of the Gap Band, who sings an earnest hook on the closing track, “Can’t Say Goodbye.”

There, over a Bruce Hornsby-like piano part, Snoop Dogg offers the culmination of his soul search: a love song “to the blocks that raised me” and to the realness of the streets. “Critics wonder if I’m trying to be the Old Me,” he muses, “but if they think the Old Me ever left/Then they don’t really know me.” Fair enough. But if the rest of “Ego Trippin’ ” is any indication, this rapper is just as confused on that point. NATE CHINEN

Kaki King is fighting against slightness. An acoustic guitarist of demonstrable skill — she used to demonstrate it all the time when she played by herself, tapping or slapping the strings, using the heel of her hand, deftly fingerpicking — she turned a corner a few years ago, taking a few steps away from fiddliness. She started working with a band. The message seemed to be that dexterity wasn’t enough, except for a very small minority of players.

She’s still moving, though it’s not clear where she’ll end up. The technical displays are still there on “Dreaming of Revenge,” which is more than half an instrumental record, and they can be jarring and disjunctive. With her legerdemain, Ms. King could have ended up in jazz, New Age or metal. But she ended up in indie rock, and her eager, fizzy playing feels at odds there; it’s so unlike the studied slouchiness that typifies the musicianship in that world.

Here she mostly spools out her intricate patterns in drifting postrock soundscapes, which are pleasant enough (“Sad American,” “Montreal”). But when she sings a good, selfish pop song, she’s on to something else entirely. The breakup songs “Life Being What It Is” and “2 O’Clock,” sung in her small but determined voice, are full of power. They overshadow the rest of the record, put across strong melodies and still prove that she can play. BEN RATLIFF

This is a very silly record. Lots of young bands are deeply enthusiastic about early ’70s rock, but Howlin Rain puts the others to shame. It mines a shallower level: second-tier mannerism and cliché.

One way to act around clichés, if you’re a rock musician whose work refers to an earlier period, is to avoid them. Another is to round up several thousand of the more homely ones, marry them all at once, tattoo their names on your body and live in bliss through the hard times. This is closer to what Howlin Rain does.

Ethan Miller, the superenthusiastic singer, songwriter and guitarist of this sextet, has played for most of this decade with another band, Comets on Fire. But where that band is weird and austerely dedicated to tribal freak-out, Howlin Rain is comforting and good-timey. It makes a type of music you may have heard in bait-and-tackle shops and the backs of school buses, or maybe during lulls in the commercial-free rock block on your FM station. It is precisely B-list hard rock, like Wishbone Ash, Uriah Heep, Nazareth.

Unlike Black Mountain, another current band with a ’70s fixation, Howlin Rain is not facile or cold. Mr. Miller puts on a haggard, soul-man rock voice, as inauthentic as Chris Robinson’s from the Black Crowes but wilder and uglier. The songs are written handsomely, and with effort: solemn introductions, multiple gear-shifting bridges, cruising solo passages. They’re miles more accomplished than the songs on the band’s self-titled first album from two years ago, though that one had a more rickety, excited vibe, with guitar fuzz like sonic vandalism. The new album, made with a revamped band behind Mr. Miller, is smoothed out, almost commercial by comparison.

Mr. Miller plays his heart out, as does the band. He sings lines like “the wind calls the hangman to my name” and “Ruby, I chased your laughter with elephant wings,” a slurry of stoner poetry. All of it may remind you not of a venerable old record, but of one that was bought cheap and didn’t make the cut when you had to move your stuff out of your mom’s house. BEN RATLIFF
284 2008-03-10 A CABLE AD VENTURE The nation's six largest cable companies are making plans for a jointly owned company that will allow national advertisers to buy customized ads and interactive ads across their systems.       MARKETING THE EX-COMPANY Thousands ...
285 2008-03-10 NINE INCH NAILS     ''Ghosts I-IV''...
286 2008-03-11 New York State politicians expect Gov. Eliot Spitzer to resign. But no one has made any moves yet.
287 2008-03-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
288 2008-03-11 In a CNBC interview, Louis Gallois, chief executive of EADS, defends a $35 billion tanker contract with the United States Air Force.
289 2008-03-11 As Mississippi voters prepared to cast their ballots, Barack Obama dismissed reports that he'd make a good vice president to Hillary Rodham Clinton....
290 2008-03-11 Fresh "late night" reader comedy (use the comment link below): Can we give poor Eliot Spitzer some credit? He met the prostitute in Washington D.C. Thereby living up to his pledge to keep crime out of New York. "10,000 BC" opened as the No. 1 movi...
291 2008-03-11 John J. Mack stood before his board and shareholders at Morgan Stanley's 2007 annual meeting and struck an aggressive tone. Coming off a year of record profits fueled by using the firm's capital to take some highly lucrative risks – particularly...
292 2008-03-11 Lehman Brothers, the Wall Street investment bank, is laying off 5 percent of its work force, or about 1,430 people, because of difficult market conditions, according to Reuters. The cuts are being made across all divisions and regions, and employe...
293 2008-03-11 Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has agreed to trade its 16.3 percent stake in the White Mountains Insurance Group for two subsidiaries and $751 million. Berkshire Hathaway has been an investor in White Mountains since 2001 and currently owns 1...
294 2008-03-11 One of Yahoo's long-shot white knights in its struggle to avoid being taken over by Microsoft closed the chances down entirely. The News Corporation's chairman, Rupert Murdoch, told a Bear Stearns conference in Palm Beach, Fla., Monday that he's n...
295 2008-03-11 Citigroup, the banking giant, moved Monday to shore up six of its hedge funds pressured by a tightening in the municipal bond market, the newest problem to entangle the struggling company. The bank has committed to injecting $1 billion across six ...
296 2008-03-11 GOPALA, Iraq - Just northeast of Kirkuk is a factory doing some of the best business in Iraq, but whose workers would be content to see it close down. It lies between Kirkuk and Sulaimaniya on the safer, Kurdish, side of the checkpoint marking the...
297 2008-03-11 The title of this shrewdly produced series of nine spooky short plays raises a question: Who is the scariest of “The Scariest”?

Is it the strangler in Ana Marie Healy’s Hitchcockian “Delightful,” the dead child knocking at the blood-red door in Mark Schultz’s nerve-jangling “Third Wish,” or maybe the ghoulish father in the shadows in Laura Schellhardt’s “Apothecary’s Daughter”?

Horror fans love “the scariest” debates (Jason versus Freddy, “Dracula” versus “Frankenstein,” drowning versus buried alive), and this night of old-fashioned shocks, inspired by the stories of Hans Christian Andersen, Nathaniel Hawthorne and others, should generate enough gasps for a good after-show argument.

The directors, Ari Edelson and Meredith McDonough, nicely establish a darkly nightmarish environment inside a basement space at the Theaters at 45 Bleecker. Circled around the audience is a translucent curtain through which various sinister forces can be seen lurking, waiting to pounce. It’s like watching a play inside the shower at the Bates Motel.

Mr. Schultz (“Deathbed”) provides the highlights with two completely different riffs on “The Monkey’s Paw,” W. W. Jacobs’s classic tale of how being granted three wishes can be more of a curse than a blessing. His “Finally,” featuring Rebecca Brooksher (“Dying City”) as a fatally attracted love interest, is an eerie story single-mindedly leading to one fateful joke, while “Third Wish,” a taut and skillfully written two-character piece with Angel Desai and Andy Grotelueschen, updates “The Monkey’s Paw” into a tense, Albee-esque drama. Call it “The Play About the Living Dead Baby.”

Evenings of one-acts are almost always mixed bags, and some entries here, like Gary Sunshine’s muddled fairy tale, “The Names of Foods,” fall flat. But the producers — the Exchange (the former Jean Cocteau Rep) — were smart enough to finish with “Revelations.” This sly, fantastical and delightfully unpredictable meta-play by Kristin Newbom touches on themes of free will and the thin line between art and life. It begins with a writer ominously discussing her rage before pivoting into a truly creepy sendup of Scientology that, to my mind, settles the “scariest” debate. The most frightening thing? Tom Cruise.
298 2008-03-11 The Jesse Chatman signing signals that the Jets have given up on drafting Darren McFadden....
299 2008-03-11 Mr. Obama had been expected to win resoundingly in Mississippi, a state where 36 percent of the population is black, the highest percentage in the nation. Mr. Obama has enjoyed overwhelming support among black voters and won all the other contests in the Deep South by large margins.

While Mrs. Clinton stumped in the state last week and former President Bill Clinton dropped in over the weekend, the Clinton campaign had mostly been looking ahead to Pennsylvania, with its 158 delegates at stake.

Indeed, Mrs. Clinton has not been in Mississippi since Friday, and she was campaigning Tuesday in Pennsylvania, while Mr. Obama started Tuesday in Mississippi but went to Pennsylvania as well.

Mr. Obama stopped in at a diner in Greenville, Miss., on Tuesday morning, an hour after polls opened in the state, putting in a final appeal to voters and ordering a breakfast of hard-scrambled eggs, turkey sausage, wheat toast and grits.

“I promise when I’m president of the United States, I’ll come back to the Delta,” he said. “You all keep me in your prayers now.”

It is unclear how much difference the late campaigning had. The early surveys of voters, conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International, showed that 6 out of 10 Democratic primary voters made up their minds more than a month ago.

Mrs. Clinton was in Harrisburg, Pa., on Tuesday where she addressed more than 2,000 people inside an auditorium downtown and continued to aggressively take on Mr. Obama, accusing him of flip-flopping on energy policy, Iraq and the North American Free Trade Agreement.

But much of the sparring between the two campaigns on Tuesday came over remarks made by a Clinton supporter, Geraldine Ferraro, the Democrats’ vice presidential nominee in 1984, that were published last Friday in The Daily Breeze of Torrance, Calif. In her comments, Ms. Ferraro accused the media of being sexist and said, “If Obama was a white man, he would not be in this position.”

Mrs. Clinton disavowed the comments on Tuesday in an interview with The Associated Press in Harrisburg.

“I do not agree with that,” she said. “It is regrettable that any of our supporters on both sides, because we’ve both had that experience, say things that kind of veer off into the personal.”

Mr. Obama told The Morning Call of Allentown, Pa., that the comments were “divisive” and “patently absurd.”

Mr. Obama entered Tuesday’s contest with 1,510.5 delegates, compared to 1,403 for Mrs. Clinton, according to a projection by The New York Times. That differential will not change significantly after Mississippi, with only 33 delegates at stake and Mrs. Clinton expected to scoop up a good number because they are awarded proportionally.

Mississippi’s primary is open, so voters can choose which primary to vote in.

Voting was steady throughout the day and up to 150,000 people were expected to show up at the polls, said Pamela Weaver, a spokeswoman for the Mississippi secretary of state.

Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, won the primary for his party, bringing him even closer by The New York Times’s count to the number of delegates needed to officially clinch the nomination.

In the closing days of the primary race, Mrs. Clinton had been raising the idea that Democrats struggling to decide between the candidates could have it both ways, implying that Mr. Obama would make a suitable running mate. Mr. Obama aggressively rejected that idea as he campaigned in Mississippi on Monday, telling voters: “With all due respect, I’ve won twice as many states as Senator Clinton.”

Still, according to preliminary surveys of voters leaving the polls, not all voters seemed eager to rule out the notion. Six in 10 Obama supporters said that he should select Mrs. Clinton for vice president if he ultimately wins the nominating fight. And 4 in 10 Clinton voters said she should choose Mr. Obama if he she is victorious.

Anita Nichols, who came to see Mr. Obama on the eve of the primary at Mississippi University for Women in Columbus, said she was delighted that voters in her state had an opportunity to be heard in the Democratic presidential contest. She said she hoped a convincing Mississippi victory would nudge him along in the protracted fight.

“I’m praying that he wins. I really am,” Ms. Nichols said in an interview, an Obama button fastened to her lapel. “This country is ready for change, but it’s not just him. The president can only do so much, he’s got to surround himself with qualified people and the citizens have to work, too.”
300 2008-03-11 Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, who would serve out Mr. Spitzer’s term in the event of a resignation, also said he had not heard from the governor on Tuesday.

“The governor called me yesterday, he said he didn’t resign for a number of reasons, and he didn’t go into the reasons, and that’s the last I’ve heard from him,” he said.

Asked whether preparations for a transition were underway, the lieutenant governor said: “No one has talked to me about his resignation and no one has talked to me about a transition.”

Mr. Paterson left his residence in Guilderland about noon and traveled to the Capitol in Albany. As a media throng awaited inside the Capitol Building, the lieutenant governor lingered outside.

Though he said some officials had called him about the situation, Mr. Paterson had not taken steps to move forward with a transition.

“I have said nothing to anyone during this time, because I thought that was the most respectful way to act,” he said.

In Manhattan, security barriers were set up in front of Mr. Spitzer’s Fifth Avenue residence, where more than 70 reporters crowded outside.

As the governor pondered his decision, Assemblyman James Tedisco, a Republican and the Assembly minority leader, said he would begin moving to have Mr. Spitzer impeached if the governor did not step down within 48 hours.

Mr. Spitzer’s involvement with the prostitution ring came to light in court papers filed last week, the officials said, as federal prosecutors charged four people with operating the service, Emperor’s Club V.I.P. Mr. Spitzer was caught on a federal wiretap discussing payments and arranging to meet a prostitute in a Washington hotel room last month. The affidavit, which did not identify Mr. Spitzer by name, indicated that he had used the prostitution service before, although it was not clear how often.

Mr. Spitzer, who is married with three daughters, appeared briefly with his wife at his Manhattan office on Monday to apologize, but did not specifically address any involvement with the ring. He said he needed to repair his relationship with his family and decide what was best for the state, but he declined to take questions, leaving after barely a minute.

“I have acted in a way that violates my obligations to my family and violates my, or any, sense of right and wrong,” the governor said. “I apologize first and most importantly to my family. I apologize to the public to whom I promised better.”

“I have disappointed and failed to live up to the standard I expected of myself. I must now dedicate some time to regain the trust of my family.”

The governor then returned to his apartment on Fifth Avenue, where news vans and police cars clogged traffic. Mr. Spitzer did not emerge overnight and did not appear early Tuesday for his regular morning jog.

The New York Times began investigating Mr. Spitzer’s possible involvement with a prostitution ring on Friday, the day after the prosecutors arrested the four people on charges of helping run the Emperor’s Club. After inquiries from The Times over the weekend and on Monday, the governor canceled his public schedule. An hour after The Times published a report on its Web site saying Mr. Spitzer had been linked to the ring, the governor made his statement.

Mr. Spitzer has not been charged with a crime. But one law enforcement official who has been briefed on the case said that Mr. Spitzer’s lawyers would probably meet soon with federal prosecutors to discuss any possible legal exposure. The official said the discussions were likely to focus not on prostitution, but on how it was paid for: Whether the payments from Mr. Spitzer to the service were made in a way to conceal their purpose and source. That could amount to a crime called structuring, which carries a penalty of up to five years in prison.

Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan, declined to comment.

Mr. Paterson, who is legally blind, would become the first black governor of New York. State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the state’s top Republican, would assume the duties of the lieutenant governor.

The governor learned that he had been implicated in the prostitution inquiry when a federal official contacted his office on Friday, according to the person briefed on the case. On Saturday night, he attended the Gridiron Club annual dinner, a political roast put on by Washington journalists, and appeared ebullient, according to people in attendance.

The governor informed his top aides on Sunday night and Monday morning of his involvement.

Mr. Spitzer’s family and his top assistants debated Monday morning at Mr. Spitzer’s apartment about whether he should step down, a person who spoke to the governor said. Silda Wall Spitzer, who was among them, told her husband that he should not resign in haste; as did Lloyd Constantine, a senior adviser and a longtime friend of the governor. But most of his others saw no way for him to survive.

According to prosecutors, the Emperor’s Club provided women to clients in London, Paris, Miami and other cities, and charged them between $1,000 and $5,500 an hour.

The affidavit details a Feb. 13 encounter between a prostitute named Kristen and a man described as “Client 9,” whom law enforcement officials identified as Mr. Spitzer. Mr. Spitzer traveled to Washington that evening, according to a person told of his travel arrangements, and stayed at the Mayflower Hotel.

He testified before Congress about the bond insurance crisis the following morning. Among the open questions is where Mr. Spitzer’s security detail was while the prostitute was inside the hotel.

The affidavit says that he met with the woman in Room 871 but does not identify the hotel. Room 871 at the Mayflower that evening was registered under the name George Fox.

One of the law enforcement officials said that several people running the prostitution ring knew Mr. Spitzer by the name of George Fox, though a few of the prostitutes came to realize he was the governor of New York.

Mr. Fox is a friend and a donor to Mr. Spitzer. Asked in a telephone interview on Monday whether he accompanied Mr. Spitzer to Washington on Feb. 13 and 14, Mr. Fox responded: “Why would you think that? I did not.”

Told that Room 871 at the Mayflower Hotel had been registered in Mr. Fox’s name with Mr. Spitzer’s Fifth Avenue address, Mr. Fox said, “That is the first I have heard of it. Until I speak to the governor further, I have no comment.”

In a wiretapped conversation after the encounter, the prostitute, Kristen, called her booker to inform her that the session had gone well, and that she did not find the client “difficult,” as other prostitutes apparently had, according to the affidavit.

The booker responds that he, in an apparent reference to Client 9, sometimes asks the women “to do things that, like, you might not think were safe.”

Mr. Spitzer called Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, on Monday afternoon after his statement, but his aides did not share details of the conversation. About 6 p.m., Richard Baum, the governor’s top aide, met with Mr. Spitzer’s staff but made no mention of a resignation and urged his colleagues to keep their heads down and continue as best they could with the day-to-day work of state government.

The accusations concerning the governor come a difficult time for state government, which for months has been roiled by bitter fighting and accusations of dirty tricks. The Albany County district attorney is set to issue the results of his investigation into Mr. Spitzer’s first scandal, his aides’ involvement in an effort to tarnish Mr. Bruno.

Mr. Spitzer was elected in a landslide in 2006, capitalizing on his popularity he won as the “Sheriff of Wall Street” during eight years as attorney general. With a reputation for personal probity and independence, he pledged to bring higher ethical standards to the statehouse.

After promising change in Albany from “Day 1,” Mr. Spitzer was quickly plunged into political turmoil, and much of his legislative agenda was sidelined. He gained a reputation for being intemperate and alienated even some members of his own party.

In recent weeks, however, Mr. Spitzer seemed to have rebounded, with his party poised to perhaps gain control of the state Senate for the first time in four decades.

Republicans were quick to pounce, with the state party and a top lawmaker calling for him to resign.

Mr. Bruno said, “I think it’s very, very unfortunate and I feel very badly for the governor’s wife, for his children.” He added, “The important thing for the people of New York State is that people in office do the right thing,” he added.

Mr. Spitzer’s fellow Democrats were muted in their response.

Mr. Silver, the Assembly speaker, issued a terse two-sentence statement: “The allegations against the Governor are before the public. I have nothing to add at this time.”

When he was attorney general, Mr. Spitzer’s signature issue was pursuing Wall Street misdeeds. But he also oversaw the prosecution of at least two prostitution rings by the state’s organized crime task force, which reports to the attorney general.

In one such case in 2004, Mr. Spitzer spoke with revulsion and anger after announcing the arrest of 16 people for operating a high-end prostitution ring out of Staten Island.

“This was a sophisticated and lucrative operation with a multitiered management structure,” Mr. Spitzer said at the time. “It was, however, nothing more than a prostitution ring.”
301 2008-03-11 Microsoft cut the prices of its Xbox 360 video game console in Europe by up to 28 percent to try to bolster sales in a major battleground in the fast-growing industry. The 80-euro decrease results in cuts of 18 percent to 28 percent across the three Xbox 360 models, bringing the cheapest Arcade version to 200 euros ($307.31) and the high-end Elite to 370 euros ($568.53). Price reductions in Britain range between £20 ($40.19) and £50.
302 2008-03-11 A big fixed income hedge fund, Falcon Strategies, fell more than 30 percent last year after betting wrongly that the worst of last summer’s market turmoil was over. And Old Lane Partners, the investment fund founded by Mr. Pandit, has posted dismal results.

A Citigroup spokesman, Jon Diat, said Monday that the bank considered the recent capital infusions attractive investments. “The returns have been hurt by one of the most volatile periods for fixed income, in particular municipal markets, in recent memory,” Mr. Diat said.

Citigroup began offering the ASTA and MAT funds in 2002 to Smith Barney brokerage clients and private bank customers with more than $5 million in liquid assets. For years, the bank had invested its funds using a similar trading strategy.

Trusts run by Citigroup and other financial institutions borrowed money by issuing tax-exempt commercial paper, then used the cash to buy municipal bonds that have slightly higher yields, pocketing the difference.

The trusts then hedged against big swings in interest rates by essentially reversing that trade, using taxable securities. And to bolster returns, they piled on leverage. Citigroup fund managers then bought the riskiest piece of the bonds issued by the trust.

Citigroup’s ASTA and MAT funds have total assets worth about $15 billion, with about $2 billion in capital.

By the end of 2007, that trading scheme was failing; last month it was on life support. The reason was that the market downturn was hammering municipal bond yields, while the yield on taxable bonds rallied substantially. With the hedges on the trades hemorrhaging money, some of the funds’ half-dozen lenders, including Citigroup, became worried and issued margin calls.

“Anytime you have the assets underperforming the hedges and they are leveraged, you basically have two options,” said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital Management. “To sell the assets or call up your investors and get more equity.”

The Citigroup funds are selling some securities, and last week the bank agreed to an equity commitment of $1 billion. That money will be spread across the six ASTA-MAT funds based on how severely the assets have dropped in value.

Citigroup bond traders in its investment bank business use a similar strategy with the bank's own funds. It is likely that they have also suffered heavy losses given the market turbulence, but a Citigroup spokesman declined to comment.
303 2008-03-11 Hundreds of Tibetan exiles beginning a six-month march to Tibet to protest China’s holding the Olympics were blocked by the police near Dharmsala. It was one of several protests around the world on the 49th anniversary of a failed Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule. India has clamped down on protests by Tibetans in recent years, fearing damage to relations with Beijing.
304 2008-03-11 Boeing said it would make more detailed comments when it filed the protest.

The battle to overturn the award could be an uphill one for Boeing.

Air Force officials anticipated opposition to the award, made to a team formally led by Northrop Grumman, which is also a big United States military contractor. In a news conference announcing the decision on Feb. 29, an assistant secretary of the Air Force, Sue C. Payton, described a careful path officials had walked in assessing the two proposals, and added, “We’ve got it nailed.”

Also on Tuesday, Ms. Payton is scheduled to meet privately with members of the defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee to provide information on the award that she would not discuss in public last week.

The decision particularly angered representatives from Washington State and Kansas, where Boeing would have built its tankers. Members from Alabama, where the Airbus planes would be assembled, were delighted.

The Air Force chose a tanker based on the Airbus A330 passenger jet, which can hold more fuel, troops and supplies than the rival proposal, which was based on the Boeing 767.

Boeing said the Air Force unfairly faulted it for the way it presented its cost data. The Air Force also apparently found the Boeing proposal to be higher risk, which Boeing disputed, noting that its rival bidder for the tanker deal included “two companies from different countries and business cultures who have never worked together on a program of this size before.”

Northrop said Monday that its tanker proposal had been based on a plane sold to Australian officials, “which has been built, flown and is undergoing flight tests.” It includes a refueling boom the Airbus group spent $100 million to develop.

Boeing’s tanker and boom, Northrop said, “were never built, flown or tested.”

Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, said of the 767-based proposal, “Boeing jazzed it up so much the government felt the company was pitching a plane it had never developed before.”

Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, a member of the defense appropriations subcommittee and a Boeing ally, accused Pentagon officials of asking for a midsize tanker and then switching specifications to favor the bigger A330.

“If they had been transparent and honest, they would have said, ‘We want a large tanker.’ We got a raw deal,” Mr. Dicks added, noting that Boeing might have offered a tanker based on its larger and newer 777 jet.

After Boeing files a written complaint and it is assigned to a G.A.O. lawyer and accepted, the Air Force will have 30 days to respond. Both Boeing and Northrop Grumman will be allowed to respond to the Air Force.

A hearing could be required or further evidence sought before the G.A.O. makes a decision, all within 100 days.

The agency, formerly called the General Accounting Office, is the investigative arm of Congress. It receives about 1,400 protests a year, though most are about much smaller contracts.
305 2008-03-11 “We won’t stop until we have everything in terms of premium content. That is our mission,” he said. “I just think back to the fact that 24 months ago, there wasn’t anything online legally in terms of full TV episodes or films. In just 17 weeks, we have gone from nothing to over 200 premium titles.”

NBC Universal, a division of General Electric, and Fox, a division of the News Corporation, announced their joint venture to much fanfare nearly a year ago. The then-unnamed company was at first viewed skeptically by many in the industry as a desperate attempt to keep up with the Google’s YouTube, the dominant player in online video.

Recently, Hulu has received high marks from media and Web executives for creating an easy to use site with high-quality video and professional content attractive to advertisers.

Hulu has been in a password-protected testing period since October, but has slowly been inviting users to enter the site. Mr. Kilar said that more than five million viewers have watched Hulu videos in the last 30 days, and that 80 percent of the shows on the site are viewed at least once a week.

Hulu is experimenting with giving viewers a choice in advertising. During certain shows, viewers will be able to choose which commercial they want to watch — for example, whether they want to see an ad for Nissan’s Rogue S.U.V., Maxima sedan or Z sports car.

Some viewers will also be given the opportunity to watch a two-minute film preview before a TV show, and then skip all the other advertising breaks.

One challenge Hulu faces is building a predictable and stable library of content. To protect DVD and Web download sales, media companies often make TV shows and films available free on the Web for certain periods of time and then remove them. For example, there are 11 episodes of the TV show “24” on Hulu — beginning with episode 18 of the first season.

“If those episodes keep disappearing, they are going to have trouble getting people to go back and recommend TV shows on Hulu to their friends,” said Bobby Tulsiani, an analyst at JupiterResearch.
306 2008-03-11 “Ironic, isn’t it?” said Barbara Lynch, who supervises environmental compliance inspectors for the Iowa Department of Natural Resources. “This is big business. There’s a lot of money involved.”

Iowa leads the nation in biofuel production, with 42 ethanol and biodiesel refineries in production and 18 more plants under construction, according to the Renewable Fuels Association. In the summer of 2006, a Cargill biodiesel plant in Iowa Falls improperly disposed of 135,000 gallons of liquid oil and grease, which ran into a stream killing hundreds of fish.

According to the National Biodiesel Board, a trade group, biodiesel is nontoxic, biodegradable and suitable for sensitive environments, but scientists say that position understates its potential environmental impact.

“They’re really considered nontoxic, as you would expect,” said Bruce P. Hollebone, a researcher with Environment Canada in Ottawa and one of the world’s leading experts on the environmental impact of vegetable oil and glycerin spills.

“You can eat the stuff, after all,” Mr. Hollebone said. “But as with most organic materials, oil and glycerin deplete the oxygen content of water very quickly, and that will suffocate fish and other organisms. And for birds, a vegetable oil spill is just as deadly as a crude oil spill.”

Other states have also felt the impact.

Leanne Tippett Mosby, a deputy division director of environmental quality for the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, said she was warned a year ago by colleagues in other states that biodiesel producers were dumping glycerin, the main byproduct of biodiesel production, contaminated with methanol, another waste product that is classified as hazardous.

Glycerin, an alcohol that is normally nontoxic, can be sold for secondary uses, but it must be cleaned first, a process that is expensive and complicated. Expanded production of biodiesel has flooded the market with excess glycerin, making it less cost-effective to clean and sell.

Ms. Tippett Mosby did not have to wait long to see the problem. In October, an anonymous caller reported that a tanker truck was dumping milky white goop into Belle Fountain Ditch, one of the many man-made channels that drain Missouri’s Bootheel region. That substance turned out to be glycerin from a biodiesel plant.

In January, a grand jury indicted a Missouri businessman in the discharge, which killed at least 25,000 fish and wiped out the population of fat pocketbook mussels, an endangered species.

Back in Alabama, Nelson Brooke of Black Warrior Riverkeeper, a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting and restoring the Black Warrior River and its tributaries, received a report in September 2006 of a fish kill that stretched 20 miles downstream from Moundville. Even though Mr. Brooke said he found oil in the water around the dead fish, the state Department of Environmental Management determined that natural, seasonal changes in oxygen levels in the water could have been the culprit. The agency did not charge Alabama Biodiesel.

In August, Black Warrior Riverkeeper, in a complaint filed in Federal District Court, documented at least 24 occasions when oil was spotted in the water near the plant.

Richard Campo, vice president of Alabama Biodiesel, did not respond to requests for an interview, but Clay A. Tindal, a Tuscaloosa lawyer representing the refinery, called the suit’s claims “sheer speculation, conjecture, and unsupported bald allegations.” Mr. Tindal said that “for various reasons,” the plant was not now producing fuel.

The company has filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on the ground that it has entered into a settlement agreement with state officials that requires it to pay a $12,370 fine and to obtain proper discharge permits.

Don Scott, an engineer for the National Biodiesel Board, acknowledges that some producers have had problems complying with environmental rules but says those violations have been infrequent in an industry that nearly doubled in size in one year, to 160 plants in the United States at the end of 2007 from 90 plants at the end of 2006.

Mr. Scott said that the board had been working with state and environmental agencies to educate member companies and that the troubles were “growing pains.”

Ms. Lynch said some of the violations were the result of an industry that was inexperienced in the manufacturing process and its wastes. But in other instances, she said, companies are skirting the permit process to get their plants up and running faster.

“Our fines are only so high,” Ms. Lynch said. “It’s build first, permit second.”

In October 2005, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management informed Alabama Biodiesel that it would need an individual pollution discharge permit to operate, but the company never applied for one. The company operated for more than a year without a permit and without facing any penalties from state regulators, though inspectors documented unpermitted discharges on two occasions.

For some, the troubles of the industry seem to outweigh its benefits.

“They’re environmental Jimmy Swaggarts, in my opinion,” said Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of California, who spoke out against the $18 billion energy package recently passed by Congress that provides tax credits for biofuels. “What is being sold as green fuel just doesn’t pencil out.”
307 2008-03-11 TRENTON (AP) — The chief executive of Merck, Richard T. Clark, received compensation valued at $14.5 million in 2007, an 80 percent raise in a year when the drug maker took a $4.85 billion charge to settle much of the litigation over its former painkiller Vioxx.

Mr. Clark, who also is Merck’s president, drew a base salary of $1.62 million last year, according to a regulatory filing Monday.

Merck shares hit a 52-week low Monday before the filing and closed down 49 cents, at $41.26.

Mr. Clark’s salary was up 37 percent from his base pay in 2006, Clark’s first full year at the helm. Most of his compensation came from the value of stock and options granted to him last year: $8.23 million, the total of three grants made March 2, 2007, according to the filing. He received $4.85 million in stock and option grants in 2006.

He also received $4.31 million in nonequity incentive plan compensation in 2007, more than double the amount a year earlier. And he received $310,055 in other compensation, including $229,092 worth of dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units not yet vested.

Miscellaneous compensation included $51,024 for a home security system, $18,686 in unspecified commuting costs, $10,125 in company matches to his retirement plan and $1,128 for unspecified aircraft use.
308 2008-03-11 More than a year after the East Meadow School District in Nassau County barred a deaf high school student from taking his service dog to school, a state official ruled on Monday that the district had violated the state’s Human Rights Law.

The 21-page ruling by Kumiki Gibson, the commissioner of the Division of Human Rights, found that students with disabilities were entitled to have a service dog with them in school under state law and ordered the East Meadow district to change its policy immediately.

In a phone interview, Commissioner Gibson said the ruling set a precedent for public school districts across the state, though she currently knew of no other district where the issue had been raised. “State law provides for an absolute right to students with disabilities to use a guide, hearing or service dog in school,” she said.

The Division of Human Rights began investigating East Meadow’s policy after learning that John Cave Jr., now 15, had been denied permission to take his dog — a yellow Labrador retriever named Simba — to his classes at W. Tresper Clarke, a combined middle and high school campus with 1,500 students.

Leon J. Campo, the East Meadow schools superintendent, said that the district had reached its decision after concluding that having a dog in school would provide no instructional benefit to the student, and could pose a health risk to students with severe allergies and create safety issues during fire drills and practice lockdowns.

“We are responsible for all the students in our care,” he said. “You really have to think health and safety first, and then you educate.”
309 2008-03-11 CHICAGO (Reuters) — Taking the breast cancer pill Femara can significantly reduce the chances that a woman’s cancer will return, even long after she has stopped taking the estrogen blocker tamoxifen, American researchers said Monday.

The researchers said post-menopausal women who took Femara, manufactured by Novartis, anywhere from one to seven years after finishing a five-year regimen of tamoxifen reduced by 63 percent the risk the cancer would come back.

“What our results have shown for the first time in breast cancer treatment history is that taking an anti-estrogen anywhere along that line appears to have a dramatic reduction in the risk of recurrence,” said Dr. Paul Goss of Massachusetts General Hospital, whose study appears in the Journal of Clinical Oncology.

The drug, known generically as letrozole, cut the risk of cancer spreading to other areas of the body by 61 percent, and cut the risk that a tumor would develop in the unaffected breast by more than 80 percent.

Letrozole belongs to a new class of breast cancer drugs known as aromatase inhibitors, which block the production of estrogen that can lead to cancer. It is recommended for use in women past menopause.

The most widely used estrogen-blocking drug is tamoxifen, which was shown to cut the risk of cancer recurrence by close to 50 percent. But benefits of the pill, sold by AstraZeneca under the brand Nolvadex and also sold generically, decrease significantly after five years. Tamoxifen also raises the risk of death from strokes and endometrial cancer.
310 2008-03-11 Stocks fell for a third consecutive session on Monday, as investors dumped financial issues on fears of more credit losses and concerns that the economy might already be in recession.

The sell-off in financial stocks picked up speed after speculation circulated that Bear Stearns, the investment bank, was facing a cash shortage. The chairman of Bear’s executive committee, Alan C. Greenberg, called the speculation “totally ridiculous,” but shares of Bear Stearns still ended the day down $7.78 at $62.30.

Financial stocks were among the biggest drags on the market as the speculation about Bear Stearns strengthened the conviction that banks would report further deep credit losses for the quarter. Shares of Bank of America fell $1.43, to $35.31, while Citigroup slid $1.22, to $19.69.

Citigroup forecast $9 billion in write-downs at American investment banks in the first quarter, driven largely by leveraged loan and mortgage-related losses.

Adding to the market’s woes, gold futures and other metal prices sank, pulling down shares of mining companies like Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold, which fell $5.91, to $93.97. Material stocks were among the top decliners on the Standard & Poor’s index.
311 2008-03-11 Columbia University will join a number of other selective universities in significantly expanding the financial aid it offers to lower- and middle-income students, university officials announced.

Undergraduates from families with incomes as high as $60,000 a year will no longer have to pay for tuition, room and board, and other fees, beginning next fall. The previous threshold for a full scholarship based on financial need was family income of $50,000 a year.

Columbia also said it would end loans for incoming and current students who are on financial aid, replacing loans that were traditionally part of aid packages with grants from the university. In addition, officials said that Columbia would expand the aid it gave to students from families earning $60,000 to $100,000.

Since early December, several elite universities and colleges have either expanded aid for middle- and upper-income students or replaced loans with grants for many students. The moves have reshaped the financial aid landscape for students entering college next year. In some cases, attending a prestigious private college could cost less than a public university.

Lee C. Bollinger, Columbia’s president, said in a statement that the university had long attracted an economically diverse student body. “We are both proud of that diversity and determined to maintain it by expanding aid to the extent our resources allow,” Mr. Bollinger said.

The increased aid will be financed by annual gifts, new fund-raising and an increase in spending from the university’s endowment, officials said.
312 2008-03-11 KEEP TRAVELING, WORK HARDER A new survey for American Express shows that most midsize companies hope to hold travel spending at current levels this year. But many plan on spending more for on-the-road productivity tools like laptops and mobile phones and other wireless devices. Two-thirds of the companies said they expected to be in a better position on negotiating prices with suppliers, and more than half said they needed to put more effort into monitoring “employee compliance to expense policies,” American Express said. CFO Research Services conducted the survey in November by interviewing more than 400 senior finance executives at midsize companies.

IN GUANGZHOU, THE RITZ The luxury hotel company Ritz-Carlton has opened a new property in Guangzhou, its fourth in mainland China. Formerly called Canton, Guangzhou is China’s third biggest city and the location of a growing number of multinational corporations. Like most five-star hotel brands, Ritz-Carlton has been aggressively expanding in China, and plans new hotels in the next two years in Sanya, Shenzhen, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Macao.

AIRLINE DELAYS UP Airline delays rose again in January, to 27.6 percent of all flights, compared with 26.9 percent in January 2007, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics said. The delay rate in January, a slow travel month, was lower than in December, when 35.7 percent of flights arrived late. Baggage handling continued to improve, however. In January 2008, reports of delayed, damaged or lost bags were 7.37 per 1,000 passengers, an improvement over the 8.19 per 1,000 passengers in January 2007, and the 9.01 rate in December 2007.

MORE PLANES FOR CONTINENTAL Continental Airlines added 27 aircraft to its orders at Boeing: 8 new 777s and 19 new Next-Generation 737s. With the new orders, Continental has commitments to buy 111 new Boeing aircraft — 25 of the 787 model, the 8 new 777s, and 78 of the 737s — for delivery over the next six years. Continental already flies 20 777s globally. It said it would use the new 777s for long-haul international routes, like the Newark-to-Shanghai flights scheduled to start in 2009. The airline said it also needed wide-body planes that can fly international routes for the start of its service to London Heathrow next month.

NETJETS’ FOOTING IN EUROPE NetJets, the leading company in fractional-share private jet ownership, now has 135 jet aircraft in its European fleet, says Warren E. Buffett, whose company, Berkshire Hathaway, owns NetJets. NetJets has 487 aircraft in its fleet in the United States.

ET CETERA Hilton continues its midlevel brand expansion in Italy with an agreement to open a 152-room Hilton Garden Inn in Bologna-San Lazzaro in September. Hilton has also said it plans to open about 20 new Doubletree hotels in Thailand within five years ... The best big airport concessions in various categories, according to an annual survey by the trade magazine Airport Revenue News, are Seattle-Tacoma (design); Orlando International (customer service and concession management); McCarran Las Vegas (most unique services); and Dallas-Fort Worth (best overall concessions).
313 2008-03-11 The British government is trying to prevent a former MI5 member from publishing a book on the inner workings of the secret service, The Daily Telegraph in London reported. The 300-page manuscript is said to reveal some successes, failures and recruiting techniques of the covert organization. The author reportedly penetrated the Irish Republican Army and organized gangs and recruited agents to infiltrate jihadist groups plotting terror attacks in Britain. Legal proceedings, to be held in secret, are expected to begin at the High Court in London this week before a senior judge, who will rule on whether publication would breach national security. The controversy is reminiscent of the “Spycatcher” scandal of 1987, when the government unsuccessfully tried to prevent Peter Wright, another former MI5 officer, from publishing details of his work to uncover a traitor within the security service. Attempts to ban “Spycatcher” failed, and the book went on to sell more than two million copies.
314 2008-03-11 A simple discussion of lung capacity appears to double the rate patients follow a doctor’s advice to quit smoking.

A study published online March 7 in the British journal BMJ suggests that if a doctor tells smokers their “lung age” — the age of the average healthy nonsmoker who would match them in breathing strength — they are more likely to stop smoking.

Using a spirometer, a device that measures how fast and how much air a person can breathe, British doctors tested 561 smokers, men and women with an average age of 53.

Half were randomly assigned to receive their results as lung age, explained with a chart showing lung capacity as it normally decreases with age. The other half were told the amount of air in liters they could force out in one second and were to return in a year “to see if there has been any change in lung function.”

The subjects with readings that suggested a medical problem were referred to their physicians.

Regardless of the results, all participants were advised to quit smoking, informed about government programs to stop smoking and told that the test of lung function did not show anything about other serious diseases that smoking causes.
315 2008-03-11 “So,” he said, “I would be surprised if anyone were able to rescue the Earth again in a future paper.”

Roberto Silviotti of the Capodimonte Observatory in Naples, Italy, who found the planet around that dead star in Pegasus, said it was not surprising that people were interested in the fate of the earth, adding, “I think that the point is not only that this is our planet but also that the we know the solar system and the Sun much better than any other planetary system and therefore we should be able, potentially, to make much better forecasts.”

Earth’s basic problem is that the Sun will gradually get larger and more luminous as it goes through life, according to widely held theories of stellar evolution. In its first 4.5 billion years, according to the models, the Sun has already grown about 40 percent brighter.

Over the coming eons, life on Earth will become muggier and more uncomfortable and finally impossible.

“Even if the Earth were to marginally escape being engulfed,” said Mario Livio, an astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute, “it would still be scorched, and life on Earth would be destroyed.”

About a billion years from now, the Sun will be 10 percent brighter. Oceans on Earth will boil away. The Sun will run out of hydrogen fuel in its core about 5.5 billion years from now and start burning hydrogen in the surrounding layers. As a result, the core will shrink and the outer layers will rapidly expand as the Sun transforms itself into a red giant.

The heat from this death rattle will transform the solar system; it will briefly be springtime in the Kuiper Belt out beyond Neptune. Mercury and Venus will surely be swallowed, but the Earth’s fate has always been more uncertain.

The reason is that in the course of ballooning outward, the Sun will blow off a substantial share of its mass. Thus, the Sun’s gravitational grip on its planets will be weakened, and they will retreat to more distant orbits. The Earth will wind up about where Mars is now, “on the border line between being engulfed or escaping engulfment,” as Dr. Livio put it.

Whether or not the Earth is engulfed depends on which of two effects wins out. At the same time that the Earth is retreating to a safer position, tidal forces between it and the expanding Sun will try to drag the planet inward and downward. In 2001, an analysis of these opposing forces by Kacper Rybicki of the Polish Institute of Geophysics and Carlos Denis of the University of Liege concluded that it looked bad but that the Earth might have a chance of surviving.

According to Dr. Smith and Dr. Schroeder, that chance is nil. One key to their work is a new way of calculating how much mass the Sun loses during its cataclysmic expansion, and, thus, how big it gets and how far the Earth eventually moves outward. The more mass lost, paradoxically, the bigger the Sun swells, like a balloon whose elastic weakens when it is stretched. Using a new technique, developed by Dr. Schroeder and Manfred Cuntz of the University of Texas in Arlington, the authors calculated that the lost mass would amount to a third of the Sun’s original mass, compared with previous estimates of a quarter.

As a result, the red giant version of the Sun — at its maximum — will be 256 times as big across as the star is today and 2,730 times as luminous.

Skimming over the flame tops of this giant, the bare, burned Earth would produce a bulge in the Sun. But friction would cause the bulge to lag as it tried to follow the Earth. The gravitational tug from the bulge would slow the Earth and would cause it to spiral inward, where friction from gases in the Sun’s expanded atmosphere would slow it even more.

Then it would go down.

After a period of burning helium and shrinking and expanding and then finally shrinking again, the Sun will wind up as tiny cinder known as a white dwarf, fading away for the rest of time.

Is there any way out of this fiery end for the robots or cockroaches or whoever will be running the Earth in a billion years?

One option is to leave for another planet or another star system.

Another option, Dr. Smith said, is to engage in some large-scale high-stakes engineering.

In the same way that space probes can get a trajectory boost by playing gravitational billiards with Venus or Jupiter to gain speed and get farther out in space, so the Earth could engineer regular encounters with a comet or asteroid, thus raising its orbit and getting farther from the Sun, according to a paper in 2001 by Don Korycansky and Gregory Laughlin of the University of California, Santa Cruz, and Fred Adams of the University of Michigan.

Dr. Laughlin said that when their paper first came out, they were praised by the radio host Rush Limbaugh and other conservatives for forward thinking.

But Dr. Laughlin said they were actually not advocating the orbit-shifting project, noting that a miscalculation could lead to the comet’s hitting the Earth.

“There are profound ethical issues involved,” he wrote in an e-mail message, “and the cost of failure (an Earth-sterilizing impact) is unacceptably high.”

Anyway, such a maneuver would prolong the viability of the Earth for only a few billion years. After that, the planet would be stranded in the cold and dim.
316 2008-03-11 SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea announced Monday that a woman who is a bioengineering student would become its first astronaut. She is scheduled to blast off on board a Russian Soyuz rocket on April 8 on a trip to the International Space Station that will be watched on television by millions of South Koreans.

The astronaut, Yi So-yeon, 29, was selected after the Russian space authorities accused the South Korean man who was initially chosen for the mission of breaking training rules.

While South Korea appeared unhappy that it had been asked to make the switch so close to the scheduled launching, women’s groups said Ms. Yi’s participation was likely to further improve the status of women in South Korea’s traditionally male-dominated society.

The astronaut she replaced, Ko San, 30, a computer engineer, was selected for the mission in August after beating 36,000 contestants in a nationwide government competition in which almost any South Korean could apply. Ms. Yi, who came in second in the competition, has been training with Mr. Ko in Russia as his backup since last year.

With less than a month to go before the start of the mission, the South Korean government, which is financing the $27 million trip, decided to replace Mr. Ko with Ms. Yi after a recommendation from the Federal Space Agency in Russia.
317 2008-03-11 The proposal does not suggest that Mr. Mack leave the board or resign from his job as chief executive — nor is it binding, even if more than 50 percent of shareholders vote in its favor.

Moreover, Mr. Mack, who still enjoys plenty of support from directors and shareholders, is expected to preserve his dual status for now.

Nevertheless, the move strikes a wounding blow to Mr. Mack. And by forcing investors to contemplate the measure, it raises awkward questions for the Morgan Stanley board about Mr. Mack’s decision-making, strategy and succession plans.

“The argument for John Mack stepping down as chairman is pretty strong right now,” said William Patterson, executive director of CtW Investment Group. “Everything we have seen suggests that this board is excessively protective of its C.E.O. The losses that Morgan Stanley took and the risk were unwarranted.”

Mr. Patterson pointed out that among the chief executives of Wall Street firms that have taken major write-downs, Mr. Mack is the only one who remains in his post.

The campaign against Mr. Mack comes at a time of increasing investor fear over Wall Street’s prospects as the bite of the credit squeeze becomes more acute.

Yesterday, the stock of Bear Stearns plunged 11 percent, to close at $62.30, on rumors that the firm was experiencing a liquidity crisis. Alan D. Schwartz, the chief executive of Bear Stearns, said that the firm’s cash position and its capital “remain strong,” but the broader unease remained.

As for Morgan Stanley, “there is widespread belief that the Citigroup and Merrill Lynch boards have taken the right step and made leadership changes,” Mr. Patterson said, dismissing Mr. Mack’s move last year that forced out his former protégée who oversaw the firm’s trading operation. “The Morgan Stanley board needs to do more. Firing Zoe Cruz is not enough.”

Shares of Morgan Stanley fell $1.56 Monday, to $38.30, down almost half from their 52-week high of $75.49.

CtW is also weighing a call to withhold votes for C. Robert Kidder, Morgan Stanley’s lead director, and Howard J. Davies, the former head of the Financial Services Authority, Britain’s top financial regulator.

Both directors were on Morgan Stanley’s audit committee in 2005 when Mr. Mack took over as chairman and chief executive and allowed the top risk officer to report to Ms. Cruz instead of Mr. Mack.

The group has also sent letters to the boards of Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, Bank of America, Washington Mutual and Wachovia questioning the conduct of the audit committees of those financial institutions. Merrill Lynch, Bank of America and Wachovia all have chairmen that also hold the chief executive title.

To date, Mr. Mack has made the case to investors as well as his board that the firm’s $9.4 billion write-down was the unfortunate but isolated result of a group of traders who made a disastrous bet on the subprime market.

By doing so, Morgan Stanley has argued, they saddled the firm with an illiquid and ultimately worthless position in collateralized debt obligations, which are complex pools of securities tied to subprime mortgages.

Mr. Mack took full responsibility and asked his board not to pay him a bonus last year. He has also appointed a senior executive, Kenneth M. deRegt, to oversee risk and report to him.

In its talks with Mr. Patterson, Morgan Stanley has argued that the write-down, bad as it may have been, should not result in Mr. Mack’s losing his job as chairman.

Mr. Mack’s critics contend that it is not so much the faulty subprime trade that should be held against him as it has been a combination of other factors. Those include not only failed deals for Saxon Capital, a mortgage originator, and Goldfish, a credit card company, but more broadly, what they see as his failure to manage the firm’s capital position effectively.

Increased borrowing and an accumulation of risky assets put excessive strain on the firm’s equity position, they note, forcing Morgan Stanley to raise expensive funds from China when the trading losses arose, even though the firm made $2.3 billion in profit last year.

Mr. Patterson represents only 5.7 million of Morgan Stanley shares, under 1 percent, and he concedes that forcing a popular executive like Mr. Mack to give up his chairman title is a long shot. This week he plans to contact shareholders about the proposed action as well as the proxy advisory firms and he said that he would lobby investors before the annual meeting on April 8.

“There was a failure of Mr. Mack’s leadership when the board restructured the risk reporting structure,” he said. “Shareholders should review this and they will review this.”

How investors will react remains unclear. While many top Morgan Stanley investors said privately how unhappy they were with Mr. Mack’s performance last year, they have not pushed Morgan Stanley to replace him. Their refrain has been a consistent one: who better is there to succeed him?

Mr. Mack has appointed James P. Gorman and Walid A. Chammah as co-presidents. But the consensus, both within the firm and outside, is that these two executives are at least two years away from being seen as capable successors. Mr. Mack’s contract ends in 2010.

In fact, people who have spoken with board members about Mr. Mack say that directors share a similar view. While they too are unhappy with the losses, they see Mr. Mack, who is 63 and has spent 30 years at Morgan Stanley, as the person best placed to lead the firm to recovery.

Some disgruntled investors have begun to discuss names of outside executives who might be not only viable successors to Mr. Mack, but also would lend a degree of independent stature to a board that many investors say has become too beholden to its chairman and chief executive.

Topping this list is Robert K. Steel, under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, and a former top executive at Goldman Sachs.

Investors, speaking on condition they not be identified, say that the combination of his recent government work dealing with the fallout from the housing crisis and his time at Goldman make him an ideal candidate to become independent chairman.

Mr. Steel and Mr. Mack share a deep bond over Duke University, their alma mater. Mr. Steel is chairman of the university’s board; Mr. Mack is a former trustee himself. But there are no indications of talks between Mr. Steel and Morgan Stanley.
318 2008-03-11 Starting in mid-May, the A340s on the daily Singapore-to-New York route (actually, it’s Newark) will be reconfigured to a single-class service. The twin-aisle A340s will be outfitted with only 100 seats, all of them flat-bed business-class seats arranged in privacy pods in a 1-2-1 configuration that gives each passenger access to an aisle.

Demand for business-class seats on the nonstop routes between New York and Los Angeles and Singapore “has way exceeded what we can supply,” Mr. Lorigan said.

I’ve written about the trans-Atlantic all-business-class phenomenon, which was started in late 2005 by Eos Airlines and MaxJet, the latter now defunct. That was followed by the British all-business-class start-up Silverjet and the French start-up l’Avion. British Airways is joining in with a mostly business-class carrier called OpenSkies. It starts service between New York and Paris in June.

The trans-Atlantic routes, especially New York to London, are the industry’s most lucrative, and most of the profit comes from premium seats. But keep in mind that the trans-Atlantic trip is about six hours.

About four years ago, I flew a Singapore Airlines nonstop between Newark and Singapore in business class on an A340. That’s 18 1/2 hours. I watched two on-demand movies on my 15-inch personal screen, slept for seven hours, ate and drank well, and wrote a column on my laptop. An oil industry executive sitting near me said, “I watched three movies, got drunk twice and still got enough sleep to hit the ground running.”

The souring economy, especially in the United States, has frightened many premium-class carriers and sent many domestic travel managers to their battle stations. But the ultra-long-haul market, between important multinational business centers, apparently remains steady. After all, there are certain things that important business travelers won’t put up with on such long flights.

“No segment is completely resilient,” Mr. Lorigan said. “But given that the front-end demand has really exceeded expectations, we’re pretty secure in our decision that this is what the market wants.”

How much does it really cost for a business-class seat? Every time I ask an airline executive, I get a song and dance the likes of which haven’t been seen since the Palace Theater featured vaudeville. The walk-up fare on the trans-Atlantic routes is about $10,000, though corporations negotiate discounts and a traveler wallowing in frequent-flier miles used to be able to book an upgrade.

So, how much for business class from the United States to Singapore, a route that is three times as long?

As usual, if you’re a corporate travel manager with a lot of business to send Singapore’s way, the price is negotiable.
319 2008-03-11 With the arrival and installation of the first piece of Kibo, components from all of the major partners in the space station — the United States, Russia, Canada, Europe and Japan — will finally be joined in the orbital outpost. The Kibo module will be put in a temporary spot on the station until the main structure is carried to space and installed in the next shuttle mission in April.

Dextre, which was made in Canada and has the eerily anthropomorphic look of a robot from science fiction, was designed to do some of the external servicing jobs that humans perform today. It will work with the station’s robotic arm or ride on a mobile platform that runs along rails on the station’s trusses.

The mission includes five spacewalks that will be mostly devoted to the work on Kibo and Dextre. One of the spacewalks will be devoted to testing a zero-gravity goo gun that could be used to repair small areas of damage to the shuttle’s delicate heat-shedding tiles. The device was developed after the Columbia disaster on Feb. 1, 2003: the shuttle and crew were lost because insulating foam fell off of the fuel tank during ascent and damaged the craft.

NASA has expended tremendous effort since then to reduce the amount of foam shed by the tank, and minute inspection of the heat shield is now part of each mission. But the independent board that investigated the disaster recommended developing tile repair techniqes as well, and the “tile repair ablator dispenser” is one of the products that came out of that work. Mission managers wanted to perform that test before astronauts returned to the Hubble Space Telescope for a servicing mission later this year, since the shuttle would not be able to change course and reach the space station if if the tiles were damaged on ascent.

During this mission, crew members will also inspect a damaged rotary joint that is supposed to turn the station’s solar panels toward the sun through each orbit. Mission managers took the 10-foot-in-diameter joint out of commission last year after inspections showed the works were peppered with metal shavings — a sign of metal-on-metal grinding. The astronauts will examine the joint closely and will replace a bearing that was taken off for inspection on a previous flight.

NASA is still trying to determine how best to address that problem and get the joint rolling again so that the station can receive all the power that the system was designed to produce.

The commander for this mission is Dominic L. Gorie, a retired Navy captain, and the pilot is Col. Gregory H. Johnson of the Air Force. Other member of the crew include Richard M. Linnehan; Capt. Michael J. Foreman of the Navy; Maj. Robert L. Behnken of the Air Force; Takao Doi, a Japanese astronaut; and Garrett E. Reisman, an astronaut who will be staying aboard the station for long-term duty. He will take the place of Gen. Léopold Eyharts, a French astronaut who has lived aboard the station since last month.

Shortly before launching, the shuttle launch director, Michael D. Leinbach, opened a channel to Captain Gorie and informed him that the team backed the decision to launch. “Good luck, godspeed and we’ll see you back here in 16 days,” he said.

“Well, Mike, you just made people smile around the world,” Captain Gorie responded, referring to the international participants in the station program, “and you’ve got seven smiling faces on board here.” He thanked the launch team and the crew’s families, spoke a few words of thanks in Japanese, and finished by saying, “God truly has blessed us with a beautiful night to launch, so let’s light em up and give ‘em a show.”

Lifting of on schedule at 2:28 a.m., the shuttle lit the night with a yellowish-orange glow, and quickly punched through a low cloud bank and flew out of sight.
320 2008-03-11 PRIVATE EQUITY TAKES A HIT Heavy debt is taking a toll on private equity firms like the Blackstone Group, which  has  announced an 86 percent decline in profits for its fourth quarter of 2007.      CHIEF UNDER FIRE Having presided over $11 billion...
321 2008-03-12 Bear Stearns continues to speak out against the liquidity rumors that helped push its stock to a 52-week low earlier this week. Bear’s stock rose Wednesday, extending Tuesday’s 1.1 percent gain, as the firm’s chief executive, Alan Schwartz, ...
322 2008-03-12 Answers from Andrew Tirrell, a lawyer with the nonprofit organization Advocates for Children of New York, who is taking questions from readers on the rights of parents and students in the schools....
323 2008-03-12 Late at night, after the Big East and other tournaments end for the day, what else are you going to watch?...
324 2008-03-12 The nostalgic quasi-homecoming was mixed with the political reality that New Hampshire will be a hard fight for the senator in November....
325 2008-03-12 The AFL-CIO debuted an anti-John McCain Web site that suggests his presidency would decrease workers' living standards....
326 2008-03-12 Bear Stearns chief executive Alan Schwartz talks with CNBC's David Faber about his firm's troubles in the mortgage market and its stagnant stock.
327 2008-03-12 TED spread not yet dead Is it fair to judge the Fed's plan yet? No, not in either direction. The big stock rally yesterday reflected investors' belief that it might work - or maybe investors' belief that other investors would believe that it would...
328 2008-03-12 "That John McCain is being attacked for uncovering and stopping corruption that sent criminals to jail speaks directly to everything that is wrong in Washington today," the memo read....
329 2008-03-12 Lewis Black, the comedian for whom the word acerbic could have been coined, is finally becoming the host of his own show. "Lewis Back's Root of All Evil" premieres Wednesday at 10:30 on Comedy Central. "It is a confection that is challenging to de...
330 2008-03-12 A report of a lithium-ion battery explosion in the ubiquitous pocket music player....
331 2008-03-12 In 2002, a JPMorgan Chase banker named Charles E. LeCroy arrived in Birmingham, Alabama with a novel pitch to ease taxpayers' burden. Some Wall Street wizardry, he said, could lighten their load. Six years on, officials here are still struggling t...
332 2008-03-12 AOL, the company that introduced millions of people to the Internet, has tried to reinvent itself many times. The latest effort, like those before it, does not seem to be going well. On Tuesday, Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warne...
333 2008-03-12 As Microsoft looks to buy Yahoo to shore up its search business, a recent column in The New York Times suggested that Microsoft might consider acquiring SAP instead - a move that would bolster its business-software unit, which sells under the bran...
334 2008-03-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
335 2008-03-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
336 2008-03-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
337 2008-03-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
338 2008-03-12 Over and over for the last six months developers and property agents have repeated the same refrain: "The luxury market is not affected." Buyers of multi-million-dollar properties aren't bothered by the credit crunch; they don't need credit. They ...
339 2008-03-12 F.A.A. rules require planes to be inspected for certain problems by definite dates. And when an airline discovers it has flown the plane past that date, the carrier is supposed to stop flying the craft and immediately conduct the required inspection.

Southwest said it expected to have the 38 grounded planes inspected by Wednesday night.

It warned, however, that its review of maintenance work “could potentially create other operational changes if the airline needs to swap or reroute aircraft as the internal investigation and audit unfolds.”

On Tuesday, the company said that it had suspended three employees, hired an outside maintenance expert and was “fully engaged” with F.A.A. officials auditing the carrier.

Both the agency and the airline were embarrassed by a disclosure that two F.A.A. inspectors had complained that an agency supervisor allowed Southwest to operate older Boeing 737s that had gone past a deadline for inspection.

The charges of the inspectors were investigated by the federal Office of Special Counsel and by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The inquiry resulted in last week’s fine.

The agency said Southwest had flown 46 planes from June 18, 2006, to March 14, 2007 — on 59,791 flights — without complying with an order to inspect them for cracks. The inspection order covered older planes.

Rather than grounding the planes immediately when it discovered its lapse, Southwest kept operating them from March 15 to March 23, 2007, on 1,451 more flights. The size of the fine, a record, was because of what the F.A.A. called these “deliberate violations.”

All the planes have been inspected; cracks were found and fixed on six planes.

Linda B. Rutherford, a Southwest spokeswoman, said Tuesday of the flights from March 15 to 23: “We did believe that the F.A.A. approved of those actions.” The approval came locally, she added.

“By federal law these aircraft should have been grounded until they were in compliance, but they continued to fly, with full knowledge of the F.A.A. supervisor,” James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the House transportation panel, said last week. He said the delay had occurred “so that Southwest could conveniently schedule them for inspection without disrupting their commercial schedule.”

In its first public reaction to the F.A.A. fine, Southwest said, in part, “The F.A.A. approved our actions and considered the matter closed as of April 2007.” The company called the required inspection “one of many routine and redundant inspections.”

It also produced a statement from Boeing, the manufacturer, vouching for the planes’ safety.

But Tuesday, Gary C. Kelly, Southwest’s chief executive, said the company had conducted its own inquiry. “I am concerned with some of our findings,” he said in a prepared statement.

As a result, he said that three employees had been placed on administrative leave. Southwest would not name the workers or their positions, but said the three were cooperating with the airline’s investigation.

Mr. Kelly also said the carrier had “hired a respected outside consultant with proven experience to help review its maintenance program controls.” He said Southwest had told F.A.A. officials “that it will investigate and address any deficiencies.”

Mr. Oberstar plans a hearing on the whistle-blowers’ complaints on April 3. He has asked the F.A.A. to “clean house, from the top down,” to deal with what he called a “carrier-favorable, cozy relationship” between the agency and the airlines.
340 2008-03-12 Left in doubt are many of the largest issues facing state government. What policies will Mr. Paterson pursue and will he adopt Mr. Spitzer’s priorities as his own? Will he keep any of Mr. Spitzer’s top appointees in their jobs? And will he continue Mr. Spitzer’s aggressive efforts to win control of the Republican-controlled State Senate — and thereby attempt to defang Mr. Bruno?

Elected to the largely ceremonial post of lieutenant governor, Mr. Paterson, unlike Mr. Spitzer, has no sure mandate of his own. His years as the minority leader of the State Senate left him with some legislative history, but in Albany, where the governor, the Assembly speaker, and Senate majority leader hold nearly untrammeled power, that post gave him relatively few significant opportunities to shape legislation.

“He really didn’t have a chance to develop an agenda and forcefully act on it, because if the majority leader or the Speaker don’t want it, it doesn’t happen,” said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor at the Baruch College School of Public Affairs.

Mr. Paterson is considered more liberal than Mr. Spitzer on some key issues, and that could create friction with the Republicans. He opposes the death penalty and strongly supports overhauling New York’s Rockefeller-era drug laws, for example. Years ago he introduced a proposal to allow noncitizens to vote. On issues like abortion and embyronic stem cell research, Mr. Paterson is staunchly liberal, as is Mr. Spitzer.

Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, said Mr. Paterson was a more progressive Democrat than Mr. Spitzer, especially on economic and tax policy. “The kind of things Eliot did, in terms of hundreds of nuisance taxes on the middle class but no taxes on the wealthy, I think that’s the kind of thing that David will instinctively want to change,” Mr. Brodsky said. “Whether he can or not I don’t know, but I think his instinct will be in that direction.”

The fate of Mr. Spitzer’s signature legislative initiatives, including proposals to reduce property taxes, revamp state campaign finance laws and require a commission to redraw legislative districts, is also unclear. Mr. Spitzer’s avid—and at times headlong—pursuit of some of those goals are what initially soured his relationship with Mr. Bruno.

“One of the things you’ve seen is that the separation of powers is very real, the Legislature has true power,” said George E. Pataki, the former governor.

Still, as minority leader in the Senate, Mr. Paterson drove toward overhauling Albany’s notoriously secretive legislative process, a frequent target of good-government groups. In 2003, Mr. Paterson’s caucus produced a reform proposal that in some respects anticipated Mr. Spitzer’s own promises to change Albany and make government more open.

Mr. Paterson will also need to make decisions about how to staff his new administration, and in particular, which of Mr. Spitzer’s senior aides to keep on board. Mr. Pataki said Mr. Paterson would be put in a difficult position because he was “not in a position to put in place his own team,” but expressed confidence that he will succeed “given his experience and the good will he has generated.”

The scion of a prominent Harlem political dynasty, Mr. Paterson is the son of Basil A. Paterson, a former state senator and New York secretary of state. Many believe that the elder Mr. Paterson will play a key role in advising his son during the transition, as will Bill Lynch, a former deputy mayor and now a prominent lobbyist, and other members of Harlem’s political establishment.

One longtime Democratic legislative employee said it looked like Mr. Paterson was building an Albany version of the mayoral administration of David N. Dinkins. On the whole, that person noted, those operatives and officials had relatively little experience in state government, a potential liability for the new governor.

Some allies believe that Mr. Paterson should also jettison any of Mr. Spitzer’s aides who were involved in efforts last summer to discredit Mr. Bruno over his use of state aircraft. Those efforts sparked a multitude of investigations, and it was not immediately clear what legal ramifications Mr. Spitzer’s departure from the governor’s office would have on those inquiries.

Meanwhile, Mr. Paterson will eventually have to decide how hard he will work to change the balance of power in Albany, where Senate Republicans hold a bare majority in a state that is trending heavily Democratic.

Mr. Spitzer styled himself an outsider and campaigned vigorously for Democratic Senate candidates, breaking a long-held nonaggression pact whereby governors did not attempt to upend the Democratic majority in the Assembly or the Republican majority in the Senate. Mr. Spitzer’s fund-raising and strategic political support helped Senate Democrats win two special elections since he took office, winnowing the Republicans to a one-seat margin.

Mr. Paterson a consummate political insider, may be less inclined — and under the circumstances, less able — to offer such help. He will come into office with only a few days transition time and will have mere weeks to grapple with passing the state budget, for which he will require the cooperation of Mr. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.

Though known for winning consensus, people who have worked with Mr. Paterson warn that is foolish to underestimate him. His genial demeanor, they say, masks finely honed political instincts and a talent for disarming opponents even as bargains hard with them. Few in Albany forget that Mr. Paterson came to power in the Senate by orchestrating a coup against a fellow New York City Democrat, Senator Martin Connor.

“People go into meetings with him and think they are going to pick his pocket — and walk out missing their own wallet,” said one New York lobbyist.

Mr. Silver, a fellow Democrat who will tussle with him on legislative and budget matters, offered a word of praise, mixed with a gentle warning. “This is a matter of performance,” he said on Tuesday. “I think he is capable of being one of the finest governors New York has ever had."

Then he added: "Ask that question in about a year."
341 2008-03-12 “The selection has been turned into a game of chicken,” said Hideo Kumano, chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute. “Until one side flinches, Japan’s ability to make economic policy is greatly hampered.”

Mr. Kumano and others said Mr. Fukuda may have the most to lose from a prolonged standoff. The prime minister’s popularity ratings have been tumbling after he was seen as mishandling the government response to the sinking of a fishing boat by a military ship. Some economists said Mr. Fukuda may finally have to compromise to avoid being accused of political incompetence for failing to fill the bank seat.

For now, though, his government is refusing to budge, even as the opposition has blamed him for not nominating an acceptable alternative. The main opposition group, the Democratic Party of Japan, has been threatening for weeks to block Mr. Muto, saying his background as a top official at the Ministry of Finance could undermine the central bank’s independence.

“Japan needs to get ready for a vacancy at the B.O.J.,” said Naoki Iizuka, chief economist at Mizuho Securities, referring to the Bank of Japan. “Eventually, the government probably has to come up with a different candidate. Maybe we should just hire Alan Greenspan.”

On Wednesday, the upper house also rejected one of the government’s nominees for the bank’s two positions of deputy governor. Opposition lawmakers rejected the nomination of Takatoshi Ito, a professor at the University of Tokyo, saying he is too close to the current government because he serves on an economic advisory committee to the prime minister.

The only nominee approved by the upper house was Masaaki Shirakawa, a former executive director at the Bank of Japan. Mr. Shirakawa’s appointment as deputy governor now appears certain, as he only needs approval from the lower house, controlled by the ruling party.

If a new governor is not named by March 19, Mr. Shirakawa will probably be asked to serve as interim bank chief, economists said.

On Wednesday, the ruling Liberal Democrats said they may go ahead on Thursday with a vote in the lower house to approve all three nominees, despite the rejections by the upper house. They said the three represented a well-balanced team with extensive experience in financial and monetary policy.

“We have proposed the best trio for the new B.O.J. leadership,” the finance minister, Fukushiro Nukaga, told reporters. “We will continue trying to gain support” from the opposition.

While major newspapers and some prominent economists have criticized the opposition for politicizing the selection process, Japanese voters so far appear undecided on which side to blame. The Democrats have scored electoral victories recently for pledging to change the status quo in Japan, including the practice of doling out top government jobs to retired bureaucrats.

“Our disagreement does not mean that we want to use this for political gain,” the Democratic Party’s secretary general, Yukio Hatoyama, told reporters. He said a successor could still be found by March 19 if the government comes up with a “qualified person.”

In the days before the vote, Democratic lawmakers mockingly referred to Mr. Muto as “Mr. Finance Ministry.” In confirmation hearings on Tuesday, Mr. Muto tried to answer such criticism by pledging to defend the independence of the bank, which was freed from the ministry’s control only a decade ago.
342 2008-03-12 The Fed on Tuesday extended up to $200 billion in Treasury securities to the biggest Wall Street banks in exchange for hard-to-sell mortgage-backed securities as collateral.

The move, which was coordinated with central banks in Europe and Canada, came after two similar actions Friday, in which the Fed offered as much as $200 billion in 28-day cash loans to banks and big financial institutions.

“It was only a temporary fix last time,” Mr. Shing said. Investors remain unconvinced about the central banks’ ability to sway events, at least in the short term, he said, when one of the underlying problems — the deflation of the United States housing bubble — is not affected by their actions.

Still, investors in Asia nudged up their benchmark indexes, hours after Wall Street enjoyed its best day in five years.

In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225-stock average finished 1.6 percent higher, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong rose 1.9 percent. The broad Sydney market gauge closed up 2.4 percent.

The enthusiasm continued into Europe, where the pan-European DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index gained 1.1 percent and the CAC 40 rose 1.5 percent. London’s FTSE 100 was up 1.5 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 1.2 percent.

But in a sign of skepticism about the Fed, the dollar declined again as the euro traded as high as $1.5539, beating the record of $1.5495 set Tuesday.

“As far as what the Fed is trying to do in the credit market, it seems to have been effective so far,” said Bilal Hafeez, global head of currency strategy at Deutsche Bank in London. But he said the dollar’s decline was being driven by other factors and would probably continue. Investors are convinced that United States interest rates will fall further, he said, making some United States assets less attractive.

The growing gap between United States and European interest rates gives investors an incentive to buy European assets, driving the euro higher. Currently, the Fed’s benchmark rate is set at 3 percent, and policy makers are expected to cut it by up to three-quarters of a point next week; in contrast, the European Central Bank has set its comparable rate at 4 percent and is not expected to change it before the second half of 2008.

The price of crude oil, after reaching $110.20 a barrel, settled at $109.92 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a gain of $1.20.
343 2008-03-12 TOKYO (AP) — Japan’s upper house of Parliament on Wednesday voted to reject the government nomination for Bank of Japan chief because of concern over the nominee’s political ties to the finance ministry.

The opposition, which controls the legislative chamber, has for days threatened to block the appointment of the deputy governor of the central bank, Toshiro Muto, to the governor’s position. The main opposition, the Democratic Party of Japan, had accused the government of bulldozing bills and using strong-arm tactics to push its own personnel decisions.

The term of the current bank governor, Toshihiko Fukui, ends next Wednesday.

The stalemate over who will head the central bank of the world’s second-largest economy is a major embarrassment to the Japanese government, coming at a time when fears are growing about a global slowdown.

But the opposition party says Mr. Muto is too politically connected as a former official in the finance ministry, and has said that the central bank should be clearly independent.

The nominees for the governor and the two deputy governors at the central bank need approval from both houses of Parliament.
344 2008-03-12 After a frenzied string of primaries and caucuses for more than two months, Mississippi was alone in holding its contest Tuesday, where 33 delegates were at stake. It was the last primary before a six-week interlude. The Pennsylvania primary on April 22 opens the final stage of the Democratic nominating fight, with eight states, Puerto Rico and Guam left to weigh in.

Mississippi offered Mr. Obama an opportunity to regain his footing after losing the popular vote to Mrs. Clinton last week in three contests, Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island. Mr. Obama had been expected to win resoundingly in Mississippi, a state where 36 percent of the population is black, the highest percentage in the nation. He has enjoyed strong support among black voters and won all the other contests in the Deep South by large margins.

While Mrs. Clinton, of New York, campaigned in Mississippi last week and former President Bill Clinton dropped in over the weekend, the Clinton campaign has mostly been looking ahead to Pennsylvania, with its 158 delegates at stake.

Mrs. Clinton was campaigning in Pennsylvania on Tuesday when Mr. Obama began the day with a final appeal for support in the Mississippi Delta. After having a scrambled-egg breakfast at Buck’s Restaurant in Greenville, he shook hands with those who had gathered outside the strip mall and urged people to vote.

“We need some jobs!” someone from the crowd called to Mr. Obama.

“I promise when I’m president of the United States, I’ll come back to the Delta,” Mr. Obama said. “You all keep me in your prayers, now.”

It is unclear how much difference the late campaigning had. The early surveys of voters, conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International, showed that 6 of 10 Democratic primary voters made up their minds more than a month ago.

In the final days of the primary race, Mrs. Clinton raised the idea that Democrats struggling to decide between the candidates could have it both ways, implying that Mr. Obama would make a suitable running mate.

Mr. Obama rejected that idea on Monday as he campaigned in Mississippi, telling voters, “With all due respect, I’ve won twice as many states as Senator Clinton.”

Still, according to preliminary exit polls, not all voters seemed eager to rule out the notion.

As voters left the polls on Tuesday, 6 in 10 Obama supporters said that he should select Mrs. Clinton for vice president if he won the nominating fight. And 4 in 10 Clinton voters said she should choose Mr. Obama if he she won.

As in many other states, an overwhelming share of voters said they were looking for change and were worried about the economy. Mr. Obama won the support of voters who listed those as their chief concerns, according to the surveys of voters.

Mississippi Democrats were twice as likely to say Mr. Obama inspired them about their future as opposed to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Obama was more than twice as likely to be seen as honest.

Anita Nichols, who came to see Mr. Obama on the eve of the primary at Mississippi University for Women in Columbus, said she was delighted that voters in her state had an opportunity to be heard in the Democratic presidential contest. Ms. Nichols said she hoped a convincing Mississippi victory would nudge him along in the protracted fight.

“I’m praying that he wins; I really am,” Ms. Nichols said in an interview, an Obama button fastened to her lapel. “This country is ready for change, but it’s not just him. The president can only do so much. He’s got to surround himself with qualified people, and the citizens have to work, too.”
345 2008-03-12 Jacob G. Zuma, who heads the country’s governing party, the African National Congress, is seeking to convince the Constitutional Court that reams of evidence should be excluded from his trial in August on corruption charges connected with an arms deal. Mr. Zuma, who denies the charges, says the search warrants were vague, overly broad and did not protect his communications with his lawyer. If convicted, Mr. Zuma would be barred from serving as president of South Africa. In court papers, the state says the evidence establishes that Mr. Zuma, above, took hundreds of payments from his financial adviser, Schabir Shaik, and Mr. Shaik’s companies. The state says Mr. Zuma did not pay income taxes on much of that money.
346 2008-03-12 The authorities arrested two sisters in Osaka who they said hid some $57 million in cardboard boxes to evade tax on their inheritance. It was the largest sum of inheritance money ever concealed from the authorities in Japan, said an official from the National Tax Agency. The sisters, 64 and 55 years old, inherited the money after their father, who was in the real estate and financial business, died in 2005. They are accused of not declaring $57 million of a total of $72.5 million they inherited.
347 2008-03-12 TOKYO (AP) — Japan’s upper house of parliament on Wedneday rejected the government’s nominee for Bank of Japan chief because of concern over his political ties to the finance ministry.

The vote against Toshiro Muto came in the legislative chamber controlled by the opposition Democratic Party of Japan.

Mr. Muto currently is a central bank deputy governor and was nominated for the top spot last week, but the opposition has threatened for days to block the appointment.

A delay in naming a successor would be an embarrassment for Japan on the international stage, reducing investor confidence at a time when global markets are in turmoil.

A former finance ministry bureaucrat, Mr. Muto has been groomed by Mr. Fukui to be his successor and is expected to make a smooth transition.

But the opposition party says Mr. Muto is too politically connected as a former official in the finance ministry, adding that the central bank should be clearly independent
348 2008-03-12 “There are 101 messes up there, and they are not all cleaned up yet,” said Jim White, the president of the Birmingham investment banking firm of Porter White, which is advising the county on its finances.

At the heart of this story are Mr. LeCroy, who arranged many of the transactions; a Montgomery investment banker, William Blount, whose firm, Blount Parrish & Company, earned larger fees than any other adviser on the transactions; and Larry P. Langford, the local official who signed off on the deals.

As a managing director at JPMorgan Chase, Mr. LeCroy persuaded the county to convert its debt from fixed interest rates to adjustable rates. He also recommended that the county use interest-rate swaps that he said would protect it if interest rates rose.

Mr. LeCroy, however, is no longer in the bond business. He landed in prison for three months in 2005 in connection with a municipal corruption case in Philadelphia. He has left JPMorgan Chase and declined to comment for this article.

Mr. Langford, now the mayor of Birmingham, previously oversaw the county’s finances. He says he had no idea what Mr. LeCroy and the many other bankers on the deals were doing, and he asked for Mr. Blount’s help in vetting their proposals.

“I needed somebody to be able to tell me what all that stuff was,” Mr. Langford said in a deposition in June. “And even when they told me, I still don’t understand 99 percent of it.”

Mr. Langford, though, faces legal troubles of his own. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether he steered bond underwriting business to Mr. Blount’s company in return for payments, a claim he has denied.

Mr. Langford has a history of financial problems, including an ill-fated plan to build a local amusement park called VisionLand, and a self-professed propensity to shop. “I like clothes,” Mr. Langford said in his deposition.

Bettye Fine Collins, who succeeded Mr. Langford as commission president in 2006, says Jefferson County is negotiating with its creditors, but the results are still uncertain.

“Those at the poverty level, those parents on the free lunch programs, I don’t know how much they can bear,” Ms. Collins said. “They’re probably paying $4 a gallon for regular gas, and everything in sight is going up except their salaries or their Social Security checks.”

The troubles in Jefferson County, which is perched on the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains, began more than a decade ago. The county’s sewers were discharging raw sewage into the Black Warrior and Cahaba Rivers during heavy rains. In 1996, a federal court ordered the county to refurbish the system.

Mr. LeCroy, first as a swap adviser and broker with Raymond James and later with JPMorgan, helped the county sell bonds to pay for the upgrade. But in 2002, after Mr. Langford was appointed county president and vowed to rein in costs, Mr. LeCroy urged the county to reduce its interest payments by refinancing its debt and switching to adjustable rates from fixed rates. As a hedge, he recommended swaps.

The county ended up with 18 different swaps at one point, an extraordinary number for a county government. The notional value of the swaps surpassed the value of the bonds they were supposed to hedge.

Mr. Langford agreed to the plan — and in the process locked Jefferson County into borrowings that may ruin the county, even though they have richly rewarded its bankers.

Last week, the county warned that it did not have enough money to cover the hedges, which ended up costing it money when rates moved in unexpected ways. The situation became critical when the insurance companies standing behind the bonds had their own credit ratings downgraded. Officials are trying to work out a stabilization plan, but the outcome is far from certain.

The county’s financial dealings have also raised thorny legal questions, which in turn may make it harder to negotiate with its creditors. The S.E.C. deposed Mr. Langford last year in an effort to learn whether any securities laws had been broken when Jefferson County refinanced its bonds — particularly the laws that bar bankers and others from “buying” lucrative municipal bond business by giving gifts to the officials who control the bond deals.

Instead of letting these bankers compete for the county’s business in an open bidding, the five county commissioners divided up the deals among the people they knew.

Mr. Langford said he chose people who had responded to his calls for money to send children to Bible camp and to support a charitable skeet shoot-off, as well as people who had helped him pay off his many debts. One of his donors was Mr. Blount. The S.E.C. also asked Mr. Langford about an e-mail message in which Mr. Blount warned Mr. LeCroy that the county commissioner was “hitting us up” for contributions to a ministry project.

Mr. Langford said he chose the people he did because he knew they were capable and he trusted them. He said that Mr. LeCroy did not make any unusual payments to him. The S.E.C. also questioned him about payments that Mr. Blount had made to a local lobbyist who had paid off one of Mr. Langford’s delinquent loans at about the same time. Mr. Langford said he did not know where the lobbyist got his money.

Jefferson County’s case is an extreme one, but its missteps are not unique. Other communities around the country have also found themselves holding complex financial instruments that did not perform as advertised. As the troubles in the credit markets continue to spread, more such problems are likely to surface. Nor do many local governments hold open, competitive biddings when they issue bonds.

“I don’t think there’s anyone who has been involved in the swaps and derivatives market to the extent that the Jefferson County sewer system was,” said Paul Maco, director for the Securities and Exchange Commission’s office of municipal securities during the Clinton administration.

Of 11 swaps and similar contracts Jefferson County went into from 2001 to 2003, eight were with JPMorgan Chase. A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.

For now, the residents of Jefferson County are bearing the burden of the ill-fated deals. Residents’ sewer rates have quadrupled. And, residents say, the sewers still do not work properly.
349 2008-03-12 Among the choices to be discussed, according to a briefing document the agency posted on its Web site on Tuesday, would be to eliminate use of the drugs for patients with certain types of tumors or for patients who still have hope of curing their cancers, or even to stop using the drugs among all cancer patients.

But one of the big unanswered question is this: If the anemia drugs really are “Miracle-Gro for cancer,” as one F.D.A. adviser famously put it in a similar meeting last year, then what is the mechanism behind that? What do the drugs do to tumors?

All the drugs are synthetic forms of a human hormone called erythropoietin, or Epo, that spurs production of red blood cells.

Dr. Anagnostou’s work hints at one possible explanation. His experiments suggested that Epo could spur growth of blood vessels that can nourish tumors.

Another possible explanation is that Epo stimulates tumors directly to grow. Or, that Epo protects tumors from the destruction intended by chemotherapy.

Evidence that could support these hypotheses has been building slowly, but it is far from ironclad. The studies have shortcomings and there are contradictory data. Animal studies, for instance, have generally not shown Epo making cancer worse.

“The sense is there’s some smoke, but we don’t know if there’s any fire,” said David A. Gewirtz, a professor of pharmacology and toxicology at Virginia Commonwealth University. In his study, Dr. Gewirtz found that Epo did not stimulate growth of breast cancer cells in a dish.

When the National Cancer Institute held a workshop in December on whether Epo spurred tumor growth, there was little consensus, other than agreement that more study was needed. Amgen’s representative at the workshop, Dr. C. Glenn Begley, sharply questioned any finding of a tumor-stimulating effect, according to a summary by the cancer institute.

Amgen says there is no convincing evidence that Epo does anything in the body besides spur red blood cell production. The company thinks the excess deaths in the trials among Epo users might stem from blood clots. The clinical trials in question all used the anemia drugs to raise patients’ red blood cell levels more than what is recommended in the drugs’ labels. At those levels, blood clots are a known side effect.

“There’s really no necessity to advance another explanation,” Dr. Roy Baynes, an Amgen vice president, said in an interview.

If the culprit is blood clots, the implication is the drugs would be safe if used at more modest levels, as called for on the labels.

But if, as some scientists argue, Epo does spur tumor growth directly, then even modest doses of the drugs might be considered risky for cancer patients.

Various scientists have reported that some types of tumor cells have receptors that can detect Epo and react to it. And they have reported that Epo spurs the growth of tumor cells in laboratory dishes. There are even reports that some tumors make their own Epo, in effect stimulating their own growth or protecting themselves from death.

Amgen says that the techniques used to detect the receptors actually pick up other things, giving false readings.

But Dr. Murat O. Arcasoy, associate professor of medicine at Duke, said, “most people accept that there are receptors. The question is, ‘How do they signal, how do they contribute to growth?’ ”

Another question is why it has taken so long to find such possible deleterious effects. Epogen was first approved for kidney dialysis patients in 1989 and Procrit for anemia caused by chemotherapy in 1993.

When Procrit was approved, the F.D.A. realized there was a “hypothetical risk” that Epo could spur tumor growth, the agency said in its briefing document on Tuesday. But the agency still does not think the link has been established definitely, it said.

Dr. Arthur J. Sytkowski, an associate professor of medicine at Harvard who has studied Epo for 30 years, said scientists assumed Epo did nothing except spur red blood cell formation. “Nobody’s to blame for this,” he said.

Dr. Anagnostou’s 1990 study was one of the first to suggest a different role for Epo. He was trying to figure out why Epogen caused high blood pressure in some patients. So he put endothelial cells, the type that line blood vessels, into a lab dish and exposed them to Epo. To his surprise the cells were stimulated to proliferate. He commented in his paper that this could possibly spur the formation of blood vessels that would nourish tumors.

Dr. Anagnostou patented the use of Epo to treat blood vessel injuries and profited when it was licensed to Johnson & Johnson.

Still, Dr. Anagnostou, now semi-retired, says safety issues were missed. “We had been assured it was totally safe because it only affects red blood cells,” he said.
350 2008-03-12 A woman who obtained a restraining order earlier this year in a domestic violence case against the New England Patriots star Randy Moss wants the case dismissed, court records show. Rachelle Washington, 35, filed papers March 3 with the Broward County (Fla.) Circuit Court clerk’s office requesting that the order be dissolved and the case closed. Moss, 31, denied that he harmed Washington at her Florida home on Jan. 6, or that he prevented her from seeking medical attention.
351 2008-03-12 Senator John McCain loves to present himself as a fighter against waste and pork-barrel spending. His fusillades against the “bridge to nowhere” in Alaska and other such projects were well justified. But his jabs at a study of grizzly bears in Montana are way off the mark.

To hear Mr. McCain tell it in his presidential stump speech and campaign ads, the government has squandered $3 million (actually more like $5 million) to study the DNA of bears in Montana. “I don’t know if it was a paternity issue or criminal,” he jokes, “but it was a waste of money.”

A report by Joel Achenbach in The Washington Post makes clear, however, that this was not really a study of bear DNA but a study that used bear DNA to determine whether the grizzly bear was still a threatened species or had rebounded. Mr. McCain and his staff either failed to realize that or chose to distort the facts for political effect. Either choice is not encouraging.

The intent of the study, whose results have not yet been published, is to estimate the size and makeup of the grizzly bear population in a vast region, encompassing Glacier National Park, five wilderness areas, parts of five national forests and other public and private lands in a largely roadless, mountainous terrain. Scientists collected hairs snagged by strategically placed barbed wire to extract DNA that could identify how many bears had passed by, their gender and unique identity. Statistical models could then predict the total population.

That is hardly frivolous. It is a prerequisite for sensible administration of the Endangered Species Act.

The presumed Republican presidential nominee also fails to mention that the project was sponsored by Conrad Burns, a former Republican senator from Montana who chairs the McCain campaign in that state. Mr. McCain never explains why, if it was such a waste, he didn’t try to curtail it on the Senate floor.
352 2008-03-12 The value of the contract could grow to $100 billion and run for decades, making it one of the biggest recent military purchases.

Analysts agree that the Air Force changed its criteria for the tanker. The question is whether it did so improperly.

Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, said, “It appears, over time, Northrop Grumman was able to change the Air Force’s mind about what it wanted.”

Early in the competition, Mr. Thompson said, it appeared that the Air Force wanted a tanker only, but then it embraced the notion of a more versatile plane that could haul large quantities of cargo and large numbers of soldiers and other personnel.

The winning plane is based on the Airbus A330 passenger jet, a bigger and newer plane than the Boeing 767, which was the basis for the losing tanker proposal.

“The Air Force followed a carefully structured process, designed to provide transparency, maintain integrity and promote fair competition,” the service said in a statement. “The Air Force provided all offerers with continuous feedback through discussions on the strengths and weaknesses of their proposals.”

In its statement, Boeing called the changes “frequent and often unstated.” It also said its costs had been improperly evaluated.

Both Boeing and Airbus have huge backlogs of commercial aircraft orders, so neither is in dire need of this contract. But it would help Boeing’s military business, which has not been growing as fast as its commercial plane business. It would also help keep its 767 production line going past 2012; Boeing has just 51 orders for that plane in its backlog as of Jan. 31.

For Airbus and its corporate parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS, the tanker deal would give it a big foothold in United States military contracting. It plans to build the tankers in Alabama and to move assembly of its commercial cargo A330 to Alabama.
353 2008-03-12 WASHINGTON — The State Department no longer considers China one of the world’s worst human rights violators, according to its annual human rights report released Tuesday, a decision that immediately earned the ire of human rights groups.

In the annual report on more than 190 countries, the State Department did say that China’s “overall human rights record remained poor” in 2007. China, the report said, tightened media and Internet curbs and increased controls on religious freedom in Tibet and the Xinjiang region. The report said China’s abuses also included “extrajudicial killings, torture and coerced confessions of prisoners, and the use of forced labor.”

But the report dropped China from a list of 10 countries that it deemed the worst offenders: North Korea, Myanmar, Iran, Syria, Zimbabwe, Cuba, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Eritrea and Sudan.

At a news conference, Jonathan D. Farrar, acting assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, did not answer questions about why China was dropped from the list. “I think the report highlights that generally the human rights record remains poor,” he said.

When asked repeatedly why China was dropped from the list of worst abusers, and whether that had anything to do with the Beijing Olympics this summer, Mr. Farrar said: “I would say China is listed under a section dealing with authoritarian countries undergoing economic reform where the democratic political reform has not kept pace. And that is a completely accurate assessment.”
354 2008-03-12 When Shivani Sud was 6, a relative developed a brain tumor. The cancer turned out to be benign, but the experience piqued the girl’s interest in cancer research. And on Tuesday night, Shivani, now 17, a high school senior in Durham, N.C., took home top honors and a $100,000 scholarship in the Intel Science Talent Search for her project on colon cancer.

“I was wobbly, waiting for them to announce the top 10,” said Shivani, who attends Charles E. Jordan High School, and whose project identified patients at high risk for tumor recurrence and proposed potential drugs for treatment. “I was sitting on the tip of my chair.”

Intel announced the winners of its contest, formerly known as the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, at a gala in Washington.

Katie Banks, 17, of Brooklyn, was the only New York City student — from five finalists — to be a top winner. She attends Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan and says she is averse to dressing up, especially for ceremonies. She came in fourth for her project calculating the number of lattice points that can fit inside a nine-sided convex lattice polygon. She took home a $25,000 scholarship.

Eric Delgado, 18, of Bayonne High School in New Jersey, placed fifth for his project discovering new ways to improve the efficacy of antibiotics against drug-resistant bacteria. David Rosengarten, 18, of John L. Miller-Great Neck North High School, came in sixth for his work on whether Einstein’s theory of general relativity could explain the galactic rotation curve problem in astrophysics. Both received a $25,000 scholarship.

Alexis Mychajliw, 16, of Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, N.Y., took ninth place, receiving $20,000 for her study on wetland habitats.
355 2008-03-12 “While security has improved in Iraq, a permissive security environment has yet to be achieved,” Mr. Walker wrote, using a term meaning an environment safe for ordinary business and social activity.

Mr. Walker and two other federal officials also testified about concerns over corruption in contracting and about problems tracking arms shipments to Iraqi and American forces.

American commanders in Iraq have been warning for months that the security gains were far from irreversible, particularly since progress in Iraqi political reconciliation, which would presumably address the tensions underlying the violence, has been halting.

Smaller security improvements in the past have been followed by surges in violence. Modest gains in security near the end of 2005, for example, were obliterated a few months later when the bombing of a sacred mosque in Samarra set off nearly a year of sectarian killings.

Based on reports from February, violence may already be increasing. An independent tally by The Associated Press recorded a jump last month in the average number of Iraqis killed per day compared with January’s figures.

The accountability office figures use a different measure, the number of attacks recorded against security forces and Iraqi civilians.

Daily reports of violence are, by their nature, grainy and uncertain measures of trends in Iraq, but following the large American death toll the day before, the attacks on Tuesday were strikingly widespread.

A health directorate official in Kut said clashes between the police and the Mahdi Army, the dominant Shiite militia, left 14 people dead and 47 wounded. In Dulia, a police official said, a suicide car bomber detonated his explosives at a checkpoint, killing five and wounding 30.

And in Baghdad, a bomb exploded in a neighborhood council meeting, killing one council member and wounding eight others, while gunmen in another part of the city attacked a prison for juveniles, wounding three guards and freeing three inmates, an Interior Ministry official said.

The Senate hearing also dealt with findings by both the accountability office and an independent federal oversight agency, the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, that thousands of pistols, automatic rifles and other equipment delivered to Iraq cannot be accounted for.

Under questioning by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, the Defense Department’s inspector general, Lt. Gen. Claude M. Kicklighter, a retired Army officer, said a system was in place to prevent “a major leakage” of weapons to insurgents or the black market. He said weapons of Iraqi forces and the American-led coalition were now accounted for by serial number, down to the company level.

“That’s not awfully comforting,” Mr. Leahy said. “I mean, I’m not trying to quibble words here, but obviously the first sets of weapons came out with really no adequate way of checking them.”
356 2008-03-12 The march is one of several international protests related to Chinese rule in Tibet that are under way before the Summer Olympics in Beijing in August. Tibetan immigrants worldwide held protests on Monday, the anniversary of the uprising, which led to the exile of the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan Buddhist leader. Organizers of the march said they were being joined for the first few days by a representative from the Italian Parliament.

Chinese officials in Beijing said that about 60 monks in Tibet who took part in the protests on Monday were arrested.

India is home to an estimated 130,000 refugees from Tibet, who are promised protection from repatriation and issued papers to work. Their Indian-born children receive Indian citizenship.

But the Indian government does not support outspoken advocates critical of China, and in some cases has limited their movements.

Several telephone calls to Indian government ministries for comment on the restraining order went unreturned, or were referred to other ministries that did not respond to calls or e-mail messages. One government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters, said India’s agreement with the Dalai Lama prohibits Tibetan exiles from taking part in political protests. In addition, he said, no one is allowed to cross international borders without proper clearance.

“India has other obligations as a country,” he said, including its commitment to take part in the Beijing Olympics, which prevent it from supporting the march.

The marchers, who say they do not have the backing of the Dalai Lama, plan to walk from Dharamsala to Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, over an undisclosed route. The distance between the cities is roughly 900 miles.

The march is a way to alert the rest of the world to “what China is trying to cover up under the pomp and show of the Olympics of 2008,” said Tenzin Tsundue, a writer and an advocate of Tibetan independence who has joined the walk. “We do not depend on the corrupt Chinese government. We will decide our own destiny, our own future.”
357 2008-03-12 Mr. King elaborated. “We talked about the different aspects of our organizations,” he said. “How we were formed, the family of the artist involved, the artistic mission, budget size, endowment size, our location, do we or do we not have research centers.”

By the end of the day, Mr. Sobel said, the directors had learned that “we are all so different, which is kind of exciting.”

Single-artist museums tend to be as individual as the artists they celebrate. The O’Keeffe site, opened in 1997 and founded by the philanthropists Anne W. and John L. Marion, is in the touristy town of Santa Fe. The Rockwell museum opened almost 40 years ago as an informal showcase in a historic home in the town where the artist lived and worked; in 1993, because of heavy visitor traffic, it relocated to a larger space built on the outskirts of town. There, it accommodates the collection and the artist’s studio, which was moved to the site.

The Still museum, like the Noguchi, was the brainchild of the artist himself. In 1978, Still’s will bequeathed 94 percent of his work to an American city that would build and maintain a home dedicated entirely to his work. Denver took up the challenge in 2004.

But these museums also have much in common. In some ways, a single-artist museum operates similarly to a foundation: it often controls the artists’ archives, oversees intellectual property rights and must cope with the artist’s family members and heirs. Yet it has all the responsibilities of a public institution — conceiving exhibitions and programming, worrying about fund-raising and managing loan requests.

Typically, exhibitions may have a strong biographical component because visitors “are very interested in the person,” Ms. Moffatt of the Rockwell museum said. “We have a different responsibility managing the legacy of a cultural figure. It’s a little bit like the presidential library — we’re interpreting the person’s life as well as their work.”

And there is one grand question uniting them all. “How do we keep our artists alive?” Mr. Sobel said. “How do we contextualize them?”

Often that means showing work by others. Since 2004, Ms. Dixon has alternated Noguchi’s original plans for the second-floor installation with shows that give the audience “a sense of his times,” she said. In 2005, for instance, the museum mounted “Noguchi and Graham,” a show that displayed the sets that he created for the Martha Graham Dance Company, and “The Imagery of Chess Revisited,” which recreated a 1944 exhibition organized by Max Ernst and Marcel Duchamp.

Mr. King has shown more than 150 artists besides O’Keeffe, including Marsden Hartley, Andy Warhol and Sherrie Levine, with the aim of putting O’Keeffe “into context in the grander milieu of American modernism,” he said. Broadening the mission this way, he added, has also allowed the museum to seek financing that might normally go to more encyclopedic institutions.

Many of the museums also invest heavily in scholarship. The O’Keeffe museum runs the only research center in the country that is dedicated to American modernism, Mr. King said, sponsoring up to six scholars a year. As a curator, Ms. Moffatt spent several years working on Rockwell’s catalog raisonné, which was published in 1986, the year she became director. Last fall, the museum published “American Chronicles: The Art of Norman Rockwell,” another extensive catalog. “Scholarship invites people to take a deeper look at the artist,” she said.

As for Mr. Sobel, he is constrained by Clyfford Still’s restrictive will, which stipulates that no other work be shown alongside his own. Mr. Sobel said he would collaborate on shows with the Denver Art Museum, which is next door. It will be a good example of how “a single-artist museum can operate and partner with another museum,” he said.

As all the directors predicted, there will most likely be more of them in the future. “Artists have gone to incredible levels of financial success,” Ms. Dixon said. “They want to be more in control of their production.”

Mr. Sobel concurred. “We’ll see more of this as we see the passing of generations of artists who emerged in the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s,” he said. “The fear that their work might be relegated to the basement of a general museum may lead some to figure out ways to make it accessible.”
358 2008-03-12 “What interests us,” said Christine André, a Culture Ministry spokeswoman, “is whether the cost of a ticket is the only reason some people don’t go to a museum.”

That said, the question of “free art” raises complex questions. Is it a democratic right like, say, education? Should free admission benefit only those who cannot afford an entrance ticket? Should it be complemented by other incentives to attract first-time visitors? And who should pay for it?

In Britain, only nine national museums were still charging entrance fees when its new policy became effective in late 2001. And those museums, notably the Victoria and Albert Museum, in London, have experienced a sharp rise in the number of visitors. Attendance at those that already offered free admission, like the British Museum and the National Gallery, has grown more modestly.

The British government, persuaded that culture could help resolve some social problems, further hoped to woo more young people and minorities to museums. Here it can claim less success: rather than discovering legions of down-at-the-heel art lovers, free admission has encouraged middle-class museumgoers to return more often to their favorite galleries.

Even so, the policy has found a hidden plus: increased crowds visiting noncharging permanent collections have meant more people buying $16 to $22 tickets for temporary exhibitions. This income, with an increased government subsidy worth some $80 million a year, has enabled British museums to break even. The American experience offers fewer lessons to France because ticketing policies vary widely: many museums charge admission, including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; a few are free, among them the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles; and some ask for a contribution, like the $20 “recommended” by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.

In Europe, though, high-minded theory has collided with economic reality. Most museums were founded in the 19th century around the principle of free admission as a way to educate the masses, but only museums in Britain and Denmark still adhere to this ideal. Elsewhere, the cost of managing old palaces and large collections has imposed itself. And sometimes, ending free admission can hurt. Ending Sweden’s free program at its national museums led to an attendance drop of nearly 20 percent last year.

For France, though, money is not the only variable. The Louvre, the Musée d’Orsay, the Museum of Modern Art at the Pompidou Center and the new Musée du Quai Branly charge entrance fees of $12 to $18, but they have no difficulty drawing crowds. With 8.3 million visitors last year, the Louvre’s problem is often too many people.

Further, since around two-thirds of the visitors to the major Paris museums are foreign tourists (compared with one-third to London’s museums), free admission for all would represent a subsidy by French taxpayers of these visitors. Free admission for only the French, on the other hand, is disallowed by European Union rules.

The preferred path around this has been to offer concessions, including free tickets for children and youths under 18, the unemployed, the handicapped and other mainly French categories. And the Musée d’Orsay, the Musée du Quai Branly and the Pompidou Center have also followed the Louvre’s example of offering free admission to people age 18 to 25 one evening a week.

Officials at the Quai Branly said they had more young visitors to its African, Asian, Oceanic and American Indian collections on Saturday evenings, while on Friday evenings the Louvre organizes special guided tours, workshops, debates and concerts for the under-26 set.

The 14 museums at the heart of this experiment, however, pose a different problem: most are not well known. The three in Paris — the Musée Guimet (devoted to the art of Asia, from India to Japan); the Musée de Cluny (medieval art); and the Musée des Arts et Métiers (which displays scientific instruments and technical innovations) — have loyal followings, but others in the provinces are far smaller and receive fewer than 100,000 visitors each a year. So even doubling the attendance would not translate into the same numbers that Britain has reaped.

It seems evident by now that free admission attracts additional visitors. The Paris city government, for instance, has had a steady increase in visitors since 2002, when it dropped entrance charges to its own museums, which include the Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris and the Musée Carnavalet, focused on Paris history.

Whether this approach draws a different audience is still unclear.

An earlier populist measure, put in place a decade ago, required major French museums to offer free admission on the first Sunday of every month. But at the Louvre, where attendance on free Sundays is 75 percent higher than on other Sundays, the visitor profile is the same. The only difference, officials say, is overcrowding and loss of revenue.

Unsurprisingly, then, leading French museums are opposed to across-the-board free admission. But will public approval of “free art” suffice to turn the British example into French policy? Or will the cost of doing so — an annual loss of more than $250 million in ticket sales — temper the government’s crowd-pleasing instinct?

The decision to perform this experiment was political, and any decision to abandon or expand it will also be political. What seems apparent is that what works for Britain does not necessarily suit France. For this reason, after this hurried first step, it may be a while before France goes any further.
359 2008-03-12 PETA argued that dogs trained for fighting should be destroyed because they are unsafe and unserviceable. PETA said the Vick money would have been better spent spaying and neutering, as well as providing care for more suitable and less well-known adoption candidates.

The folks at Best Friends Animal Society argued that the fighting dogs had been forced to lead brutal lives and should not receive death sentences.

The court agreed with Best Friends, and that’s when the sniping really began. Rebecca J. Huss, a professor at the Valparaiso University School of Law, was appointed to represent the interests of the Vick dogs. Under her supervision, 25 of the 47 surviving dogs were classified as sanctuary dogs and placed with seven different shelters. Best Friends received the other 22 dogs, including one that was assessed as being highly adoptable.

Ingrid Newkirk, the founder and chief executive of PETA, called Best Friends “an expensive Camelot.”

“These are celebrity dogs,” she said this week in a telephone interview. “That isn’t a good use of money, it isn’t the best uses of time. The Vick dogs are the least likely candidates for success. It’s just a much more exciting story that comes with money attached to it.”

The founder of Best Friends, Michael Mountain, said PETA, for all its high-profile advocacy, is boxed in by an outdated philosophy.

“I don’t think PETA’s argument is with us, I think it’s with themselves,” he said from Utah in a telephone interview. “It’s really difficult as an animal-rights, animal-protection, animal-whatever-you-want-to-call-it organization to explain away the fact that pretty much all the animals you rescue, you kill. It doesn’t make logical sense; it doesn’t make emotional sense.”

Can these groups ever work together?

Here’s where they agree. They oppose cruelty to animals, advocate for an end to dogfighting and believe in animal population control. PETA believes in the ideal of the no-kill shelter; Best Friends carries it out.

Vick, demonized by PETA for more than a year, could become the bridge in this divide. Newkirk struck up a relationship with Vick beginning last fall when he visited PETA headquarters in Norfolk, Va. Vick impressed her.

“We told him that he had to put away his mobile phone for the day; he couldn’t have his bodyguard with him for the day,” she said. “He came here and he was very respectful. He sat the whole day and we showed him videos about who animals are and how sensitive and emotional they are and how, like a child, you can ruin them by abusing them.”

Newkirk said she and Vick have exchanged letters. He wrote that he missed his children, “and he wants people to know that he does care about what he did and we talk about that.”

She suggested to Vick that he do a television commercial in which he tells dog fighters to get out of the game. He has not responded to that proposal, she said.

Mountain said Best Friends would love to have Vick visit Utah and see how his dogs are being rehabilitated.

Huss isn’t convinced that Vick is rehabilitated. She said, “The perspective of a lot of the animal welfare organizations is that they don’t get a sense that he really understands or cares about what happened to the dogs while the dogs were on his properties or even since they’ve been off.”

I must confess that the dogs were often background music to my perspective on the Vick case. I felt the sentence was unduly harsh. But this is not really a dogfighting issue or an animal-rights issue or an overpopulation issue. This is a caring issue: If we, as a society, cannot treat the defenseless with kindness, how can we ever hope to truly care for one another?

Under Newkirk’s direction, PETA has launched many important initiatives — including shining a light on the brutal dogfighting industry. But she is on the wrong side of this pit-bull issue. If a dog can be rehabilitated, rehabilitate; if a life can be saved, save it.

Even if it’s taking place in Camelot.
360 2008-03-12 Responding to questions on the campaign trail, Mr. McCain has said that he wrote letters urging the Air Force to conduct fair and competitive bidding for the tanker contract but that his role ended after the Air Force requested formal plans from bidders.

“I had nothing to do with the contract except to insist in writing on several occasions as this process went forward that it be fair and open and transparent,” he said at Tuesday at a public forum in St. Louis.

Although Mr. McCain says he moved to the sidelines, some of his top supporters were heavily involved in lobbying for EADS. The tanker deal could grow to $100 billion, making it one of the biggest Pentagon purchases ever, and the jousting for it involved extremely intensive and expensive industry lobbying on both sides.

Mr. McCain’s campaign co-chairman, former Representative Thomas Loeffler, a Texas Republican, also runs a lobbying firm, the Loeffler Group, which earned $220,000 working for EADS in 2007. Mr. Loeffler was the McCain campaign national finance chairman when his firm was hired to lobby for EADS.

Two other Loeffler executives who were registered to lobby for EADS are now top campaign advisers for Mr. McCain: Susan Nelson, the finance director, and William L. Ball III, the former Navy secretary. Ms. Nelson and Mr. Ball left the lobbying firm to join the campaign.

Another major money raiser for Mr. McCain, Wayne Berman, who was named vice chairman of the campaign last year, also worked for EADS through another lobbying firm, Ogilvy Government Relations, where he is a partner. Ogilvy earned $240,000 from EADS in 2007.

Also supporting Mr. McCain and lobbying on behalf of EADS was Kirk Blalock, a national chairman of Young Professionals for McCain and a former aide to President Bush. Mr. Blalock’s lobbying firm, Fierce, Isakowitz & Blalock, earned $320,000 from EADS in 2007, according to disclosure forms required by Congress.

Some of the ties between Mr. McCain’s aides and lobbying for EADS were first reported on Tuesday by The Associated Press.

Campaign officials and a spokesman for EADS said any ties between the campaign and its lobbyists were coincidental.

Mr. Blalock said that his firm was hired by EADS before he was involved in the McCain campaign and that his decision to support Mr. McCain stemmed from his longtime work in the Republican Party.

A spokeswoman for the campaign, Jill Hazelbaker, expressed disbelief that anyone would question Mr. McCain’s role, given the clear evidence that he had helped root out corruption.

A spokesman for Boeing, William A. Barksdale, said it focused on proving why its tanker was the right plane for the job.

“We’re going to stay out of the politics,” he said. “We’re going to focus on the protest and why we feel the process was not fair in our minds.”

But Boeing supporters on Capitol Hill are not likely to lose focus on the politics. The tanker decision has set off a furor in Congress. Some lawmakers insist that a foreign company should not handle a critical military program. Some Democrats, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have questioned Mr. McCain’s involvement.

On Tuesday, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, gave a speech on the Senate floor urging an investigation into the subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments. The subsidies are the subject of a complaint that the United States filed with the World Trade Organization in 2004.

That complaint said European governments provided illegal subsidies to design and develop aircraft, including preferential loans, debt relief and loans and research and development grants.

The Europeans countersued, saying the United States had granted indirect subsidies to Boeing, including tax breaks. Experts at the W.T.O. are examining the two cases jointly. Rulings on both are expected this year.

In its appeal, Boeing was expected to include copies of two letters sent by Mr. McCain to Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England in September 2006 urging that the Air Force not proceed with a plan to consider the trade dispute in evaluating tanker bids.

“I am concerned that if the Air Force proceeds down its chosen path regarding the W.T.O. issue, the Air Force will risk eliminating competition before bids are submitted,” Mr. McCain wrote. “I respectfully suggest that Air Force remove any W.T.O. element from its procurement evaluation.”

The Pentagon released a letter on Tuesday to Mr. McCain from Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates dated Jan. 26, 2007, in which Mr. Gates assures the senator that his concerns had been taken into account.

“Thanks for bringing your concern to my attention,” Mr. Gates wrote. “I agree that the competition for this important program must be conducted in a full, open and transparent manner.”

Mr. McCain, at his campaign stop on Tuesday in St. Louis, again took credit for breaking up the previous tanker deal, a $20 billion sole-source arrangement for Boeing to lease tankers to the Air Force.

“Several years ago, there was a contract that was going to be entered into with Boeing which, because of my knowledge and background and experience, was going to cost the taxpayers — not according to me, but according to the Government Accountability Office — an additional $6.2 billion,” Mr. McCain said. “I fought against that contract because I thought it was wrong. It ended up, two Boeing executives ended up in federal prison. It was a scandal of great proportions.”

Mr. McCain added that he would be glad to see a review of the decision to award the new contract to EADS and Northrop Grumman.

Democrats were not waiting for the outcome of Boeing’s appeal to criticize Mr. McCain. In an e-mail message on Tuesday evening, the Democratic National Committee wrote: “John McCain’s campaign is defending their candidate, claiming he was ‘a neutral watchdog’ in the Air Force tanker contract deal. Truth is, McCain played a far greater role than that, going to great lengths to tilt the deal toward EADS.”
361 2008-03-12 AOL still enjoys many advantages that most companies can only dream about, from a prestigious brand name to an enormous revenue stream ($5.2 billion in 2007, down 33 percent from 2006). AOL’s Web sites attract 112 million visitors a month, and 9.3 million Americans still pay the company for Internet services.

But in an age when search engines send users in many directions, a portal is not enough to attract a large audience, and AOL thinks it must build a network to sell ads on thousands of other sites.

While the current problems may amount to little more than growing pains at a business that is trying to compete with the likes of Google, Yahoo and Microsoft, they characterize the steep obstacles that AOL faces as it tries to pull off its latest strategy, announced last August.

The goal is to expand AOL’s advertising networks, which sell ads on thousands of Web sites, by knitting together the seven advertising and technology companies that AOL bought and rolled into Platform A. Until recently, these fiefs have continued to operate separately — in some cases, fiercely so.

“We were ahead of the curve in the creation of Platform A and remain in a great position to compete in this intensely competitive marketplace,” said Randy Falco, the chief executive of AOL. The management changes, he said, were necessary to be able to move quickly. After spending dearly to amass assets, “the trick was to get them working together and integrated in a very meaningful way.”

Mr. Falco said his sales goals were reasonable. “We are not asking anyone to grow any faster than the market or our competitors are growing,” he said.

On Tuesday Mr. Bewkes, who spoke to analysts at a conference in Palm Beach, Fla., confirmed that AOL no longer saw a meaningful future for its dial-up Internet subscription service, which may be spun off.

He expressed tepid optimism for the AOL Web portal, which has lost ground to other portals, and indicated that the company wanted to keep AOL.com and Platform A together, saying they complemented each other.

AOL remains the single biggest problem that Mr. Bewkes must deal with. On one hand, Time Warner needs a strong Internet operation to hedge against the declines in its traditional business. On the other hand, AOL has been troubled for years and may not have the scale or ability to survive on its own. Time Warner explored merging AOL with Microsoft’s online operation two years ago and is now discussing a potential deal with Yahoo.

If there is one thing AOL executives do agree on, it is that the future of their business lies in selling advertising on AOL sites and those of other companies.

The company’s overall revenue has declined as it lost dial-up access subscribers. Its advertising revenue totaled $2.2 billion in 2007, up 18 percent from the previous year, but the pace of growth has slowed each quarter.

AOL will not meet its revenue goal for the first quarter this year, according to several of its senior executives, who also say it is unlikely to achieve full-year objectives. Advertisers say the company has fallen into a pattern of calling clients at the end of each quarter to offer last-minute price cuts on additional ads.

“The supply of advertising has increased so dramatically, I do think that it is putting pressure on the pricing in the industry,” said Ms. Clarizio, who on Monday was named president of Platform A. “How couldn’t it?”

Ms. Clarizio most recently was the president of Advertising.com, the largest ad network at AOL and the first one it acquired, in 2004. In an interview Tuesday, she said she was taking quick action to turn things around.

For instance, she told AOL’s many ad sales teams that they would be merged into one. About 1,600 people work for Platform A; Ms. Clarizio declined to say if there would be any layoffs.

Morale may be an issue for some time. In November, after AOL laid off 2,000 employees, Mr. Falco and Ron Grant, AOL’s chief operating officer, traveled among the companies’ offices and met with employees. At Advertising.com’s headquarters in Baltimore, the session grew heated when the executives told them to avoid selling ads to customers who had been paying higher rates to AOL’s own sales force.

Ms. Clarizio, described by her colleagues as a “mother hen” to Advertising.com, said she had forcefully argued for the view of her sales staff.

Soon afterward, Dave Morgan, a founder of Tacoda who had stayed on at AOL, tried to persuade Time Warner to sell Advertising.com in order to avoid conflicts between the fast-growing network and the rest of the company, according to a senior AOL executive, who was given anonymity to disclose details about internal matters. Mr. Morgan has recently left AOL.

Ms. Clarizio had opposed buying Tacoda, saying that Advertising.com could build its own ad customization technology, the senior executive said. The leadership of other companies that AOL had acquired — like the ad network Quigo — chose not to join AOL, so by the end of last year, a schism emerged between the people from Advertising.com and those from Tacoda.

This week, AOL’s leadership decided to change course. Mr. Falco said in an interview that he had fired Mr. Viebranz because did not move quickly enough to blend AOL’s acquisitions and energize the sales force.

“What is important to me is to have somebody in that job integrate and bring together Platform A,” Mr. Falco said. “I need somebody to do it fast enough. The marketplace was not going to wait for us.”

Mr. Viebranz declined to comment. Kathleen Kayse, who oversaw ad sales for Platform A and left AOL early in February, also declined to comment.

Some executives familiar with AOL’s plans see progress. “They’re playing catch up, but they’re trying to do the right thing,” said Henry Vogel, former chief revenue officer at Quigo.
362 2008-03-12 Dina Matos McGreevey, the estranged wife of James E. McGreevey, who resigned as the governor of New Jersey in 2004 after admitting to an extramarital homosexual affair, has been much in demand these last two days.

On a different “Today” panel on Tuesday, called “Secret Lives: Does Power Equal Promiscuity?,” Ms. Matos McGreevey argued that blaming wives for their husbands’ infidelities was “like blaming a rape victim for being victimized.”

Daytime television does have a way of encouraging women to blame themselves or change themselves to hold on to their men. On yet another “Today” panel, this one labeled “Refresh Your Romance,” an expert advised viewers eager to rekindle their marriages to take erotic dance classes to “unleash the inner vixen.”

In the blur of Internet blogging, 24-hour cable news and DVR on-demand television, it’s easy to lose track of how divided the sexes are on television. It takes a juicy political sex scandal to underscore the difference.

“Morning Joe” is an early MSNBC program with a late-night, locker-room atmosphere: A lead-in to the Spitzer scandal showed David Letterman’s monologue on Monday night. (“Holy cow,” Mr. Letterman said. “We can’t get bin Laden, but we got Spitzer.”) On Tuesday morning Hendrik Hertzberg, a writer for The New Yorker, told the host, Joe Scarborough, that Mr. Spitzer should not be condemned as a hypocrite. “If he had been caught taking from the public till or bilking the government, that would have been hypocritical,” Mr. Hertzberg said. “This is just, this is sad.”

Alan M. Dershowitz, who taught Mr. Spitzer at Harvard Law School, went so far as to blame American Puritanism first. “Big deal, married man goes to prostitute,” Mr. Dershowitz said on MSNBC on Monday. “In Europe this wouldn’t even make the back pages of the newspaper.” (Either Mr. Dershowitz doesn’t travel much or he reads his newspapers back to front.)

Viewers tend to project their own experiences on famous people caught in a crisis, and politicians and television commentators are not immune from the habit. Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, who endured much criticism for not wearing a seat belt during a near-fatal crash of his speeding Chevrolet Suburban, also defended Mr. Spitzer, perhaps unconsciously referring to his predicament as “these kinds of personal car crashes.”

And some of the best-known faces on cable television have weathered highly public peccadilloes of their own. Mike Barnicle, on MSNBC, left The Boston Globe in 1998 under charges of plagiarism and suspicion of having fabricated material for a column. The conservative columnist and former government official William J. Bennett, a political analyst for CNN, was embarrassed by revelations about excessive gambling. Bill O’Reilly of Fox News settled a sexual-harassment suit filed by his producer.

The female hosts on “The View” have also had their share of tabloid stories, but most of those scandals followed catfights behind the scenes, not lapses in morality or professional probity. Certainly there were no tears shed for Mr. Spitzer on Tuesday on “The View,” where for once all five women agreed emphatically on almost everything about the scandal.

“Aren’t you sick of men?” Joy Behar, one of the hosts, said. “Viagra is destroying our government.”
363 2008-03-12 “I’m always thinking about it,” Cassius (Mr. Strathairn) says of his last meetings with Caesar. “Trying to figure it out. What it means. Or meant. What it says about me.”

Mr. Strathairn delivers these lines with a weary self-reproach that suffuses all the performances. As directed by Mr. Nelson, this production is most persuasive in summoning a visceral sense of the pain in its characters’ passivity.

The script and the cast give precisely individualized existence to the forms this suffering takes in different characters, who also include Porcia (the commandingly serene Gloria Reuben), Brutus’s wife; Servilia (Maria Tucci), his worldly and wily mother; and Syrus, the actor and professional house guest (the excellent young Jeremy Strong, late of David Ives’s “New Jerusalem,” filling in for Joe Grifasi in the performance I attended).

“Conversations in Tusculum” establishes these characters and their histories with compelling detail in its first act. Given the automatic weightiness of names like Brutus and Cicero, there’s surprisingly little of the self-conscious stiffness endemic in sword-and-sandals dramas. (Thomas Lynch’s set has an appropriately cloister-ish austerity, while Susan Hilferty’s costumes look rather like what might be worn at a villa in Chekhov’s Russia.)

The play is also remarkably vivid in conjuring up the character of Caesar, as he exists through the prisms of the obsessed minds of those who feel they have become his humiliated slaves. In the opening scene Mr. Quinn and Mr. Strathairn recall their most recent encounters with Caesar, as if channeling vicious dybbuks they cannot expel from their systems.

But ultimately the play lacks dramatic momentum. Like its characters, it repeats itself at length. After a point, the game of finding parallels between then and now feels too easy. (The mention of Caesar’s giving up drinking draws knowing laughs; so do descriptions of the real-estate-consuming rich.)

More crucially, the vacillations of Brutus, the play’s true protagonist, feel more horizontal than vertical; they never build. He is, as described by another character, “younger than we sometimes think.”

And his aura of adolescent capriciousness, underscored by Mr. Quinn’s Brando-esque explosiveness, makes his ultimate decision to take arms against Caesar seem less a hard-won conviction than just another swing of an emotional pendulum. (He inevitably suffers in comparison with the Brutus of Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar.”)

It’s fun throughout, though, to watch this mighty cast give different voice, in different styles, to characters who are all feeling much the same. Mr. Dennehy’s Cicero, the elder statesman and celebrated orator whose beloved daughter has recently died, keeps massaging his expansive brow with his large hands, as if trying to knead the sorrow out of his system. (This will be familiar to anyone who saw Mr. Dennehy’s Tony-winning performance in “Death of a Salesman,” but it works beautifully here too.)

Mr. Strathairn’s Cassius, whose wife has been appropriated as a plaything by Caesar, seems to grow more emaciated before your eyes, as if his swallowed anger had become a fast-acting cancer. By contrast, the estimable Ms. Tucci’s calculating Servilia has the wry, accepting manner of a political player who has seen it all.

“Things will get better,” she says. “They go in cycles. We just have to not panic.”

This spirit of resignation is held in contempt by most of the other characters, even as they admit their own inadequacy in burying their heads in their writing and philosophical debates. Theater, as incarnated by Syrus, is redeemed in the final scene, when it becomes a call to action. “Conversations in Tusculum,” though, is most effective as a deeply felt study of the hopelessness that comes with inaction.

Written and directed by Richard Nelson; sets by Thomas Lynch; costumes by Susan Hilferty; lighting by Jennifer Tipton; original music and sound by John Gromada; associate artistic director, Mandy Hackett; associate producer, Jenny Gersten; director of production, Ruth E. Sternberg. Presented by the Public Theater, Oskar Eustis, artistic director; Mara Manus, executive director. At the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 967-7555. Through March 30. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.

WITH: Brian Dennehy (Cicero), Jeremy Strong, filling in for Joe Grifasi (Syrus), Aidan Quinn (Brutus), Gloria Reuben (Porcia), David Strathairn (Cassius) and Maria Tucci (Servilia).
364 2008-03-12 RIPOSANU--Marguerite Sisca, died peacefully at her home on March 9, 2008. She was predeceased by her husband Pamfil Riposanu in 1998. Marguerite Riposanu was a graduate of Port Chester High School and the College of New Rochelle where she received...
365 2008-03-12 PEPPERMAN--Mary (nee Novik), age 92 of Brooklyn NY, Manhattan, Westhampton Beach, NY and Danville, CA passed away on March 9, 2008, after a brief illness. Mary is survived by a daughter, Judith Pepperman Miller, and son-in-law David Miller of Conc...
366 2008-03-12 EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES The Federal Reserve announced that it would step up its lending to ease the deepening crisis in the credit markets.       The stock market posted its biggest one-day gain in five years after officials at the central bank int...
367 2008-03-13 Joanne Bradford, the Microsoft executive in charged of running the company's MSN portal, has quit to join a Los Angeles advertising company....
368 2008-03-13 As momentous as Billy Crystal's at-bat was for him, Major League Baseball and the Pirates could have made a bigger splash of it....
369 2008-03-13 Electronic Arts finally took the plunge. On Thursday, the video-game maker announced a "hostile" tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Take-Two Interactive, the company behind the "Grand Theft Auto" series. The key to analyzing this te...
370 2008-03-13 Halcyon Asset Management said Thursday that it plans to go public by merging with a blank-check company in a deal that values the firm at $974 million. The move comes despite a tough time in the credit markets, which have rocked many hedge funds. ...
371 2008-03-13 This morning in Times Square a small crowd gathered in the cool shadow of ABC Studios to watch Michael Strahan, defensive end for the Super Bowl champion New York Giants, drive a car....
372 2008-03-13 Drake Management, a New York based-firm started by former BlackRock money managers, told investors on Wednesday it is considering liquidating all three of its hedge funds, including its largest, the $3 billion Global Opportunities fund. Drake said...
373 2008-03-13 The latest in a spate of deals for virtualization start-ups is Microsoft's acquisition of Kidaro, an Israeli developer of desktop virtualization software for enterprises. According to The Deal.com, Microsoft ponied up $100 million for the venture-...
374 2008-03-13 Blue River Asset Management's main municipal-bond hedge fund, which reportedly previously held more than $1 billion in assets, is liquidating after a harsh sell-off in the bond market, Reuters said. Blue River, however, recently raised about $110 ...
375 2008-03-13 As Visa prepares its $19 billion initial public offering for next week, Washington is mulling a move that could put a significant dent in the rosy outlook of the offering, The New York Post reported. The newspaper said that legislators in the Hous...
376 2008-03-13 Jumping into the are-we-aren't-we-in-a-recession debate, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, James Dimon, told a group of economists in Washington on Wednesday that the United States is likely in recession already and the housing market is expected ...
377 2008-03-13 Liechtenstein has issued an international arrest warrant for a man suspected of selling stolen banking data to German authorities that formed the basis of a vast tax evasion scandal. In a notice posted on the police Web site Tuesday, the authoriti...
378 2008-03-13 It takes a little while to acclimate to South by Southwest, which may be why the convention uses Wednesday to ease in. Major panels don’t start until tomorrow, and a few clubs haven’t joined the six-bands-a-night showcase schedule. So there ar...
379 2008-03-13 Faced with that dilemma, the panel voted 13 to 1 that the drugs remain available for use by many patients who suffer anemia because of the chemotherapy they receive to treat cancer.

However, the committee then voted 9 to 5 that the drugs should not be used by patients with either breast cancer or head and neck cancer because of evidence that the drugs’ risks are greatest for those cancers.

The committee also voted 11 to 2, with 1 abstention, to recommend avoiding use of the drug by patients being treated with the intent to cure their cancers. The definition of that category is vague, but it generally refers to patients with early-stage cancer who are undergoing chemotherapy after surgical removal of a tumor, in which the doctors hope the cancer has been eliminated.

The F.D.A. itself is expected to revise the labels of the drugs in consultation with the manufacturers. The agency does not have to adhere to the recommendations of its advisory committees, although it usually does.

Amgen’s shares rose during the meeting and peaked at $48.55 after the committee voted against the prohibition for all cancer use. But then the stock started falling as the committee voted for the other restrictions. Still, the stock closed at $47.18, up nearly 5 percent for the day.

Shares of Johnson & Johnson, which is not as reliant on the drugs, closed up 26 cents, to $62.81.

Sales of the anemia drugs have already been plummeting because of safety concerns and payment restrictions by Medicare and other insurers. Sales of Aranesp fell 12 percent, to $3.6 billion, in 2007, down from $4.1 billion the year before. In the fourth quarter alone, the drop was 25 percent. The sales slump has forced Amgen to cut its work force.

Even with the decline, Aranesp was still a significant part of Amgen’s total 2007 revenue of $14.8 billion.

Amgen has said that $1.55 billion of its Aranesp sales last year were for cancer use in the United States and an additional $550 million for cancer use in other countries. Most of the rest of the use was to treat anemia stemming from kidney disease.

The use of the drugs on kidney patients was not the subject of Thursday’s meeting. Amgen’s other anemia drug, Epogen, is primarily used for kidney dialysis patients.

Johnson & Johnson had sales of $2.9 billion last year for Procrit, an anemia drug it makes under license from Amgen. Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, which made a joint presentation to the committee, argued strenuously that the drugs should remain available because they help chemotherapy patients avoid blood transfusions, which carry their own risks of infections and other side effects. The risk of contracting AIDS or hepatitis from a transfusion has declined significantly in recent years, they said, but other, as yet unknown, pathogens might arise.

“The known risks of blood transfusions are less today than yesterday,” Dr. William Hait, a Johnson & Johnson executive, told the panel. “We do not know if that will be true tomorrow.”

The companies proposed some new changes in the drugs’ labeling that would reduce their use somewhat, but less than if the drugs were barred completely for certain cancers.

One change proposed by the companies was that physicians be advised to wait longer before starting use of the drugs. The label would say that anemia treatment should not start until a patient’s hemoglobin — the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells — drop to 10 grams per deciliter of blood. Now physicians often start when hemoglobin drops below 11.

The companies also proposed that use of the anemia drugs be halted if patients did not respond to them. And they proposed steps to better inform patients of the risk.

But Dr. Vinni Juneja, an F.D.A. official, said in his presentation that the drugs did not totally eliminate the need for transfusions but only reduced them by about 50 percent. So many patients are being exposed to the possible risks of the drugs while only some patients avoid the transfusions, he said.

The advisory panel meeting was the third the F.D.A. has convened on the risks the anemia drugs may pose to cancer patients. The first was in 2004 and the second last May.

Thursday’s meeting was prompted by two new clinical trials, one for patients with breast cancer and the other for cervical cancer, which suggested risks. But the excess death rate among those who received the anemia drugs in those trials was not statistically significant.

That led one panel member, Dr. Michael Perry of the University of Missouri, to wonder why the F.D.A. was so concerned, because the agency usually ignores data that is not statistically significant.

“I want to make sure that everyone’s tried by the same judge and the same jury,” Dr. Perry said.

F.D.A. officials said they have a lower threshold for concern on safety signals than for data trying to prove a drug works.
380 2008-03-13 Chile’s National Energy Commission said Argentina had an agreement to provide Chile with “sufficient” natural gas so its supply for commercial and residential use “would be uninterrupted, particularly during the winter months.” Last winter, Argentina, facing an energy crisis, cut its gas supply to Chile, straining the two countries’ relations.
381 2008-03-13 An influential congressman is expected to offer a plan on Thursday that would provide federal backing to hundreds of thousands of home loans.

The proposal would significantly expand an effort already under way to refinance onerous subprime mortgages with loans that are guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration. The plan by the congressman, Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, would be more aggressive in addressing delinquent loans.

As the financial markets and the economy have weakened, policy makers and industry officials have turned their attention to rising mortgage defaults. At the end of last year, 7.86 percent of all home loans were delinquent or in foreclosure, the highest that rate has been since 1979, the earliest year with data available.

Like other proposals floated by banks and regulators, Mr. Frank’s plan would have mortgage companies write down the value of loans to their current market price before they are refinanced and given F.H.A. backing. Participation would be voluntary, however.

Mr. Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, offered a general outline of his plan at the American Bankers Association on Wednesday in Washington. He is expected to file the legislation on Thursday.
382 2008-03-13 TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Five Cuban soccer players were missing Tuesday night after the under-23 team played against the United States, a team official said Wednesday.

The missing men had not reported to the authorities.

Zachary Mann, a spokesman for Customs and Border Protection, said it was unlikely the agency would learn the men’s whereabouts until they come forward. The players likely would be granted political protection under a United States policy that allows Cubans who reach American soil to obtain asylum.

The Cuban team is playing in regional qualifying games for the Beijing Olympics this August.

A Concacaf spokesman declined comment, saying that the situation was under review.

Team officials did not identify the five missing players, but they are believed to be: José Manuel Miranda, Erlys García Baro, Yenier Bermúdez, Yordany Alvarez and Loanni Prieto.

The Tampa police spokeswoman Andrea Davis said the agency had not received missing persons reports from the team, and officers were not called to the team’s hotel to investigate.
383 2008-03-13 ORLANDO, Fla. — The ever-shifting fortunes of golf’s most unconventional player took another nosedive Wednesday when John Daly missed his pro-am tee time and was kicked out of the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill.

It was the second blow of the morning for Daly, 41, who had awakened to find out from news media reports that he had been fired by his swing coach, Butch Harmon.

“Hasn’t been a good day,” Daly told The Associated Press. “This is the last thing I needed in my life. I feel like I let Arnold down.”

Daly told The A.P. he had requested a morning start for the pro-am, then called Tuesday to ask about his tee time. He said a woman in the tournament office told him 9:47 a.m., which instead was his first-round starting time.

“I didn’t even know that was my Thursday tee time,” Daly said. “I should have looked into it. It stinks for me. I want to do anything I can for the tournament as a sponsor exemption. I wanted to meet the people I was playing with in the pro-am. I love Arnold Palmer to death. I called and talked to him and apologized.
384 2008-03-13 Even before he officially becomes the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain is facing a general election assault from organized labor.

On Tuesday, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced the start of a campaign attacking Senator McCain on economic issues, part of a $53.4 million grass-roots mobilization effort.

The anti-McCain effort will include leafleting at workplaces, knocking on doors, direct mail, phone banking and a Web site, mccainrevealed.org. Union activists also plan to confront Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, at his appearances in the coming months.

“Our economy is in crisis after years of failed Bush administration policies that Senator McCain supports and has adopted as his own,” Karen Ackerman, the labor federation’s political director said in a statement. “Senator McCain’s record shows he’s in lockstep with President Bush on economic issues.”

The campaign will encompass 23 states, but the union, which has not endorsed a candidate in the Democratic primaries and caucuses, listed Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, all key battleground states, as its top priorities.

The Republican National Committee put out a statement calling on Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, who are still tussling for the Democratic nomination, to reject the attacks.

“Considering Senators Obama and Clinton’s frequent denunciations of special interests, they must reject the unions’ campaign against Senator McCain,” said Alex Conant, the committee’s press secretary.
385 2008-03-13 Federal officials have indicated that they are likely to close the Pacific salmon fishery from northern Oregon to the Mexican border because of the collapse of crucial stocks in California’s major watershed.

That would be the most extensive closing on the West Coast since the federal government started regulating fisheries.

“By far the biggest,” said Dave Bitts, a commercial fisherman from Eureka, Calif., who is at a weeklong meeting of the Pacific Coast Fisheries Management Council in Sacramento.

“The Central Valley fall Chinook salmon are in the worst condition since records began to be kept,” Robert Lohn, regional administrator for the National Marine Fisheries Service in Portland, Ore., said Wednesday in an interview. “This is the largest collapse of salmon stocks in 40 years.”

Although the Washington and Alaska fisheries are not affected, the California and Oregon ones produce “some of the most valuable fish, ones that are prized from West Coast seaports all the way to East Coast restaurants,” Mr. Lohn said.
386 2008-03-13 The euphoria on Wall Street over a $200 billion relief plan from the Federal Reserve turned to caution Wednesday, leading stocks to retreat one day after their biggest rally in more than five years.

Investors largely regard the plan that the Fed announced Tuesday — lending Treasuries in exchange for debt tied to mortgages — as an innovative means of bringing relief to the tight credit markets. The investors, however, are also hesitant to pour more money into stocks without signs that the decision will help turn around the economy, particularly with data on retail sales and consumer prices scheduled to arrive this week.

“Does it address the main concern, and that’s weaker housing? That has not been resolved just yet,” said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company. “If we are in the midst of a recession, and only a couple months into the recession, we might need a couple more months to plod our way through this.”

After shooting higher Tuesday, most bank stocks declined Wednesday. Even if the credit markets ease up a bit, banks and other lenders still face a deteriorating climate for consumer credit, and many are low on cash.

“We’re still in a great deal of flux here. The fact that the Fed has gone from lender of last resort to lender of first resort worries me,” said John O’Donoghue, co-head of equities at Cowen & Company.
387 2008-03-13 Liechtenstein has harshly protested Germany’s tactics, and the arrest warrant may deepen the rift between the countries.

Officials of Liechtenstein, a postage-stamp Alpine principality, have defended its tradition of banking secrecy, while German officials complain that it has built a lucrative business offering wealthy Germans a way to avoid paying taxes at home.

The investigation, which initially involved only Germans, has spread to include people from the United States, Britain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden.

Mr. Kieber’s whereabouts are not known, though he is thought to be living in Australia, according to newspaper reports. The German newsmagazine Focus reported last week that Mr. Kieber told the German intelligence service, the BND, that he worried that his life was in danger.

The Liechtenstein police requested information on Mr. Kieber’s whereabouts. Liechtenstein also said it would demand that he be extradited if he were arrested outside the principality.

Officials in Liechtenstein say Mr. Kieber worked for a subsidiary of LGT, a bank owned by the principality’s royal family. It specialized in creating foundations that allow foreigners to transfer assets to Liechtenstein without reporting capital gains to their own tax authorities.

The CD-ROM purchased by Germany has information on 1,400 clients, 600 of whom are German, according to officials. More than 150 people have turned themselves in after the highly visible arrest last month of the chief executive of the German postal service, Klaus Zumwinkel.

In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service is investigating more than 100 American taxpayers on suspicion that they may have used Liechtenstein as a tax haven. Last year, the I.R.S. said, an informant, whom it did not identify, approached the agency with information about clients of LGT.

Liechtenstein is under pressure from many sides, notably the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, to make its banks more transparent so they are not used as tax havens.

But its dispute with Germany has been the most rancorous, even spilling into the cultural realm.

Crown Prince Alois of Liechtenstein recently canceled a loan of art from his family’s collection to a museum in Munich.
388 2008-03-13 If you were clever enough to snap up a house by Louis Kahn, one of the most revered architects of the 20th century, in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia in 1981, as Robert Gallagher, a dentist, and his wife, Lynn, did, it was $152,500. It had just one bedroom, but its lineage was awfully smart: it had been built between 1959 and 1961 for Margaret Esherick, a relative of the sculptor Wharton Esherick, who gave the home its name, Esherick House. By 2004 the assessed value of the home, according to 2006 county tax rolls, was $303,000. But what do bureaucrats know of beauty? On May 18, the Wright auction house in Chicago, which specializes in 20th-century art and design, will be offering Esherick House in its Important Design sale. Richard Wright, the firm’s president, estimates that it will bring $2 million to $3 million. “Louis Kahn only did three major architectural homes in his career,” Mr. Wright said. “Joe Rosa, the curator of the architectural department at the Art Institute of Chicago, who wrote a book on Louis Kahn, feels that it is his best residential structure. He articulates his mature style in the monumentality of the facade, in the treatment of the windows, and then the warm and human quality in the interior.”

Could Mr. Wright explain the difference between the assessed value and the expected price?

“I had the house appraised, and not factoring in historical value, we are well above what that tax roll shows,” Mr. Wright said. “It’s also important to understand the premise of the auction, that we believe this is a house of real signature property, of substantial historical importance — i.e., like a work of art — so the local value of the real estate is never going to be the true picture. I think if it were just a home on that site, it would just be a million dollars. The point is, it’s worth $2 million because it’s an architectural gem by Louis Kahn.” Information: wright20.com.
389 2008-03-13 A crazy-eyed, burr-covered retriever emerged. We would have mistaken the dog for the ghost of Otto’s youth if not for its white, old man’s muzzle.

The dog’s owner appeared on the trail a few seconds later.

“How old is he?” my husband asked, absently picking a burr from behind the dog’s ear.

“He’s in great shape,” my husband said.

“He used to be barely able to walk,” the owner said.

What helped relieve the dog’s arthritis and joint pain? Acupuncture, the owner said.

We were skeptical. “Otto would pull out the needles with his teeth,” my husband replied.

We watched his dog grab a 10-foot branch at the side of the trail and wave it dangerously, like a scimitar. Just like Otto used to.

“Any minute now, he’ll put out someone’s eye with that sharp tip,” I said wistfully.

The next morning, I Googled “veterinary acupuncture.” That is how I learned that this version of the ancient Chinese therapy that calls for inserting needles into specific locations on pets is gaining steam, even outside Northern California.

At Dogster.com, the online social network for pets that Otto joined last fall, I found a discussion on “Doggie Acupuncture: To Do or Not to Do?” A canine member named Bo had “asked” last month about whether he should try acupuncture. More than a dozen members described positive experiences for “severe breathing problems” and “spay incontinence,” including one case involving an arthritic dog named Sabrina who “doesn’t really enjoy getting the needles in, but she always feels so much better afterward.”

Maybe acupuncture was worth a try? Certainly a growing number of veterinarians think so.

“It should be considered in certain conditions, especially those that involve chronic pain,” said Vikki Weber, the executive director of the International Veterinary Acupuncture Society, which is based in Colorado and began sponsoring training in 1974.

Both Ms. Weber’s group and the American Academy of Veterinary Acupuncture, a trade association, have Web sites (ivas.org and aava.org, respectively) with searchable databases that list hundreds of trained veterinary acupuncturists worldwide.

The American Veterinary Medical Association, an organization that represents 76,000 veterinarians nationwide, does not keep track of how many of its members practice acupuncture and does not recognize acupuncture as a specialty.

“But we recognize the interest in and use of alternative modalities like acupuncture,” said Dr. Craig Smith, a spokesman for the association.

While no definitive studies prove the treatment’s effectiveness, Dr. Smith said, he recommended that pet owners who are interested in the procedure seek the advice of their veterinarians.

I was too sheepish to ask Otto’s vet. I knew from previous conversations that she was ambivalent about acupuncture; she had once had an acupuncturist working under her supervision but discontinued the practice after deciding that the physical benefits, if any, were incremental and possibly the result of a placebo effect.

But their owners can, she retorted.

So in the end, the way I found an acupuncturist for Otto was though more Googling, which revealed Daphne Livoni, a licensed acupuncturist who makes house calls. She also practices under the supervision of veterinarians at three animal hospitals.

The next week, Ms. Livoni arrived for Otto’s appointment with a clipboard and a box of sterile, disposable needles.

Otto, who loves visitors, preened while she examined him to determine his tongue color (not pink enough) and the condition of his elbow joints (more swollen on the front legs).

Then, as Ms. Livoni gently inserted pairs of super-fine needles along both sides of his spine and in his hips and elbows, Otto appeared not to really notice. Instead, he sniffed her needle box to see if it held food.

Then, after unsuccessfully trying to compel her to give him a dog treat, he sighed and lay on the floor — one leg touching hers and another touching mine to reassure us he wasn’t playing favorites — and remained calm for the rest of the 30-minute session.

The treatment cost $120. Ms. Livoni suggested follow-up appointments, administered on a weekly or biweekly basis depending on how well Otto appeared to respond. She also told me to report any changes in his behavior or energy level.

Did the needles have an effect? I couldn’t tell. My husband said no. The next day, Otto still seemed pretty stiff.

The next week, after the second treatment? Same. The third? Ditto. The fourth? I started to feel discouraged.

But at the fifth session, Ms. Livoni said Otto’s elbows were less swollen, his tongue was pink (“like a young healthy dog”) and his ears needed cleaning. As she removed the needles, she suggested I take him to his favorite trail and let him walk.

The next day, I pulled the station wagon up to the trail head, opened the back and watched in amazement as Otto sprang out and ran crazily toward the creek. It was like watching a dog version of the movie “Cocoon.”

He scrabbled down the bank and belly-flopped into the water. Within minutes, he was standing sure-footed on slippery rocks, brandishing a dangerously big stick.

The day after, he didn’t even limp. At the dog park, he stole tennis balls from less motivated dogs and dropped them, slobbery, at my feet. For the first time in months, he wanted to fetch.

Was it the acupuncture? Or a coincidence? Seeking a reality check, I took him to the vet — ostensibly to have his ears cleaned.

“Otto, you look so relaxed and happy,” the vet said as he leapt to his feet when she entered the room.

I told her everything. “Could the acupuncture be the reason he’s better?” I asked.

“Maybe,” she said. But after looking at his medical chart, she said that the last two times she had seen him — after he had taken prednisone in November and then, again, for a checkup in December — his mobility had been improving. It was possible his current state of health was merely the result of gradual amelioration that I hadn’t noticed till now.

Maybe, she said. On the other hand, she added, it wasn’t necessarily bad if my hopes that Otto was getting better had led to regular exercise that had strengthened his muscles. “One good thing about acupuncture is that I’ve never seen it hurt a dog,” she said, adding that the only major downside was the cost.

Then she handed Otto a dog treat. As he leapt for it and I worried he might accidentally rip off her finger in his excitement, I realized with relief that it’s only a matter of time before he throws up on someone’s feet again.
390 2008-03-13 He said he was puzzled at how, after more than a year of campaigning, race and sex are at the forefront as never before.

“I don’t want to deny the role of race and gender in our society,” he said. “They’re there, and they’re powerful. But I don’t think it’s productive.”

Yet race, as well as sex, have been unavoidable subtexts of the Democratic campaign since the two candidates began seeking to be the first African-American or the first woman to lead a party’s presidential ticket. In the primaries and caucuses this winter, too, Mrs. Clinton has enjoyed substantial support from women, while Mr. Obama has increasingly drawn overwhelming votes from blacks.

The Tuesday primary in Mississippi, a state where the electorate has historically been racially polarized, generated one of the most divided votes. Mrs. Clinton received 8 percent of the black vote, and Mr. Obama received 26 percent of the white vote, according to exit polls by Edison/Mitofsky for The Associated Press and television networks.

Mrs. Clinton’s advisers said Wednesday that they were concerned about her standing among blacks, once a core constituency for her and her husband, but that they also believed that black support for Mr. Obama was a foregone conclusion at this point.

They said they were wrestling with ways to make inroads with blacks in Pennsylvania, which holds the next primary, on April 22.

Mrs. Clinton’s reluctance to sideline Ms. Ferraro, who made her comments last week to The Daily Breeze in Torrance, Calif., left the specter of race hanging over the Democratic contest.

That decision drew a sharp rebuke on Wednesday from the Rev. Al Sharpton, the black political leader in New York and a former presidential candidate, who questioned whether Mrs. Clinton’s campaign was keeping the issue alive as a way to win white votes in Pennsylvania.

In addition to Ms. Ferraro’s remark, Mr. Sharpton cited Mrs. Clinton’s decision not to fire her top ally in Pennsylvania, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, for saying in February that some white voters there were “probably not ready to vote for an African-American candidate.”

“When you hear the lack of total denunciation of Ferraro, when you hear Rendell saying there are whites who will never vote for a black, one has to wonder if the Clinton campaign has a Pennsylvania strategy to appeal to voters on race,” Mr. Sharpton said in an interview. “I would hope Mrs. Clinton would make it clear that she is not doing that.”

Mr. Sharpton ran against Ms. Ferraro in 1992 in New York in a primary for a Senate seat.

Howard Wolfson, the Clinton campaign’s communications director, said in response: “She has made it clear. She makes it clear all the time.”

From virtually the start of the contest between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama in January 2007, they have sought to move beyond race and sex, acknowledging that their possible nominations would be historic, yet saying they were running on their qualifications.

At the same time, each has used the issue against the other. Mr. Obama’s advisers suggested that Mrs. Clinton was playing the sex card last fall after a brutal debate where several male contenders criticized her.

Mrs. Clinton’s advisers and former President Bill Clinton suggested that black candidates like Mr. Obama had done well in South Carolina because of support among African-Americans there.

Although Mr. Obama did not directly call on Ms. Ferraro to quit the campaign finance committee, his aides worked to keep the issue alive. They set up a conference call with reporters to draw attention to the comment.

On Wednesday, Mr. Obama called the remark wrongheaded but said he did not believe that Ms. Ferraro intended it to be racist.

“The Clinton campaign has talked more during the course of the last few months about what groups are supporting her and what groups are supporting me and trying to make a case that the reason she should be the nominee is that there are a set of voters that Obama might not get,” he said. “And that seems to track in a certain racial demographic.”

Mr. Obama’s advisers noted that his support among whites in Mississippi increased, to a small degree, over that in South Carolina, when some Democrats had feared that Mr. Obama could be called a candidate who appealed just to black voters.

Race has been a defining feature of the primary contests. Beyond Mississippi, Mrs. Clinton was backed by 5 percent of black voters in Illinois, Mr. Obama’s home state; 8 percent in Wisconsin, where black voters made up 8 percent of the Democratic primary vote; 9 percent in Delaware; 10 percent in Virginia; and 11 percent in Georgia, all states Mr. Obama won.

Mr. Obama’s 26 percent support among whites in Tuesday’s primary was one of his worst performances with this group.

He had previously been supported by 16 percent of white voters in Arkansas; 23 percent in Florida, where the candidates did not actively campaign; 24 percent in South Carolina, where John Edwards was still competing; and 25 percent in Alabama.
391 2008-03-13 TRAFFIC JAM Some technology experts worry that demand for Internet use could soon outpace network capacity.      PLANES GROUNDED Southwest Airlines took 38 planes out of service after finding a problem in its maintenance files. [C1.]...
392 2008-03-13 RIPOSANU--Marguerite Sisca, died peacefully at her home on March 9, 2008. She was predeceased by her husband Pamfil Riposanu in 1998. Marguerite Riposanu was a graduate of Port Chester High School and the College of New Rochelle where she received...
393 2008-03-14 Not since the near-collapse of Long Term Capital Management has Bear Stearns swung so low. In the minutes after Bear surprised Wall Street with the announcement of an emergency funding facility from J.P. Morgan and the Federal Reserve, its stock f...
394 2008-03-14 Bear Stearns said Friday that J.P. Morgan Chase had agreed to provide credit facilities for up to 28 days to help it deal with liquidity problems brought on by rumors of a cash crunch. The Federal Reserve will also have a hand in stabilizing Bear,...
395 2008-03-14 Selections from City Room reader comments this week on any topic other than Eliot Spitzer....
396 2008-03-14 In most ways Texas time is much slower than New York time. But not when it comes to the amazing musical assembly line here. Of the couple dozen bands I have seen in the last 24 hours, none have taken the stage more than eight minutes later than th...
397 2008-03-14 Worldwide Tibetan protests and violence in Lhasa, Tibet, pose a dilemma for the Chinese government.
398 2008-03-14 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
399 2008-03-14 Some random thoughts that came to me as I watched the second practice session at Melbourne, the opening round of the Formula One season....
400 2008-03-14 John McCain will expand his pursuit of campaign donations at a $1,000-a-plate lunch at the 18th century Spencer House in London....
401 2008-03-14 A new airport terminal worth a whole country, and an exchange-rate deal from an unlikely quarter....
402 2008-03-14 Campaigning in Pennsylvania today, John McCain also said the state would be hard for him to win in November....
403 2008-03-14 Richard Gere is no longer a wanted man in India....
404 2008-03-14 Microsoft plans to buy Rapt, plugging a hole in its suite of tools for Web publishers and advertisers, the software giant said Friday. Microsoft did not say what it would pay for the privately held San Francisco company. Rapt's software and consul...
405 2008-03-14 As we prepare to sweep away the grays of winter, our new Spring 2008 Design issue brings with it a kaleidoscope of color....
406 2008-03-14 Liz O. Baylen Anna Sheffield has been designing Bing Bang jewelry since 2002. The heavily tattooed Sheffield is known for her stark, sculptural and sometimes menacing designs. Sheffield has collaborated with Philip Lim and Marc Jacobs, making jewe...
407 2008-03-14 Bear Stearns has hired Darius Yuen from the French bank BNP Paribas to head its equity capital markets group in Asia, a spokeswoman told Reuters on Friday. The move comes as Bear Stearns looks to build up its Asia franchise as business in the Unit...
408 2008-03-14 Microsoft and Yahoo are holding informal merger discussions, marking a shift from the "radio silence" that previously existed between the two companies, according to several news reports. But CNet's News.com cited another source close to Microsoft...
409 2008-03-14 London's embattled hedge fund community is reportedly bracing for a spate of blow-ups in the wake of yesterday's $16 billion debt default by Carlyle Capital, the Dutch-listed affiliate of the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm. Numerous small ...
410 2008-03-14 Call him Citigroup's quarter-billion-dollar man. Vikram S. Pandit was paid nearly that much for taking over as chief executive of the embattled bank. Mr. Pandit received about $165.2 million in connection with the sale of Old Lane Partners, the in...
411 2008-03-14 Several private equity firms have dropped out of the bidding for Zagat Survey, the restaurant guide publiser, because of its high price demands, according to The Deal.com. Zagat, which is based in New York, produces about $5 million in cash flow a...
412 2008-03-14 "The Philosophy of Kissing" (found here): Dear Doctor Rude, I think I understand what a "platonic kiss" is, but could you explain to me the difference between the following kisses? 1. Aristotelian kiss 2. Hegelian kiss 3. Wittgensteinian kiss 4. G...
413 2008-03-14 The vice chairman of the International Securities Exchange, an options and stock exchange in New York, was charged with insider trading on Thursday, accused of leaking confidential information about the $2.8 billion takeover of the market last yea...
414 2008-03-14 Visa's blockbuster initial public offering is currently oversubscribed for its expected trading start on March 20, Scott Sweet of the research firm IPO Boutique told MarketWatch. Mr. Sweet told the publication that the I.P.O. is drawing "extreme d...
415 2008-03-14 Duration Capital, one of several hedge funds forced to sell hundreds of millions of dollars of municipal bonds when their bets went awry, is severing its links with its main prime broker, JPMorgan Chase, according to Reuters. The report said that ...
416 2008-03-14 More of your "late night' humor (send via the comment link below): Eighty thousand dollars for sex? And he's not even married to her? – Sam Single Economists are worried that if conditions do not improve, we might experience another Depression, ...
417 2008-03-14 Benchmark Capital and Salesforce.com's founder, Marc Benioff, have teamed up to invest $6.5 million in an online subscription software company, Zuora, which opened its Web site Thursday. Bencmark led the series A round of funding, which also inclu...
418 2008-03-14 Shares in LG Display, the flat-screen joint venture of LG Electronics and Royal Philips Electronics, fell nearly 9 percent Thursday after Philips sold about $1 billion worth of shares in the venture at the bottom of its pricing range. The shares w...
419 2008-03-14 A federal jury convicted five former executives of a health care finance company on Thursday in a $1.9 billion scheme to defraud investors. The officials worked for National Century Financial Enterprises, described as the nation's largest health c...
420 2008-03-14 What distinguishes “Horton Hears a Who!” from the other recent Dr. Seuss film adaptations —“How the Grinch Stole Christmas” and “The Cat in the Hat,” in case you need reminding — is that it is not one of the worst movies ever made. That’s faint praise, I know, and I’m even willing to go a bit further. There are aspects of “Horton,” directed by Jimmy Hayward and Steve Martino under the auspices of the 20th Century Fox animation unit responsible for the “Ice Age” movies, that are fresh and enjoyable, and bits that will gratify even a dogmatic and orthodox Seussian.

Unlike “The Grinch” and “The Cat,” “Horton” does not try to flesh out the good doctor’s graphical world by means of sets, prosthetic makeup and the other accouterments of live-action moviemaking. The animation is free, supple and brightly colored, and the crazy curves and angles that Seuss arranged on the page pop into three dimensions with rubbery energy and elastic wit. Who-ville in particular — that speck-borne town with its spindly machinery and gravity-defying architecture — is a wondrously kinetic place. And the Jungle of Nool, where Horton passes his time and fights for survival of the Whos, is appropriately lush, inviting and strange.

But if “Horton Hears a Who!” offers a showcase of the visual inventiveness and technical flair that characterizes Hollywood-financed children’s animation these days, it also shows some of the limitations of the computer-animation, talking-animal genre. The filmmakers revel in the imaginative freedom their image-making technology affords, and use it with self-confidence and flair, especially in action sequences. (A chase through a field of bright pink clover is lovely and thrilling.)

When it comes to telling the story, however, and drawing out the dimensions of the characters, this “Horton” supplements Dr. Seuss’s fable with pages from the battered, worn-out Hollywood family-film playbook.

All kinds of extraneous elements are added to the story. The Mayor of Who-ville, voiced by Steve Carell, is a beleaguered dad who has trouble communicating with his son, a moody emo boy named Jo-Jo. The problem with this father-son reconciliation narrative is not that it is un-Seussian — though such intergenerational melodrama almost never figured in Dr. Seuss’s work — but that it’s tired and sentimental. You don’t get the sense that the writers (Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul) actually believe in it. It just feels like something they know they’re supposed to do.
421 2008-03-14 Stocks took a sharp dive on Friday after an emergency bailout for Bear Stearns, the troubled investment bank, rocked Wall Street’s confidence in the fragile credit market.

Though the rumors that Bear was in trouble had swirled for days, the announcement that JPMorgan Chase and the Federal Reserve would step in to prop up the bank seemed to catch Wall Street by surprise. Faced with fresh evidence that even the nation’s biggest banks remain vulnerable to the credit crisis, investors scurried for safety, sending the Dow Jones industrials down more than 300 points by mid-afternoon.

The blue-chip index finished down 194 points, or 1.6 percent, at 11,951.09, erasing nearly all its gains for the week.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, a broader measure of the stock market, lost 2.1 percent after following a similar trajectory, and the Nasdaq composite index shed 2.2 percent.

Concerns about credit have played havoc with the markets in recent weeks, leading the Dow to three triple-digit sell-offs in the last week alone. Market watchers are worried that banks will be less willing to lend to businesses, consumers, and other financial institutions, blocking up the bloodstream of the nation’s economy.
422 2008-03-14 Instead, the Labor Department report showed price declines across a broad range of consumer products, including clothing, personal computers and automobiles. The easing came despite a record-low dollar and a rise in the price of imports.

But the biggest surprise was a 2 percent dip in the price of gasoline, which raised red flags for more than a few economists.

“As everybody knows, gasoline prices are up pretty substantially,” said Richard Moody, chief economist at Mission Residential in Austin, Tex. Crude oil passed its inflation-adjusted record last week after a temporary lull.

Prices are likely to rise again this month, said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at the research firm IdeaGlobal. The March report “will capture the extraordinary surge in oil, food, and commodity prices that we’ve seen over the last few weeks,” he said. “This quite unexpected gift will be completely reversed.”

Lower inflation may open the door for the Fed to lower interest rates more aggressively at its next scheduled meeting, on Tuesday. Rate cuts promote growth but push prices higher, and the Fed has struggled to balance its efforts to stave off a recession with the brisk pace of inflation. “They’re fighting a two headed monster right now,” Mr. Moody said.

And for the year, inflation is still running high. Compared with a year ago, consumer prices were up 4 percent in February, and the core index rose 2.3 percent, higher than the Fed’s comfort level.

Consumers are also facing steep costs for the products they need most. The cost of food and beverages remained elevated, ticking up 0.4 percent last month after a 0.7 percent rise in January. Over the last 12 months, the cost of food has risen 4.6 percent.

That has contributed to a wave of glum sentiment. Consumer confidence has fallen this month, though not as much as some economists had feared. An index by Reuters and the University of Michigan dropped to 70.5 in March from 70.8 in February.

More optimistic economists predict inflation will taper off over the next few months, as economic problems weigh on consumers’ ability to spend. That would lower incentives for businesses to raise prices, keeping inflation in check.
423 2008-03-14 President Boris Tadic dissolved Parliament and called for new elections on May 11. The coalition government collapsed over the weekend in a disagreement between the pro-Western Mr. Tadic and the nationalist prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, over pursuit of membership in the European Union, which supported Kosovo’s declaration of independence. But they have agreed to put the matter to the equally polarized voters.
424 2008-03-14 Vikram S. Pandit was paid nearly that much for taking over as chief executive of the embattled bank. Mr. Pandit received about $165.2 million in connection with the sale of Old Lane Partners, the investment firm Citigroup bought last April for as much as $800 million to lure him to the company. He received an additional $2.7 million in annual pay in the roughly six months he led Citigroup’s investment bank and alternative investments group.

And in January, Mr. Pandit was given a sign-on grant of stock and performance-based options worth over $48 million, though the options currently no cash value. That brings the total to at least $216 million.

Details of Mr. Pandit’s pay and that of several other top executives were found in Citigroup’s proxy statement, released Thursday. Unlike other Wall Street firms that withheld bonuses for their senior management teams, Citigroup gave at least six executives $1 million or more.

Charles O. Prince III, who abruptly resigned as chief executive in November, was given a $10.4 million bonus when he left.

In theory, Mr. Pandit and three other top executives received only their salary in 2007 because of Citigroup’s poor performance — shares tumbled 47 percent, and the bank had more than $20 billion in write-offs. The three were Lewis B. Kaden, a vice chairman to whom the bank’s chief risk officer had previously reported; Michael S. Klein, the co-head of Citigroup’s investment bank; and Stephen R. Volk, another vice chairman.
425 2008-03-14 The difficulty for the committee was that those eight studies involved high doses of the drugs. There was very little solid information on whether the drugs were dangerous at doses typically used by cancer doctors.

Faced with that information, the panel voted 13 to 1 in favor of recommending that the drugs remain available for use by many cancer patients.

But the committee then voted 9 to 5 in favor of recommending that the drugs not be used by patients with either breast cancer or head and neck cancer because the evidence of a risk was strongest for those types of tumors.

The committee also voted 11 to 2, with 1 abstention, to recommend that the drug not be used by patients being treated with the intent of curing their cancers. The definition of that category is vague, but it generally refers to patients with early-stage cancer who are undergoing chemotherapy after surgical removal of a tumor, in which the doctors hope the cancer has been eliminated. F.D.A. officials said after the meeting that most use of the anemia drugs was for patients with more advanced cancers.

The panel members also recommended that patients be made to sign consents in order to obtain the drugs. But the panel voted against carefully controlling distribution of the drugs.

The F.D.A. itself is expected to revise the labels of the drugs in consultation with the manufacturers. The agency does not have to adhere to the recommendations of its advisory committees, although it usually does.

In a statement, Amgen said it was “committed to working with the F.D.A. to consider the input from the committee and to implement future label changes.”

Amgen’s shares rose nearly 5 percent, closing at $47.18. Shares of Johnson & Johnson, which is not as reliant on the drugs, closed up 26 cents, to $62.81.

Sales of the anemia drugs have already been plummeting because of safety concerns and payment restrictions by Medicare and other insurers. Sales of Aranesp fell 12 percent, to $3.6 billion, in 2007, down from $4.1 billion the year before. The sales slump has forced Amgen to cut its work force.

Amgen has said that $1.55 billion of its Aranesp sales last year were for cancer use in the United States and an additional $550 million for cancer use in other countries. Most of the rest involved treating anemia stemming from kidney disease.

The use of the drugs on kidney patients was not the subject of the meeting on Thursday. Amgen’s other anemia drug, Epogen, is primarily used for kidney dialysis patients.

Johnson & Johnson had sales of $2.9 billion last year for Procrit and Eprex, a similar drug sold outside the United States. Both are sold under license from Amgen.

Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, which made a joint presentation to the committee, argued that it was not clear the drugs were dangerous. They said that the drugs should remain available because they help chemotherapy patients avoid blood transfusions, which carry their own risks of infections and side effects. The risk of contracting AIDS or hepatitis from a transfusion has declined significantly in recent years, they said, but other unknown pathogens might arise.

“The known risks of blood transfusions are less today than yesterday,” Dr. William N. Hait, a Johnson & Johnson executive, told the panel. “We do not know if that will be true tomorrow.”

The companies proposed some changes in the drugs’ labeling that would reduce their use somewhat, but less than if the drugs were barred completely for certain cancers. But Dr. Vinni Juneja, an F.D.A. official, said in his presentation that the drugs did not totally eliminate the need for transfusions but only reduced them by about 50 percent.

Some patients or patient advocates testified in support of the drugs, while others said they were more concerned about the risks or that the matter was too confusing to know what position to take.

The meeting on Thursday was the third advisory panel meeting the F.D.A. has held on the risks of these drugs’ use for cancer patients. The earlier ones were in 2004 and last May.

“There is a perceived lack of progress,” said Carlea Bauman, president of the Colorectal Cancer Coalition, an advocacy group. The drugs, she said, “have been on the market for many years, billions of dollars have been spent by insurers, millions of patients have been treated, and yet we still have many of the same unanswered questions,” as at the 2004 meeting.

Several committee members and patient advocates called on the drug companies to end sales programs that might give doctors a financial incentive to overuse the drugs. Doctors typically buy the drugs, administer them to patients, and are reimbursed by insurers and patients. The doctors can profit if the reimbursement is greater than what they paid, and companies can sweeten that margin by giving the doctors discounts and rebates.

“The current system has led to distrust,” Robert L. Erwin, president of the Marti Nelson Cancer Foundation, told the committee.

Amgen and Johnson & Johnson said the payment system, common for oncology drugs, did not lead to overuse.
426 2008-03-14 WASHINGTON — The former treasurer of a Republican Congressional fund-raising committee may have stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars by submitting elaborately forged audit reports for five years using the letterhead of a legitimate auditing firm, a lawyer for the committee said Thursday.

Robert K. Kelner, a lawyer with Covington & Burling, who was brought in by the National Republican Congressional Committee to investigate accounting irregularities, said a new audit showed that the committee had $740,000 less on hand than it believed. Mr. Kelner said it was unclear whether that amount represented money siphoned off by the former treasurer, Christopher J. Ward.

Mr. Ward, who is under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, had the authority to make transfers of committee money on his own, Mr. Kelner said.

He said an investigation with the help of PricewaterhouseCoopers had “found a pattern in which Mr. Ward would transfer funds by wire out of the N.R.C.C. to outside committees.” From those outside committees, Mr. Kelner said, money was then transferred to “personal and business accounts of Mr. Ward.”

Mr. Kelner said that all of this was discovered on Jan. 28 after the current chairman of the committee’s auditing panel, Representative Michael K. Conaway of Texas, a certified public accountant, made repeated requests to speak to the committee’s outside auditors.
427 2008-03-14 The school has received 70 “quality applications” so far for its teaching slots, and more than 100 substandard applications (doomed to Mr. Vanderhoek’s No Response File for failing to follow explicit directions). Applicants have to submit multiple examples of their students’ achievements and of their own teaching innovations, and must have scored in the 90th percentile in the verbal section of the GRE, GMAT or similar tests. Mr. Vanderhoek anticipates “a very veteran staff.”

“We’re not hiring first-year teachers,” he said.

The school’s inaugural class in 2009 will have 120 fifth graders, shepherded by seven “master” teachers. Plans call for a move into a new $17 million home by 2011.

Mr. Vanderhoek will serve as a hands-on and proprietary principal with a self-imposed starting salary of $90,000. “My uniform will be Bermuda shorts,” he quips, “and I plan to keep on being principal until I get fired.”

Unlikely; after all, he’s the boss, and the school’s board is likely to subscribe, as he does, to the theory that passionate and innovative teachers, not class size or a flashy curriculum, are the stimuli for academic success, particularly with underprivileged children.

The mandatory uniform for the students, who will eventually number 480, has yet to be decided. Mr. Vanderhoek confides that he is leaning toward generic khakis.

He looks somewhat miserable when asked about the bare walls in the executive office at Manhattan GMAT, the educational testing firm he started from scratch and parlayed into a multimillion-dollar testing and tutoring service, billed as the nation’s largest. His method? Attract smart tutors and compensate them handsomely, a recipe similar to the one that is the backbone of TEP.

Mr. Vanderhoek, who is keen on reinvention (before creating Manhattan GMAT in 2000, he taught at I.S. 90 for three years, subsisting on falafel and moonlighting as a tutor based at his local Starbucks), has updated the 3Rs to fit his teachercentric credo: Rigorous Qualifications, Redefined Expectations, and Revolutionary Compensation. No wonder he’s had no chance to personalize his office.

“I have a pretty strong aesthetic sense,” he says, “and I guess it’s kind of funny, or sad, that my own work space reflects none of it.” The wooden clock (“Not my taste, really”) is a parting gift from his staff at Manhattan GMAT — he stepped down as chairman in January 2007 to devote himself to his dream project, TEP. The plastic bear-shaped honey jar is his own; Greek yogurt, his latest food crave, requires sweetening. But the bright yellow mini-Lamborghini on the windowsill? “Don’t get the wrong idea about that,” he cautions. “It’s just a play on that classic obsession chief-executive-officer types have with fancy cars. I hate cars.” He doesn’t own one; he takes public transportation to and from the Harlem co-op he shares with his wife, Stephanie, and 11-month-old Ella.

His most recent extracurricular foray is a ditty (he is adept on guitar and piano), “Cookie McGirt,” written for Ella. He says his love of music is not why music is one of the school’s two electives (the other is Latin). Rather, they are geared for the students, mainly Dominican, many of whom are not proficient in English. As he puts it, “Music and Latin are the two subjects proven to most positively impact linguistic development.”

Mr. Vanderhoek seems very sure of this. He is also sure he won’t hire his mother, a professor of genetics at St. Mary’s College of Maryland, if she applies. “A great teacher, but on the merits, she might need a little more middle-school experience.” Sorry, Mom.
428 2008-03-14 COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — A federal jury convicted five former executives of a health care finance company on Thursday in a $1.9 billion scheme to defraud investors.

The officials worked for National Century Financial Enterprises, described as the nation’s largest health care financing firm before its 2002 bankruptcy. The five, some of the company’s highest ranking executives, were convicted of conspiracy to commit wire and securities fraud.

The defendants and their lawyers listened without emotion as Judge Algenon L. Marbley of Federal District Court read the verdicts from a 27-count indictment one by one.

Those convicted were Donald H. Ayers, the former chief operating officer; James E. Dierker Jr., the former vice president for client development; Roger S. Faulkenberry, a former executive vice president who raised money from investors; Rebecca S. Parrett, the former vice chairman; and Randolph H. Speer, the former chief financial officer.

Each of the defendants faces prison terms of as much as 30 years depending on the number of counts they were convicted of. Under federal sentencing guidelines, the actual prison terms would be far less.

Small hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers sold their accounts receivable to the company, usually getting 80 or 90 cents on the dollar, rather than waiting for insurance payments. National Century then collected the full amount of the payments.
429 2008-03-14 The vice chairman of the International Securities Exchange, an options and stock exchange in New York, was charged with insider trading on Thursday, accused of leaking confidential information about the $2.8 billion takeover of the market last year.

Federal prosecutors said that the vice chairman, John Marshall, obtained nonpublic information about the pending deal and provided it to two business partners at a financial consulting firm, who also were charged.

The International Securities Exchange said Mr. Marshall resigned on Thursday.

The charges stem from the purchase of the exchange by Eurex Frankfurt, a derivative exchange owned by Deutsche Börse and the SWX Swiss Stock Exchange, prosecutors said.

Mr. Marshall, along with Alan Tucker and Mark Larson, are principals at the derivatives consulting firm Marshall Tucker & Associates. Each was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and 10 counts of securities fraud in a complaint filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the United States attorney’s office said.

The men surrendered on Thursday and were granted $200,000 bail.
430 2008-03-14 Mr. Metzenbaum was a senator for 19 years, retiring in 1995 to become chairman of the Consumer Federation of America. In winning re-election in his last race, in 1988, he scored a wider margin of victory in traditionally Republican Ohio than that of Vice President George Bush, who was the Republican presidential nominee that year.

Mr. Metzenbaum, nicknamed Headline Howard for his love of publicity, denounced big oil companies, the insurance industry, savings and loans and the National Rifle Association, among many targets. At the Senate Judiciary Committee’s 1991 hearings on the nomination of Judge Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, he hammered Mr. Thomas relentlessly on accusations of sexual harassment. Finally, Judge Thomas responded, “God is my judge, not you, Mr. Metzenbaum.”

Howard Morton Metzenbaum, grandson of an immigrant from Hungary, was born on June 4, 1917, in Cleveland. His father, Charles, eked out a living selling the goods of bankrupt companies.

Howard Metzenbaum ran track at his Cleveland high school and once raced against Jesse Owens, who left him in the dust. He sold magazines and delivered groceries as a teenager. Before he was old enough to drive, he owned a car, which he used to ferry patrons to a race track. He woke up one morning and found the car, a 1926 Essex, gone. His father had sold it to meet a mortgage payment.

At Ohio State University, Mr. Metzenbaum ran a bike rental business, played his trombone for pay and sold chrysanthemums outside the football stadium. After graduating in 1939, he went to the university’s law school, making money by drafting legislation for state lawmakers.

After graduating from law school, he won election in 1942 to the Ohio House, where he served until 1947. He was a state senator from 1947 to 1951, when he retired from politics after losing in a bid to become Senate majority leader. He blamed anti-Semitism for the defeat.

Mr. Metzenbaum had meanwhile started a business with a partner, Alva T. Bonda. They set up one of the first commercial parking lots to be built at an airport, in Cleveland, and quickly expanded nationwide. When the company was bought by ITT, Mr. Metzenbaum received $6 million. The partners also had successful investments in newspapers, banking and 17 Avis rental car franchises, the largest number under a single ownership.

Mr. Metzenbaum once described himself as “born knowing how to make money.”

With financial independence, Mr. Metzenbaum managed two successful campaigns for the United States Senate by Stephen M. Young, a Democrat, in 1958 and 1964. In 1970, Mr. Metzenbaum ran for the Senate himself. He faced Mr. Glenn, an astronaut and national hero, in the primary.

At the campaign’s start, Mr. Metzenbaum was known by 10 percent of Ohioans and Mr. Glenn by 95 percent. Mr. Glenn contended that his millionaire opponent was buying the election with huge expenditures for television advertising.

Mr. Metzenbaum agreed that unequal television exposure was unfair but said Mr. Glenn had enjoyed a tax-supported “$3.5-billion-dollar TV spectacular when he orbited the Earth.” Mr. Metzenbaum won a narrow victory over Mr. Glenn, but lost to Robert Taft Jr. in the general election.

In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon named Senator William B. Saxbe, Republican of Ohio, as his new attorney general. Ohio’s Democratic governor, John J. Gilligan, named Mr. Metzenbaum to the remaining year of Mr. Saxbe’s term.

As an appointed senator, Mr. Metzenbaum said he would be a “quiet voice” and voted the liberal line on issues like energy and gun control. In 1974, he and Mr. Glenn were again pitted against each other in the Democratic primary.

In the campaign, Mr. Metzenbaum said Mr. Glenn had never met a payroll, apparently meaning to suggest that Mr. Glenn had no business experience. But many understood Mr. Metzenbaum to mean that Mr. Glenn had never held a real job.

Mr. Glenn, a career marine, replied of the sacrifices members of the armed service make, referring poignantly to the graves of many of them at Arlington National Cemetery. Mr. Glenn won the primary and the election.

In 1976, Mr. Metzenbaum beat Mr. Taft and became an elected senator. He threw himself into fighting against the deregulation of gas and oil prices, called for tighter regulation of the insurance industry and fought for national health insurance.

Mr. Metzenbaum and Mr. Glenn reconciled in 1984 when Mr. Metzenbaum helped Mr. Glenn’s presidential campaign. In 1988, Mr. Glenn helped Mr. Metzenbaum’s re-election effort, including recording a commercial rebuttal of Republican accusations that Mr. Metzenbaum was soft on child pornography.

For all his public fierceness, Mr. Metzenbaum was known for personal touches like his huge bulletin board with photographs of friends and colleagues. Each year he would take each of his four daughters on a business trip.

Besides his daughter Shelley, of Concord, Mass., his survivors include his wife, the former Shirley Turoff; three other daughters, Barbara J. Metzenbaum of Topanga, Calif.; Susan M. Hyatt of Atherton, Calif., and Amy B. Metzenbaum of Mill Valley, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.

After the Democrats won a Senate majority in the 1986 election, Mr. Metzenbaum was glad to be more than “Senator No” to Republican initiatives. He had several legislative victories, including a law requiring companies to give voters 60 days’ notice of a plant shutdown.

In the 1994 interview with The Columbus Dispatch, he said, “I’ve proven that one person who is resolute in his or her positions can make a difference in this body, and that you don’t have to go along to get along.”
431 2008-03-14 As a result, the government is limited to issuing the 66,000 seasonal work visas set when the visa program, known as H-2B, became law — 33,000 for winter workers and 33,000 for summer workers. Last year, more than 120,000 foreign workers entered the country on H-2B visas.

For Cape Cod, the impact has been devastating. Employers will receive only 15 of the 5,000 visas they had requested, according to the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce.

“It’s just ruthless for the Hispanic caucus to do this, use it as a bargaining chip,” said Mr. Zammer, whose foreign workers — mostly from Jamaica and Eastern Europe — normally make up 25 percent of his staff. “We’re working at finding new people. We have to. But it’s extremely difficult, because you end up stealing from other people who are also trying to get help.”

Returning workers became exempt from the cap in 2005, when Congress passed the Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, and President Bush signed it into law. The act expired in 2007, and Congress passed a one-year extension that was attached to the National Defense Authorization Act. The extension expired on Sept. 30, 2007, the end of the 2007 fiscal year.

Employers say that unless Congress acts soon, they will have to scale back operations, because the labor pool in many resort areas is not deep enough to provide new workers, and many people do not want seasonal jobs.

Patti Ann Moskwa, owner of the Yankee Rebel Tavern on Mackinac Island, Mich., plans to cut back dinner hours because she will be understaffed this summer. She said the 15 foreign workers who cooked and cleared tables at her restaurant were more than employees.

“They’re like our family,” Ms. Moskwa said. “You don’t want to be the person to call these people and tell them the government won’t let them back. It’s a sad situation for us and the workers.”

Republicans in Congress have resisted immigration overhaul, insisting that the focus be first on enforcing current laws. The Hispanic Caucus contends that a broad overhaul is needed and that legislation exempting returning foreign workers from the cap on visas should be part of it.

“I recognize that H-2B visa fixes are an important part of the immigration crisis,” said Representative Joe Baca, Democrat of California and chairman of the Hispanic Caucus. “But that should be just another check mark in the column as to why this Congress must take real action on immigration reform.”

A bipartisan coalition of 182 members of Congress has co-sponsored measures sponsored by Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that would allow returning workers back.

“The H-2B visa program is being held hostage,” said Representative Bill Delahunt, a Democrat who represents Cape Cod. “We’re talking about a stimulus package, and yet we’re putting at risk regional economies from the East Coast to the West Coast and many sections of the country in between.”

Representative Charles Boustany Jr., Republican of Louisiana, has introduced a measure that calls for immediate consideration of Mr. Stupak’s bill. Congressional aides involved in the negotiations over the measure said Democratic leaders were discussing a compromise measure with the Hispanic Caucus and others.

Some advocates for business owners argue that employers who go to the trouble of hiring legal employees are being unfairly punished.

“It’s kind of sad that those who have followed the law, paid an inordinate amount of money to follow the law by paying attorneys’ fees, prevailing wage and following the rules, are those who are getting hurt,” said Don Mooers, an immigration lawyer working with Save Small Businesses, a group of small business owners lobbying for the cap to be lifted.

“I get that question every day, ‘Why are we following the law when the guy down the street isn’t, and I’m the one who may face going out of business,’ ” Mr. Mooers said

Here on Cape Cod, the need for imported seasonal labor is especially acute, as 25 percent of residents are over 65 and high real estate prices have driven many blue-collar workers elsewhere.

“We have a very old population, twice the national average of people on Medicare and we’re losing population to other parts of the country because of our affordable housing problem,” said Wendy Northcross, chief executive of the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce. “We’re losing the population that could potentially take some of our seasonal jobs.”

D. J. Vander Silk, owner of D. J.’s Lawn Service in Grand Rapids, Mich., said he had planned to hire 30 workers from Mexico on temporary seasonal visas, but will not get any. “I feel like we’re right on the edge,” he said. “There’s a robber outside the house and we’re about to get hit in the head.”

Now Mr. Vander Silk and his 20 remaining employees are not accepting new clients and are trying to recruit workers from Florida and the local community. The homes he bought a few years ago to shelter the temporary workers will remain empty for the near future.

“We’re in uncharted waters,” he said.

Sandy Munley, executive director of the Ohio Landscape Association, said the industry employed about 3,000 H-2B workers in Ohio last year, and did not know how many would return. Many contractors are giving away jobs to businesses with adequate staffing, Ms. Munley said.

“This industry tends to be very supportive of each other,” she said, “but I don’t think anything’s ever come to this degree, where people are giving away work. Typically, contractors tend to get it done, but they all definitely say this is historic in a sad way.”

Jim Royal, who operates Kelly Miller Circuses, said he could not find employees to assemble big tops for his traveling circus. He usually relies on 25 H-2B workers from Mexico.

“It’s affecting virtually every circus in America,” Mr. Royal said. “We’re still on hold. We’ve applied and haven’t gotten anything. We’re trying desperately to recruit, but the artists will probably have to help out.”
432 2008-03-14 Ben Heppner, the leading Wagnerian tenor who withdrew from Monday’s Metropolitan Opera performance of “Tristan und Isolde,” will also miss the next three performances, the Met said on Thursday, including a live broadcast to movie theaters around the world. Mr. Heppner, singing the role of Tristan, withdrew on Monday because of a viral infection, the Met said, and was replaced by John Mac Master. It announced that Gary Lehman will replace him for Friday’s performance, but did not say who would assume the role on Tuesday and on March 22. The March 22 performance is part of the Met’s much-vaunted program of high-definition transmissions to cinemas. The Met did confirm, though, that Mr. Heppner would not be onstage. That performance is also scheduled for radio broadcast. The Met said Mr. Heppner was expected to return for performances on March 25 and March 28. The Isolde is Deborah Voigt, and James Levine is conducting the run. Mr. Lehman is a budding Wagnerian himself, having stepped in for Plácido Domingo in the title role of “Parsifal” in 2005 at the Los Angeles Opera. The Met said he had also sung the title role in “Tannhäuser” and Siegmund in “Die Walküre.”
433 2008-03-14 There are rare works by pre-eminent British architect-designers like Edwin Lutyens, C. R. Ashbee, William Morris, Thomas Jeckyll, A. W. N. Pugin and E. W. Godwin.

The auction’s star lot belongs to Jimmy Page, the guitarist who founded the band Led Zeppelin. It is a 24-foot-long Pre-Raphaelite tapestry, one in a set of six depicting the Arthurian legend of Sir Galahad and the Holy Grail. The set was commissioned for Stanmore Hall in Middlesex, England. Edward Coley Burne-Jones designed it in 1891; William Morris’s Merton Abbey workshop wove it. This panel depicts Sir Galahad about to receive the golden chalice. It is estimated at about $2 million.

“This is the largest panel and was considered William Morris’s masterpiece,” Mr. Reeves said. “It took eight men two years to weave it.”

New York galleries often stage exhibitions on Asian themes during Asia Week (which started this week and is actually two weeks).

This week Doris Leslie Blau, a gallery with hundreds of antique and modern carpets at 306 East 61st Street, in Manhattan, opened a show (though March 26) of about 60 Samarkand carpets made between 1880 and 1930. It is noteworthy because few American dealers sell these rugs.

Samarkand rugs are not woven in Samarkand, the second-largest city in Uzbekistan. Most come from the villages of East Turkestan, in China, and are then passed through Samarkand, a 2,700-year-old city. It was a market town on the Silk Road, the trade route between China and Europe.

“Everything was going on there,” said Nader Bolour, the owner of Doris Leslie Blau. “Samarkand was stuck in the crossroads between India and Russia, China and Europe.”

The city has been inhabited since 700 B.C. Alexander the Great conquered it in 329 B.C. The Mongols sacked it in 1220. Tamerlane made it his capital in 1370.

“Samarkand is history’s definitive melting pot,” Judith Glass, an antique-rug consultant, writes in the catalog. The carpets “display themes from many cultures, including China (with fretwork borders, lotus blossoms and cloud bands); India (with the swastika denoting infinity); Turkey (with bold reciprocal borders and carnations); and Persia (with floral trellis work).”

These are sturdy wool rugs, not like silk Persian carpets. “The weave in these carpets is actually quite coarse,” Mr. Bolour said. “They are all about color and design, not fineness of weave.” He is attracted to their unusual color combinations. “None are red and blue like Oriental carpets,” he said. “They have very soft colors with a little tweak: magenta with acid green, peachy beige with brown, saffron yellow with lacquer red, bone with brown or slate blue.”

Each rug incorporates woven symbols. Three medallions together may represent Buddha. Pomegranates signify prosperity and fertility.

Two London dealers are showing classical Chinese furniture from the Ming and Qing dynasties during Asia Week in New York. M .D. Flacks opened a show at 38 East 57th Street, in Manhattan, with altar tables, coffers, stools, stands and chairs from the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries.

His proudest offering is a matched pair of 17th-century huanghuali tapered cabinets formerly in the Museum of Classical Chinese Furniture in Renaissance, Calif.

“They are one of the best pairs of cabinets that exist,” said Marcus Flacks, owner of the gallery. Christie’s sold them in 1996 for that California museum for $386,000. The collector who bought them sold the pair to Mr. Flacks, who is now asking $1.4 million for them.

Nick Grindley will show Chinese furniture at the New York Arts of Pacific Asia Show, next Friday through March 24 at the Gramercy Park Armory, Lexington Avenue at 26th Street. He has a set of four faux-bamboo drum stools made of jichimu, a Chinese hardwood.

“I have not had a set of four 18th-century drum stools for 15 years,” Mr. Grindley said. “These are particularly interesting because they use an expensive hardwood to simulate the cheapest one available.” Don’t miss the increasingly rare appearances of such pieces.
434 2008-03-14 NEW DELHI — A group of Tibetan exiles in northern India who began a six-month march this week to protest China’s control of their homeland were arrested early Thursday. They then began a hunger strike that they say will continue until they are released.

The marchers — more than 100 people, mostly monks and nuns — were arrested in Himachal Pradesh, a northern state, after the police seized a well-known activist in their group and the rest of the marchers linked arms and sat in the road in protest. The group started its trek from Dharamsala, the seat of the Tibetan government in exile, on Monday, the anniversary of a failed uprising in Tibet in 1959. The protesters planned to reach the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, in August, when the Summer Olympics open in Beijing.

Eight foreigners and three Indian citizens involved in the march were released later on Thursday, but the police in Himachal Pradesh said they were still holding 101 others, all Tibetans. The Indian government says Tibetans are free to live and work in India as long as they refrain from political protests.

Atul Fulzele, superintendent of police for the Kangra District of Himachal Pradesh, where Dharamsala is located, said in a telephone interview that about 100 people had been arrested under criminal codes that cover preventive arrests. Earlier this week, the police issued a restraining order telling the marchers they would be detained if they tried to leave Kangra.

“Today they were planning to move outside the Kangra District,” Mr. Fulzele said. “That would have been a crime.” The marchers did not resist arrest, he said, and there was “no law-and-order problem.”

India’s attitude toward Tibetans who protest China’s control of their birthplace has been slowly shifting from support toward repression, some human rights advocates say. Arresting peaceful marchers, some carrying photographs of Gandhi, “signifies a toughness that does not seem legitimate,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, a South Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch.

“It was probably done because India did not want to displease China,” Ms. Ganguly said.

The protesters who have been arrested are being asked to sign a statement that they will not take part in any more protests against China or any other political activities, said Tenzin Palkyi, a spokeswoman for the march. They are refusing to sign the statement, and do not plan to eat any solid food until they are released, she said.
435 2008-03-14 Toyota Motor said Thursday that it planned to slow production of full-size Tundra pickup trucks at plants in Texas and Indiana because of a cooling American auto market....
436 2008-03-14 ADDRESSING THE CREDIT CRISIS Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. outlined a proposal that called on state regulators and the private industry to tighten their oversight of financial markets.      THE FRIENDLY COLLECTOR American consumers are i...
437 2008-03-15 “If you’re hungry, here’s a piece of your friend,” snarls a jailer in the post-apocalyptic action picture “Doomsday,” sliding a plateful of charbroiled man-flesh to a captive.

If that line fails to make the film’s midnight-movie ambitions clear, the British writer and director Neil Marshall offers many other clues: hands, legs and heads lopped off in bloody close-ups; a nonstop soundtrack of adrenaline-stoking rock ’n’ roll; a shot of a cute little bunny blasted into rabbit stew by a remote-controlled sentry cannon.

“Doomsday” is set in the near future, years after the British government quarantined a plague-ravaged Scotland and let its inhabitants die out. The decision is believed to have killed the disease along with the Scottish population, but when it surfaces in London, officials reveal that a hardy band of Glasgow inhabitants survived the epidemic and might hold clues to a cure.

Enter the stoic, one-eyed mercenary Eden Sinclair (Rhona Mitra, of the television show “Nip/Tuck”), who is ostensibly entrusted with leading a team of soldiers into Glasgow on a mission to find a doctor-turned-political leader named Kane (Malcolm McDowell) and learn how the Glasgow contingent survived. Really, though, Eden is mainly on hand to impersonate another sci-fi hero, Snake Plissken from John Carpenter’s “Escape From New York,” and to punch, kick, run and shoot her way through situations shamelessly cribbed from Mr. Carpenter’s film, George Miller’s “Mad Max” trilogy, “Aliens” and other dystopian touchstones.

“Doomsday” has an appealing punk-rock sneer, but aside from a few clever music cues — including a Fine Young Cannibals song that accompanies a deranged bacchanal given by fine young cannibals — swagger is, unfortunately, its only notable quality.

The film’s bellowing, Mohawk-topped villain, Sol (Craig Conway), is a personality-free retread of Vernon Wells’s memorable Wez from “The Road Warrior.” Major supporting characters — including a squad leader, played by Adrian Lester, and a gruff yet caring boss, portrayed by Bob Hoskins — are so lifeless they could have been cast with inflatable dolls. The final chase, modeled on an epic set-piece from Mr. Miller’s second “Mad Max” movie, is likewise a bust, substituting gore, shaky camerawork and chop-chop editing for Mr. Miller’s symphonic build-up and release.
438 2008-03-15 “It’s a great time to be an egg farmer,” said Paul Sauder, a third-generation farmer in Lititz, Pa. His farm ships eggs to food service customers and grocery stores, including Stop & Shop. “We’ve never encountered this kind of run like we’ve had right now.”

While food costs increased, overall inflation held steady in February as the cost of gasoline declined that month, according to the latest Consumer Price Index, which the Labor Department updates monthly. That was an unexpected dose of good economic news that opens the door for more aggressive interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, which is trying to head off a recession.

But many analysts do not expect the lower inflation rate to last. Gasoline prices turned around in March and are setting records every day, hitting a nationwide average of $3.28 a gallon in the most recent report by AAA, the automobile club. That puts more pressure on consumers’ pocketbooks as they muddle through an economic slowdown.

“It’s a temporary respite,” said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody’s Investors Service. “The renewed ascent of gasoline prices, if nothing else, promises a faster rate of inflation for March.”

Still, the flat reading on the Consumer Price Index was a welcome development after several months of steadily building price pressures. Consumer prices were unchanged in February, and the closely watched core index, which excludes the prices of volatile food and energy products, also stayed flat.

With the economy in a significant downturn, and possibly a recession, some had feared a repeat of 1970s-style stagflation. Inflation rose 0.4 percent in January and December, and economists had been bracing for another uptick last month.

Instead, the Labor Department report showed price declines across a broad range of consumer products, including clothing, personal computers and automobiles. The easing came despite a record-low dollar and a rise in the price of imports.

The March inflation report, due April 16, “will capture the extraordinary surge in oil, food and commodity prices that we’ve seen over the last few weeks,” said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at the research firm IdeaGlobal.

Lower inflation may encourage the Fed to lower interest rates more aggressively at its next scheduled meeting, on Tuesday. Rate cuts promote growth but can push prices higher, and the Fed has struggled to balance its attempts to stave off a recession with the brisk pace of inflation.

For the year, inflation is still running high. Compared with a year ago, consumer prices were up 4 percent in February, and the core index rose 2.3 percent, higher than the Fed’s comfort level.

If there is a silver lining in the food statistics it is that grocery prices did not increase as much in February (up 0.3 percent from the previous month) as they did in January (up 0.9 percent).

But Ephraim Leibtag, who tracks food prices for the Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service, said that with farm prices remaining near record levels, he was not optimistic that food prices would moderate in 2008. Instead, he predicted that food inflation would be at least as high as in 2007, perhaps higher.

Mr. Leibtag predicted that cereal and baking products would continue to increase because of steep prices for wheat; in fact, the price of cereal and bakery products increased 1.8 percent in February, the largest monthly gain since January 1975. Economists say higher food costs are being caused by rising energy prices, a weak dollar that encourages exports of American crops and food products, and soaring prices for farm commodities like milk, corn and wheat.

Whether eggs will continue to lead the way on prices remains uncertain. For the time being, farmers like Mr. Sauder are enjoying the high prices while they last.

“Two years ago, everyone was ready to give their farm away because they were all losing money,” Mr. Sauder said. “It goes in cycles.”

The sharp increase in egg prices was caused by a confluence of factors, among them a contraction of the industry because of the slump in 2005 and 2006 and a major increase in feed costs. About three-quarters of feed for laying hens is corn, and the price of corn has been driven up in part by government mandates for production of ethanol.

Gene Gregory, president and chief executive of the United Egg Producers, said feed costs have increased about $100 a ton in the last year, to $250. Because the cost of feed is so high and its future direction uncertain, many farmers have reduced the size of their flocks, he said.

“We are in uncharted waters,” Mr. Gregory said. “Egg producers are recognizing higher profits now than they have for many years. But we also realize these things change quickly.”

At the store in Bloomfield, shoppers complained the other night that food costs have left them reeling. “I’ve spent $300 in a matter of two weeks,” Roseann Fede said. “It used to be like $150. Milk, eggs, nonperishable things, everything has gone up in price.”

Jomarie and Rafaelito Ortiz emerged from Stop & Shop with a cart stuffed full of bags, mostly to feed their four teenage boys. Asked whether they have noticed a difference in their grocery bills, Ms. Ortiz said, “Are you kidding me?”

“Our food bills are $600, $700,” she said, explaining that they were closer to $400 a year or two ago. “The cereal was astronomical.”

Her husband agreed and suggested that they might be better off buying a few cows of their own. “The way food prices are going,” he said, “I’m going to buy a ranch.”
439 2008-03-15 For the week, the indexes were mixed. The Dow had a slight increase; the S.& P. dipped. The Nasdaq was flat.

Concerns about tight credit have played havoc with the markets, leading the Dow to three triple-digit sell-offs in the last week alone. Market watchers are worried that banks will be less willing to lend, blocking up the bloodstream of the economy.

Early Friday, the Fed issued a statement that it would “continue to provide liquidity as necessary” to keep the wheels of the financial system turning. But investors seemed to take little solace in the pledge.

“It’s a little like that saying about the fire truck in front of your house,” said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management in New York. “The good news is that the fire truck’s here. The bad news is your house is on fire.”

Bear Stearns had insisted for days that its finances were in adequate shape, but its chief executive said that the bank’s liquidity had “significantly deteriorated” since Thursday.

“We took this important step to restore confidence in us in the marketplace,” the chief, Alan D. Schwartz, said.

But confidence remained elusive. Bear’s shares lost nearly half of their value, plunging 47 percent, to $30, the lowest level in a decade.

Shares of JPMorgan lost 4 percent. Financial services firms took a hit, losing the most of any sector in the S.& P. 500. The dollar declined again against the euro. Volatility reached its highest level since January.

The Bear bailout overshadowed some good economic data: an report on inflation from the Labor Department. The Consumer Price Index stayed flat in February after a dip in energy prices, making way for more aggressive interest rate cuts.

Some investors expect the Fed to lower rates by a full percentage point when it meets Tuesday. Futures contracts for a full-point cut shot up on Friday, though many economist still predict a cut of half or three-quarters of a point.
440 2008-03-15 WASHINGTON — Senator John McCain has been averaging a fund-raiser a day in America’s pockets of affluence — hotel ballrooms in New York, Atlanta, Chicago — but now he will expand his pursuit of campaign donations at a $1,000-a-plate lunch at the 18th-century Spencer House in London.

The trans-Atlantic fund-raiser, to be held March 20 at the home built by the first Earl Spencer, an ancestor of Diana, the late Princess of Wales, comes at the end of a foreign trip that Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, has repeatedly said is not political. Mr. McCain is to travel to London, Paris and the Middle East next week with Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.

“I do want to emphasize again that the three of us are going as members of the Armed Services Committee,” Mr. McCain told reporters on his campaign bus on Friday in Philadelphia. “And we will emphasize that at every stop.”

But the trip, which is to include meetings with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, will serve as a promotion of the senator’s foreign policy credentials at a time when his two Democratic competitors, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, are still battling for their party’s nomination.

Jill Hazelbaker, Mr. McCain’s campaign spokeswoman, said in an e-mail message on Friday that Congress would be reimbursed for the political parts of Mr. McCain’s trip, including his flight home, when he will travel separately from the rest of the Congressional delegation.

“We are also paying for the fund-raiser and his hotel that evening in London,” Ms. Hazelbaker said in the e-mail message.
441 2008-03-15 While it is unlikely that the party will be banned — it was elected in a landslide with nearly 47 percent of the vote in national elections in July — many Turks expressed surprise that the legal proceedings, which began in January, had gotten this far. Mr. Erdogan irritated Turkey’s secular establishment by lifting a ban on head scarves in universities last month, a move that drew scathing criticism from Mr. Yalcinkaya, the prosecutor.

The party, Justice and Development, “has become the hub of activities against secularism,” the state-run Anatolian News Agency quoted the lawsuit as saying.

The case, if accepted by the Constitutional Court, would put Turkey’s secular establishment on a collision course with Mr. Erdogan and his party, whose senior members are observant Muslims. Unable to beat his party in elections, the establishment has turned to the judicial system, the only part of the state it still controls.

Mr. Erdogan’s party, also known by its Turkish initials as the AK Party, or AKP, occupies the posts of president and prime minister, and controls a majority in Parliament.

Mr. Firat, speaking on live television, said, “We will not allow democratic and economic gains that our nation has earned at very heavy costs in long years to be erased with a flick of a pen.”

Turkey’s establishment has shut down political parties in the past. In 1998, it banned the Welfare Party, an openly Islamist party whose members included Mr. Erdogan and his close ally, Mr. Gul. It has also closed down Kurdish parties.

But Mr. Erdogan’s party, which says it is secular and has turned away from its earlier involvement in political Islam, is highly popular now.

“One has to consider what such demands on the governing party, with such a large majority in Parliament, would bring and take from Turkey,” said Mr. Gul, speaking at an Islamic conference in Senegal, according to the Anatolian News Agency.

But the party has ruffled feathers — pressing its choice of Mr. Gul as president, appointing an ally to run the Higher Education Council and pushing the issue of when head scarves may be worn — and some reaction seemed inevitable.

“I think political party closures are wrong, but legal ways to tackle a party that tries to dismantle secularism and mess with basic values should also remain an option,” said Sahin Mengu, a legislator with the opposition Republican People’s Party.

If the court decides to accept the case, Mr. Erdogan’s party will have a month to prepare an initial defense. After a volley of legal arguments, the 11-member court will vote on a verdict. At least seven votes would be required to close down the party.

“I do not consider closure possible,” said Zafer Uskul, a constitutional law professor and an AK Party member of Parliament, speaking on NTV television. “Democratic steps have been made during the AKP government. It’s pointless to claim otherwise.”
442 2008-03-15 SEATTLE (AP) — The Microsoft Corporation plans to buy Rapt Inc., plugging a hole in its suite of tools for Web publishers and advertisers.

Microsoft did not say what it would pay for Rapt, a privately held company based in San Francisco.

Rapt’s software and consulting services help Web site publishers tweak how they package and price display-ad space.

Scott Howe, a general manager in Microsoft’s advertiser and publisher solutions group, said Rapt’s system was similar to the one that airlines use to set ticket prices and track available seats.

Microsoft plans to add Rapt’s programs to the Web publisher tools that it gained when it acquired aQuantive last year for $6 billion.

The move “puts us way ahead of what other offerings are available in the market,” Mr. Howe said, likening Microsoft with Rapt to a jet plane, with rivals, including Google, being a bicycle.
443 2008-03-15 Playwrights Horizons has announced the first four of the six scheduled productions of its 2008-9 season. They are “Three Changes,” a world premiere of a play by Nicky Silver, directed by Wilson Milam; “Kindness,” a world premiere of a play written by Adam Rapp, who will also direct; “Prayer for My Enemy,” the New York premiere of a play by Craig Lucas, directed by Bartlett Sher; and “Our House,” the New York premiere of a play by Theresa Rebeck.
444 2008-03-15 Mr. Nocera tells us that most slaughterhouses don’t mistreat animals or funnel sick downer cows into the food chain. Oh, really?

If Mr. Nocera actually had such clairvoyant powers over the meat-packing industry, why didn’t he put them to use last autumn and blow the whistle on the Westland/Hallmark slaughter plant? He would have saved us the necessity of sending an undercover investigator to film the shocking mistreatment of animals. He might have prevented the recall of 143 million pounds of beef.

Mr. Nocera is anything but a soothsayer. He has simply rehashed the party line from the slaughterhouse industry. Most Americans, by contrast, join with us in demanding better regulations to safeguard farm animals and more credible inspections of our food.

Wayne Pacelle 

President and Chief Executive

The Humane Society of the United States

Washington, March 8, 2008
445 2008-03-15 “Black Magic” opens with the details of a secret basketball game played in Durham, N. C., in a locked gym with no fans to witness it. On a Sunday morning in 1944 the innovative African-American coach John McLendon led his fast-breaking team from the North Carolina College for Negroes in a home game against an intramural squad from Duke University’s medical school.

It was illegal. It was dangerous.

And the black team won 88-44. “They never saw anyone run up and down the court like we did,” a McLendon player says.

If you’re unfamiliar with the game, you’re not alone. The players and coaches from historically black colleges and universities were more obscure than baseball’s Negro Leagues, but were victimized by the same exclusions from the white mainstream. As racial barriers eroded, and white colleges recognized how much black talent they had ignored, they cherry-picked until it became nearly all theirs. The black colleges didn’t go out of business, as the Negro Leagues did, but they lost their leverage with recruits to the universities that act as the farm system to the National Basketball Association.

This remarkable four-hour documentary by Dan Klores, to be shown in two installments without commercial interruption on ESPN on Sunday and Monday nights, is as heartbreaking as any about civil rights. He sets it against the indignities of segregation but depicts the black colleges as educational safe houses where children of cotton pickers and sharecroppers felt nurtured and motivated. Like the grainy film of Mr. McLendon’s teams, archival footage from places like the Tuskegee Institute offers a vision of separateness.

And Mr. Klores chose his starting team of interviewees exquisitely: coaches like Ben Jobe and John Chaney and players like Earl Lloyd, Dick Barnett, Bob Love, Willis Reed and Earl Monroe are expert witnesses whose stories are bridges from exclusion to acceptance and some triumphs. He also speaks with the widows of Mr. McLendon and one of his coaching protégés, Clarence Gaines, nicknamed Big House, to provide perspective on their husbands’ struggles.

Mr. Monroe’s spinning and feinting at Winston-Salem State College (later university), where Mr. Gaines coached for 47 years, earned him the nickname Black Jesus and led to a brilliant N.B.A. career. But a previous Winston-Salem graduate with similarly spectacular skills, Cleo Hill, was spurned by his racist teammates on the St. Louis Hawks and blackballed by the league. Mr. Hill, who became a college coach, still seems baffled.
446 2008-03-15 Thank you for publicizing the plight of satos — street dogs — in Puerto Rico in “Scrutiny for Puerto Rico Over Animal Treatment” (news article, March 9).

Sadly, the situation in Puerto Rico is replicated in countries around the world where hundreds of millions of dogs live as strays, abandoned by the humans they have come to depend on for food, shelter and companionship.

Change will take place only when governments work with local and international animal welfare groups and concerned individuals to address the root of the problem through education and humane methods of population control, such as spaying and neutering.

As one animal advocate put it, “we need to work together and keep the finger in the side of government.”

Thank you for doing just that, by telling the American public what’s happening in Puerto Rico through your compelling article and photographs.

The writer is executive director of the World Society for the Protection of Animals.
447 2008-03-15 LONDON — Billed as a pristine departure from gloomy walkways, threadbare carpets, lost bags and institutionalized delays, a fifth terminal at Heathrow Airport was officially inaugurated Friday, opening a contentious new chapter in the battle between aviation and the environment.

BAA, the airport operator, promised speedier check-in and rapid passage through security controls, but one feature of the gleaming new steel-and-glass terminal seemed unchanged from its predecessors: with 112 retail outlets, including Fortnum & Mason and Cartier, Terminal 5 will be as much a temple of consumption as a place to board airplanes. Above all, though, the operator is seeking to shed Heathrow’s reputation as among the world’s most congested and uncongenial airports.

More than half a century after she opened the first permanent terminal at Heathrow in 1955, Queen Elizabeth II pronounced the new building formally functional. Friday’s ceremony took place 13 days before the first paying passengers are to begin streaming through the terminal’s cavernous, 130-foot-high, 1,300-foot-long main building.

A crowd of hundreds, including dignitaries as well as construction workers, applauded as the monarch described the terminal as “this 21st-century gateway to Britain and, to us, the wider world.” The terminal has a winglike, curved roof and glass walls designed to fill it with light and a sense of space. Its interior offers a complex expanse of soaring, curved steel beams. It cost about £4.3 billion, or $8.7 billion.

Terminal 5 will be used exclusively by British Airways, to the annoyance of rivals like Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic.
448 2008-03-15 PENANG, Malaysia — Chanting “Long live the Malays!” several hundred members of Malaysia’s largest ethnic group gathered Friday on this largely ethnic Chinese island, defying a police ban on protests and raising tensions after sharp electoral losses by the country’s Malay-dominated governing coalition.

Newly elected state governments have moved rapidly to abolish some of the long-held privileges of ethnic Malays. Those efforts have challenged the core of Malaysia’s ethnically based political system and inflamed Malays’ sensibilities. Before elections last Saturday, Malays dominated politics through the country’s largest party, the United Malays National Organization, known as U.M.N.O.

The opposition parties that beat the governing party and its partners in five states say the nation’s affirmative action program for Malays should be based on need rather than ethnicity. But the opposition, too, is struggling to contain fissures along ethnic lines as a Chinese opposition party competes with its Malay counterpart.

The affirmative action program, more than 35 years old, gives Malays benefits like discounts on new houses and 30 percent quotas in companies’ initial public offerings.

“I don’t think many people have bothered to investigate the details of the policy itself,” said Tricia Yeoh of the Center for Public Policy Studies, an independent research center in Kuala Lumpur, the capital. “But it’s an affirmation of their identity in the country, of their significance and their worth.”
449 2008-03-15 The idea, Professor Nayakankuppam says, is that once people commit to buying or consuming something, “there’s kind of a wishful thinking that happens and they want to like what they’ve bought.” The more information you have, he said, “the harder it is to kid yourself.”

Professor Nayakankuppam and two co-researchers did several experiments to reach their conclusions. In one, a group was given information about the ingredients and nutritional makeup of chocolate, while a second group was told only about the ingredients.

In another experiment, some subjects were told of a manufacturers’ claims about a hand lotion and informed that separate research had shown that 50 percent of people did derive these benefits. Another set of participants was also told of the manufacturers’ claims, but informed that the results from independent research were not back yet.

In each instance, those who had less precise and vaguer information expected the product to be better.

Then, there is a shift in buyers’ goals before and after purchasing something. Professor Nayakankuppam says these are called “accuracy goals” versus “directional goals.”

Before the purchase, “people want clear, objective information — they want to make sure they get it right,” he said. “After a purchase, they want to reach a particular decision — they have a directional goal.”

“There is often a tug of war between accuracy and directional goals,” he said. But “once we’ve committed to something, we want to be happy about the decision, and that drives our perceptions about it.” And the less we know about something, the easier it is to persuade ourselves we like it.

Elliot Aronson, a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and co-author most recently of “Mistakes Were Made (but Not by Me)” (Harcourt, 2007), is not surprised by these findings. He has spent a lifetime looking at how people justify their decisions. “If you have just a little information and then you’re a little disappointed, you can convince yourself that it wasn’t your fault, or that the item may be better than you thought for other reasons,” he said.

In general, he says, people are “cognitive misers” — they do not want to do a lot of thinking and research. That is one reason that brands and slogans are attractive; they are a shortcut to information.

The good news, Professor Aronson says, is that we rarely regret a decision as much as we think we will. For example, he said, in buying a house, we might briefly experience buyer’s remorse, but 90 percent of the time, it eventually fades and we find ways to convince ourselves that the positive things about the house outweigh the negative.

“That’s what helps us sleep at night,” he said.

The bad news is that if we constantly justify our decisions — whether it be buying that expensive new gizmo that we don’t really need, or going out yet again with the wrong type of guy — without ever examining them, we don’t correct our behavior. Well, deciding on a hand lotion or a chocolate will most likely have no long-term consequences (unless you have a deathly allergy to say, cocoa or glycerin).

If people receive an excessive amount of information about a minor purchase, they probably assume “there must be some pitfalls,” said Lars Perner, assistant professor of clinical marketing at the University of Southern California. “Ignorance is bliss would not hold true for buying a car.”

And as too many people now know all too well, ignorance, often combined with disingenuous or incomprehensible information, has proved disastrous, for example, for those now suffering through the mortgage crisis.

“We’re hardly suggesting people stop researching stuff,” Professor Nayakankuppam said. “We’re just pointing out an interesting phenomenon.”

Max Kalehoff, vice president for marketing for Clickable, a Web service for online advertising, says he thinks Professor Nayakankuppam’s research has some noteworthy implications for real life.

For one thing, he said, it underscored the merits of simplicity.

“A product that really requires a lot of detail or work to understand creates implicit barriers,” he said. “Marketers are throwing things at us with increasing complexity. It would be stupid to assume they should hide information from consumers, but they need to focus — from a product or service standpoint — on prioritizing the most important information and presenting it with the greatest efficiency.”

Consumers who think too much about why they want to buy something can also end up being less, not more, satisfied with their choices. Timothy D. Wilson, professor of psychology at the University of Virginia, has done experiments in which participants were asked to analyze the reasons they liked or disliked items before making a choice — whether it be strawberry jam or an art poster.

His experiments, some of which are written about in his book “Strangers to Ourselves,” (Harvard University Press, 2002) have shown that those who are asked to scrutinize reasons for their preferences were unhappier over the long run than those who did not overthink.

That is because, his studies show, people may initially persuade themselves they like something after introspective thinking, but as time passes, their initial reaction resurfaces.

“For a lot of thinking and preferences, we don’t know why we feel like we do,” Professor Wilson said. “Once we put it into words, we confuse ourselves.”

So let us recount what we have learned. Research big decisions thoroughly, but don’t worry so much about the small ones. Don’t overanalyze why you like things — and in the end, you can probably convince yourself that whatever you have done is the right thing.

Sounds good to me. The trick, though, will not be convincing myself that I need yet another pair of black shoes, but persuading my husband.

Time to do a little more research.
450 2008-03-16 Among the many astonishing developments that have arisen in the wake of Bear Stearns‘ final meltdown is the level of involvement of the Federal Reserve System. It has been nearly 24 years since the Fed last stepped in to directly help out anothe...
451 2008-03-16 The Bush administration will ”do what its takes” to stabilize chaotic markets and minimize the economic damage, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said Sunday after a tumultuous week capped by the government rescue of the teetering invest...
452 2008-03-16 Credit: Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times
453 2008-03-16 The way we introduce, and the way we follow up on promises to introduce, is as important as the actual introduction....
454 2008-03-16 Many favorite organic brands are owned by food powerhouses....
455 2008-03-16 Jalaladeen Sagheer, a senior member of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council, a leading Shiite party, described the visit as “an advertisement for the American elections” and said it shows Mr. McCain’s commitment to staying in Iraq, a policy Mr. Sagheer said he favors. “It suggests that American officials will make good on their promises.”

Some Sunni Arabs were not so pleased by the visit. “If the Republicans win the election, then nothing will really change in Iraq, and we need a big change to kick the occupiers out of the country,” said Abu Mohammed, a 30-year-old barber shop owner in Samarra, north of Baghdad. “I would like to show him the schools and hospitals and how the children and women suffer.”

Another Samarra shop owner, 52-year-old Hamid Saleh, said he wants the Republicans to lose the election.

“All I want is someone who works to fix my country, and not destroy it,” he said.

Mr. McCain was joined on the trip by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

It wasn’t clear as of Sunday night in Baghdad whether Mr. McCain, who has been a strong supporter of the war, would make any public statements while he is in Iraq.

He drew considerable criticism on a trip to Iraq last April for providing an assessment of Iraq’s security that at the time was more upbeat than many Iraqi officials believed was appropriate. He later said that he had misspoken.

American officials in Iraq said that Mr. McCain’s schedule was not being released for security reasons. “I can confirm that Senator McCain is in the country and he is meeting with U.S. and Iraqi officials,” said Noel Clay, a spokesman for the American embassy in Baghdad. Mr. McCain arrived in Iraq on Sunday morning, he said.

Telephone calls to the Arizona senator’s office in Washington were not answered and rolled into a voicemail system that was full.

Mr. McCain, Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Graham are also visiting Israel, London and Paris.

Mr. McCain has said the trip is not primarily political. He told reporters last Friday: “I do want to emphasize again that the three of us are going as members of the Armed Services Committee.”

But on Thursday, Mr. McCain will attend a $1,000-per-plate fund-raising lunch at a home in London. His campaign has said that Congress would be reimbursed for the political parts of the trip, including the fund-raiser in London.
456 2008-03-16 The Tampa Bay Rays left-hander Scott Kazmir will not start on opening day after having his first scheduled spring training start Sunday pushed back a few days. Kazmir has been slowed by a left elbow strain, which he felt while warming up for an intrasquad game Feb. 26. “We just want him to try and build up a little bit more arm strength before we put him back out there,” Rays Manager Joe Maddon said Saturday.Kazmir, the American League strikeout champion, went 13-9 with a 3.48 earned run average last season.
457 2008-03-16 GAZA (Reuters) — Israel’s Air Force killed three Palestinian militants with a missile strike in the northern Gaza Strip on Saturday, hospital officials said.

They identified the dead men as members of an Islamic Jihad rocket crew.

An Israeli military spokeswoman said the air force had attacked armed Palestinians.

Israel and Islamic Jihad have been exchanging fire since Thursday, when the faction abandoned a nearly week-old pause in cross-border rocket salvos in response to the killing of several of its members by Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank.

Egyptian mediators are trying to broker a truce that would calm the hostilities between Israel and militants in and around Gaza, a truce that Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, called for this month.
458 2008-03-16 Among other recommendations, the report urged the Americans to allow human rights monitors to visit detainee camps, something that the Iraqi government already allows. And, noting that legal consequences had yet to result from the Blackwater episode, the report called for private contractors to be prosecuted when they kill civilians.

Past human rights reports by the United Nations have included overall statistics on the deaths of Iraqi civilians, but the Iraqi Health Ministry now refuses to provide such figures, said Said Arikat, a spokesman for the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq.

Mr. de Mistura attributed a drop in violence in Baghdad and in other areas of Iraq from October to December of last year to three factors: an increase in American troops; the cease-fire called by the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr; and what he characterized as “a feeling of tiredness” among Iraqis and an increasing realization “that violence has not produced anything except violence.”

The Iraqi government has been critical of some previous human rights reports by the United Nations. But government officials did not offer any response to an earlier draft of the report — a silence that Mr. de Mistura said he was inclined to interpret as a positive thing.

In the autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq, human rights abuses have included the arrest of journalists who have written unfavorable articles about the government, the detainment of people for long periods without their being charged, and the killing of women for adultery or other transgressions. Other women have died, possibly in suicides, “typically by burning, to protest spousal abuse or after disputes with family members, while others were found shot dead,” the report said.

The report said it was difficult to find accurate numbers for such killings because of underreporting and unreliable statistics. Data obtained by the United Nations from a hospital in Erbil Province found 249 women were admitted as burn cases there from January 2007 to August 2007. The report also called attention to the practice, among some groups in Kurdistan, of genital cutting of women, sometimes referred to as female circumcision.

The report noted that the Kurdistan regional government established a new department last year to address violence against women.

Falah Mustafa, the head of the Kurdistan Regional Government’s department of foreign relations, said the government and the prime minister were “personally following” the issue. “Also, we have to educate society, and this process should start from the individual and the family and therefore it is not just the government’s responsibility,” he said.

In the city of Kut, in southern Iraq, Iraqi security forces once again fought with members of the Mahdi Army militia, which claims loyalty to Mr. Sadr. Aides for Mr. Sadr have renewed calls for both the government and militiamen to observe the truce.
459 2008-03-16 While it is impossible to know exactly how such a shadowy enterprise operates, what is clear is that sex is being sold for high prices.

And when it comes to price, Ms. Xi’an shared a secret. When someone pays her $1,250 an hour, he gets exactly what he would for $200, her rate when she started out. The difference is psychological, she explained, “Tell a guy you’re $100 and they’ll treat you one way -- tell them you’re $1,500 and they’ll treat you better.

“I’ve heard a lot of girls saying, ‘Is this girl getting $5,500 an hour because she’s more beautiful? Is she doing something I don’t?’ ” Ms. Xi’an said in a telephone interview. “The answer is no. But that girl is able to look a guy in the eye and say, ‘This is what I’m worth, and this is what you have to pay if you want me.’ And you have to be able to do that, and believe it.”

Ms. Xi’an, who tells clients she is 26 but admits to having shaved a few years off, grew up in Queens and earned degrees in psychology and finance at a prestigious university in the South. She was a “club kid,” dancing and partying into the wee hours, poured into shiny black bondage wear. Eventually, the offers to hire out as a dominatrix became too rich to resist.

After graduation in 1999, she moved back to New York and became a real estate broker, while also working in various dominatrix “dungeons.” “There was really, technically, no sex involved,” she said. “But it is a sexual experience.”

Four years later, as her uninsured father faced a triple bypass — the operation cost $95,000 and the hospital demanded a $35,000 deposit — Ms. Xi’an concluded that selling actual sex would be more lucrative. She told her parents the money came from real estate holdings.

“It was a desperate moment,” she said. “But I made peace in my mind with what I had to do.”

She bought books on being an Internet escort, and pored over manuals about innovative sexual techniques, though she found most customers wanted run-of-the-mill activities.

Her first agency farmed her out on Craigslist for $200. Her first client lived in a project on the Upper East Side, and afterward refused to pay.

Within a week, she signed up with a higher-priced agency and also started booking clients on her own. Within a year, her price was $1,250 an hour, or $8,000 a day. She said she earns $200,000 a year, claiming the income as real estate proceeds on her tax returns.

Sex, Ms. Xi’an insisted, is a small part of the service; she is attentive, compassionate, a keen listener. She does not entertain at home, and arrives at each rendezvous in nondescript business-casual wear, a tote filled with lingerie, whalebone corsets and spiked heels tucked under one arm.

“It sounds kind of crazy, but I didn’t realize how much fun it was going to be, and how much I’d like my clients,” Ms. Xi’an said.

Still, she is terrified that her parents will discover the real source of how she has paid their medical bills, and said she hoped to retire very soon. For hers is an isolated life, with few friends knowing how she spends her working hours, and no unpaid sex or romantic relationships.

“When I’m out of the office,” she said, “I really don’t want to think about the office.”

Editors’ Note: March 30, 2008 

 An article on March 16 profiling three sex workers in the wake of Gov. Eliot Spitzer’s resignation after revelations that he patronized prostitutes misconstrued how two of the women, identified by the pseudonyms Faith O’Donnell and Sally Anderson, said they earned a living. The resulting misrepresentation of the two women’s work included a headline that referred to them as “high-priced call girls” and a paragraph that said they practiced “the 21st-century version of the oldest profession.” The reporter who interviewed them, one of two who worked on the article, never explicitly asked the women whether they traded sex for money or were prostitutes, call girls or escorts; he used the term “sex workers,” a term they used themselves that describes strippers and lap dancers as well as prostitutes. Though Ms. Anderson advertises herself as a “dominatrix with a holistic approach,” he did not ask her whether that meant she also performed sex acts for money, nor did he ask Ms. O’Donnell what her work actually was before characterizing it. He and the editors should have explored whether he had determined these things precisely. After the article was published, both women contacted The Times and said they do not perform sex for money; Ms. O’Donnell refused to be specific about what she does. Because of an editing error, the article misstated the political work of the New York chapter of the Sex Workers Outreach Project, a group in which Ms. Anderson is active; it advocates the decriminalization of prostitution, not its legalization, arguing that sex work should be regulated through labor law like other jobs but not subject to additional restrictions. Another editing error changed the meaning of Ms. Anderson’s observation that “no one” had come to an event she had helped plan to highlight difficulties faced by prostitutes; Ms. Anderson meant that no journalists had attended.
460 2008-03-16 If nice guys and ladies finish, if not last, then perhaps second, here are two questions: Are the qualities needed to slog your way to the top of the political mountain the same ones that can destroy you when you get there? And who’s the better bet to bring the change that everyone is said to be so hot for — the imploding alphas or the popular betas?

The answer to A seems clearer than the answer to B.

MR. CODEY and Mrs. Rell have similar advice for Mr. Paterson: Just because you weren’t elected governor doesn’t mean you’re not. Grab the job for all it’s worth.

“My thing was that I was not going to take myself seriously, but I was going to take the job very seriously,” said Mr. Codey, who declined to run for governor when Mr. Corzine and his unlimited campaign war chest decided they wanted the job. “I knew I had only been guaranteed 14 months here, but I was going to make an impact. My line was, ‘I may be an undertaker, but I’m not a caretaker.’ ”

So both followed a script similar to the one they recommended to Mr. Paterson. Their first goal was to calm the waters, rebuild political bridges, make a very public show that they were in charge, and then pick a high-profile issue to start with.

For Mr. Codey it was his pet issue, mental health care. For Mrs. Rell, it was an overhaul of the state’s ethics laws, a response in part to Mr. Rowland’s transgressions. “Absolutely, you have to come in charging,” she said.

Without quite dumping on their predecessors, Mr. Codey and Mrs. Rell both seem to agree that there’s something to the notion that the nonstop campaigning that can make a successful candidate can also make a dysfunctional public official.

There is one very conspicuous alpha female out there, but Mrs. Rell said that Top Dog Syndrome remains a largely male disorder. “One of the things women don’t have, like some of the alphas out there, is the ability to brag about yourself and raise money,” she said. “The previous governor might have gone out and asked John Smith for $1,000. I’d ask for $500 and think that’s a lot.”

Mrs. Rell, who was elected to a full term in 2006 with 63 percent of the vote, said that over time she finds herself morphing a bit into the alpha role. She’s less patient than she used to be, she said, and more likely to need to remind herself to listen to people instead of thinking about what she’s going to say next.

So. Question for the alphas: Can you spit fire and not blow yourself up in the process? Question for the betas: Can you make nice and also make change? Question for the rest of us: Can we get the right combination of fire and nice, or does this spin cycle keep spinning?
461 2008-03-16 For more than two years now, Congress, the news media, current and former national security officials, think tanks and academic institutions have been engaged in a profound debate over how to modernize the law governing electronic spying to keep pace with technology. We keep hoping President Bush will join in.

Instead, the president offers propaganda intended to scare Americans, expand his powers, and erode civil liberties — and to ensure that no one is held to account for the illegal wiretapping he ordered after 9/11.

Consider last Thursday’s performance, as the House debated a sound bill that closes some technology gaps in the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and gives government agencies new flexibility to eavesdrop, but preserves constitutional protections against unreasonable searches. Mr. Bush distorted the contents of the bill and threatened to veto it.

He accused House leaders of “putting in place a cumbersome court approval process that would make it harder to collect intelligence on foreign terrorists.” Actually, the bill merely ensures that special judges continue to supervise surveillance of American citizens. The “cumbersome process” is really a court that acts swiftly and has refused only a half-dozen of more than 21,000 wiretap requests in its nearly 30 years of existence.

What Mr. Bush wants is to be able to listen to your international telephone calls and read your international e-mail whenever he wants, without a court being able to prevent it or judge the legality of his actions.

Mr. Bush said the House bill would “cause us to lose vital intelligence on terrorist threats.” But he has never offered credible evidence of any operation that was hobbled because officials had to request a warrant. The law already allows the government to eavesdrop first and then seek a warrant. As for that technology gap, Congress fixed it last year. The authority has expired, but wiretapping operations started under it can continue.
462 2008-03-16 YOU know her — that nice teenager across the street? Chloe. There she is, sitting in one of the two captain’s seats in the midsection of her mom’s Toyota Sienna, bopping along to the music on her iPod. Now and then she pulls out one of the ear buds so that she can tell her mom some forgotten bit of news or gossip; Chloe’s mom is up to speed on the dramas that are always unfolding in her daughter’s circle of friends, just as she can tell you the date of her next French test, the topic of her coming history paper and the location and scope of her next community service project. They have a great night planned out: they’re going to pick up Chloe’s best friend and then drive back home for a night of DVDs and popcorn in the family room. Her mom will putter around close by, and her dad will probably sit down and watch one of the movies with the girls.

When I was in high school in the 1970s, we had a name for teenagers like Chloe: losers. If an otherwise normal girl thought that the best way to spend a Saturday night was home with her parents — not just co-existing with them, but actually hanging out with them — we would have been looking for a bucket of pig’s blood.

In my day, we did whatever was necessary to get out on a Saturday night: we climbed out of windows; we jumped on the back of motorcycles; God help us, we hitchhiked. We needed, on the most basic and physical level, to be out in the dangerous night, with one another, away from our parents and the safety of home. It was no way to live, and some of us didn’t. But it was a drive so elemental and essential that there seemed no way to deny it.

That a profound change has taken place in the relationship between American teenagers and their parents is made clear by statistics from the Federal Highway Administration showing a steady decline in the number of licensed teenage drivers. In the last decade, the proportion of 16-year-olds nationwide who hold driver’s licenses has dropped from nearly half to less than one-third.

The reasons have a great deal to do with the cost of car insurance and driver’s education programs. But among middle- and upper-middle-class young adults, the cohort that created the teenage car culture, the propulsive energy that once served to blast an adolescent away from his or her parents has begun to drain away. Teenagers report that they don’t need to drive: their parents are willing to take them where they want to go, and they are content to ride shotgun with Mom, texting and yakking all the way to the mall.
463 2008-03-16 Three students from New Jersey and Long Island finished among the top 10 winners in the annual Intel Science Talent Search.

The winners, announced Tuesday night at a black-tie dinner in Washington, included Eric Delgado, 18, of Bayonne High School. He finished fifth and won a $25,000 scholarship for a project that studied ways to improve the effectiveness of antibiotics against resistant bacteria.

David Rosengarten, 18, of John L. Miller-Great Neck North High School on Long Island, came in sixth and won a $25,000 scholarship for a project that investigated the motion of stars within galaxies and the influence of matter not visible to the eye — so-called dark matter.

Alexis Mychajliw, 16, a student at Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, also on Long Island, took ninth place and a $20,000 scholarship for a project that showed that both wetlands and meadows are crucial for the survival of dragonflies and damsel flies.

The three were chosen from a field of 40 finalists, each of whom will receive at least $5,000 in scholarships and a laptop.
464 2008-03-16 The city has amassed about $700,000 in grants from Shell, the New York Power Authority and the State Energy Research and Development Authority to buy five of its own hydrogen-powered vehicles, said Joseph Nicoletti Jr., the public works commissioner. Under its agreement with G.M., the city gets half the station’s hydrogen output for use in its fuel-cell vehicles.

Those vehicles include three Toyota Prius hybrids that run on electricity and hydrogen rather than the electricity and gasoline that power mainstream hybrids. Two Chevrolet fuel-cell pickup trucks — one runs solely on hydrogen, the other on a combination of hydrogen and compressed natural gas — are also joining the city fleet, Mr. Nicoletti said.

“The big benefit of using hydrogen as a fuel is that there is practically zero pollution,” said Mr. Nicoletti, who oversees the city’s approximately 400 vehicles, about 20 percent of which run on alternative energies including electricity, ethanol and compressed natural gas. “Water vapor is what comes out of the exhaust pipe.”

Maria Recchia-O’Neill of Rye Brook, who is one of the first two local residents to get one of the Equinoxes on a three-month loan, said driving the car had created even more interest in alternative fuels than she had expected. She is the science curriculum coordinator for the Port Chester Public Schools.

“I am very concerned about the state of our planet,” said Ms. Recchia-O’Neill, who came across G.M.’s online application while researching a school project on the subject. “I like knowing that we’re doing something good and making this a viable option.”

For the city, the involvement in Project Driveway is one step in its long use of alternative fuel, which dates to the 1978 gasoline shortage, when the federal government promoted the use of gasohol, a combination of gasoline and ethanol, Mr. Nicoletti said.

Since then, the city has created a range of fuel-saving techniques, from using and combining alternative energies to reducing the weight of trucks by replacing steel frames with aluminum or fiberglass, Mr. Nicoletti said.

For many years, White Plains had the only ethanol-fueling station in New York.

Mr. O’Connell said the mass production of affordable fuel-cell vehicles was at least five years off. But incorporating the vehicles into the city fleet now — as well as having the ability to refuel them — sets the stage to further White Plains’s use of alternative-fuel vehicles after General Motors’ test ends, Mr. Nicoletti said.

“I want to keep it going,” he said.
465 2008-03-16 Dr. Jessica Lynn Roybal and Dr. Edward David McCoul were married Saturday at Holy Name of Jesus Church in New Orleans. Msgr. Robert D. Massett, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

The bride, who graduated from Brown, and bridegroom, a graduate of Notre Dame, met at Tulane University. Each received a medical degree and a master’s degree in public health from Tulane, where Dr. McCoul also received a master’s in pharmacology.

The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a third-year resident in general surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.

She is the daughter of Ann W. Roybal and L. Alberto Roybal, both of Newark, Del. The bride’s father, who retired as a chemical engineer for DuPont in Wilmington, Del., now works as an environmental engineer for the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control in Wilmington. Her mother is an English teacher at Delcastle Technical High School, which is also in Wilmington.

The bridegroom, 32, is a third-year resident in otolaryngology at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn.

He is a son of Diane Hebert McCoul and Edward J. McCoul Jr., both of Cambridge, Ohio. His mother is the vice president of Marietta Coal, a mining company in St. Clairsville, Ohio, that was founded by the bridegroom’s maternal grandfather, the late George G. Nicolozakes. The bridegroom’s father, who is retired, was an elementary teacher with the Cambridge City School District in Ohio.
466 2008-03-16 Peter, now a slender 12-year-old, seems to be thriving in this soil, making human friends and forming attachments to Buddy the chestnut horse and Marley the golden mutt. He plays baseball, builds birdhouses and, when he goes home to the Chaikos on weekends, whips up a tasty salad. He has won over the staff at Green Chimneys with a shy smile and twinkling blue eyes, and his English is so fluent he gave an oral report recently on the A.S.P.C.A.

“Some people don’t treat animals nicely, and that makes me feel very upset,” Peter declared.

Green Chimneys’ philosophy has played no small part in his turnaround. It was founded 60 years ago with the notion that mixing troubled children with animals would teach them lessons of affection, discipline and responsibility. The founder and éminence grise is Samuel B. Ross Jr., 79, who as an only child of the house physician of the Roosevelt Hotel in Manhattan found consolation in dogs, turtles and goldfish. In college, he decided he wanted to start a school “where children would be surrounded by animals.”

“I didn’t understand it as a therapy, but we figured out it was also good therapy,” he said, a leprechaunish smile glinting below gold-white hair. “A lot of children are frightened by relationships with adults or peers, and a relationship with an animal is a steppingstone. They learn that if they treat animals fairly, the animals will respond with love and devotion, and we think that will help them fit in with their families and school.”

The nonprofit special education school has a budget of $35 million and a staff of 360 that takes care of 180 children. Tuition, ranging from $100,000 a year for residential students to $30,000 for day students, is paid by public schools and social service agencies.

Peter is too young for one of the school’s signal programs, in which students prepare golden retrievers to become four-legged assistants to people confined in wheelchairs. With rewards of food and approving shouts of “Yeh!” the students train the dogs to turn on a light switch, get food out of the refrigerator and take off their masters’ shoes.

In one pithy remark, Thomas, an introspective 13-year-old absorbed with his retriever Fred, suggested some of the mistrust the children come in feeling toward bipeds like us.

“All the dogs I ever met are nice to me,” he said.

Sara, 15, a tall girl who assists Dale Picard of East Coast Assistance Dogs, came to Green Chimneys as a rambunctious foster child. As a result of working with the dogs, she said, “it snapped in my head that I needed to behave.”

After five years at the school, she said, she reads two books a day, is learning photography, cheerleads for the basketball team and finally lets people savor her talent for singing.

Sounding just a bit as if she were channeling an inner social worker, Sara said: “I accomplished something most people in life never accomplish. I changed my life.”

In addition to classes in reading, mathematics and history, Peter Chaiko and the other students learn lessons in animal behavior from “farm teachers” like Brian Field — for example, how the oil on ducks’ feathers allows them to shake off water.

It helps that Mr. Field makes class fun, asking Tommy the sheep whether he voted for Clinton or Obama. Tommy’s response was “Baaaaah.”

The other day, Peter was out in the horse corral, whispering to Buddy.

“We talk to each other,” he told a visitor eagerly. “He kisses me sometimes.”

And then as an afterthought, he added, quite wisely, “Animals make you feel good.”
467 2008-03-16 But not everybody is celebrating.

Fred Gorman, a local civic leader and member of Long Islanders for Education Reform, a tax protest group, has been an outspoken opponent of the bond issue.

“The bond referendum was presented as a no out-of-pocket expense,” he said, “but they are taking $13 million out of reserves that was meant to be returned to the people and be used to reduce taxes.”

Approval of the bond issue enables the Sachem district to receive $5 million from the state’s Excel aid program designated for capital projects and $21.6 million in state building aid. The balance of the work will be financed by money from the district’s reserve funds.

Mr. Singer said that had this bond measure failed, there would have been no money coming in from the state, and the district would have been forced to deal with necessary repairs and renovations on its own. He said that a failed vote would not have meant any rebate for homeowners.

Sachem, the Island’s second-largest district, with 15,000 students, can now move forward with a project that includes replacement of heaters, floors, rooftops and windows, upgrading of lighting, new bleachers, playground enhancements and asbestos removal. The largest chunk, of more than $11 million, is for Sachem High School North, in Lake Ronkonkoma, for all-turf athletic fields, roof replacement and new windows for the front of the building.

Mr. Gorman said he had supported past bond referendums and budgets, but not this measure. “The district is now using this money to buy toys,” he said. “Turf fields are nothing more than bragging rights, and there is $7 million worth of unneeded repairs. Why replace hot water heaters that are not broken? That offends me.”

The referendum was a result of a “building condition” survey completed during the 2005-6 school year, in which engineering consultants identified capital improvements that were top priorities. The list was shared with the Sachem Capital Projects Advisory Committee, composed of Sachem parents, and then sent to the Board of Education for final approval of projects for the referendum.

It will take about a year to obtain the go-ahead from the State Education Department, then another year for bids and specifications to be completed, Mr. Singer said, with work planned to be done during the summers of 2010 and 2011.

Sachem was not the only bond issue up for a recent vote. Last month, Hauppauge rejected a $48.8 million bond issue that would have allowed the district to refurbish all of its buildings and build a synthetic athletic field at the high school.

But for Sachem, last week’s vote of approval was a significant victory for district officials.

Sachem rejected a 12.6 percent tax increase in 2004. In 2005, it was forced to adopt an austerity budget after voters rejected a budget with an 18 percent tax increase — the largest proposed tax jump on Long Island. The district then had to reduce the budget by $12 million, which translated into teacher cuts, bigger classes, a reduction in the special education program, elimination of the remedial summer school program and a reduction or elimination of many sports teams and clubs.

Last year, the district presented a budget with no tax increase, helped by state aid and a surplus from the previous year. This year’s proposed budget of $278.8 million calls for no tax increase.
468 2008-03-16 At the end of our freshman year at Harvard, my roommates and I, having done so well so far in the lottery of life, did badly in the housing lottery. We were sent to live in the Quad, a group of dorms half a mile northwest of the main campus. This was in the mid-’90s, before global warming, so on cold winter days, while our classmates rolled out of bed and into lecture with a steaming hot coffee and a warm apple fritter, we trudged through snow and wind to sit there for an hour in our wet socks. On the other hand, cut off from civilization, we had a lot of time to think. We thought about modernity, the Renaissance, etc.; we played a lot of Ping-Pong; and we considered our lives, thus far, and what Harvard meant to them. One of my friends formulated an idea. “We’ve done the hardest thing,” he said, meaning getting into Harvard. He came to be fond of this statement, and in lulls in dining hall conversation he’d return to it. “We’re 19 years old and we’ve done the hardest thing there is to do,” he’d say, and then we’d sit there, looking stupidly at one another.

In the years since, as I learned from Joie Jager-Hyman’s FAT ENVELOPE FRENZY: One Year, Five Promising Students, and the Pursuit of the Ivy League Prize (Harper, paper, $14.95), it’s only gotten harder. A former Dartmouth admissions officer, Jager-Hyman follows five high school high-achievers trying to get into Harvard.

And it is scary.

Before reading “Fat Envelope Frenzy,” I was convinced that our nation’s youth spent all their time uploading party photos to the Internet. I still think that. Yet it appears that a division of labor has been effected. Reading about Felix, who at 14 spent the summer assisting doctors at a rural orphanage in his parents’ native China; and Nabil, a top “mathlete” already familiar with the work of his potential future professors; and Lisa, a national champion rhythmic gymnast who tells Jager-Hyman that gymnastics “is like my anti-drug — not that I’d be doing drugs,” I kept thinking of poor John Stuart Mill, the original early applicant, whose father home-schooled him from the age of 3, teaching him Greek and Latin and the theories of Jeremy Bentham, but not how to feel. At the age of 20, Mill suffered a breakdown; already one of the most brilliant polemicists in England, he couldn’t say anymore what the point of it was. As he later wrote, “The whole foundation on which my life was constructed fell down.”

What’s the point of all this striving now? It’s hard to tell, because the striving itself, as a kind of sporting contest, has become so much a part of American life. Jager-Hyman is alive to some of the more outrageous aspects of the college admissions process, but she is also an eager participant. At the drop of a hat she will switch into admissions-officer mode, telling us for example that Felix, while a nice guy and a straight-A student and an accomplished pianist, is “also a member of a group” — Asian-Americans — “that is overrepresented in the Harvard applicant pool, which could be a disadvantage.” In the end, almost despite yourself, you read “Fat Envelope Frenzy” to find out who got in and who didn’t.

A more sophisticated new book, THE RUNNER: A True Account of the Amazing Lies and Fantastical Adventures of the Ivy League Impostor James Hogue (New Press, $22.95), by David Samuels, approaches the meaning of college admissions from a very different angle. James Hogue was a con man who in his late 20s gained admission to Princeton by pretending to be a teenage prodigy from the Western plains. Samuels narrates Hogue’s story backward, from his most recent arrest in 2006 for a series of thefts and through his many proliferating identities to Princeton itself, where he excelled both academically and socially — he was tapped for the most elite eating club — until he was recognized, pulled out of a geology lecture and handcuffed before his incredulous friends.

Hogue, for all his deceptions, was genuinely an elite runner (a former Kansas state champion), and Samuels is an elite narrative journalist, a master at teasing out the social and moral implications of the smallest small talk, of the way people turn their heads or slide into non sequitur as they try to explain themselves. Nothing is lost on Samuels, and his decision to tell the story backward, such that you essentially meet all the fake Hogues before finding out anything substantial about the “real” one, gives you a sense of what meeting Hogue would have been like. It would have been profoundly disorienting.
469 2008-03-16 Suzanne B. Goldberg, a law professor at Columbia and director of its sexuality and gender law clinic, called the current climate “a perfect storm.”

“Before Spitzer, there had been a great focus on women as presidential candidates and women as voters,” she said. “Now we add to that women as political spouses.”

“I’m not such a Mars-Venus person but this is one of those moments where gender is at least a partial explanation, it affects how people hear campaign rhetoric, how people see political downfalls,” Ms. Goldberg said. “Even people who were unwilling to see it before are more likely to acknowledge the pervasiveness of sex stereotypes.”

At one extreme there was the bald outrage of Geraldine Ferraro, who complained that Barack Obama would not have come as far as he had if he were a white man or a woman of any race — comments that led her to resign from the Clinton campaign last week. Ms. Ferraro tripped right into the race minefield in her big rush to make her point about the gender minefield. But all along, many women who fought the first wave of battles for gender equality have seen a bias against Mrs. Clinton — which helps explain why older women form the core of her support.

Younger women, for their part, are starting to have what Ms. Goldberg calls “the aha moment” — even if it doesn’t put them in Mrs. Clinton’s column, as some of the welter of commentary last week found.

“Like lots of other twentysomething women, I’ve been an unswerving Obama girl from the get-go,” wrote Noreen Malone on The XX Factor, the Slate magazine blog written by women. “Oddly enough it’s taken Spitzergate — not Hillary’s tears, not her scolding — to make me less dismissive of the feminist ‘obligation’ to vote for a woman.”

It reminded her of a depressing bit of wisdom passed on by a friend’s father: “The most powerful people in the world are old white men and pretty young women.”

“During my supposedly post-feminist lifetime, the women who’ve created the biggest stir are the young women who’ve ruined the careers of powerful old men,” she wrote. “I’m not saying I’m for Hillary now, and I’m not saying that Hillary’s history with sexual peccadilloes is uncomplicated, but it certainly makes me appreciate the fact that she’s learned other ways of manipulating power.”

A year ago, it all seemed so different. If the nation wasn’t quite gender-blind, still, a woman stood poised to become president, didn’t she? So unskeptical were women about that possibility that lots of them felt they did not have to vote for “the woman candidate”; it was the ultimate feminist decision to find Mr. Obama the better candidate — or John Edwards or any of the other men running, although it was Mr. Obama who seemed to transcend the identity politics that many young women in particular found tiresome and anachronistic.

But it has proved harder to move the country beyond stereotypes. In an essay she wrote last fall for the new book “30 Ways of Looking at Hillary: Reflections by Women Writers,” the Nation columnist Katha Pollitt declared that the “sulfurous emanations” about Mrs. Clinton made her want to write a check to her campaign, knock on doors, vote for her twice — even though she’d probably choose another candidate on policy grounds. “The hysterical insults flung at Hillary Clinton are just a franker, crazier version of the everyday insults — shrill, strident, angry, ranting, unattractive — that are flung at any vaguely liberal mildly feminist woman who shows a bit of spirit and independence,” she wrote, “who puts herself out in the public realm, who doesn’t fumble and look up coyly from underneath her hair and give her declarative sentences the cadence of a question.”

“Every woman I know who calls herself a feminist, or is even just doing well, especially in a field in which men also contend,” Ms. Pollitt wrote, “deals with some version of this.”

The bridge from Ms. Pollitt’s generation to its successors was apparent last month in an e-mail message a friend of Chelsea Clinton’s sent around. Attached was an article by the early and unreconstructed feminist Robin Morgan that detailed in full-throated outrage the bias against Mrs. Clinton, and women. Chelsea herself apparently appended a note saying that while she did not agree entirely with Ms. Morgan’s point, she was starting to understand what older women were complaining about. “I confess that I did not entirely ‘get it’ until not only guys stood up and shouted, ‘iron my shirts’ but the media reacted with amusement, not outrage,” the note attributed to Ms. Clinton said.

Writing about the e-mail message on Slate, Emily Bazelon asked, “Even if we don’t agree with all of what Morgan has to say, either because we just don’t or because we’re not of her generation, should the reception to Hillary’s candidacy radicalize us? Or is this just all too unhinged?” The group of women on her e-mail list, she said, “were split.”

A contest between a woman and an African-American raises the inevitable question about whether it is harder to overcome racial bias than gender bias. Few claim to know the answer, and many argue it’s too hard to tease out the ways each plays a role. But some also argue that the media is not as quick to recognize misogyny as it is to recognize racism. “The media is on eggshells about race, but has blinders on about sex and gender stereotyping,” said Ms. Goldberg of Columbia.

Kate Michelman, a former president of Naral Pro-Choice America, who is an adviser to Mr. Obama, said in an interview that “racism has risen to a level of social consciousness that sexism has not.”

Of course, it was comedy that crystallized the moment. “Saturday Night Live” mocked reporters falling faint over Mr. Obama (Sample debate question: “Are you mad at me?”) and cutting off Mrs. Clinton for being that irritating bore talking about health care again. Meanwhile, on “The Daily Show” on Comedy Central last week, Samantha Bee played the role of the philandering wife, standing behind a podium contritely acknowledging her offense while her husband stood behind her with the downcast eyes so familiar from Silda Wall Spitzer and the political wives who had come before. It was, of course, preposterous — and not just because Ms. Bee’s husband was wearing pearls.

The Spitzer scandal seemed to stoke particular outrage among women. On Slate, Hanna Rosin wrote of her “Ashley Dupré” moment — referring to the name Mr. Spitzer’s prostitute uses. “I read her story and the old ’70s feminist in me (admittedly a tiny presence) rears up.”

Ms. Rosin was a child in the ’70s, but Ms. Michelman, a veteran of that feminist era, saw something in last week’s scandal too. “I was upset with Bill Clinton but there’s something about this one that has gotten to me more,” she said. “Maybe because Spitzer has carved out for himself these high ethical standards.” And, of course, many women fighting sex trafficking considered him an ally, since that was one of his causes as a prosecutor.

But Ms. Michelman is not changing her vote: “I do think women are angry, but anger doesn’t get us very far. It’s a motivator, but it’s not enough.”
470 2008-03-16 Let’s not forget that Bear Stearns lost billions for its clients last summer, when two hedge funds investing heavily in mortgage securities collapsed. And the firm tried to dump toxic mortgage securities it held in its own vaults onto the public last summer in an initial public offering of a financial company called Everquest Financial. Thankfully, that deal never got done.

Recall, too, that back in 1998, when the Long Term Capital Management hedge fund required a Fed-arranged bailout, Bear Stearns refused to join the rescue effort. Jimmy Cayne, then chief executive at the firm, told the Fed to take a hike.

And so, Bear Stearns, a firm that some say is this decade’s version of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the anything-goes, 1980s junk-bond shop dominated by Michael Milken, is rescued. Almost two decades ago, Drexel was left to die.

Bear Stearns and Drexel have a lot in common. And yet their differing outcomes offer proof that we are in a very different and scarier place than in the late 1980s.

“Why not set an example of Bear Stearns, the guys who have this record of dog-eat-dog, we’re brass knuckles, we’re tough?” asked William A. Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital in Issaquah, Wash., and co-author with Fred Sheehan of “Greenspan’s Bubbles: The Age of Ignorance at the Federal Reserve.” “This is the perfect time to set an example, but they are not interested in setting an example. We are Bailout Nation.”

And so we are. After years of never allowing any of our financial institutions to fail, they have become so enormous that nobody will be allowed to sink beneath the waves. Otherwise, a tsunami would swamp the hedge funds, banks and other brokerage firms that remain afloat.

If Bear Stearns failed, for example, it would result in a wholesale dumping of mortgage securities and other assets onto a market that is frozen and where buyers are in hiding. This fire sale would force surviving institutions carrying the same types of securities on their books to mark down their positions, generating more margin calls and creating more failures.

As of last Nov. 30, Bear Stearns had on its books approximately $46 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Jettisoning such a portfolio onto a mortgage market that is not operative would, it is plain to see, be a disaster.

But, who knows what those mortgages are really worth? According to Bear Stearns’s annual report, $29 billion of them were valued using computer models “derived from” or “supported by” some kind of observable market data. The value of the remaining $17 billion is an estimate based on “internally developed models or methodologies utilizing significant inputs that are generally less readily observable.”

In other words, your guess is as good as mine.

To some degree, what happened at Bear, of course, was a classic run on the bank — the kind immortalized in Frank Capra’s homage to financial responsibility, “It’s a Wonderful Life.” As fears about Bear’s financial position heightened, its customers began demanding their cash and big hedge funds that were using the firm as an administrative back office or lender moved their accounts elsewhere.

In addition, institutions that had bought credit default swaps from Bear Stearns, insurance policies that protect against corporate bond defaults, were scrambling to undo those trades as the firm’s ability to pay the claims looked dicier.

“For the government to print money at the expense of taxpayers as opposed to requiring or going about a receivership and wind-down of any insolvent institutions should be troubling to taxpayers and regulators alike,” said Josh Rosner, an analyst at Graham Fisher & Company and an expert on mortgage securities. “The Fed has now crossed the line in a very clear way on ‘moral hazard,’ because they have opened the door to the view that they are required to save almost any institution through non-recourse loans — except the government doesn’t have the money and it destroys the U.S.’s reputation as the broadest, deepest, most transparent and properly regulated capital market in the world.”

And here is the unfortunate refrain. Investors, already mistrusting many corporate and government leaders, were once again assured that nothing was wrong — right up until the very end. So is it any wonder investors react to every market rumor of an impending failure with the certainty that it’s true? In too many cases, the rumors turned out to be true, notwithstanding the attempts at reassurance by executives and policy makers.

Only last Monday, for example, Bear put out a press release saying, “there is absolutely no truth to the rumors of liquidity problems that circulated today in the market.” The next day, Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said he was comfortable that the major Wall Street firms were resting on satisfactory “capital cushions.”

Three days later, it was bailout time for Bear.

HERE is the bind the Fed is in: Like the boy who puts his finger in the dike to keep sea water from pouring in, the Fed finds that new leaks keep emerging.

Regulators must do whatever they can to keep the markets open and operating, and much of that relies upon the confidence of investors. But by offering to backstop firms like Bear, who were the very architects of their own — and the market’s — current problems, overseers like the Fed undermine a little bit more of that confidence.

Another worry? How many well-capitalized institutions remain at the ready to take over those firms that may encounter turbulence in the future? Banks just do not have the capital that is needed to rescue troubled firms.

That will leave the taxpayer, alas. As usual.
471 2008-03-16 Walking its streets, one sees Mexican and Indonesian businesses, and — as on one block just south of Roosevelt Avenue on a recent Sunday — a van belonging to a Korean church and another to Thailand’s national airline, and then two men in kilts and knee socks strolling past the parade route.

What draws all those kinds of people, Mr. Conley said, is safety — the 108th Precinct, which covers the area, traditionally has some of the lowest crime rates in the city — and proximity to three subway lines, the Long Island Rail Road and several major roads.

In fact, he added, the area’s biggest problem is coping with the strains of development. With large new apartment buildings being built, and single-family houses being converted, legally and illegally, into multiunit buildings, on-street parking is scarce. Schools are crowded, he said; at one, trailers are being used for overflow classes. Mr. Conley’s board has asked the city’s Planning Department to toughen zoning in the area.

Tama R. Robertson, an associate broker at Bellmarc Realty, says interest remains strong among people seeking a way into the market near Manhattan.

“If they have more than one child or are expecting a child,” she said, “they can actually afford the second bedroom, or often a third bedroom, that there’s no way they could expect in Manhattan.”

Ms. Gallagher, now 39, never left the area and in 2005 bought an apartment in an 12-acre co-op complex. For her, the neighborhood is just right. She has access to the panoply of ethnic restaurants along the No. 7 train in nearby neighborhoods, and to some favorite spots within the neighborhood too. And, as she was reminded while training for a marathon recently, the Queensboro Bridge and the far side of the East River are within reach.

“If you wanted to run to Manhattan,” she said, “it’s only three miles.”

The area’s main commercial district is along Roosevelt Avenue, under intersecting elevated tracks, where commuter-oriented businesses like pizza places and newsstands mix with restaurants serving the varied ethnic groups.

To the southeast, the section just north of Queens Boulevard between 60th Street and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway has been a hotbed of development, Mr. Conley said. He described one recent case in which a developer who was tearing down an old house to build a six-story residential building compromised with the board to preserve a 227-year-old tree.

North of the business district, the area straddling Broadway and Northern Boulevard is quieter, marked by blocks of two-story brick houses, many with driveways. One afternoon in this section, along 37th Avenue, the smell of cardamom and cloves filled the air.

That part of the two-square-mile neighborhood also has industrial areas — though there is evidence even there of residential construction, particularly along Broadway. One such property was once a lumber store but will soon be condos, said Mr. Conley, who added that his board has been concerned about maintaining blue-collar jobs. “It’s very important to us,” he said. “Those are the good-paying jobs.”

At the northwestern end, closest to Astoria, is Boulevard Gardens, the co-op where Ms. Gallagher lives, in a complex of 10 buildings with 6 stories each, and a total of 960 units. Ms. Robertson of Bellmarc, who sold Ms. Gallagher her apartment there, says clients enjoy the complex’s quiet, homey feel and relatively low maintenance fees.

In the wake of the mortgage crisis, though, some would-be buyers have had difficulty meeting the co-op’s rule that no more than 30 percent of a resident’s income can go toward mortgage and maintenance fees. In general, she said, tighter lending standards have hurt potential buyers in the neighborhood.

“I’ve asked, ‘Well, have you checked with your mortgage broker in the last two or three months?’ ” she said. “And then they go back and check with the mortgage broker and find that there are fewer products available to them.”

Single-family houses in Woodside tend to sell for $500,000 to $600,000, said Yasser Aziz Bassily, a Queens-based broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman. Two-family houses, which are popular in the area, can sell for more than $700,000, said Joan Lamanna, an agent at Fillmore Real Estate, whose data also showed several recent sales of three-family houses for less than $900,000.

For co-ops, Mr. Bassily said, buyers can expect to pay a little less than $200,000 for one bedroom and a little more than $200,000 for two — though prices edge higher for well-maintained, conveniently located places. Prices also are higher for condominiums, according to Weisung Wang, another Prudential Douglas Elliman broker, who said they generally sold for around $300,000 for one bedroom and $400,000 for two.

Two-bedroom rentals can be had for around $1,500 per month, one-bedrooms for around $1,200 and three-bedrooms for $2,000 or so.

WHAT TO DO

Local residents swear that the banner outside Donovan’s Pub on Roosevelt Avenue boasting of the city’s best burgers is no overstatement; similarly, Sripraphai, a Thai restaurant on 39th Street, has developed a citywide following. For outdoor recreation, however, Woodside is a challenge: it has little green space.

“We continue to say, every time we talk to a developer or anytime something comes past us, ‘What about open space?’ ” Mr. Conley said. There is plenty of land and fresh air in the expansive New Calvary Cemetery at the south end of the neighborhood, but, as Mr. Conley noted, “it’s not a place where you can put up a swing set for your kids.”

The elevated station at 61st Street and Roosevelt Avenue has an express No. 7 train that, according to residents, can reach Midtown in 20 minutes or less. It also has a link to the Long Island Rail Road, and access to the system’s Port Washington line, which stops at Shea Stadium and the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Farther north, the R and V trains along Broadway, stop at Northern Boulevard and 65th Street.

Woodside has at least five public elementary schools — four with more than 1,000 students, the other with more than 500. The area’s only middle school is Intermediate School 125, on 47th Avenue.

The nearest public high schools are Newtown High School, in Elmhurst, and Long Island City High School. Newtown students taking the most recent SAT averaged 393 in reading, 444 in math and 385 in writing, versus 441, 462 and 433 citywide. Averages at Long Island City High were 419, 442 and 409.

The neighborhood also has several private schools, some religious. Corpus Christi School, at the northern end, offers prekindergarten through Grade 8, as does St. Sebastian School, on 58th Street, near the middle of the neighborhood. The Razi School, an Islamic school on Queens Boulevard, has more than 400 enrolled in kindergarten through Grade 12.

According to the Encyclopedia of New York City, the area was settled in the late 17th century, and a ridge near what is now Woodside Avenue served as a route for couriers during the Revolution. The area grew with the arrival of rail and trolley connections, including the train to Manhattan in 1861 and the elevated subway in 1917. The last open land disappeared during a development boom in the 1920s.
472 2008-03-16 The violence in Lhasa and Xiahe has created a major political and public relations challenge for the ruling Communist Party as Beijing prepares to play host to the Olympic Games in August. The demonstrations are the largest in Tibet since 1989, when Chinese troops used lethal force to crush an uprising by thousands of Tibetan protesters.

China’s response to the week’s demonstrations is being watched carefully by the outside world. The European Union and the United States have both called on China to act with restraint. The White House called on China to “respect Tibetan culture” and issued a renewed call for dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhism.

The president of the International Olympic Committee, Jacques Rogge, rejected calls for a boycott of the Games to protest the crackdown.

“We believe that the boycott doesn’t solve anything,” he said Saturday on the Caribbean island of St. Kitts, The Associated Press reported. “On the contrary. It is penalizing innocent athletes and it is stopping the organization from something that definitely is worthwhile organizing.”

The tumult also undercuts a theme regularly promoted by China’s propaganda officials, that Tibetans are a happy minority group, smoothly integrated into the country’s broader ethnic fabric.

“What we see right now, what is happening in Tibet, blows the whole propaganda strategy in Tibet wide open,” said Lhadon Tethong, an official with the New York-based advocacy group Students for a Free Tibet.

On Saturday the Chinese authorities defended their response to the violence in Lhasa. “We fired no gunshots,” said Qiangba Puncog, chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Regional Government, according to state media.

But Tibetan advocacy groups and witnesses in Lhasa offered contradictory accounts. The Tibetan government in exile said at least 30 Tibetans had died in the protests, according to Agence France-Presse. Witnesses told Radio Free Asia, the nonprofit news agency financed by the United States government, that numerous Tibetans were dead. A 13-year-old Tibetan, reached by telephone, said he had watched the violence from his apartment and saw four or five Tibetans fall to the ground after military police officers fired upon them.

Foreign journalists are being restricted from traveling to Lhasa, and the precise death toll remains unknown. State media reported 10 deaths and characterized most of them as shopkeepers. The government’s official news agency, Xinhua, reported that the victims had been “burned to death.”

The demonstrations in Lhasa began Monday and continued through Wednesday as peaceful protests by Buddhist monks from three different monasteries. Some monks protested religious restrictions while others demanded an end to Chinese rule and even waved the Tibetan flag. The police arrested scores of monks and then reportedly prevented monks from leaving the three monasteries.

Initially, the protests were largely ignored in the Chinese news media, which were providing blanket coverage of the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress, the Communist Party-controlled national legislature.

But with growing international concern, and reports that Chinese security forces had attacked monks, Xinhua issued a short statement blaming rioters for the violence. By Saturday morning, China’s state television network, CCTV, was broadcasting video of Tibetans burning buildings as anchors read directly from a Xinhua report that blamed the Dalai Lama for the violence. By Saturday night, Xinhua had released a vivid, on-the-scene report that described the violence as “planned sabotage.”

Chinese officials demanded the surrender of the “lawbreakers” in Lhasa and offered leniency to people who turned themselves into the authorities by midnight Monday. Senior officials described the unrest as “sabotage” orchestrated by the Dalai Lama and credited the military police for rescuing 580 people from banks, schools and hospitals that were set afire by rioters.

Gen. Yang Deqing of the People’s Liberation Army said Chinese soldiers would not be deployed and the protests were being handled by local police officers and the country’s paramilitary force, the People’s Armed Police.

“We’ll let the police and the military police handle the disturbance,” General Yang said at the National People’s Congress, where he was a delegate. “We won’t be involved.”

Witnesses in Lhasa on Saturday reported seeing large numbers of military police officers and other officers in riot gear, as well as armored vehicles. Other witnesses reached by telephone described the periodic sound of gunshots. Armed military police officers were reportedly searching neighborhood by neighborhood.

Several residents, reached by telephone, said that an uneasy calm had settled over the city. Tibetans living in the suburbs said officers were blocking people from entering the city center. Local television broadcast instructions. Power and telephone service, suspended in some neighborhoods on Friday, was being restored on Saturday. Traffic was light on city streets as most shops were closed.

It is still uncertain what set off Friday’s unrest. Tibetan advocates say ordinary Tibetans began rioting after military police officers attacked monks trying to protest outside a monastery in the center of the city.

The extent of the violence was evident in photographs and video shown on the Internet: fires raging from rooftops and from charred vehicles, shattered storefronts and huge crowds trolling city streets.

News agencies reported that foreign tourists were being prohibited from entering Tibet. The United States Embassy in Beijing issued a new warning on Saturday advising American citizens about danger in Lhasa and other regions.
473 2008-03-16 Being with Thomas gave me that. I met him on a January afternoon when I sat down a few seats away in the clinic waiting room. At the time, we both had staph growing in our lungs, but we didn’t yet harbor the more virulent bacteria concomitant with cystic fibrosis. Neither of us could catch anything that we didn’t already have.

Still, contact wasn’t encouraged, and we kept our distance. His eyes fell upon my fishnets as the nutritionist ushered me out of her office; I gazed at his oxfords as he followed her back in.

The next time our clinic dates coincided, he asked if I wanted to get lunch. Over hamburgers, he told me about postcollege life. He had car payments and medical bills and rounds at the pub.

A geologist, he was working only three days a week. It wasn’t enough money, but it gave him more time for horseback riding, which he loved and wouldn’t be physically able to do five years down the road. His lungs were O.K. for now, but there were the nonpulmonary complications, sinusitis and arthritis and irritable bowel syndrome.

“I know,” I said, thinking of my own intestinal drama. “I had to take Klean-Prep twice this week.” The hamburger’s taste was heavy in my mouth; I stared at a clump of gum in the ashtray, wishing I had a piece so I’d be prepared for a kiss.

As we said goodbye, we moved to hug, then stopped. I wondered if I had overestimated his tolerance; maybe my uncensored accounts of viscera had been too much. Or maybe he was just shy. Or maybe he didn’t want to break the rules.

I had already lost too much to the rules: mothers in waiting rooms asked me to sit farther away from their daughters; or nurses telling me to move back from my doorway because I was in isolation, and too close to the hallway. My summer-school house mother had sat me down saying, “There’s someone else in our dorm with cystic fibrosis.” I lit up at the news, but she wasn’t done: “She’s been trying to stay away from you.”

I had had enough. When I reached for Thomas’s pint glass on our second date, I was sending the most deliberate and seductive signal possible. He followed my lead. He wrapped an arm around me as we walked. I held his hand, playing with each finger, bulbous at the tip from lack of oxygen. He picked at the hole in my stocking. I traced letters on his back. I leaned against his chest as we sat in plastic seats at the train station, felt his lungs beneath the corduroy and flesh.

We moved quickly after that. Sex held no greater epidemiological risk than casual contact. Our eagerness was partly due to the feeling that we couldn’t be rejected by one of our own.

But I didn’t lose my vanity, or my neuroses, just because Thomas knew my body’s dirty secrets. Like anyone, I worried about the spot I missed while shaving and the flab on my stomach.

I could have told him that nutritional deficiency was making my hair fall out; he would have said I needn’t apologize. Instead, after a year of treating my withering hair as gently as possible, I bought a blow dryer and fried it straight for him. I was just a girl who liked a boy.

I didn’t throw myself at Thomas in hopes of unconditional acceptance; I did it out of defiance. There was the expectation that we would choose safety over intimacy. There was the probability that had we born a few years earlier, neither of us would have grown old enough to have sex. And then the ultimate snub: the possibility of reproduction.

There we were, manifestations of what people fear for their babies. If we were to conceive, our child would without question have cystic fibrosis. At times, my ambivalence about such an outcome was overcome by my longing for that baby. I wanted to provoke whispers of “How tragic” and “They should have known better” — then prove those judgments wrong.

I envisioned our child, head held proudly, endowed with a sense of O.K.-ness that our own parents hadn’t been able to give us. The three of us were all right, disease included.

So when Thomas climbed off my bed and reached for the packet in his coat pocket, I told him no, we didn’t need that.

We hadn’t meant for it to last. Our first touch, that first shared drink, occurred six weeks before I was to move far away from him. On a horizon marked by unknowable points of decline — questions of when, where, how things would break down — my departure time stood out for its simplicity.

For once, something was certain. Thomas didn’t have to fear hurting me when his health deteriorated, or being hurt when mine did. Like our bodies, our relationship came including a cause of death.

But disease isn’t just biology. It’s a personal culture, shaped by stories, by people, by sexuality, by cities, by coincidences. And Thomas’s was shaped differently.

As our relationship tapered into text messages and the occasional phone call, I dwelled on our conflicting styles of fighting, mentally breaking him down so there would be less to miss. I dated other guys.

But there was a clause in my moving-on project that said: “You can still want, and give yourself, what he promised you. You’re still entitled to that.”

And so I imagined that when I visited Thomas, we would have sex. He would be on standby for when I needed to be reassured, through shared spit and skin, that I wasn’t poison, especially not to someone I loved.

Then came a March afternoon when I stood in my dorm room, phone to my ear, and told Thomas I would be visiting soon.

Burkholderia cepacia: our apocalypse. For us, hearing “cepacia” is equivalent to hearing “Stage IV.” But all I heard was: “You can’t visit me.” That statement slowly evolved into the realization that I was never going to touch Thomas again. And as it would be too difficult for us to be in the same room and maintain three feet of separation, I would never see him again, either.

I mourned what cepacia meant for us long before I could acknowledge what it meant for Thomas: the devastation it forecast. It could drag a patient’s lungs down to useless within a year.

That summer, Thomas had announced he was buying himself a model of an Aston Martin for his birthday; driveable midlife-crisis cars aren’t priced for 24-year-olds. But it didn’t matter that he and I had primed ourselves for death within two decades. We’d had a future, and I wasn’t prepared to lose that.

If he was going to decline, I wanted to be dramatic. I wanted to quit college and plant myself at his bedside. I imagined putting my hospital savvy to use, flushing his IV so he wouldn’t have to wait for the nurse, procuring him an Xbox from the children’s playroom. Although this ultra-competent caretaker side of me had her allure, the truth was I didn’t want to watch Thomas disintegrate. By being there with him, I would be sentencing myself to the same end.

“Are you willing to risk your life for him?” a friend asked.

SO for the second time, I tried to forget Thomas. I told myself he was supposed to be one episode, not my entire story. I had wanted to love someone with my disease, and I did.

But what about sitting next to him at the movies, listening as a character onscreen quipped, “I have a lethal disease”? Thomas responded, “Join the club,” and we laughed, and I wasn’t the only one for whom it turned into choking.

Another place, another time, and Thomas and I would have been banned from public school, from sleepovers.

But we grew up accumulating germs from sandboxes and stables and sodas. We grew up passing for normal, which meant keeping company with myriad people who assumed our coughing was caused by a curable-yet-contagious bug. I remember a group of runny-nosed bunkmates claiming I had made them sick, and the swell of vindication when our counselor told them, “Trust me, you didn’t get it from her.”

Now, on the subway, I sense a man’s glare as I cough into a napkin. He moves a few seats away, and I want to say to him: “I can’t hurt you. You can keep scowling at me until one of us gets off. You can catch my eyes and try to pull them up to the posters warning New Yorkers about the flu, but there’s no reason for me not to be here.”

Except I’m envisioning Thomas, alive but inaccessible to me over the last eight months. And the next time the man glares at me, I actually share his desire to see me exiled. I’m thinking: You want me away from you healthy people? Quarantined along with people who sound like me?

Some days, I want that, too.
474 2008-03-16 McCLURE--Barbara , of San Francisco, formerly of NYC, February 29. Widow of S.R. Kerner, Chef Marcel Pailhes. Leaves a daughter Alison, sister Janet, many friends. A graduate of The Northfield School, she worked at Angel Records, Carnegie Hall, RC...
475 2008-03-16 Three students from New Jersey and Long Island finished among the top 10 winners in the annual Intel Science Talent Search.     The winners, announced Tuesday night at a black-tie dinner in Washington, included Eric Delgado, 18, of Bayonne High Sc...
476 2008-03-17 Investors in financial stocks were heading for the exits Monday after Bear Stearns‘s bargain-basement sale stoked fears about the fate of other Wall Street firms. Among the hardest hit was Lehman Brothers, whose shares slumped 20 percent soon af...
477 2008-03-17 Last January, Bear Stearns traded above $170. Since then, the troubled investment bank plummeted more than 80 percent, beset by the earthquake that rumbled through the world financial markets. But few could have expected that Bear would have falle...
478 2008-03-17 Agreeing to guarantee a 28-day credit line to Bear Stearns, by way of JPMorgan Chase, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York conceded last Friday that no sizable firm with a book of mortgage securities or loans out to mortgage issuers could be allow...
479 2008-03-17 Several high-profile hedge funds have moved to sever ties with Bear Stearns since Friday’s rescue, inflicting further damage on its once market-leading and lucrative prime brokerage business, The Financial Times reported. Prime brokerage involve...
480 2008-03-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
481 2008-03-17 Answers from Andrew Tirrell, a lawyer with the nonprofit organization Advocates for Children of New York, who is taking questions from readers on the rights of parents and students in the schools....
482 2008-03-17 John McCain's getting in on the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament action by sponsoring a bracket contest on his Web site....
483 2008-03-17 CNBC coverage of Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson's comments on the Fed's intervention to push for Bear Stearns's sale to JPMorgan.
484 2008-03-17 The British papers unload as a divorce settlement is announced....
485 2008-03-17 The weekend's results: Hamilton wins chaotic opener; Burton wins on final lap; another Pedregon blows top; Porsche defeats Audi at Sebring....
486 2008-03-17 Soft Serve scans newspapers, magazines and Web sites for "soft news" - coverage of products, trends and matters of style. Just the fluff, ma'am. Happy St. Patrick's Day from Soft Serve! Turn your drunken belligerence into a check for $1000 by ente...
487 2008-03-17 Hillary Rodham Clinton said she would begin withdrawing troops from Iraq within 60 days of taking office....
488 2008-03-17 While U.S. markets steered clear of a painful sell-off, the credit market and financial stocks slumped, as central bankers worked to stave off a crisis of confidence....
489 2008-03-17 You can make this with farmed salmon, which is inexpensive, about as fresh as any fish you can buy and, unlike its wild cousin, available year round....
490 2008-03-17 Here's one way to think about the liquidity trap - a situation in which conventional monetary policy loses all traction. When short-term interest rates are close to zero, open-market operations in which the central bank prints money and buys gover...
491 2008-03-17 Santa Fe, N.M. 10:10 am Monday J.P. Morgan stock is up today, which is a sign of some confidence in the system, and may be one reason that the overall market is well above its opening lows. Of the other 91 stocks in the S.&P. 500 financials index,...
492 2008-03-17 Across the political spectrum, they covered the story aggressively, updating posts for developments or simply to reiterate their concern....
493 2008-03-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
494 2008-03-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
495 2008-03-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
496 2008-03-17 Since he helped create Wikipedia in 2001, Jimmy Wales has been called many things: benevolent dictator, constitutional monarch, digital evangelist and spiritual leader of the tens of thousands of volunteers who have made the online encyclopedia on...
497 2008-03-17 The drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb is sounding out potential buyers for a possible sale of its Mead Johnson baby formula food business, which is valued at between $7 billion and $9 billion, according to The Financial Times. According to the report...
498 2008-03-17 Bear Stearns's shocking deal to sell itself to JPMorgan Chase for a mere $2 per share - less than one-tenth the firm's market price on Friday - underscored how few options remained for Bear, which was driven to the brink of bankruptcy by what amou...
499 2008-03-17 Imagine if “The Devil Wears Prada” had featured a grisly crime as one of its subplots. Imagine, in other words, if it had veered away from a rainfall of Hermès scarves onto the brittle turf of “Law & Order: SVU.” What you might be left with is the aggravating new Fox drama “Canterbury’s Law.”

The series (showing on Monday nights) stars Julianna Margulies as a criminal defense lawyer named Elizabeth Canterbury, a woman running a rinky-dink outfit in Providence, R.I., with the anger of a thousand furies guiding her life and legal practice. Elizabeth went to Harvard. We know this because her T-shirt says so, and we can guess that her roommates all applied to the residence directors for a rematch.

She drinks hard, she drives fast, she sleeps in her office and she never merely talks when she can solicit fear. “Listen to me very carefully” seems to be her preferred phrase for initiating conversation.

If she existed in real life, Elizabeth is the kind of woman who would drive other women to fantasize about strangling her with their pantyhose. Although she treats everyone around her like a slow-growth fungus and refuses to turn out a home-cooked meal, she has nevertheless managed to attract the attention of three good-looking men: her husband (Aidan Quinn), her lover (James McCaffrey) and her devoted friend and legal associate (Ben Shenkman), a guy who tolerates abuse the way most of us put up with occasionally poor cellphone service.

Elizabeth’s infidelity is symptomatic of larger structural problems in her marriage. The couple lost their only son some time ago — he disappeared —and Elizabeth blames herself. “Canterbury’s Law” exploits not only the cultural fetish for images of female authority figures behaving with no use for civility but also for crime dramas in which young people are ritually victimized. As they do on “Medium” and the various incarnations of “Law & Order,” dead children seem to turn up here like scraps of popcorn in a theater.

In the pilot episode and another showing in a few weeks, Elizabeth defends people accused of involvement with the murder of children. Because her skills are prosecutorial and because she must offset her own guilt and grief, she manages to nail the actual felons and bring them to justice during the course of her able defense. Niftily for her, all her clients really are innocent, as they would have been in the television era before “L.A. Law.”
500 2008-03-17 NBC Universal has reached a long-sought agreement with the Mexican television company Grupo Televisa to distribute programming from its Hispanic service Telemundo to audiences in Mexico....
501 2008-03-17 In the same statement, Philip A. Falcone, senior managing director of Harbinger, said, “Our nominees look forward to working with the other directors and management to build and deliver value for all shareholders.”

The hedge funds have argued that the company should sell many of its assets — including, possibly, the headquarters building in Manhattan, The Boston Globe, some smaller newspapers and a minority stake in the Boston Red Sox — and invest aggressively in Internet companies. But the funds have also been careful not to criticize management directly, and have said that once they are privy to inside information, they may have a different view of the company’s strategy.

A person close to the funds’ leaders said that the Harbinger-Firebrand team could have won a proxy fight, but that the effort would have been expensive and damaging to relations with management. He was given anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss their strategy.

What they want is “a seat at the table,” he said, and “to understand the board and the management’s thinking, and add expertise and horsepower to their thinking.”

Janet L. Robinson, the Times Company’s chief executive officer, has said repeatedly that the company was always open to asset sales and Internet purchases; it sold its television stations last year, and has bought a handful of online companies, including About.com, in the last three years. But she insists that the company must act prudently, not selling just to sell or buying just to buy.

Analysts have generally supported the company’s recent strategy, though some would like to see deeper cost-cutting and have cast doubt on the hedge funds’ proposals.

The funds had nominated candidates for all four director seats elected by holders of Class A stock. Under the pact, the company agreed to nominate two of them — Scott Galloway, a founder of Firebrand and the leading strategist of the hedge funds’ bid, and James Kohlberg, chairman of Kohlberg & Company.

A Sulzberger family trust owns almost 90 percent of the company’s Class B stock, which is not publicly traded, and has the sole power to vote on most of the board seats.

Under the truce with the hedge funds, the number of directors elected by Class B stock will rise from 9 to 10. The number of Class A directors will rise from 4 to 5. William E. Kennard, who was one of the company’s original Class A director nominees, will instead become a Class B nominee.

Until now, the family and its allies on the board have effectively controlled the Class A election as well as the Class B.

But in recent years, a falling stock price, a sharp downturn for the newspaper industry and mounting shareholder discontent have relaxed that grip as never before. In 2006, 30 percent of Class A shareholders withheld their votes for directors, and last year, 42 percent did so. The major shareholder that led that campaign, Morgan Stanley Investment Management, gave up its attempts to force a change in direction and sold its stake in the company.

Times Company stock, which peaked above $50 a share in 2002, has mostly traded between $15 and $20 since last October. That opened the door for the Harbinger-Firebrand partnership to buy up more than twice as many shares as Morgan Stanley held.

The company reported earnings of $209 million on $3.2 billion in revenue last year. Like most major newspaper companies, its advertising revenue was sharply lower in 2007, and has continued to fall in 2008. The industry is suffering the twin blows of a long-term shift of readers and advertisers to the Internet and a downturn in the overall economy.
502 2008-03-17 Besides strengthening its balance sheet, Mr. Pandit has appointed a new chief risk officer and made changes in the way its mortgage operations and global wealth management unit are structured. Even so, investors continue to raise concerns about its financial health as it braces for billions of dollars in additional losses.

The moves also illustrate the organizational and personnel challenges facing Mr. Pandit, who must be part psychologist and chess master overseeing Citigroup’s brutally political culture. “By putting the right talent in the right places, we are enhancing Citi’s ability to meet the needs of our institutional clients,” Mr. Pandit said in a statement.

The appointment was reported Monday by The Wall Street Journal.

Mr. Klein is widely viewed as a brilliant relationship banker and has been enormously influential in helping Citigroup raise new capital with his strong ties to Middle East investors. But he was considered a poor manager who did not like to share authority. His spats with Thomas Maheras, his co-head at the investment bank, provided a steady stream of gossip throughout the company.

Mr. Klein has also threatened to quit on several occasions, according to people close to the company. Last fall, as Mr. Prince considered a plan to name Mr. Pandit the head of the investment bank, he said he would leave if he were effectively demoted. Mr. Klein denies that he ever threatened to leave, according to a person briefed on his thinking.

Instead, Mr. Prince created the Institutional Clients Group, combining the investment bank and alternatives group, and put Mr. Pandit in charge of the unit. Mr. Klein retained his title and was given a new one as chairman of the investment bank. In practice, he reported to Mr. Pandit.

Mr. Klein also had made it known that he did not want to report to Mr. Havens, according to people close to the situation. This new position solves that problem, while catering to his strengths and giving him a loftier title. He was also given a big retention bonus. Many liken the role to that of James B. Lee as vice chairman at J.P. Morgan Chase.

In Mr. Havens, Mr. Pandit has put the bank in the hands of a strong manager, though his short tenure as head of Citigroup’s alternative investments group has been tumultuous. Inside Citigroup, some colleagues have been critical of his style, especially as several of the unit’s funds have been ravaged by the turbulent markets.

The elevation of Mr. Havens is the latest of several senior appointments for Mr. Pandit’s Morgan Stanley colleagues. Don Callahan was named Citigroup’s administrative chief; Brian Leach was recently appointed its new chief risk officer.

Mr. Havens has long been at Mr. Pandit’s side. The two were co-founders of Old Lane, which Citigroup bought last year to bring Mr. Pandit aboard, and have worked closely for more than 20 years despite — or perhaps because of — yin and yang personalties. Where Mr. Pandit has a more professorial style, Mr. Havens has the command presence of a drill sergeant.

The leadership shake-up moves Edward Kelly into Mr. Haven’s prior role as head of Citigroup’s alternative investment group. He had previously been chief executive of Mercantile Bancorp, before a brief stint at the Carlyle Group in private equity. His hiring in January led to rumors that Mr. Pandit was thinking of reshuffling the senior management of the Institutional Clients Group.

It also means that James Forese, who had been co-head of the investment bank, will no longer hold that title. He will now report to Mr. Havens as head of Citigroup’s sales and trading division.
503 2008-03-17 Even with the frantic rescue operation, world markets were roiled as the trading day began. In Tokyo, the Nikkei index ended down 3.7 percent, while European markets closed down about 4 percent.

In the United States, stocks were down less sharply, but investors faced another week of gut-wrenching volatility.

Despite the sale of Bear, investors fear that others in the industry, like Lehman Brothers, already reeling from losses on mortgage-related investments, could face further blows. Lehman’s stock was off 50 percent in the course of trading Monday, but ended down slightly more than 20 percent.

But investors gave a thumbs-up to JPMorgan, sending its stock up about 10 percent. Bear’s own stock was trading at around $5, a tumble of more than 80 percent from its close on Friday but more than twice the price attached to the JPMorgan deal.

The deal for Bear, done at the behest of the Fed and the Treasury Department, punctuates the stunning downfall of one of Wall Street’s biggest and most storied firms. Bear had weathered the vagaries of the markets for 85 years, surviving the Depression and a dozen recessions only to meet its end in the rapidly unfolding credit crisis now afflicting the American economy.

A throwback to a bygone era, Bear Stearns still operated as a cigar-chomping, suspender-wearing culture where taking risks was rewarded. It was a firm that was never considered truly white-shoe, an outsider that defied its mainstream rivals.

When the Federal Reserve helped plan a bailout in 1998 of Long Term Capital Management, the hedge fund, Bear Stearns proudly refused to join the effort. Until recent weeks, Alan Greenberg, Bear Stearns’s chairman for more than 20 years and a championship bridge player, still regaled its partners over lengthy lunches about gambling with the firm’s money in its wood-paneled dining room.

The cut-price deal for Bear Stearns reflects deep misgivings about its future and the enormous obligations that JPMorgan is assuming in guaranteeing the firm’s obligations. In an unusual move, the Fed will provide financing for the transaction, including support for as much as $30 billion of Bear Stearns’s “less-liquid assets.”

Wall Street was stunned by the news on Sunday night. “This is like waking up in summer with snow on the ground,” said Ron Geffner, a partner at Sadis & Goldberg and a former enforcement lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. “The price is indicative that there were bigger problems at Bear than clients and the public realized.”

The deal followed a weekend of frantic negotiations to save the ailing firm. With the Fed and Treasury Department patched in by conference call from Washington, Bear Stearns executives held the equivalent of a speed-dating auction over the weekend, with prospective bidders holed up in a half-dozen conference rooms at its Madison Avenue headquarters. More than 150 JPMorgan employees descended on Bear Stearns to examine the firm’s books and trading accounts.

Even as those talks took place, Bear Stearns simultaneously prepared to file for bankruptcy protection in the event a deal could not be struck, underscoring the severity of its troubles.

On Sunday night, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, held a conference call with the heads of major American financial companies to alert them to the deal and allay their concerns about doing business with Bear Stearns.

“JPMorgan Chase stands behind Bear Stearns,” Mr. Dimon said in a statement. “Bear Stearns’s clients and counterparties should feel secure that JPMorgan is guaranteeing Bear Stearns’s counterparty risk. We welcome their clients, counterparties and employees to our firm, and we are glad to be their partner.” While Bear Stearns toyed with suitors like big private equity firms like J.C. Flowers & Company, the only meaningful bidder was JPMorgan.

The deal is a major coup for Mr. Dimon, who slept only a handful of hours over the weekend while negotiating with Bear and government officials. Over the last few years, he has focused intensely on cutting costs, improving technology and integrating JPMorgan’s disparate operations. But he also has been adamant about preparing the company for an economic downturn.

For JPMorgan, one of the few major banks to emerge relatively unscathed from the subprime crisis, the deal provides a major entry to prime brokerage, which provides financing to hedge funds. While that business has been lucrative in recent years, it has slowed as the financial markets have slumped.

Bear also would give JPMorgan a much bigger presence in the mortgage securities business, which the bank’s executives say they are committed in spite of the recent market downturn.

There are, of course, some drawbacks to a deal, even at a bargain-basement price. Mr. Dimon has long expressed doubts that combining two big investment banks is a good idea. Bear’s prime brokerage business would require a big technology investment. And there are often severe cultural issues and significant management overlap.

It is unclear how many of Bear Stearns’s employees, who together own a third of the company, will remain after the combination. People involved in the talks suggested that as much as a third of the employees could lose their jobs. The deal also raises the prospect that some employees at JPMorgan, which was already considering cutbacks, may face the prospect of additional layoffs as the two firms merge their operations.

With Bear, JPMorgan also inherits a balance sheet that is packed with financial land mines, though the Fed has agreed to protect the firm from a certain amount of liability. Even though JPMorgan has performed well through this recent turbulence, it is unclear if it would want that additional risk.

“Having taken Bear Stearns out of the problem category, and the strong action by the Federal Reserve, we would anticipate the market will behave quite differently on Monday than it was Thursday or Friday,” Michael Cavanaugh, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, told analysts during a conference call.

The swiftness of Mr. Dimon’s decision to buy Bear is remarkable given that he has not been an aggressive acquirer since he joined the firm after selling it to BankOne, where he was chief executive. He has cautioned patience about making acquisitions, though he had suggested in recent months that the firm might be ready to make a major deal.

Earlier this month, the co-chief executive of JPMorgan’s investment bank, William T. Winters, said on a conference call with investors: “If a special opportunity came up to acquire a prime broker at a decent return, we wouldn’t hesitate. We’ve always said, ‘Boy, if there was one for sale, we’d love to look at it.’ ”

A deal needed to be reached quickly to protect the business from collapsing entirely. With most if not all of its clients stopping trading with the firm, its days were numbered.

James E. Cayne, Bear Stearns’s former chief executive and one of its largest individual shareholders, will most likely walk away with a little more than $13.4 million, the value of his Bear stock holdings, according to James F. Redda & Associates. Those would have been worth $1.2 billion in January 2007, when Bear’s stock was trading at a $171.51. Mr. Cayne has taken home more than $232 million in salary, bonus and other pay between 1993 and 2006, the time period for which there is publicly available data, according to Equilar, an as an executive compensation research firm.

Many hedge funds had started expressing concern about Bear Stearns by late Thursday. Jana Partners, a large hedge fund, for example, sent a memo to its investors that said, “In response to many recent inquiries regarding Bear Stearns, we are writing to inform you that we have no direct exposure to Bear Stearns or its affiliates through a prime brokerage relationship or otherwise.”

Not all investors are expected to be pleased with the deal. A conference call with investors and analysts on Sunday night was broken up when a Bear Stearns shareholder sought an explanation of why he would be better off approving this transaction rather than seeing Bear Stearns file for a Chapter 11 bankruptcy.

The JPMorgan executives demurred, instead referring the investor to Bear Stearns executives for an explanation. The shareholder declared that he would vote against the deal.

Afterward, Mr. Cavanaugh said JPMorgan felt comfortable in pulling the trigger despite the short due-diligence process. “We’ve known Bear Stearns for a long time,” Mr. Cavanaugh said.
504 2008-03-17 Mr. Gates said that while the United States would not grant Russia a veto over missile defense sites in Europe, the Bush administration was willing to guarantee that neither the radar proposed for the Czech Republic nor the 10 missile interceptors proposed for Poland would be turned on until Iran had proven it had a missile that could reach Europe.

“When we see flight testing that leads us to believe the Iranians are close to developing a capability to hit our allies in Europe, that would be the point at which we would operationalize the sites,” Mr. Gates said.

That could mean that the missiles would not be placed into silos until then, although the specific details have not been worked out, he said.

After Ms. Rice and Mr. Gates went to Moscow in October for discussions on missile defense, their Russian counterparts were to have traveled to Washington within six months for the next round of talks. But Mr. Gates said that a return trip to Moscow was warranted instead because the “potential for making progress might be enhanced” by proximity to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and his protégé and president-elect, Dmitri A. Medvedev.

The talks will cover a broad range of concerns, including nuclear arms control, nonproliferation, counterterrorism, economic relations and Russian arms sales, Mr. Gates said.

The meeting in Moscow comes just three weeks before NATO leaders meet in Romania, with President Putin of Russia invited to attend some of the sessions. Bush administration officials said they were eager to push forward a deal, or at least calm Russian concerns, before those meetings that will include both Presidents Bush and Putin.

Bush administration officials have invited Russia to join a Europewide missile defense system, with radars and interceptors linked. One offer on the table would allow Russian inspectors access to missile defense sites on American soil as well as the two bases proposed for Poland and the Czech Republic, although Warsaw and Prague would have to approve.

Over recent weeks, President Bush has met with the leaders of Poland the Czech Republic to discuss the American proposals to place missile defense bases on their territory.

The president has pledged to help Poland modernize its military as part of deal to place 10 missile interceptors on Polish territory. And Mr. Bush, following a session with his Czech counterpart, said the two sides were close to an agreement to place a tracking and targeting radar there, with the final sticking points described as modest differences over environmental protection issues.

The Russians have offered the use of an early warning radar system in Azerbaijan, a former Soviet republic. American officials have said the system would be a welcome addition to the planned base in the Czech Republic, but it could not replace it.
505 2008-03-17 In a potentially even bigger move, the Federal Reserve also announced its biggest commitment yet to lend money to struggling investment banks. The central bank said its new lending program would make money available to the 20 large investment banks that serve as “primary dealers” and trade Treasury securities directly with the Fed.

Much like a $200 billion loan program the Fed announced last Tuesday, this program will essentially allow the government to hold as collateral a wide variety of investments that include hard-to-sell securities backed by mortgages. But Fed officials told reporters on Sunday night that the new program would have no limit on the amount of money that can be borrowed.

In a conference call with reporters, the Federal Reserve chairman, , said the central bank was moving to provide money to financial institutions that need it.

“The Federal Reserve, in close consultation with the Treasury, is working to promote liquid, well-functioning financial markets, which are essential for economic growth,” he said. “These steps will provide financial institutions with greater assurance of access to funds.”

It was unclear just how much risk the Federal Reserve was taking on, especially in the bailout of Bear Stearns. But analysts said it was clear that JPMorgan Chase was getting an extraordinary bargain, buying Bear Stearns at a tiny fraction of its market value just one week ago, and with the Fed shielding it from much of the risk.

Fed officials said they would take control of the investment holdings of Bear Stearns in order to maximize their value and minimize disruptions as a result of a cash squeeze. Without providing details, Fed officials insisted that the $30 billion loan was covered by even the most conservative estimates of the Bear Stearns holdings.

Mr. Bernanke spent much of the weekend in his office in Washington, staying in constant telephone contact with officials at the New York Fed, which led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Bernanke and board officials in Washington set the overall parameters for how much risk the central bank was willing to shoulder, and they consulted closely with the Treasury Department and its Office of the .

But Mr. Bernanke had already been worrying for some time about the collapse of a major Wall Street bank, and Bear Stearns had been high on its watch list.

Standard & Poor’s 500 index futures expiring in June fell 2.9 percent on Sunday night, signaling a lower opening for stock markets on Monday morning.

Last Tuesday, the central bank announced a $200 billion loan program that would allow the nation’s biggest banks to borrow Treasury securities and post mortgage-backed securities as collateral. The financing gave 20 top investment banks 28-day loans at what amounted to wholesale rates — at or slightly below the Fed’s benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks.

But the program did little to rejuvenate the credit markets, which have been paralyzed by fears about even conservative short-term-debt securities. On Wall Street, rumors about a possible collapse of Bear Stearns, which had been a leader in packaging mortgage-backed securities, gained gale-force strength.

Monetary policy experts said they were stunned by the sweeping nature of the Fed’s efforts, which they said were unprecedented in a host of different ways. But some were doubtful about whether the moves would solve the underlying problem of huge losses from bad lending practices.

“Emergency provision of loans is necessary but not sufficient,” said , who was a Treasury secretary under President . “There is a fundamental issue, which is that the financial system is short of capital and is under pressure to contract.”

, the current Treasury secretary, vigorously endorsed the Fed’s rescue efforts on Sunday and made it clear he was much less worried about the “moral hazard” of bailing out a Wall Street firm than he was about a chain reaction of defaults if Bear Stearns were to abruptly collapse.

“The right decision here, I am convinced, was the decision that the Fed made, which was to do things, work with market participants to minimize the disruptions,” Mr. Paulson said on “This Week With ” on ABC.

Mr. Paulson and two top deputies, Robert Steel and Anthony W. Ryan, stayed in Washington rather than participate in person with the talks under way in New York. But Treasury officials said they stayed in constant telephone contact with the New York Fed and with Wall Street executives.

The New York Fed, which runs the Fed’s daily market operation and has long been the Federal Reserve’s primary channel for dealing with Wall Street, led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase.

The principal issue, according to officials, was how much insurance the Fed was willing to provide to JPMorgan Chase in exchange for taking over Bear Stearns and its hard-to-quantify assets.

Fed officials were racing to announce an agreement of some sort before financial markets opened in , which meant reaching a deal on Sunday night. But even as they worked to engineer a takeover of Bear Stearns, Fed officials were canvassing executives at other Wall Street firms that might be in trouble as well.

As rumors about problems at Bear Stearns swept across Wall Street last week, Fed and Treasury officials became convinced that they needed more weapons to help struggling investment banks. Although stock investors initially cheered the announcement Tuesday of the $200 billion lending program, the credit markets showed little reaction — an indication that investors were still dubious about the mountain of mortgage-backed securities that companies like Bear Stearns were holding.
506 2008-03-17 TOKYO — Major Asian stock markets fell sharply Monday as pessimism continued to spread despite the Fed’s dramatic moves over the weekend, sending Tokyo’s benchmark index to a three-year low.

The markets responded negatively to the purchase of Bear Stearns over the weekend by JPMorgan Chase. The acquisition, backed by the Federal Reserve, underscored the severity of the credit crisis in the United States and the weakness of the American economy.

In Tokyo, the region’s largest stock exchange, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index was trading at an almost three-year low. The index closed down nearly four percent, finishing the day at 11,787.51, falling below 12,000 for the first time since August 2005.

Elsewhere in Asia in mid-day trading, South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index was also down 2.4 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index fell 2.4 percent, and in New Zealand, the NZX 50 index dropped 1.9 percent.

The declines in Tokyo came even as the Japanese central bank, the Bank of Japan, moved to shore up financial markets by injecting $4.1 billion into short-term money markets.

Asian stocks have also been hurt by the weakness of the dollar, which erodes the value in local currencies of overseas profits and forces big exporters like Toyota and Sony to raise prices in foreign markets.
507 2008-03-17 Nobody was greatly surprised last week when Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the , proposed new limits on smog-forming pollutants that were weaker than those his scientists had recommended — and more to the liking of industry. In the Bush administration, contests between politics and science are usually resolved in favor of politics.

The big surprise was Mr. Johnson’s proposal to rewrite the Clean Air Act to allow regulators to take costs into account when setting air quality standards. Since this would permanently devalue the role of science while strengthening the hand of industry, the proposal has no chance of success in a Democratic Congress.

It was, though, a revelatory moment: one last cry of frustration from an administration that, despite great effort, and persistent lashings from Vice President , has been largely unsuccessful in undoing three decades of environmental law.

Mr. Johnson’s proposal would cut to the very heart of the Clean Air Act. As written in 1970, the act imposes one overriding obligation on the E.P.A. administrator: to establish air quality standards “requisite to protect the public health” with “an adequate margin of safety.” Economic considerations — costs and benefits — can be taken into account in figuring out a reasonable timetable for achieving the standards. But only science can shape the standards themselves.

Congress wrote the law this way because it believed that air quality standards must be based on rigorous scientific study alone and that science would be the sure loser unless insulated from special interests. In 2001, in response to industry challenges, the unanimously reaffirmed the law’s bedrock principles.

The law gives the administrator latitude in setting the standards, and no administrator is deaf to outside voices. In 1997, the E.P.A. administrator Carol Browner imposed tough standards for smog and soot that reflected the scientific consensus. In 2006, Mr. Johnson further tightened the soot standards and, last week, he tightened the ozone standards.
508 2008-03-17 President Bush has made yet another ill-considered nomination to the Justice Department, this time selecting Grace Chung Becker to be assistant attorney general for the civil rights division. It is a critically important job, responsible for protecting the rights of racial and religious minorities, the disabled and other groups. The division has been improperly politicized in recent years, and it has worked to undermine the very rights it is supposed to protect.

Ms. Becker is now the acting head of this troubled office, and at her confirmation hearing last week, she failed to show that she is up to the task of setting it right.

The civil rights division has been in sorry shape for some time. At Congressional hearings last year, its former head admitted that he boasted of hiring Republicans for nonpolitical attorney positions.

The division also has repeatedly taken anti-civil-rights stands. Notoriously, it endorsed a Georgia voter ID law that was widely likened to a poll tax because it charged people for the ID they needed to vote.

The Senate should only confirm a division head who demonstrates a commitment both to fixing these problems and rooting out the damage that has been done. Ms. Becker fails on both counts. When Edward Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, asked about the department’s politicized hiring, she insisted it was improper for her to answer because an investigation is under way.

That is a made-up rule. Congress, which oversees the Justice Department, has a right to have its questions answered. If Ms. Becker is this contemptuous of the Senate’s role at her confirmation hearings, it is disturbing to think how dismissive she will be if she is confirmed.

Ms. Becker has also taken stands that undermine civil rights. She signed a brief urging the Supreme Court to uphold an Indiana voter ID law that would disenfranchise many minority voters. The position she took was helpful for the Republican Party, but it hurt the people she was supposed to look out for. When asked why she signed the brief, Ms. Becker again stonewalled.
509 2008-03-17 Joe Corvo scored three goals against the team that traded him last month and Cam Ward stopped 16 shots Sunday in the Carolina Hurricanes’ 5-1 victory over the visiting Ottawa Senators.

Corvo, a defenseman, collected his first career hat trick, and forward Patrick Eaves scored his first goal since Ottawa traded them Feb. 11.

OILERS 2, SHARKS 1 Dwayne Roloson made 48 saves and stopped three shots in a shootout for visiting Edmonton, which ended San Jose’s 11-game winning streak. Ales Hemsky scored in regulation and Fernando Pisani had the decisive shootout goal.

The Sharks’ streak was their longest in franchise history.

PENGUINS 7, FLYERS 1 Evgeni Malkin and Petr Sykora each had two goals and two assists for host Pittsburgh, and Marian Hossa and Hal Gill scored their first goals since being traded to the Penguins last month.

PANTHERS 3, THRASHERS 1 Olli Jokinen and Rostislav Olesz scored power-play goals for host Florida, which tied a franchise record with its seventh consecutive victory.

CAPITALS 2, BRUINS 1 Alexander Semin scored on the first attempt in a shootout for host Washington. Boston moved into a tie with the sixth-place Rangers in the East, with 83 points.

BLUE JACKETS 4, RED WINGS 3 Manny Malhotra had two goals and an assist and the backup Fredrik Norrena made 43 saves for host Columbus, which set a franchise record by reaching 75 points for the season.
510 2008-03-17 Some Sunni Arabs were not pleased by the visit. “If the Republicans win the election, then nothing will really change in Iraq, and we need a big change to kick the occupiers out of the country,” said Abu Mohammed, a 30-year-old barbershop owner in Samarra, north of Baghdad. “I would like to show him the schools and hospitals and how the children and women suffer.”

Another Samarra shop owner, 52-year-old Hamid Saleh, said he wanted the Republicans to lose the election. “All I want is someone who works to fix my country, and not destroy it,” he said.

American officials in Iraq said Mr. McCain’s precise schedule was not being released for security reasons. He was joined on the trip by two close political allies, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

The three senators are also visiting Israel, London and Paris. Mr. McCain has said the trip is not primarily political. He told reporters last Friday: “I do want to emphasize again that the three of us are going as members of the Armed Services Committee.”

On Thursday, however, Mr. McCain will attend a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising lunch at a home in London. His campaign has said Congress will be reimbursed for the political parts of the trip, including the fund-raiser.

Mr. McCain’s advisers have been cautious about the perception that he is exploiting his overseas trip for political gain. None of his top political advisers are traveling with him, and his campaign has been careful to route questions about it to his Senate office. But they say they believe that the trip is clearly beneficial to Mr. McCain, enabling him to showcase his national security credentials while his Democratic counterparts continue to battle for the nomination.

The new dynamic in Iraq, with significant declines in American military and Iraqi civilian casualties, has significantly altered the political landscape for Mr. McCain since last spring, when American troop deaths spiked and his candidacy faltered. A low point of that period for Mr. McCain came last April when he drew ridicule for trumpeting a peaceful stroll through a Baghdad marketplace, which was actually backed by heavily armed American troops.

Mr. McCain stands to reap the most politically from any rise in public support for the war effort, having staked his candidacy on his unflagging backing of President Bush’s troop escalation. While cautious about being overly ebullient about Iraq, Mr. McCain is almost invariably upbeat when he describes what is happening in Iraq.

He said last month, “Anybody who believes the surge has not succeeded, militarily, politically and in most other ways, frankly, does not know the facts on the ground.”

A survey done in late February by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that 48 percent of Americans believed that the war was going “very well” or “fairly well,” up from 30 percent in February 2007, although a majority continued to believe it was a mistake.

Meanwhile, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton continue to reject the troop escalation out of hand, arguing that the political reconciliation it was supposed to help usher in has not occurred and will happen only if prodded by the prospect of American withdrawal.

Mrs. Clinton was scheduled to give a major speech on Iraq on Monday, in which her advisers said she would furnish details about her plan to begin withdrawing American troops within 60 days of coming into office, arguing it is the only way to force Iraqi politicians to take responsibility.

She was also expected to attack Mr. Obama over a recent statement by a former foreign policy adviser, Samantha Power, in which she said the Iraq withdrawal plan Mr. Obama had outlined while campaigning was a “best-case scenario” that he would revisit once in office. Mr. Obama has defended his stance on withdrawing troops. Mrs. Clinton’s advisers said she would also take on Mr. McCain for a recent comment in which he said American troops could be in the country for 100 years.

Mr. McCain has defended that comment, made at a town hall meeting earlier this year in New Hampshire, arguing that he did not mean they would still be fighting but simply maintaining a presence in the region.
511 2008-03-17 Mediocre as a starter, Patterson has been remarkable in relief. In 70 minor league games in the Yankees organization, all but one at Class AA Trenton, he was 4-3 with a 1.47 earned run average and 136 strikeouts in 116 innings.

Four times this exhibition season, Patterson has been summoned in the middle of an early inning, before the regulars had been taken from the opposing lineup. In six games, he has allowed no runs or walks in six innings, and opposing hitters are 1 for 18.

In the Yankees’ 7-6 victory against Cleveland on Sunday, Patterson took over for Chien-Ming Wang with one out in the fifth. He got Victor Martínez to bounce into an inning-ending double play, then worked a 1-2-3 sixth.

“All he’s done is get everybody out,” Manager Joe Girardi said. “It’s been pretty unbelievable. He’s gotten us out of jam after jam. He has a chance.”

After Patterson graduated from West Virginia State in 2002, scouts for the Blue Jays and the Braves told him they might draft him after the 30th round. Patterson waited by his computer, watching the selections roll, but his name was never called.

With no other career plans, Patterson called independent teams until he received an offer. Starting in Pennsylvania and working west, Patterson landed with the Grizzlies, in Sauget, Ill., who paid $550 a month.

His first sniff of the affiliated minors came in 2004, when Seattle invited him to camp. Patterson gave up one run that spring — a homer to the veteran Jay Payton, who was getting extra at-bats in a minor league game — but the Mariners told him there was no room at Class A.

Patterson, a 6-foot-6 right-hander with a herky-jerky motion, said he did not have enough polished pitches to thrive as a starter. But when the swollen finger forced him to the bullpen, he concentrated on his fastball and his slow curveball, which he says he has always thrown for strikes.

Cesar Presbott, a Yankees scout, noticed Patterson’s statistics and decided to watch him one day in Bridgeport, Conn. Patterson worked a quick inning, and Presbott was surprised to learn he had never played for a major league affiliate.

Presbott said: “I told him, ‘I’m here because I like you, and I won’t just say that you should be in Double A or Triple A. I have all the confidence that you’re going to be with the Yankees one day.’ Besides his pitch ability, he showed me the confidence that he knew what he was doing.”

Presbott recommended that the Yankees sign Patterson and fix a slight hesitation in his delivery. They did, and he was a revelation for Trenton, where teammates called his fastball “the Invisiball,” Ian Kennedy said, “because nobody could hit it.”

After posting a 1.09 E.R.A. in 43 games at Trenton, Patterson was promoted to Class AAA and pitched once in the playoffs. In the Venezuelan winter league, he did not allow a run or a walk in his first 13 appearances.

That success has carried over to spring training, and although Patterson said he expected to break camp with Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, he is making a case to stay.

“People ask me all the time, ‘Do you think you’re going to make it?’ ” Patterson said. “I’ll get the guys out. If they want me, they want me.”

For years, no major league team wanted Patterson. Two weeks before opening day, the Yankees are still thinking about him.
512 2008-03-17 JERUSALEM — Dozens of far-right Israeli nationalists threw stones and scuffled with the police on Sunday evening in and around the Jerusalem neighborhood that is home to the family of the Palestinian gunman who killed eight Jewish seminary students on March 6.

The protesters, demanding revenge for the killings, threw stones at houses at the outer rim of the neighborhood after evading police barricades blocking the main road in. Some residents threw stones back at the protesters.

Disturbances also broke out at a popular promenade above the neighborhood, Jebel Mukaber in East Jerusalem, where several hundred right-wing demonstrators had gathered.

By the end of the evening, about 20 protesters had been arrested and at least one had been hurt in scuffles with the police. One police officer was slightly injured by stones, a police spokesman said.

Religious Israeli nationalists have decried what they see as a lack of government response to the attack on the seminary, in the western part of Jerusalem. Most of the victims were teenage boys.
513 2008-03-17 And there have been persistent questions, chiefly raised by a former employee, that Mr. Wales has abused his expense account, including filing for a $1,300 dinner for four at a steakhouse that was ultimately denied and lacking receipts for $30,000 in expenses.

In some ways, these allegations — trivial and personal as they might seem — illustrate the growing pains Wikipedia is now experiencing. The populist impetus for Wikipedia — building an open-source encyclopedia — has been spectacularly fulfilled with more than 2.2 million separate articles in English, 52 million unique visitors in December in the , according to Media Metrix and brand recognition that puts it in the upper echelon with , and .

Until recently, however, Wikipedia was run more like a storefront community center than a digital-age powerhouse. What was a nine-person operation — a top 10 Web site had a paid staff of less than 10 — has just recently grown to a 15-person operation. Last year’s $2.2 million budget grew to $4.6 million this year.

“A surprising number of people don’t even know it is a nonprofit,” Ms. Gardner said. “They say, ‘How do they make their money, anyway?’ They assumed there were ads or some other way.” In fact, the project relies on fund-raisers, and its latest one, Ms. Gardner said, received donations from 45,000 individuals, with a $30 average contribution.

Mr. Wales and the board of the Wikimedia Foundation have tried to professionalize the project, moving its offices from , Fla., to , to be near the talent, entrepreneurial spirit and wealth of Silicon Valley. The board of seven trustees, made up of appointed and elected members including Mr. Wales, has brought in new administrators, beginning with Ms. Gardner, a former journalist who had run the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation’s Web site.

But members of the Wikipedia community — scattered around the globe, writing in more than 200 languages — remain consistent in their belief in a decentralized power structure and noncommercial principles. And they aren’t sure what to make of the move to the big city, with its reputation as the home of irresistible temptations.

The persistent arguments about whether to accept any kind advertising, no matter how indirect, to increase revenue — something Mr. Wales and Ms. Gardner among others say they oppose — have recently flared up again.

And there have been questions raised about the foundation’s close relationship with Roger McNamee of Elevation Partners, a venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, and who has helped arrange two sizable donations to Wikipedia.

Some members further wonder if Mr. Wales, who has created a company, Wikia, to make money from wikis and to implement a volunteer-created search engine, will reduce his role within Wikipedia.

But Mr. Wales said he was adamant.

“Dialing down is not an option for me,” he said. “Not to be too dramatic about it, but, ‘to create and distribute a free encyclopedia of the highest possible quality to every single person on the planet in their own language,’ that’s who I am. That’s what I am doing. That’s my life goal.”

Henry Mintzberg, a professor of management at who studies organizations, said a visionary leader is crucial at the beginning. But, he said, “what these people do is, they are determined and focused,” he said, keeping the vision pure, “not mixing it up.”

It is natural that over time a visionary leader’s role is diminished and that is good thing, he said, quoting , “unhappy is the land that has no heroes — no, unhappy is the land that needs heroes.” Despite some of the attacks on Mr. Wales, he is still largely a hero within the Wikipedia community — walking through the annual conventions with assistants in tow, greeting the most enthusiastic Wikipedia contributors from across the globe, receiving invitations to the in Davos, attending ’s birthday party.

Ms. Gardner said there will always be a need for what Mr. Wales provides.

“People want to reach out to someone, and they know his name — it could be a famous person, a celebrity, or not — if they have a problem with their entry they will contact him.”

It was in this capacity that Ms. Marsden, a columnist and a former commentator on Fox News, said she had reached out to Mr. Wales, after her article page was being vandalized. She wrote via e-mail that “Jimmy volunteered to make changes to my Wikipedia page after we became involved personally and romantically. Before that, he really couldn’t have cared less.”

Mr. Wales wrote on his user page that he would not interfere before meeting Ms. Marsden, and summed up, “My involvement in cases like this is completely routine, and I am proud of it.” However, the incident did pry open his personal life to Silicon Valley gossip sites (he said that he had been separated from his wife when he met Ms. Marsden) and has created the embarrassing spectacle of having his old laundry put up for auction on eBay.

At the same time, a former foundation employee, Danny Wool, has created a blog where he has been detailing what he says were Mr. Wales’s abuses of expense reimbursements, twisting Mr. Wales down-home nickname “Jimbo” to “Jimbeau.”

While the allegations involve a time before Ms. Gardner arrived, she said: “I have done my own conversations with people, and I am satisfied that Jimmy hasn’t used the Wikimedia Foundation money to subsidize his own personal expenses. I believe he has consistently put the foundation’s interests ahead of his own.”

Beyond the personal questions, many Wikipedia members have expressed reservations about the project’s relationship with Elevation Partners.

Mr. Wales said in an interview that Elevation Partners had expressed interest initially in business opportunities with Wikipedia, but “it took one meeting for them to realize it was off the table.” He added: “Certainly there can be no investment in Wikipedia. Wikipedia is a nonprofit and always will be.” He said he also has had inquiries from other venture-capital firms, who likewise were told to look elsewhere.

But the initial meeting with Elevation, Mr. Wales said, led to a relationship with one of its partners, Roger McNamee, who stresses that he is acting as a volunteer entirely separately from his business. Mr. Wales describes him as “a bit of a mentor in doing fund-raising.”

Ms. Gardner said that Mr. McNamee in the past had lined up a $500,000 donation, and arranged another $500,000 donation that came through last week.

Mr. McNamee would not confirm this, but did say, “I am a Wikipedia volunteer — I help with strategy, fund-raising and business development — it has nothing to do with Elevation Partners. And no on should be confused about that.”

Nibart-Devouard, the chairwoman of the Wikimedia board, who has never met Mr. McNamee, did not sound enthusiastic.

“It’s not a huge concern right now, but I am not comfortable with the concept,” she said, of venture capitalists consistently making donations to the foundation. “I would much prefer a varied diverse base of donors, some could be large, some could be long-term friends, who help in finding new friends. I hope the foundation won’t rely on these relationships.”

She said that she had proposed a resolution, passed recently, to require that any donation larger than 2 percent of revenues be approved by the board. And she said she would “make some noise” if a venture capitalist were to try to become a board member.

While Ms. Nibart-Devouard worries about the provenance of donations, Mr. Wales and Ms. Gardner say they must worry also about sustainability. “A big piece of my day is thinking about money,” she said.

Mr. Wales said that “existing on donations keeps us on a shoestring budget” adding that he was not opposed to leveraging Wikipedia’s brand, consistent with its free-culture values, of course.

“There are some kinds of ways of using our brand name — a trivia game, a branded home-edition trivia game, that kind of thing seems to fit,” he said. Perhaps a Wikipedia documentary TV show. He said that Elevation Partners “are flexible — they could be involved in that kind of stuff.”

“We do not want to touch the core,” he added. “The core of Wikipedia is something people really believe in. That is too valuable for the world to screw it up.”

As long as he is involved with Wikipedia, however, Mr. Wales will continue to be a guiding light for its many contributors — as well as a lighting rod for its critics.

“Recently, I was in and I was giving a speech there and spoke about opposition to censorship of the Internet in Thailand, how this was bad for their economy, and this made the newspapers,” he said. “That’s really important, that I have the ability to do this.”

But he conceded that along with “my being some kind of celebrity — not a real celebrity,” comes scrutiny that “isn’t a welcome part of the job.”

He added: “People who have achieved a public voice find it a mixed bag.”
514 2008-03-17 If the building hadn’t been reduced to a pile of rubble, he’d have been there on Sunday, too, for what he called family night: a small dinner with a subcircle of the regulars, often potluck. Mr. Shuff would bring his “auntie’s red rice”; the super and his wife from a building next to Fubar would bring a roast or some deviled eggs. Another regular would bring over her Wii video games or they’d all watch some gory horror film as if they were hanging out in someone’s living room, instead of a local bar.

“Hard times, Bubu,” said Mr. Shuff, putting his arm around the shoulder of a young woman who had just joined the group outside Manchester’s. The woman, Jaimie Hotra, an animal rights worker, had just come from Bellevue Hospital Center, where she’d gone to visit another friend she’d met at Fubar, someone who lived and was injured in the town house that housed the bar. Other regulars had already been to that hospital to check on Juan Perez, the bar employee who was inside when the building collapsed and suffered a broken leg.

For people who don’t live in the East 50s, the address connotes a series of indistinguishable city blocks, unusual only in their lack of New York associations. The streets don’t comprise a theater district, or an upscale address, or a gentrifying investment opportunity, or a place where artists or students or bankers are known to hang out.

And yet for the people who live there, it’s an unusually tight-knit neighborhood, filled with longtime residents who experience the city as a place to live, not a stage set designed to highlight Manhattan’s millennial glamour. A bar like Fubar — friendly, familiar, blissfully nondescript — could still thrive in a neighborhood like that, even serve as a focal point for a certain young, mixed crowd.

In the past few years, however, developers have seized on the opportunity to build up this relatively untouched area of the city so close to Midtown. High-rise luxury buildings with names like “the Veneto” and “the Milan” have gone up, and new pricey bars with names like “Mantra” and “Redemption” have opened, competing with the dense mix of Irish pubs and sports bars already there.

“Some of these places have dress codes,” said John P. LaGreco, the owner, musing on the neighborhood changes the morning after the accident. “They try to be all downtown, let girls in, hold guys at the door. I’m like, who do you think you are? This is east Midtown.”

Even the name of his bar has decidedly old-school roots: It is a military term that, in its polite form, stands for fouled up beyond all recognition.

It’s hard to miss the symbolism: Old-time neighborhood hangout literally crushed by the force of development run amok. Or maybe the crane crash will come to symbolize the flimsy underpinnings of a dizzying building boom. Either way, it’s fubar — and in such times, what many people crave is not an indoor boccie game or a manicure with their martini but a stiff drink in the comfort of well-known strangers.

Mr. LaGreco is already thinking about reopening in the same spot. Despite the uptick in competition in the past five years, the bar has been thriving, he said, in part because his business gets some of the other bars’ overflow. “They come here, tell me they couldn’t get into that bar down the street because they’re wearing sneakers,” he says. “They wouldn’t let them in.”

At Fubar, that was never a problem.
515 2008-03-17 The Fed, working closely with bank regulators and the Treasury Department, raced to complete the deal Sunday night in order to prevent investors from panicking on Monday about the ability of Bear Stearns to make good on billions of dollars in trading commitments.

Even so, the markets were roiled in both Asia and Europe, with declines of around 4 percent on several major exchanges. On Wall Street, stocks recovered early losses but the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed down almost 1 percent.

In a potentially even bigger move, the Federal Reserve also announced its biggest commitment yet to lend money to struggling investment banks. The central bank said its new lending program would make money available to the 20 large investment banks that serve as “primary dealers” and trade Treasury securities directly with the Fed.

Much like a $200 billion loan program the Fed announced last Tuesday, this program will essentially allow the government to hold as collateral a wide variety of investments that include hard-to-sell securities backed by mortgages. But Fed officials told reporters on Sunday night that the new program would have no limit on the amount of money that can be borrowed.

In a conference call with reporters on Sunday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank was moving to provide money to financial institutions that need it.

“The Federal Reserve, in close consultation with the Treasury, is working to promote liquid, well-functioning financial markets, which are essential for economic growth,” he said. “These steps will provide financial institutions with greater assurance of access to funds.”

On Monday, the Bank of England also moved to ease bank lending, making available $10 billion in three-day loans.

In his comments Monday morning, President Bush praised Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. for his role in the Bear rescue, saying, “You’ve shown the country and the world that the United States is on top of the situation.”

Affirming that “our financial institutions are strong and that our capital markets are functioning efficiently and effectively,” Mr. Bush added: “In the long run, our economy is going to be fine. Right now we’re dealing with a difficult situation.”

Mr. Paulson, the Treasury secretary, vigorously endorsed the Fed’s rescue efforts on Sunday and made it clear he was much less worried about the “moral hazard” of bailing out a Wall Street firm than he was about a chain reaction of defaults if Bear Stearns were to abruptly collapse.

“The right decision here, I am convinced, was the decision that the Fed made, which was to do things, work with market participants to minimize the disruptions,” Mr. Paulson said on “This Week With George Stephanopoulos” on ABC.

It was unclear just how much risk the Federal Reserve was taking on, especially in the bailout of Bear Stearns. But analysts said it was clear that JPMorgan Chase was getting an extraordinary bargain, buying Bear Stearns at a tiny fraction of its market value just one week ago, and with the Fed shielding it from much of the risk.

Fed officials said they would take control of the investment holdings of Bear Stearns in order to maximize their value and minimize disruptions as a result of a cash squeeze. Without providing details, Fed officials insisted that the $30 billion loan was covered by even the most conservative estimates of the Bear Stearns holdings.

Mr. Bernanke spent much of the weekend in his office in Washington, staying in constant telephone contact with officials at the New York Fed, which led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Bernanke and board officials in Washington set the overall parameters for how much risk the central bank was willing to shoulder, and they consulted closely with the Treasury Department and its Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

But Mr. Bernanke had already been worrying for some time about the collapse of a major Wall Street bank, and Bear Stearns had been high on its watch list.

Last Tuesday, the central bank announced a $200 billion loan program that would allow the nation’s biggest banks to borrow Treasury securities and post mortgage-backed securities as collateral. The financing gave 20 top investment banks 28-day loans at what amounted to wholesale rates — at or slightly below the Fed’s benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks.

But the program did little to rejuvenate the credit markets, which have been paralyzed by fears about even conservative short-term-debt securities. On Wall Street, rumors about a possible collapse of Bear Stearns, which had been a leader in packaging mortgage-backed securities, gained gale-force strength.

Monetary policy experts said they were stunned by the sweeping nature of the Fed’s efforts, which they said were unprecedented in a host of different ways. But some were doubtful about whether the moves would solve the underlying problem of huge losses from bad lending practices.

“Emergency provision of loans is necessary but not sufficient,” said Lawrence H. Summers, who was a Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. “There is a fundamental issue, which is that the financial system is short of capital and is under pressure to contract.”

Mr. Paulson and two top deputies, Robert Steel and Anthony W. Ryan, stayed in Washington rather than take part in person with the talks under way in New York. But Treasury officials said they stayed in constant telephone contact with the New York Fed and with Wall Street executives.

The New York Fed, which runs the Fed’s daily market operation and has long been the Federal Reserve’s primary channel for dealing with Wall Street, led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase.

The principal issue, according to officials, was how much insurance the Fed was willing to provide to JPMorgan Chase in exchange for taking over Bear Stearns and its hard-to-quantify assets.

Fed officials were racing to announce an agreement of some sort before financial markets opened in Asia, which meant reaching a deal on Sunday night. But even as they worked to engineer a takeover of Bear Stearns, Fed officials were canvassing executives at other Wall Street firms that might be in trouble as well.

As rumors about problems at Bear Stearns swept across Wall Street last week, Fed and Treasury officials became convinced that they needed more weapons to help struggling investment banks. Although stock investors initially cheered the announcement Tuesday of the $200 billion lending program, the credit markets showed little reaction — an indication that investors were still dubious about the mountain of mortgage-backed securities that companies like Bear Stearns were holding.
516 2008-03-17 “What’s going through his head is he’s trying to control it as best he can, to no avail,” said Jim Conway, a fellow member of Local 14 of the Operating Engineers Union. The other three men belonged to Local 15, Mr. Conway said.

If the men felt that they were in any danger as they ascended the crane each day, they did not seem to show it at home.

“He loved his job, loved his job,” said Roger Chugh, 53, a neighbor of Mr. Bleidner’s. “He was always happy with what he was doing, and he knew what he was doing.”

He had learned from his father, Robert Bleidner, a crane operator now retired, who took him along to construction jobs when Wayne was a boy. “I’d sit him on my lap. He loved it,” Robert Bleidner said. “That’s when the bug got him. When he was older, that was all he wanted to do.”

The father tried to talk him out of it. “I wanted him to do something else,” he said. But after briefly studying accounting in college, Wayne Bleidner got a job on the cranes. “He chose it, and he was extremely good at it,” his father said.

Men who learned from their fathers are a shrinking breed in construction, with a rise in those who begin their careers through an apprentice program, Mr. Conway said.

“That’s vigorous, very skillful work. It requires a lot of skill and attentiveness,” he said. “The crane operator has to keep it balanced, the crane. You have to keep the hook at a certain site and the crane at a certain radius. You have to keep it at a fine balance at all times. That’s their job, and that’s their only job.”

Mr. Bleidner worked in the small cab with levers for the swing and the boom, and a hoist that moved the hook up and down, with brake pedals to slow its fall. He communicated with his co-workers with radios and hand signals.

It was a job held 24 years ago by Thomas O’Brien when he suffered a nearly fatal crane accident. On Sept. 8, 1984, his crane collapsed on the site of a planned 78-story tower near Carnegie Hall. Experts later praised Mr. O’Brien for guiding the crane down where no one else would be injured, but Mr. O’Brien lost his right leg in the accident.

“It’s lonely at the top, as they say,” Mr. O’Brien, now 68, said from his home in Cornwall, N.Y., on Sunday. “When you went up there in the morning, you didn’t come down until night.”

Mr. Chugh said he spoke with Mr. Bleidner on Friday, and said that Mr. Bleidner told him that his crane was up and running on East 52nd Street, and that he was working at the level of the 19th floor of the planned 43-story condominium. The next day, Mr. Chugh said, he was surprised to see so many cars coming to Mr. Bleidner’s house, with its white picket fence and the garden gnomes posed as construction workers. He feared the worst when he heard of the accident.

“I told my wife, ‘I hope everything is all right with Wayne,’ ” he said. “ ‘He’s working in that neighborhood.’ ”

“Heartbreaking,” he added. “Someone so young, so early. He’s not supposed to die like that. He will be missed in this neighborhood as a great man.”

Friends said Mr. Bleidner’s favorite subject of conversation was his 10-year-old son, Robert. Another neighbor, Sylvester Giustino, 82, broke down in sobs as he recalled the man who shoveled his driveway after snowstorms and brought the newspaper to his front door every day.

“He was a great guy. I can’t even talk,” Mr. Giustino said. “I guess I’m going to have to shovel his sidewalk now.”

The riggers would have been working on the part of the crane called the climbing frame, Mr. Conway said.

Mr. Stephens, one of the riggers, was known among co-workers as Superman, said his stepson, James Robinson, 27.

“He would lift things they couldn’t lift,” Mr. Robinson said outside his stepfather’s apartment in Bedford Park, in the Bronx.

A neighbor, Giselle Carr, 26, remembered Mr. Stephens as a muscular man who went to work in simple clothes, a thermal shirt and jeans. He had two daughters, who are 12 and 14. A cousin of his wife who gave only her first name, Sheryl, said that Mr. Stephens never missed his younger daughter’s basketball games and sold Girl Scout Cookies at work.

Mr. Robinson spoke with the same confusion and outrage as family members of the other victims. “If it was inspected and ready to go, why did it fall over like that?” he said of the crane.

By way of small consolation, he added, “He was doing what he loved. There’s no good way to go, but I’d rather him go doing what he loved.”

Mr. Mazza was a lifelong resident of Staten Island, growing up in Westerly and graduating from McKee High School, relatives said. He took up construction after graduation and married his wife, Thalia, in 1999. Their son, Carmine, is 3.

When he was not helping to build high rises in the cramped spaces of Midtown Manhattan, Mr. Mazza could often be found outside the city on his cherished Harley-Davidson. Or in his grandfather’s 1955 Chevy Bel Air, which he had carefully restored, said Melissa Farley, a sister of Mr. Mazza’s wife.

The family of Mr. Cohen could not be reached on Sunday.

Mr. Bleidner’s father said he wished he could have seen him on his last job. “I told my son, I told him, ‘I want to come down there and see that crane. I don’t want to sit in it. I just want to see it,’ ” Robert Bleidner said. “I wanted to see Wayne work it. But I never got the chance.”
517 2008-03-17 IN BEAR STEARNS'S WAKE Investors brace for another volatile week in the markets as bankers and policy makers deal with the fallout from their bid to rescue Bear Stearns.       DEAL FOR ALITALIA The board of Alitalia, the money-losing Italian airli...
518 2008-03-17 IN BEAR STEARNS'S WAKE Investors brace for another volatile week in the markets as bankers and policy makers deal with the fallout from their bid to rescue Bear Stearns.       DEAL FOR ALITALIA The board of Alitalia, the money-losing Italian airli...
519 2008-03-17 To the Editor:     Thank you for publicizing the plight of satos -- street dogs -- in Puerto Rico in ''Scrutiny for Puerto Rico Over Animal Treatment'' (news article, March 9).     Sadly, the situation in Puerto Rico is replicated in countries aro...
520 2008-03-18 Bear Stearns will not be sold for $2 a share. But that’s not necessarily why its stock is going up. To the first point, it’s worth remembering that JPMorgan Chase is not paying cash for the fallen investment bank. It’s paying in stock, .0547...
521 2008-03-18 Over the weekend, the Federal Reserve bailed out JPMorgan Chase. No, that is not a typo. On Monday, JPMorgan’s stock closed up 10 percent in a down market, increasing the bank’s market capitalization by more than $12 billion. Even assuming tha...
522 2008-03-18 Critics of the Federal Reserve’s role in the sale of Bear Stearns have raised the specter of moral hazard. What is moral hazard? It describes the possibility that people will take foolish risks when they believe that they will be protected from ...
523 2008-03-18 The good life awaits, in a pineapple pool....
524 2008-03-18 The presumptive Republican nominee travels overseas and makes remarks about terrorist cells in Iraq....
525 2008-03-18 There can only be four No. 1 seeds, but there are a handful of top programs that can make a case for being the best team to beat in their bracket.
526 2008-03-18 A marine covered a statue of Saddam Hussein with Tim McLaughlin's American flag in Baghdad in 2003. (Photo: Jerome Delay/Associated Press) On Sept. 11, 2001, Tim McLaughlin, from Laconia, N.H., was a Marine Corps first lieutenant working in Room 5...
527 2008-03-18 CNBC and NBC interview Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on the risks to the economy from the credit crisis.
528 2008-03-18 A look at what people are talking about in the college basketball world....
529 2008-03-18 Visa, which plans to float shares on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday in the biggest initial public offering ever in the United States, will not be deterred by market turmoil that has taken a severe toll in recent days, analysts told Reute...
530 2008-03-18 The Renaissance Group, an investment bank based in Moscow, was expected to announce Tuesday that it had raised $660 million for a private equity fund, highlighting the rising demand from investors to put money into buyouts of Russian companies. Th...
531 2008-03-18 The Supreme Court handed Microsoft a defeat on Monday by refusing to rule on its request to halt an antitrust suit against it. The suit was brought in 2004 by Novell, based in Waltham, Mass., which said in court papers that Microsoft had "delibera...
532 2008-03-18 With interest waning in "Old Europe," Moscow and Istanbul are seen as the top markets for property investment and development, according to the Urban Land Institute's latest "Emerging Trends" report for Europe. Although primarily focused on commer...
533 2008-03-18 One way to reduce the world’s dependence on oil is to produce more cars that get their power from the electrical grid rather than the gas pump. In the United States, replacing a large percentage of the roughly 235 million cars, light trucks and sport utility vehicles with all-electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids (which have a supplemental gasoline engine) would make a big dent in gasoline consumption, currently about 380 million gallons a day.

But such a shift would have an impact on another of the world’s precious liquids — water.

It takes a lot of water to produce electricity, both to mine and to process coal and other fuels and to cool power plants. Production of gasoline uses water, too, but in an analysis in the journal Environmental Science and Technology, Carey W. King and Michael E. Webber of the University of Texas found that adding more plug-in vehicles would result in a significant increase in water use because of the additional electricity that would have to be generated.

For every mile driven by a gas-powered vehicle that is displaced by one driven by an electric vehicle, the researchers report, about three times as much water is consumed (that is, lost to evaporation) and about 17 times as much is withdrawn (used and returned to its source).

The researchers say the impact on water use does not mean a shift to electric vehicles is a bad idea. But they say the impact would be severe enough, particularly in areas like the Southwest, that it should be considered in policy discussions about widespread use of electric vehicles.
534 2008-03-18 In his later years, after settling in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), Mr. Clarke continued to bask in worldwide acclaim as both a scientific sage and the pre-eminent science fiction writer of the 20th century. In 1998, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II.

He played down his success in foretelling a globe-spanning network of communication satellites. “No one can predict the future,” he always maintained.

But as a science fiction writer, he couldn’t resist drawing up timelines for what he called “possible futures.” Far from displaying uncanny prescience, these conjectures mainly demonstrated his lifelong, and often disappointed, optimism about the peaceful uses of technology — from his calculation in 1945 that atomic-fueled rockets could be no more than 20 years away to his conviction in 1999 that “clean, safe power” from “cold fusion” would be commercially available in the first years of the new millennium.

Mr. Clarke was well aware of the importance of his role as science spokesman to the general population: “Most technological achievements were preceded by people writing and imagining them,” he noted. “I’m sure we would not have had men on the Moon,” he added, if it had not been for H.G. Wells and Jules Verne. “I’m rather proud of the fact that I know several astronauts who became astronauts through reading my books.”

Arthur Charles Clarke was born on Dec. 16, 1917, in the seaside town of Minehead, Somerset, England. His father was a farmer; his mother a post office telegrapher. The eldest of four children, he was educated as a scholarship student at a secondary school in the nearby town of Taunton. He remembered a number of incidents in early childhood that awakened his scientific imagination: exploratory rambles along the Somerset shoreline, with its “wonderland of rock pools;” a card from a pack of cigarettes that his father showed him, with a picture of a dinosaur; the gift of a Meccano set, a British construction toy similar to the Erector sets sold in the United States.

He also spent time “mapping the Moon” through a telescope he constructed himself out of “a cardboard tube and a couple of lenses.” But the formative event of his childhood was his discovery, at age 13 — the year his father died — of a copy of “Astounding Stories of Super-Science,” then the leading American science fiction magazine. He found its mix of boyish adventure and far-out (sometimes bogus) science intoxicating.

While still in school, Mr. Clarke joined the newly formed British Interplanetary Society, a small band of sci-fi enthusiasts who held the controversial view that space travel was not only possible but could be achieved in the not-so-distant future. In 1937, a year after he moved to London to take a civil service job, he began writing his first science fiction novel, a story of the far, far future that was later published as “Against the Fall of Night” (1953).

Mr. Clarke spent World War II as an officer in the Royal Air Force. In 1943 he was assigned to work with a team of American scientist-engineers who had developed the first radar-controlled system for landing airplanes in bad weather. That experience led to Mr. Clarke’s only non-science fiction novel, “Glide Path” (1963). More important, it led in 1945 to a technical paper, published in the British journal “Wireless World,” establishing the feasibility of artificial satellites as relay stations for Earth-based communications.

The meat of the paper was a series of diagrams and equations showing that “space stations” parked in a circular orbit roughly 22,240 miles above the equator would exactly match the Earth’s rotation period of 24 hours. In such an orbit, a satellite would remain above the same spot on the ground, providing a “stationary” target for transmitted signals, which could then be retransmitted to wide swaths of territory below. This so-called geostationary orbit has been officially designated the Clarke Orbit by the International Astronomical Union.

Decades later, Mr. Clarke called his “Wireless World” paper “the most important thing I ever wrote.” In a wry piece entitled, “A Short Pre-History of Comsats, Or: How I Lost a Billion Dollars in My Spare Time,” he claimed that a lawyer had dissuaded him from applying for a patent. The lawyer, he said, thought the notion of relaying signals from space was too far-fetched to be taken seriously.

But Mr. Clarke also acknowledged that nothing in his paper — from the notion of artificial satellites to the mathematics of the geostationary orbit — was new. His chief contribution was to clarify and publicize an idea whose time had almost come — a feat of consciousness-raising that he would continue to excel at throughout his career.

The year 1945 also saw the launch of Mr. Clarke’s career as a fiction writer. He sold a short story called “Rescue Party” to the same magazine — now re-titled Astounding Science Fiction — that had captured his imagination 15 years earlier.

For the next two years, Mr. Clarke attended Kings College, London, on the British equivalent of a G.I. Bill scholarship, graduating in 1948 with first-class honors in physics and mathematics. But he continued to write and sell stories, and after a stint as assistant editor at the scientific journal Physics Abstracts, he decided he could support himself as a freelance writer. Success came quickly. His primer on space flight, “The Exploration of Space,” was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection in 1951

Over the next two decades, he wrote a series of nonfiction bestsellers as well as his best-known novels, including “Childhood’s End” (1953) and “2001: A Space Odyssey” (1968). For a scientifically trained writer whose optimism about technology seemed boundless, Mr. Clarke delighted in confronting his characters with obstacles they could not overcome without help from forces beyond their comprehension.

In “Childhood’s End,” a race of aliens who happen to look like devils imposes peace on an Earth torn by cold war tensions. But the aliens’ real mission is to prepare humanity for the next stage of evolution. In an ending that is both heartbreakingly poignant and literally earth-shattering, Mr. Clarke suggests that mankind can escape its suicidal tendencies only by ceasing to be human.

“There was nothing left of Earth,” he wrote. “It had nourished them, through the fierce moments of their inconceivable metamorphosis, as the food stored in a grain of wheat feeds the infant plant while it climbs toward the Sun.”

The cold war also forms the backdrop for “2001.” Its genesis was a short story called “The Sentinel,” first published in a science fiction magazine in 1951. It tells of an alien artifact found on the Moon, a little crystalline pyramid that explorers from Earth destroy while trying to open. One explorer realizes that the artifact was a kind of fail-safe beacon; in silencing it, human beings have signaled their existence to its far-off creators.

In the spring of 1964, Stanley Kubrick, fresh from his triumph with “Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb,” met Mr. Clarke in New York, and the two agreed to make the “proverbial really good science fiction movie” based on “The Sentinel.” This led to a four-year collaboration; Mr. Clarke wrote the novel while Mr. Kubrick produced and directed the film; they are jointly credited with the screenplay.

Reviewers at the time were puzzled by the film, especially the final scene in which an astronaut who has been transformed by aliens returns to orbit the Earth as a “Star-Child.” In the book he demonstrates his new-found powers by harmlessly detonating from space the entire arsenal of Soviet and American nuclear weapons. Like much of the plot, this denouement is not clear in the film, from which Mr. Kubrick cut most of the expository material.

As a fiction writer, Mr. Clarke was often criticized for failing to create fully realized characters. HAL, the mutinous computer in “2001,” is probably his most “human” creation: a self-satisfied know-it-all with a touching but misguided faith in its own infallibility.

If Mr. Clarke’s heroes are less than memorable, it is also true that there are no out-and-out villains in his work; his characters are generally too busy struggling to make sense of an implacable universe to engage in petty schemes of dominance or revenge.

Mr. Clarke’s own relationship with machines was somewhat ambivalent. Although he held a driver’s license as a young man, he never drove a car. Yet he stayed in touch with the rest of the world from his home in Sri Lanka through an ever-expanding collection of up-to-date computers and communications accessories. And until his health declined, he was an expert scuba diver in the waters around Sri Lanka.

He first became interested in diving in the early 1950s, when he realized that he could find underwater “something very close to weightlessness” of outer space. He settled permanently in Colombo, the capital of what was then Ceylon, in 1956. With a partner, he established a guided diving service for tourists and wrote vividly about his diving experiences in a number of books, beginning with “The Coast of Coral” (1956).

All told, he wrote or collaborated on close to 100 books, some of which, like “Childhood’s End,” have been in print continuously. His works have been translated into some 40 languages, and worldwide sales have been estimated at more than $25 million.

In 1962 he suffered a severe attack of poliomyelitis. His apparently complete recovery was marked by a return to top form at his favorite sport, table tennis. But in 1984 he developed post-polio syndrome, a progressive condition characterized by muscle weakness and extreme fatigue. He spent the last years of his life in a wheelchair.

Among his legacies are Clarke’s Three Laws, provocative observations on science, science fiction and society that were published in his “Profiles of the Future” (1962):

¶“When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.”

¶“The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible.”

Along with Verne and Wells, Mr. Clarke said his greatest influences as a writer were Lord Dunsany, a British fantasist noted for his lyrical, if sometimes overblown, prose; Otto Stapledon, a British philosopher who wrote vast speculative narratives that projected human evolution to the furthest reaches of space and time; and Herman Melville’s “Moby-Dick.”

While sharing his passions for space and the sea with a worldwide readership, Mr. Clarke kept his emotional life private. He was briefly married in 1953 to an American diving enthusiast named Marilyn Mayfield; they separated after a few months and were divorced in 1964.

One of his closest relationships was with Leslie Ekanayake, a fellow diver in Sri Lanka, who died in a motorcycle accident in 1977. Mr. Clarke shared his home in Colombo with Leslie’s brother, Hector, his partner in the diving business, Hector’s wife Valerie; and their three daughters.

Mr. Clarke’s standard answer when journalists asked him outright if he was gay was, “No, merely mildly cheerful.”

Mr. Clarke reveled in his fame. One whole room in his house — which he referred to as the Ego Chamber — was filled with photos and other memorabilia of his career, including pictures of him with Yuri Gagarin, the first man in space, and Neil Armstrong, the first man to walk on the moon.

Mr. Clarke’s reputation as a prophet of the space age rests on more than a few accurate predictions. His visions helped bring about the future he longed to see. His contributions to the space program were lauded by Charles Kohlhase, who planned NASA’s Cassini mission to Saturn: “When you dream what is possible, and add a knowledge of physics, you make it happen.”
535 2008-03-18 Visa Inc., the world’s largest credit card network, Tuesday raised $17.9 billion in an initial public offering, the largest ever in the United States.

Visa, based in San Francisco, sold 406 million shares of class A common stock for $44 per share, compared with a forecast range of $37 to $42, according to an underwriter.

Underwriters, led by JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs have the option to purchase an additional 40.6 million shares to cover overallotments, according to an amended registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company has been approved to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol V.
536 2008-03-18 What is most refreshing about the article on the Small Business Administration’s Web site called “The Benefits of Making Your Banker Your Friend” is that it is written from a real world perspective.

Consider the first paragraph:

“While every business has a bank, few have a banker. That’s because bankers are too often seen as obstacles standing between an entrepreneur and the bank’s vault.”

But as the article is quick to point out, small businesses are not doing business with a building — the bank — they are working with people — the bankers. So forging a relationship is crucial.

The article says that having a good working partnership with a banker can result in a greater line of credit for the entrepreneur, lower fees and streamline paperwork (reducing the time it takes to get money).

So many small business owners have poor relationships with bankers or have no relationship at all, the article says, because they do not “understand the restraints and needs of bankers.” The article goes on to offer suggestions to entrepreneurs, including these:

¶ Understand that the banker is not an investor. Investors are willing to take risks because of the potential payoff. Bankers are not, because they do not have an ownership stake in the business. “Until the banker and entrepreneur speak on the same wavelength and understand each other’s vantage point, a good relationship can’t exist.”
537 2008-03-18 But early Tuesday, Lehman shares spiked back up 16.7 percent, by $5.31 to $37.06, while Goldman shares rose 8.2 percent, by $12.36 to $163.38.

In the first hour of trading, the Dow rose 202.23, or 1.69 percent, to 12,174.48.

Broader stock indicators also surged. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 26.19, or 2.05 percent, to 1,302.79, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 43.43, or 1.99 percent, to 2,220.44.

The Fed on Sunday, in addition to guaranteeing up to $30 billion of Bear Stearns’s most troubled assets for JPMorgan, lowered its discount rate — the rate it charges banks directly — by a quarter-point. It also is allowing more types of financial firms to borrow from the central bank, and is accepting more various types of collateral.

After these signals that the Fed is ready to use everything in its arsenal to boost liquidity in the financial system, traders who bet on the Fed’s next rate move are pricing in a 100 percent chance of a full-point rate cut. That would bring the target fed funds rate — the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans — to 2 percent from 3 percent.

Lower rates tend to trigger economic growth. But with the credit markets so tight with nervousness, many market watchers are unsure whether more rate cuts are going to be enough to loosen them up again.

Bond prices fell as investors returned to stocks. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which move opposite its price, rose to 3.39 percent from 3.30 percent late Friday.

The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.

Light, sweet crude rose $1.87 to $107.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

On Monday, the Dow rebounded from an initial drop of nearly 200 points to finish up 21 points. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq indexes ended lower as investors fled to larger, established companies.

The strongest stock among the Dow components on Monday was JPMorgan, which rose another $1.47, or 3.7 percent, to $41.78 Tuesday. As of Monday’s close, JPMorgan’s buyout valued Bear Stearns at $2.21 a share, or $260.5 million.

After selling off Monday, stock markets overseas rebounded Tuesday. Japan’s Nikkei stock average bounced 1.50 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index rose 1.4 percent. In afternoon trading, Britain’s FTSE 100 rose 2.75 percent, Germany’s DAX index added 2.69 percent, and France’s CAC-40 increased 2.49 percent.

Wall Street was not concentrating on economic data with the Fed’s rate decision on tap, but Tuesday’s reports supported the notion that the economy is continuing to slide while costs are rising.

The Commerce Department said home construction fell in February: housing starts fell 0.6 percent, while building permits plummeted 7.8 percent.

Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported a 0.3 percent rise in its Producer Price Index for February, in line with estimates, but the core PPI, which strips out food and energy prices, rose by a greater-than-expected 0.5 percent.
538 2008-03-18 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Producer prices rose by 0.3 percent in February as expected, Labor Department data on Tuesday showed, but a key measure of core inflation at the producer level climbed at the fastest pace in well over a year.

Core producer prices, which strip out volatile food and energy costs at the farm and factory gate, rose by 0.5 percent last month versus estimates for a 0.2 percent gain and after a 0.4 percent advance in January.

The Labor Department said higher prices for cars, light trucks, pharmaceutical products and alcohol had helped push up the core reading, which notched the largest advance since November 2006, when it gained 0.9 percent.

Headline producer prices, which jumped 1.0 percent in January, were dampened by a sharp 0.5 percent drop in food prices in February.

On a year-on-year basis, producer prices were up 6.4 percent while core 12-month producer price index increased by 2.4 percent, which was the fastest pace since October 2007.
539 2008-03-18 An Arizona prosecutor has filed a motion to dismiss 2 of 10 charges against the polygamist sect leader Warren S. Jeffs. The Mohave County attorney, Matt Smith, filed a motion on March 10 to dismiss one charge of sexual conduct with a minor and one of conspiracy to commit sexual conduct with a minor in a 2005 case. Those charges stem from the arranged marriage of a 16-year-old girl and her cousin, who was more than a decade older. In the motion, Mr. Smith says the girl has indicated through her lawyer that she will not testify against Mr. Jeffs. Mr. Jeffs, who was already prosecuted in Utah, is charged as an accomplice with incest and sexual conduct with a minor.
540 2008-03-18 Yet the two are so close in overall talent that at the national championships in January they finished tied, with 244.77 points apiece, before the title went to Lysacek on a tie breaker.

Lysacek and Weir were set to face off again this weekend at the annual world championships in Goteborg, Sweden, but Lysacek had to withdraw after injuring his arm in a fall last week. They remain on a collision course for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver — accompanied by growing gaggles of fans who believe that loving one means hating the other, giving figure skating a rivalry of uncommon passion and depth.

In the normally placid enclave of figure skating, supporting either Evan Lysacek the Athlete or Johnny Weir the Artist has become a virtual referendum on matters from skating style and personal style to sexuality itself.

“If he doesn’t want to skate to music that’s pretty and wear a pretty costume, then go rollerblade or skateboard or do one of those extreme sports,” Weir said of Lysacek.

Used to the outspoken Weir needling him from afar, Lysacek did not take the bait, and kept driving his truck down a Los Angeles highway.

“It’s a distraction,” he said, “but Johnny doesn’t affect how I skate and how I push myself. If this is what it takes for figure skating to attract some attention, I can live with that.”

Quite certainly, figure skating officials are doing triple axels over Lysacek and Weir. David Raith, the executive director of the United States Figure Skating Association, said, “Anybody who says figure skaters now are looking the same, just go out there and look at those two and tell me that.”

Lysacek, 22, grew up outside Chicago wanting to be a hockey player like Chris Chelios, then a hardnosed defenseman for the Blackhawks. Lysacek gravitated to figure skating for its physical demands and daring, and he remains so loyal to those roots that he still chafes at his sport’s forced flamboyance. All things being equal, he would rather skate in sweat pants.

Most figure skating enthusiasts, Lysacek said, “think the definition of being dressy or dressing up is like having glitter all over you; to me that’s just such a joke.” He added that skating’s theater detracted from its athleticism: “Sometimes it’s a little frustrating when people are like, ‘It’s a show — you’re in a show, right?’ Like Ice Capades. That’s the same thing to them.”

Lysacek would not mind being ice skating’s Tony Hawk. He has spoken with Raith and other officials about spinning off an ice-skating competition more like skateboarding’s halfpipe, where skaters focus only on jumps, flips and still-undiscovered tricks — with no music in the background, except maybe hard rock.

“There’s a whole dimension of skating that hasn’t been broken into,” Lysacek said over a post-training dinner last month. “Not just on a flat surface. Something way crazier. Maybe more like aerial skiing.”

“I’d love to see a 6-foot-2-tall, skinny man doing a halfpipe on figure skates,” said Weir, calling music the most important part of his sport. “That’s not figure skating. You can have a different name, but that’s not figure skating.”

For someone so protective of skating’s traditional roots — he considers himself a performer, not a competitor — Weir takes great delight in flaunting his personal eccentricities. He owns at least 10 fur coats, did a magazine fashion shoot wearing six-inch heels, and calls Russia “my motherland” despite being from Pennsylvania Amish country. He has called himself “princessy,” and once described a costume as “Care Bears on acid.”

Weir’s outfits often sparkle like disco balls; in his short program he pretends to be a seagull. His total package has not only led to assumptions that he is gay — something not as taboo in figure skating as in other sports — but a controversy over his not being the right type of gay. During a figure skating broadcast last year, the announcer Mark Lund, who is openly gay, said, “I don’t think he’s representative of the community I want to be a part of,” and, “I don’t need to see a prima ballerina on the ice,” before praising Lysacek’s masculinity.

Weir, 23, declined to end the speculation in an interview at the facility where he trains in Wayne, N.J. As far as he is concerned, masculinity sometimes arrives in fur.

“There are some things I keep sacred,” Weir said. “My middle name. Who I sleep with. And what kind of hand moisturizer I use.”

Getting more serious, Weir continued: “If I was out to please 10-year-old girls and their 45-year-old mothers in Boise, Idaho, I could play the game and be nice and make my voice deeper. But I don’t see the point. I’m not alive for 10-year-old girls and their 45-year-old mothers in Boise, Idaho — or Colorado Springs, Colo.”

Weir was referring to the United States Figure Skating Association, which is based in Colorado Springs. He has claimed the federation has promoted Lysacek over him as a subtle form of punishment for his behavior.

Raith denied the accusation, but Weir’s resentment might have something to do with his performance at the 2006 Olympics in Turin, Italy. In second place after the short program, Weir missed the bus before the long program and had to scramble to the rink 90 minutes before he took the ice. Once there, he did not perform some of the elements of his program. Weir finished a disappointing and somewhat befuddling fifth.

“He left some points on the table — he left some elements out,” said Charlie Cyr, a U.S. skating official. “He said, ‘It wasn’t in the moment. I don’t worry about points.’ He has to pay attention out there. We’ve had that conversation many times.”

Weir’s loss of focus continued throughout 2007, when Lysacek swooped in and took the national title, asserted himself as the better skater and almost made Weir a forgotten iconoclast. But last spring Weir switched coaches to Galina Zmievskaya, whose taskmaster style had prodded former pupils Viktor Petrenko and Oksana Baiul. His tying Lysacek at January’s nationals breathed renewed life into their rivalry.

Fan clubs for each skater have sprouted on the Internet, with groups tending to have as much love for one as enmity for the other. Lysacek’s supporters appreciate his all-business approach, his ferocity on the ice and that he dates Tanith Belbin, a champion ice dancer. Meanwhile, Weir’s fans — known as Johnny’s Angels — adore him for his musicality and self-expression.

“If you like one, it’s hard to like the other,” said Laura Sigler, who skates on the University of Michigan club team. “Johnny is not afraid to be who he is. He has incredible artistry. Evan, he’s more in your face and severe.”

Weir is even less diplomatic. He said he respected Lysacek’s talent, but he was clear that he disliked his rival’s personality. “I think he’s very choreographed and very rehearsed,” Weir said. “He has the big white teeth, really tan. It’s just a little too fake for me.”

Lysacek responded, “I respect him like I respect all the other competitors,” and left it at that.

When Lysacek returns from his injury, he and Weir will continue to compete not only against each other, but against Daisuke Takahashi of Japan, Brian Joubert of France and Stéphane Lambiel of Switzerland for the title of best in the world. Weir will wear his fur to the arena, Lysacek his all-black sweats. And on the ice, Lysacek will keep wowing the crowd with his feats, Weir with his flair.

“Oooh, if you could just get a mix of Evan and Johnny,” said Zmievskaya, Weir’s coach, interlacing her fingers. She dreamily licked her lips. “Perfect.”
541 2008-03-18 Critics of the Federal Reserve’s role in the sale of Bear Stearns have raised the specter of moral hazard. What is moral hazard?

It describes the possibility that people will take foolish risks when they believe that they will be protected from the consequences of their decisions. In this case, the critics are worried that investment firms will repeat their recent run of reckless investments, based on a belief that the government will bail them out again.

The classic examples of moral hazard involve insurance. When people can insure themselves against a bad event, like a car accident, they may become more willing to engage in dangerous behavior that could lead to that event.

“If you have flood insurance, you are more likely to build your house on a flood plain,” said N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard professor and the author of a popular economics textbook. “If you have fire insurance, you’ll be less careful about smoking on the couch.”

In recent years, the number of Americans living in places that are at risk from hurricane damage has risen significantly. If their insurance policies had been more expensive — if the residents had been forced to bear the full costs of their decisions — some would say fewer of them might have moved to coastal areas.

The importance of moral hazard can at times be exaggerated. Studies have shown, for example, that seat-belt laws have greatly reduced driving deaths, even if they also led to some increase in aggressive driving.

Critics of a bailout for Wall Street or for homeowners who took out mortgages they could not in fact afford have said that lenders and borrowers should be forced to face the full consequences of their decisions.
542 2008-03-18 “There is something mixed up in the market,” said Edward Rombach, an analyst at Thomson Financial. “The market is eating itself up.”

In the case of Lehman Brothers, some investors fear that the firm is vulnerable to the same ills that undid Bear Stearns. Like Bear Stearns, Lehman is small and more reliant on the mortgage business than its rivals. Its defenders, though, say that Lehman is much better positioned to ride out the financial storm.

And even as nerve endings remained frayed, there were a few notable signs of improvement on Wall Street, Mr. Rombach and other specialists noted. Particularly encouraging was the sharp narrowing of the spread between ultra-safe Treasuries and bonds backed by Fannie Mae, the government-chartered buyer of mortgages — a sign that investors are willing to consider riskier investments.

If that move toward a more normal assessment of risk persists, it could help drive down interest rates on home loans in the coming days.

The broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, meanwhile, closed down less than 1 percent, recovering much of its losses from early in the day and bucking a strong downdraft from Europe and Asia.

Specialists say their biggest worry now is not whether the economy is already or will soon be in a recession. Far more fundamental and troubling is the health of the financial system that greases the wheels of capitalism.

“Recessions come and go — that is something investors can deal with,” said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, an investment firm in New York. “The bigger issue is, Can our financial system be restored to a sense of normalcy? In recent weeks we have been moving away from that, which is potentially very serious.”

Mr. Stern said he was encouraged by the Fed’s response to the problems at Bear Stearns. In addition to facilitating the firm’s sale to JPMorgan, the central bank also started directly lending to securities firms, something it has not done since the Depression of the 1930s.

The policy-making committee of the Fed is expected to cut its benchmark short-term interest rate at a scheduled meeting on Tuesday by as much as one percentage point, from the current 3 percent, making it cheaper for banks to borrow from each other.

Since last summer, the Fed has tried many approaches to ease the strain in the credit markets. It has cut its benchmark rate from 5.25 percent in a series of jagged steps. It has aggressively lent money to banks and accepted lower-quality collateral that might not even be tradable in the market.

Despite those efforts, financial conditions have worsened. And specialists say the latest measures might meet the same fate if banks and securities firms do not put to work the new money the Fed is offering to lend to them.

“The Fed can do no good at all if they effectively print money and give it to the banks, and the banks dig a hole in the ground and put it in there,” said Donald Brownstein, president of Structured Portfolio Management, a hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., that specializes in mortgage securities.

Other investors are worried that the Fed’s extensive intervention will put the central bank at risk of significant losses and that it will create a “moral hazard” by bailing out institutions that should be allowed to fail. And some complain that the Fed’s backing for a $30 billion loan to Bear Stearns by JPMorgan shifts all the risk to Washington while keeping the profits on Wall Street.

“The government is taking all the downside and none of the upside,” said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital, a bond trading firm.

On Wall Street, however, the Fed’s moves, especially its decision to lend directly to 20 securities dealers, were welcomed.

“They stand committed to protect the system,” said Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers. Mr. Fuld said the Fed had eliminated the liquidity concerns that had cast a pall over brokerage firms like his. He also said his firm, the biggest underwriter of mortgage securities on Wall Street during the housing boom, had plenty of cash and access to safe securities it could sell if it needed to raise money. Investors, however, did not see it that way. Shares of Lehman fell $7.51, or 19 percent, to $31.75. The stock is down 51.5 percent for the year and is among the worst performers in the stock market.

Another financial firm that found itself under assault was MF Global, one of the world’s biggest commodities brokers. Its shares fell $11.30, or 65 percent, to $6.05, on rumors that it was losing clients and rival firms were refusing to deal with it.

Last month, MF Global announced that a trader had lost $141.5 million betting on wheat futures with money he did not have. The firm had turned off risk controls for some traders because the controls slowed transactions.

Reassurances from the New York Mercantile Exchange and the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission that MF Global remained on sound footing did little to stem the negative sentiment.

MF also appears to be suffering from broader worries that commodities have become speculative bubbles.

Crude oil, for instance, was up nearly 90 percent on Friday from a year ago. On Monday, oil futures fell 4.1 percent, or $4.53, to $105.68 a barrel. Most commodities, with the exception of hogs, gold and nickel, fell on Monday. A Goldman Sachs index that tracks raw materials had its biggest one-day drop in more than three years.

Many investors have been betting that oil, wheat and other commodities will buck other investments on the belief that growth abroad, particularly in China and India, will sustain demand in the face of the housing-led downturn in the United States.

But skeptics say the slowing demand here will push down prices on commodities markets in the United States and in other countries, many still highly reliant on American consumers.

“Wall Street likes a good growth story,” said Tobias Levkovich, the chief equity strategist at Citigroup. “And that’s the argument for global growth — they will keep growing irrespective” of the United States.

Stock markets in China and India suffered the biggest losses on Monday. The Shanghai A share market was down 3.6 percent, the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was down 5.2 percent and the Nifty index in India was down 5.1 percent. Early Tuesday, the Shanghai A was drifting lower, but the Hang Seng was trading slightly up and the Nikkei in Japan was up nearly 1.5 percent.

Investors in the region were also troubled by a weekend of news reports of unrest in Tibet and adjacent Chinese provinces.

“Local investor sentiment is not good,” said Ricky Chan, a stockbroker at Phoenix Capital Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The Hong Kong market is really caught in the middle between happenings in China and the United States.”
543 2008-03-18 Shaking up its leadership for the third time in six months, Citigroup has named John Havens as the new head of its investment banking and alternative investments group.

The move, a subject of speculation for months, came on Sunday night when Vikram S. Pandit officially selected Mr. Havens, a loyal lieutenant going back to his Morgan Stanley days, to improve the performance of the two units.

Mr. Havens, known as a strong but sometimes abrasive manager, had been in charge of the alternative investments group after Mr. Pandit combined it with the investment bank last fall to form Citigroup’s institutional clients group.

Michael S. Klein, a co-head of Citigroup’s investment bank for the last four years, was given a new assignment with the title of chairman of Citigroup’s institutional client group, but with no day-to-day management responsibilities. Instead, he will move over to Citigroup’s Park Avenue headquarters, where he will continue working directly with clients and lead a committee to help coordinate coverage with the bank’s disparate businesses.

The moves, which emerged from recent business reviews, are the latest in a series of changes that Mr. Pandit has made since taking over for Charles O. Prince III in December. Citigroup has been hard hit by the credit crisis, with more than $20 billion in write-offs and a 60 percent drop in its stock price over the last year.

Besides strengthening its balance sheet, Mr. Pandit has appointed a new chief risk officer and made changes in the way its mortgage operations and global wealth management unit are structured. Even so, investors continue to raise concerns about its financial health as it braces for billions of dollars in additional losses.
544 2008-03-18 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court handed Microsoft a defeat on Monday by refusing to rule on its request to halt an antitrust suit against it.

The suit was brought in 2004 by Novell, based in Waltham, Mass., which said in court papers that Microsoft had “deliberately targeted and destroyed” its WordPerfect and QuattroPro programs to protect its Windows operating system monopoly.

Novell sold WordPerfect and QuattroPro to Corel Corporation in 1996.
545 2008-03-18 A British judge awarded Heather Mills, right, a total of £24.3 million, about $48.9 million, in her divorce settlement with Paul McCartney. In a summary of his decision, the judge in the case, Hugh Bennett, said that Mr. McCartney would pay Ms. Mills a lump sum of £16.5 million (about $33.2 million); this would be in addition to Ms. Mills’s current assets of £7.8 million (about $15.7 million). Mr. McCartney, 65, must also provide the equivalent of about $70,000 a year for the couple’s 4-year-old daughter, Beatrice, and pay her school and nanny fees. The judge said that Mr. McCartney had about £400 million in assets, and that Ms. Mills, 40, had originally asked for almost £125 million. They married in 2002 and separated four years later. After the decision Mr. McCartney left the court, declining comment; Ms. Mills spoke at length to waiting reporters. Among other things, she accused Mr. McCartney of wanting their daughter to fly economy, while he flew first class. The judge said he planned to make his entire ruling public; Ms. Mills said she would contest that.
546 2008-03-18 Among other striking works is a sequence of images by the designer Eyvind Earle that show how he created the stylized forest backgrounds for “Sleeping Beauty.” The delicate clusters of leaves and intricately textured bark on the trees reflect Mr. Earle’s interest in 15th-century French manuscripts and the painting of Van Eyck, and foreshadow his later serigraphs.

After the department store tour, Disney donated the artwork to the National Museum of Modern Art in Tokyo. But the material was not considered a good fit for its permanent collection, so the museum gave the pieces to Chiba University to enhance the study of the visual arts.

Chiba’s academic focus was on science, engineering and medicine, however, and the Disney art was consigned to a janitor’s closet and forgotten until it was found by chance four years ago. Although the artwork suffered some damage because of dampness, the rarest pieces were sealed in frames, which protected them somewhat.

After a year of restoration work by technicians at Disney’s Animation Research Library, some 200 works went on tour in Japan, along with 350 additional pieces lent by the studio in an exhibition titled “The Art of Disney.” The show toured seven museums around the country in 2006 and 2007, including the Tokyo Museum of Contemporary Art. At the end of its run, Chiba University offered to return the artwork to Disney.

In a statement Chiba University’s president, Toyoki Kozai, said, “The response to the exhibit gave us a new appreciation for the historical and artistic value of these works.”

Because the university was concerned about keeping them in good condition for the next generation, he said, it “concluded that entrusting them to Disney would be the best route to take.”

In return, Disney is giving Chiba University high-resolution digital copies of the artworks and $1 million for scholarships. But both sides said the deal should not be viewed as a sale.

In 1960 little value was placed on artwork from animated films, and cels were sold at Disneyland for a few dollars apiece. Today animation art is prized by collectors, and a top-quality Earle background from “Sleeping Beauty” might sell for $20,000 to $30,000. Given the rarity of some of the pieces, it is hard to assign a dollar value to the collection over all, because nothing comparable has been offered for sale.

“There is no way to put a price on these works — they represent our artistic heritage,” Ms. Smith, of Disney, said. “That said, their value as archival materials for study and research is very high.” She added that when the works were discovered, they did not have much commercial value because of years of accumulated damage from mold.

Mr. Kozai said that Chiba University would channel the donated money into its overall educational programs and into research on art and animation and what he called “the sound growth of children.”
547 2008-03-18 Leon Botstein, the music director of the American Symphony Orchestra, is a tireless champion of the also-rans in music history. On Sunday afternoon at Avery Fisher Hall, he presented the remarkable results of his latest salvage operation when he conducted the orchestra, the Concert Chorale of New York and a fine roster of vocal soloists in the American premiere of “The Destruction of Jerusalem,” a two-part, two-hour oratorio from 1840 by the German composer Ferdinand Hiller.

The son of a wealthy Jewish merchant in Frankfurt, Hiller (1811-1885) was a prolific composer, a gifted pianist and a respected teacher who won the support of powerful colleagues, especially Mendelssohn, though they had a falling-out in 1843 when Hiller replaced Mendelssohn as the director of the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra.

In the assured performance conducted by Mr. Botstein, “The Destruction of Jerusalem” made a strong impression. The music balances German Romantic sweep with compositional intricacy. The program for the performance reprinted two admiring reviews of the work by Schumann. The piece holds its own with the oratorios of Mendelssohn. So what happened?

In program notes Mr. Botstein suggested that Hiller’s oratorio was a work of its time, aimed at an audience with shared cultural values. Later generations have fixated on composers who were visionaries. But for Hiller, like Mendelssohn, large-scaled composition “needed to speak entirely to the present moment, communicating simply and without undue evidence of a narcissistic desire to shock the audience with startling originality and lay waste to the past,” as Mr. Botstein wrote.

If “The Destruction of Jerusalem” was never startling, it was consistently pleasing. It tells the story of the Babylonian threat to that sacred city during the reign of Zedekiah, the King of Judah. The prophet Jeremiah repeatedly warns the king of a coming attack. Enraged by this prophecy, Zedekiah has Jeremiah imprisoned. After the Babylonians besiege the city, Jeremiah prophesies that ultimately God’s house will stand taller than the mountains. The choral episodes, vibrantly sung by the excellent chorale (James Bagwell is the director), are the most impressive elements of the score, starting with the opening “Chorus of Israelites,” vigorous music that swings broadly in a marching triple meter, as the voices sing proclamations in thick block harmonies, until a complex middle section when the choristers break into a studious fugato.

Hiller shows sure dramatic instincts in the way urgent passages of dramatic recitative segue seamlessly into reflective arias and choral outbursts. The demanding role of Jeremiah ideally wants a powerful baritone, and in some passages Lucas Meachem sounded as if he were straining his warm, robust but essentially lyric voice. Still, he gave a courageous account of this challenging music.

Also impressive were the bright-voiced tenor Scott Ramsay as Zedekiah; the earthy and affecting soprano Christine Brandes as the king’s mother, Chamital; the tenor Brian Stucki in the smaller role of Achicam, a pious Israelite; and as his sister, Hannah, the appealing mezzo-soprano Jennifer Rivera.
548 2008-03-18 At a late-night news conference, Ms. Rice said that Mr. Bush had sent the letter to Mr. Putin within the past five days, and that it was an effort by the American president to gauge the Kremlin’s interest in formalizing cooperation on issues where agreement had been found or was near, while pressing for a deal on the more contentious policies.

“And we talked to them about the potential to look at all of the different issues that the United States and Russia have — some of them cooperative, some of them in which we have disagreements — and to try to put this on a firm footing going forward,” she said. Ms. Rice said she and Mr. Gates were in Moscow “discussing ways to give a clear signal that there is a foundation for all of these issues.”

She declined to label the Bush letter a formal “strategic framework” to guide Washington-Moscow relations into the future, a concept advocated by a number of Russian analysts and scholars who have been troubled by the caustic tone of the relationship. The details of the letter were not released by either government.

On American proposals to place missile defense bases in two formerly Communist nations of Eastern Europe, Mr. Gates was asked if he thought a deal was possible with Moscow by the end of the Bush administration.

“I think the answer is yes,” he said. “The environment in our meetings was positive today.” But, he cautioned, “whether that leads to a positive conclusion remains to be seen.”

The two cabinet members listed a number of areas in which Russia and the United States were operating in close cooperation or could reach agreement, mostly in counterterrorism, nuclear nonproliferation and trade.

Mr. Gates said the United States was also moving to allay Moscow’s concerns on a nuclear weapons accord to succeed the Start II agreement when it expires in 2009. Moscow wants a formal treaty, while the Bush administration has been pressing for less formal limits. Mr. Gates said the United States would accept a binding agreement, but only if it was not as lengthy in pages or negotiations as Start.

Mr. Putin, in discussing the letter from Mr. Bush, said, “If we can reach agreement on its most important provisions, then we will be able to state that our dialogue is proceeding successfully.” But he, too, warned, “There are still a lot of outstanding problems that need to be discussed.”

Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, said the Bush letter had been the catalyst for the return trip to Moscow by Ms. Rice and Mr. Gates. He said it laid out an agenda for the talks on Monday and Tuesday, and proposed a path toward agreements that would survive the two current presidents.

“As they go through a transition, and as we go through a transition, there is a need to focus on areas of agreement so neither side loses precious time,” Mr. Morrell said.

Mr. Medvedev, in a separate meeting, expressed concerns about American plans for the Eastern European missile-defense sites. But he, too, vowed that Russia was “determined to go ahead” with talks on a range of issues with the United States.

For Mr. Medvedev, the meeting was the first time since he was elected to succeed Mr. Putin earlier this month that he had participated in high-level security talks with the Americans.

“We need to provide for continuity in the Russian-U.S. relationship,” Mr. Medvedev told Ms. Rice and Mr. Gates.

Mr. Gates entered the Kremlin with his right arm in a sling; he fractured it slipping on ice at his home in Washington a month ago. “With a broken arm, I won’t be nearly as difficult a negotiator,” Mr. Gates told Mr. Medvedev, who replied, “We’ll see.”
549 2008-03-18 A common intestinal bacterium is associated with a significant reduction in the risk for kidney stones, a new study has found.

The bacterium, Oxalobacter formigenes, lives in the intestinal tracts of as many as three-quarters of normal adults. There it helps to digest a salt called oxalate that occurs in many vegetables, especially spinach, beets and nuts. Most kidney stones are made primarily of calcium oxalate.

The researchers studied 247 patients with recurrent kidney stones, comparing them with 259 healthy people matched for age, sex and geographical location. They determined the presence of O. formigenes by examining stool cultures. Of the patients with kidney stones, 17 percent were colonized with O. formigenes, compared with 38 percent of those without stones. The study was published online March 5 in The Journal of the American Society of Nephrology.

David W. Kaufman, a professor of epidemiology at Boston University who was the lead author, said other investigators were working on developing the bacterium as a probiotic that could be taken by people who did not have it.

“It appears from our results,” Dr. Kaufman said, “that people who have this bacterium will have a lower risk of developing a recurrence of the most common type of kidney stones. But we’re still a long way from translating this into practical therapy.”
550 2008-03-18 “Their hypocritical lies can’t cover the ironclad facts,” he said.

The Dalai Lama has called on the Chinese security forces and Tibetan protesters to avoid violence. He has also accused China of conducting a “cultural genocide” in Tibet.

Mr. Wen rejected that assertion and said Beijing would continue to improve the region’s economy and strive to protect Tibetan culture.

On Monday, China raised the death toll from the protests week to 16, but said its security forces had avoided using lethal force, countering Tibetan exile groups that said at least 80 people had been killed.

Scattered protests by ethnic Tibetans continued on Monday in the neighboring Chinese provinces of Qinghai and Sichuan, as well as in Gansu. As the paramilitary police and troops were deployed to quash those protests, international pressure mounted on China to show restraint in dealing with dissent.

Demonstrations also reached Beijing, with about 80 students at the Central University for Minorities staging a sit-down protest on the campus late Monday night.

University officials were negotiating with the students, witnesses said, but failed to persuade them to disperse.

Senior Chinese officials seemed anxious on Monday to avoid the appearance of parallels between the Tibetan protests and the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square.

Officials said the police and paramilitary police had been called in to deal with the protests, not the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, which led the bloody 1989 Tiananmen crackdown.

“The P.L.A. is not involved in the handling of the incidents,” said a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao. “Their entering Tibet now is mainly to handle losses from the incidents.”

Mr. Liu also dismissed reports of casualties from gunfire in Lhasa, the Tibetan regional capital. “The Chinese authorities have not used any lethal weapons in the whole process,” he said.

The clashes in Tibet could undermine China’s efforts to encourage self-governing Taiwan to move toward reunification. In the final days of campaigning before Taiwan’s presidential election on Saturday, both major political parties condemned Beijing’s suppression of protests in Tibet.

Chinese officials said Lhasa was quiet on Monday after the biggest antigovernment protests in almost two decades turned violent on Friday.

The government also condemned protests at its embassies abroad, calling them a serious threat to safety, Reuters reported Monday. “We strongly condemn the violent action of Tibet independence activists,” Mr. Liu said.

On Monday, protests took place at the Chinese Embassies in New Delhi and Paris, while another was planned for London.

Earlier, the state news media reported that 10 people had been killed when Tibetans went on a rampage and attacked ethnic Chinese and destroyed their shops and property.

The senior Chinese political leader in Tibet, Qiangba Puncog, said at a news conference in Beijing on Monday that security forces had used only water cannons and tear gas to disperse protesters in Lhasa.

He said that 13 of those killed in the protests were “innocent civilians” attacked by a mob.

In addition, three Tibetans died when they jumped from the roof of a building after refusing to surrender to the police, he said.

Mr. Puncog, an ethnic Tibetan, said supporters the Dalai Lama had organized the unrest in an effort to generate publicity during the Olympics.

The Dalai Lama on Sunday accused China of waging “cultural genocide” in Tibet and called for an international inquiry into the suppression of the protests. From the headquarters of the Tibetan government in exile in Dharamsala, India, he said that Tibetans had the right to peaceful protest, though he also reiterated that he was not calling for Tibetan independence.

There has been no independent corroboration of either the Chinese or Tibetan exiles’ version of the casualties and damage from the protests in Tibet. The Chinese authorities have barred foreign journalists from Tibet, and access for other foreigners, including tourists, has been “temporarily” suspended, according to government officials.

Images of Lhasa streets broadcast by Hong Kong television over the weekend showed a heavy Chinese military and police presence on streets still covered with debris. The Chinese authorities set a deadline of midnight Monday for those participating in the demonstrations to give themselves up or face severe penalties. There was no sign early Tuesday that the protesters had surrendered.

Journalists and photographers trying to cover the outlying protests said they had been taken into “protective detention” and prevented from approaching those areas.

For China, the unrest in Tibet has drawn unwelcome attention to some of the longstanding tensions in the country as the governing Communist Party is planning a show of unity and harmony during the Olympics.

China says Tibet has been part of its territory for centuries, but Beijing has exerted full control only since 1950, when Communist troops invaded the region.
551 2008-03-18 By mid-morning, a group of high school students in forest-green school sweaters had gathered near the temple gates holding a flag of Tibet. One of them, Tsering Dolma, 17, said they had cut class, flouting the principal’s orders and riding a bus 90 minutes through the hills to join the protests here.

“It was the pain in our hearts,” she said in halting English. “We needed to escape.”

Many of the students, including Ms. Dolma, had made an earlier escape, crossing the mountains on foot from Tibet and leaving their parents behind.

One student, Choedak, 18, said he had spoken to his mother, in Lhasa, on Saturday night. “All the streets are smoke and tears,” she told him. “We cannot open our eyes. Every street is like empty.”

Posters for hatha yoga and Tibetan massage (as seen in Lonely Planet tour guides, they boasted) competed for wall space with angry calls for freedom. “The Game’s Over. Free Tibet,” read one ubiquitous sticker, alluding to China’s role as host of the Olympic Games. A banner said, “Stop the Killings in Tibet.”

Down the hill, at the Tibetan Center for Human Rights and Democracy, calls poured in with accounts of events across the border. Urgen Tenzin, the center’s executive director, recorded a call he received Sunday. The caller described seeing seven people shot dead at a demonstration in front of a Tibetan monastery in Sichuan Province. Callers from Lhasa, Tibet’s capital, reported police officers making house-to-house searches on Sunday evening, and a number of arrests.

Mr. Tenzin’s cellphone trilled and he grabbed his notebook. The call was a secondhand report of a protest breaking out Monday at a medical college in a province outside the Tibet Autonomous Region.

“We are quite helpless,” Mr. Tenzin said. “What we can do except disseminate information?”

In the late afternoon, monks at the Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies monastery disseminated a half-dozen chilling photographs that they said were from Aba in Sichuan Province, a city Tibetans call Ngaba. One photograph showed a tank in the middle of a street, and another showed bodies in the road and a child crouching to get a closer look. The monks said a source in Aba sent the image Monday afternoon by e-mail, somehow circumventing the Chinese government’s latest Internet restrictions.

What followed was a most unusual news conference. The monks telephoned a man who said he was in Aba and let reporters listen as he described soldiers filling the streets of the city and people vowing to resist Beijing’s midnight deadline to end their demonstrations.

The monks would not identify the caller, except to show reporters that they had indeed dialed a number inside China.

By evening, the photographs were plastered across town.

Not all the reports painted a portrait of peaceful protests. On Saturday, Kunchok Jigmey, the secretary of this monastery, received a call from an affiliated monastery, Kirti, in Zoige County, Sichuan, describing how 400 people, including monks, who poured into the streets, shouted, “Long live his holiness, the Dalai Lama,” burned Chinese flags and broke the windows of Chinese-owned shops and restaurants.

Like the other reports, this one could not be independently verified.

Many of the protesters, including young people and members of radical exile groups, openly broke with the Dalai Lama’s advocacy of a “middle way” of freedom but not independence from China. They raised a chorus of stridently anti-Chinese slogans and, before the Dalai Lama spoke to reporters on Sunday, laid Chinese flags on the road, inviting cars and pedestrians to trample on them.

The Dalai Lama, 72, has held talks with Beijing since 2002 and continues to endorse the Olympic Games this summer in China. On Sunday, he said he would not tell his followers to surrender by midnight on Monday, even though he feared that continued protests would prompt further crackdowns by Chinese authorities.

“We, the young people, feel independence is our birthright,” said Dolma Choephel, 34, a social worker active with the Tibetan Youth Congress. “We understand the limitations of the Dalai Lama’s approach.”

The president of the group, Tsewang Rigzin, went further. “There is growing frustration among the younger generation,” he said. “I certainly hope the middle way approach would be reviewed.”

Meanwhile, the Dalai Lama’s government in exile called for an independent international inquiry into the crackdown and urgent assistance for Tibet. It said that at least 80 people had been killed, and that some 400 had been wounded in Lhasa alone. On Monday night, as the deadline approached, hundreds of Tibetans, young and old, gathered in the courtyard of the Dalai Lama’s temple to recite prayers for the dead.

Tenzin Gelek, 25, sat with a candle in hand and said bloodshed was inevitable back home. “I’m sure they will kill many more after midnight tonight,” he said bitterly of the Chinese forces. “We are helpless here.”
552 2008-03-18 The unrest is a blow to President , who personally directed a crackdown on Tibetan protests in 1989 and who has considered the Tibetan region part of his core political base within the Communist Party since then. It will fall to Mr. Hu to figure out how to restore order in Tibet without undermining the Olympics coming-out party that China has meticulously planned for years.

For now, Beijing’s line on Tibet is likely to harden. Military police officers are pouring in to stifle new protests. Nor are the demonstrations winning much public sympathy in a nation where Tibetans are a tiny minority. The state media has tightly controlled its coverage to focus on Tibetans burning Chinese businesses or attacking and killing Chinese merchants. No mention is made of Tibetan grievances or reports that 80 or more Tibetans have died.

Less than five months before the opening of the Olympics, Beijing is acutely worried about an international reaction and is arguing that its response to the protests has been reasonable. Qiangba Puncog, the taciturn chairman of Tibet’s government, said during a hurriedly convened news conference on Monday that the military police and other officers were not carrying lethal weapons and had not fired a single shot — despite multiple witnesses reporting gunshots.

“What democratic country in the world could tolerate this violent behavior?” Mr. Puncog asked, framing the crisis as a law-and-order issue.

Yet even if the protests are extinguished soon, China’s leaders will be left with a shattered Tibet. One foreigner who witnessed the violence in Lhasa said Tibetans were covering the streets in white toilet paper. Traditionally, Tibetans offer white silk scarves to welcome guests. But the toilet paper was intended to symbolize that the Chinese were no longer welcome — even though there was little possibility they would leave.

Beginning in 2002, China tried to soften its image on Tibet by holding reconciliation talks with emissaries of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama, in turn, has explicitly stated that he is interested only in greater autonomy for Tibet within China, not independence.

But some analysts say Mr. Hu ruled out any compromise that would allow the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet, which he fled after a failed uprising in 1959. Instead, China appeared to want to keep talking until the Dalai Lama, who is 72, died and left Beijing more firmly in control. Beijing has also infuriated many Tibetans by trying to monopolize the most sacred rituals of Tibetan Buddhism.

The Communist Party, atheistic by doctrine, has insisted that it has the sole authority to approve incarnations — the divine process by which a “living Buddha” is chosen in boyhood. Beijing had already selected a boy as its own Panchen Lama, the second ranking figure in Tibetan Buddhism, and reportedly jailed a boy chosen by the Dalai Lama.

Last November, the Dalai Lama countered with his own surprise. He proposed that instead of waiting for senior religious figures to search out his incarnation following his death, he might choose his own reincarnation — a possibility that has enraged Beijing. The Dalai Lama proposed a referendum among Tibetan Buddhists on whether to change the current reincarnation practice, in a way that could allow him influence in picking his own successor.

Meanwhile, Beijing has steadily been taking a tougher line on religious practices and cultural expressions of Tibetan pride. In November 2005, Zhang Qingli was appointed Communist Party secretary of the Tibet Autonomous Region. Mr. Zhang came from the Communist Youth League organization, part of the political stronghold of Mr. Hu. Mr. Zhang has made no attempt to disguise his paternal attitude toward his charges.

“The Communist Party is like the parent to the Tibetan people, and it is always considerate about what the children need,” Mr. Zhang said last year. He later added: “The Central Party Committee is the real Buddha for Tibetans.”

Robert Barnett, a Tibet specialist at , said Mr. Zhang had taken a tough line. Tibetan government employees faced periodic requirements to write denunciations of the Dalai Lama. Mr. Zhang reintroduced a policy that forbade Tibetan students and government workers from visiting monasteries or participating in religious ceremonies or festivals.

By 2006, Mr. Zhang had revived an “anti-Dalai” campaign and intensified “patriotic education” at Buddhist monasteries. Monks are now required to attend long sessions listening to recitations of China’s interpretation of Tibetan history and also denounce the Dalai Lama.

“The party must surely know these monks are not going to change their minds” about the Dalai Lama, said Tsering Wangdu Shakya, a Tibet expert at the University of British Columbia. “So the whole point of the meetings is to intimidate the monks.”

Mr. Shakya said Chinese leaders must be stunned by the Lhasa riots because Tibet, under Mr. Zhang’s firm hand, had been thought to be pacified. In 2006, China opened the world’s highest railway, which cost $4.1 billion and traverses the Tibetan plateau to connect isolated Lhasa with the rest of the country. Beijing described the railway as a vital tool in developing the Tibetan economy, the poorest in China.

But many Tibetans regard the railroad as a threat. China has poured money into Tibet in hopes that economic development and higher incomes would win over a younger generation. For many Tibetan families, life has improved. But China has also encouraged huge numbers of Chinese migrants, whose presence has diluted the Tibetan majority.

“That is one of the biggest sources of resentment,” Mr. Shakya said of the Chinese migration. He said Tibetans believed Chinese were given more opportunities for jobs, and Tibetan unemployment is high. Beijing surely noticed that the younger generation it hoped to entice was rampaging on the streets of Lhasa.

Economic development also has brought environmental exploitation. The railway is regarded as a critical spur for China to extract and transport the rich deposits of , iron, lead and other minerals in the large unspoiled Tibetan highlands.

Last year, Tibetans in Ganzi Prefecture in Sichuan Province held angry protests to stop a mining company that was shearing off a mountain considered sacred by Buddhists. Eleven days ago, just before the Lhasa riots, about 100 monks and other Tibetans attacked Chinese cars and shops and clashed with the police there.

Several analysts say China cannot win the hearts of Tibetans if it continues to demonize the Dalai Lama. But China’s rhetoric about a sinister “Dalai clique” orchestrating the protests from behind the scenes suggests that its attitude is hardening. Mr. Shakya said restricting the flow of Chinese migrants would be a major concession. But few analysts believe Beijing is in any mood to make concessions.

For now, Lhasa will remain in the grip of the military police and soldiers. And, by one account, covered in white toilet paper.
553 2008-03-18 Besides, in case you haven’t been watching the Fed lately, we’re in the midst of a potentially disastrous financial crisis. People worry about moral hazard issues in normal times. But in times like these, they put those concerns on the back burner.

But shouldn’t the market be allowed to work? If housing prices are bound to fall anyway, we might as well get them down to their natural level as quickly as possible.

That’s the lesson of the Japanese financial crisis. People aren’t going to buy houses if it seems that prices will continue their gradual fall for another several years. If people who made bad decisions are allowed to stay in homes they can’t afford, then prudent people who made good decisions will lose opportunities to move up to nicer places.

All that’s true, but bubbles can move both ways. Just as housing can get overpriced during a frenzy, it can get under-priced during a panic. It makes sense to try to find some circuit breakers so the housing market doesn’t totally collapse. Moreover, there are social costs to mass foreclosures. People build up social capital in their neighborhoods, which they lose if forced to move out.

Well, if the government is going to intervene more in the housing market, what principles should we use to organize the response?

First, no bailout for the true greedheads: the speculators, the flippers, the people who bought second homes they couldn’t afford. Help only those who can stay in their homes with a modest amount of aid. Don’t succumb to lenders who want the government to buy up their bad paper. On the other hand, as Douglas Elmendorf of the Brookings Institution points out, it would be self-defeating to crack down on the so-called irresponsible lenders so harshly that you skew their incentives to lend in the future.

So what policy ideas are out there?

None are wholly satisfactory. On the Democratic side, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd are proposing federally backed loan guarantees. People in danger of defaulting could get new mortgages that reflected the new, lower value of their homes. Lenders would write off some value, but it would be better than nothing.

There are significant administrative problems with this idea, of which the sponsors are fully aware. How would you make sure only the worthy qualified for the guarantees? In a world of securitized mortgages, how do you track down the actual owners of the debt to renegotiate? Nonetheless, they think the plan would get us through the crisis.

John McCain’s staffers are acutely aware of the problem, but are having trouble coming up with a response they think would work. One idea is to use the low-income housing tax credit to subsidize those who would otherwise default. The idea is sensible, but if the housing crisis provokes a campaign bidding war, the Democratic plans are bigger.

So I guess we’re all bailout artists now?

We do seem to have reached some Bernanke-era consensus. In normal times, the free market works well. But in a crisis like this one, few are willing to sit back and let the market find its own equilibrium.
554 2008-03-18 DAY OF ANXIETY The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21 points for the day, but the mood on Wall Street was anything but calm.      CRITICIZING BUSH'S MOVES Some people are questioning President Bush for bailing out an investment bank while doin...
555 2008-03-19 Only days after the fire sale of Bear Stearns stunned Wall Street, a battle seems to be brewing in the markets over the fate of the troubled investment bank and the controversial deal that JPMorgan and federal authorities devised to save it. In on...
556 2008-03-19 A year ago, when tiny Winthrop of Rock Hill, S.C., earned its near-annual spot in the N.C.A.A. tournament, two reporters from the local paper, The Herald, covered the team from the road. Literally. The Eagles were sent to Spokane, Wash., for the f...
557 2008-03-19 Razzaq Rashid Abbas, an Iraqi policeman who lost his leg trying to stop a bomber, being shaved by his son, Saif Razzaq at a Baghdad hospital. November 4, 2003. More photographs. (Photo: Michael Kamber for The New York Times) When news of the invas...
558 2008-03-19 Some of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's biggest donors and backers pledge to raise the money to pay for Michigan's primary....
559 2008-03-19 After dealing with the Kelvin Sampson saga, can Indiana rally around Coach Dan Dakich and make a run in N.C.A.A. tournament?
560 2008-03-19 Verizon is telling electronics makers and software developers how to create devices and programs to work on its wireless network. AT&T said it will be open too....
561 2008-03-19 Call it the misfortunes of war. During his Mideast visit, Senator John McCain - running for President as the ranking mastermind of military security issues - committed a basic error in describing the enemy forces at work in Iraq. In news interview...
562 2008-03-19 A cool animation shows the consolidation of the organic food industry....
563 2008-03-19 Music executives will be meeting with Apple to talk about the possibility of a music subscription service for Apple's iPods and iPhone. Apple may have changed its tune on subscriptions, but that doesn't mean a deal will be made....
564 2008-03-19 Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a quick stop in Detroit, cast her desire for a re-vote in Michigan as part of a long struggle for voting rights....
565 2008-03-19 Jeff Frankel has been arguing for some time, most recently in a new blog post, that low real interest rates are driving up commodity prices. Others argue that we're witnessing a commodity bubble. These are, of course, not mutually exclusive - we c...
566 2008-03-19 Members of our virtual roundtable weigh in....
567 2008-03-19 Thornburg Mortgage is out today with a reorganization proposal that shows how desperate it is for cash - and how overvalued its shares are now. The details are complicated, but the important fact to understand is that Thornburg plans to raise $1 b...
568 2008-03-19 Even during normal times, Visa's initial public offering would be a show-stopper. It is the biggest in United States history, and the world's third-largest ever. If the underwriters exercise their option to sell extra Visa stock (and given Wednesd...
569 2008-03-19 Filling out a bracket for the N.C.A.A. tournament provides plenty of opportunities to second guess yourself....
570 2008-03-19 Former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volker, and other learned economists, weigh in on the Bear Stearns rescue....
571 2008-03-19 With all the furor over the possibility of a high-speed financial meltdown, it's been easy to forget that we still have the problem of a weak real economy, and a Fed that is having a hard time getting traction. And as I've pointed out before, we'r...
572 2008-03-19 In a boon for big banks and Wall Street, Visa, the credit card giant, went public Tuesday in the largest initial public offering in American history. The company's shares, priced at $44 each, will begin trading on Wednesday on the New York Stock E...
573 2008-03-19 Pandemonium broke out when Senator John McCain made the traditional pilgrimage to the Western Wall....
574 2008-03-19 More than 70 hedge funds - including those run by Blackstone Group and Goldman Sachs - are rushing into the melee to snap up distressed mortgages and securities from banks battered by the subprime meltdown, according to Bloomberg News. Hedge funds...
575 2008-03-19 As part of a deal with regulators, they will be able to reduce that amount by a third, to 20 percent. For Fannie Mae, that means holding $3.2 billion less capital, while for Freddie Mac it comes to $2.6 billion less.

In exchange, the mortgage finance giants have committed to raise “significant capital” in the future, though that pledge is vague. Regulators are also planning soon to lift the requirements of a settlement made with the government to resolve the enforcement proceedings against the companies.

At the end of 2007, Fannie Mae had $45 billion in capital and Freddie Mac had $37 billion, for a total of $82 billion between them. That cushion supports more than $1 trillion of combined debt.

In a statement issued after the announcement, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said the decision would make more financing available for mortgages.

“Additional capital will enable the companies to help more homeowners and will strengthen the underlying fundamentals of the mortgage market,” Mr. Paulson said

The announcement marked a stunning and, some say, risky change of course for the administration and the regulator that supervises the companies.

As recently as last fall, senior administration officials had been urging Congress to adopt tighter regulations on the companies that would limit their flexibility to hold mortgages. The concern by some officials, including the current and former chairmen of the Federal Reserve, has been the implicit guarantee of government backing in case either company defaults on its debts, which are huge.

The Bush administration has repeatedly said there is no such guarantee, but investors continue to believe — as evidenced by their willingness to lend to Fannie and Freddie at lower rates of interest — that the companies are “too big to fail” and that the government would mount a taxpayer bailout in case of a default.

But at least in the short term, Wednesday’s decision reduces the cushion of money that supports the companies’ borrowings — and also stands between the companies and a possible taxpayer bailout should they encounter any major problems.

“I think it’s very dangerous and it’s a sign that people are very frightened,” said Thomas H. Stanton, an expert on the two companies. “At a time in which finance companies are holding questionable assets and facing losses, regulators typically require more capital, not less.”

Mr. Stanton and other experts said that, should the markets continue to decline, the two companies could face significant problems.

Rocked by accounting scandals, Fannie and Freddie had been under tight government regulation. The administration had maintained for years that Congress ought to curtail the companies from expanding their investment portfolios for fear that any significant trouble encountered by the companies could prompt a costly bailout. As part of the agreement, the regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, or OFHEO, said it expected to lift an array of conditions imposed on the two companies as a result of the accounting problems.

At a news conference this morning, James Lockhart, the director of OFHEO, rejected the notion that the moves to reduce capital would make the companies more vulnerable.

“The actions we’re taking today makes the idea of a bailout nonsense in my mind,” Mr. Lockhart said. “The companies are safe and sound and they will continue to be safe and sound.”

But some analysts disagreed, saying there was a need for concern.

“If the markets continue to decline, Fannie and Freddie will be two of the bodies on the beach,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting company. “The argument is settled that the less capital the companies hold, the more risk they take.”

As recently as last summer, federal regulators were blocking efforts by Fannie and Freddie to expand their portfolio of mortgage holdings. And in a letter last September to Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that relaxing portfolio restrictions on the two companies could prove “ill advised.”

Officials said the Wednesday announcement was precipitated in part by the events from last week. In response to the credit crisis, the Federal Reserve announced that it would lend up to $200 billion to institutions and would use Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt and other mortgage-backed securities as collateral. The stock of the two companies, which had been declining significantly, jumped in response.

A day after the announcement, Richard F. Syron, the chairman and chief executive of Freddie, announced that it would not increase its capital because such a move could harm shareholders.

At the same time, the administration and OFHEO have come under increasing pressure from Democratic lawmakers in the House and Senate to ease restrictions on the two companies.

The announcement was applauded by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who had been urging regulators to ease restrictions on the companies.

“This is a major step forward that should help mitigate the spread of foreclosures and provide some relief to the credit markets in general,” Mr. Schumer said. “Fannie and Freddie ought to now become more involved in distressed areas of the market, like jumbo loans and subprime refinancings.”

The top executives of the two companies also hailed the decision.

“Everybody should be happy about what’s going on today,” said Richard F. Syron, chairman and chief executive of Freddie Mac. “It shows the best of the regulatory system.”

Daniel H. Mudd, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, said the decision “provides stability in a market which needs additional help.”

“Ultimately we hope it means buyers get lower mortgages and that people facing adjustable rates can refinance at affordable levels,” Mr. Mudd said.
576 2008-03-19 “That is a good infusion of capital,” said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., the founder of IPOScoop.com, a Web site that tracks the industry. “And it’s no secret that Wall Street is capital starved right now.”

Shares of Visa were priced above the expected range of $37 to $42. More than 406 million shares are being offered, with an option to add 40.6 million if there is demand. That means the size of sale could reach as much as $19.7 billion.

In going public, Visa is following in the footsteps of its smaller rival MasterCard, whose shares have risen more than 400 percent since its public offering in May 2006. Shares of MasterCard declined on Wednesday to $207.58, a loss of $2.67. American Express was down almost 4 percent at $42. Discover Financial fell to $15.20, a loss of more than 12 percent, after first-quarter profit fell 65 percent from a year earlier.

In contrast to Visa, many companies are struggling to sell stock given turmoil in the markets.

“There are just not the buyers out there in this environment,” said Scott Sweet, a partner at IPOBoutique, an industry research firm. “They are scared by the market volatility.” Just 10 companies went public during the first two months of 2008, according to Dealogic, a financial services research firm. That compares with 50 public offerings in the first three months of 2007.

Analysts say that the market has essentially been closed to companies outside the energy, natural resources and health care industries. Excluding Visa, roughly 190 deals, valued at a combined $37.7 billion, are still in the pipeline, according to IPO Scoop.com data.

Several high-profile initial public offerings have been scrapped or delayed in the last few months, including one for Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the big buyout firm. In all, about 77 percent of all public offerings have been withdrawn or postponed, according to bankers, including one this week by Pogo Jet, a jet charter service.

Many companies that have moved forward with sales have scaled back their offerings. CardioNet, a health care technology start-up which Citigroup is taking public on Wednesday, cut the number of shares it allocated in half and lowered the price after several big shareholders backed out of the offering.

Visa, however, is the biggest player in its industry and has a brand known to nearly everyone with a credit card. Wall Street also understands the company’s business.

Visa and MasterCard have prospered as Americans increasingly swipe their cards rather than use cash nearly everywhere. The companies have not been hurt by the credit squeeze, because they do not actually make credit card loans; they merely process transactions for banks that do.

Visa, whose offering is being led by JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs with 17 other banks contributing, has been contemplating such a move for more than two years. In that time, it has bolstered its management team and revamped the company.

Industry observers say investors are complaining that they are being given only a fraction of the shares they requested. “I hear that allocations are being given out with eyedroppers,” Mr. Fitzgibbon said.
577 2008-03-19 The biggest problem, Mr. Wakatsuki and others say, is the blow to confidence in Japan’s ability to manage its own economy, particularly at a time of global financial turmoil. While the deputy governor will likely step in to run day-to-day affairs at the bank, a high-profile vacancy will only raise further worries about Japan’s direction as its growth stalls and economic policy appears increasingly adrift.

“It is doubtful whether the Bank of Japan can work well for long without the top post being filled,” the outgoing governor, Toshihiko Fukui, warned in a farewell news conference on Wednesday.

World economic leaders may also feel the loss, said some economists and former bank officials. Lack of a chief means there will be no one at the Japanese central bank to confer regularly with overseas counterparts like the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Former central bankers say such informal discussions are important to work out joint actions or weigh the wisdom of market interventions.

What is more, Japan has a lot to offer to other central banks in the current crisis, say former central bankers here. The country is the only major economy to have recently weathered a housing market meltdown and resulting banking crisis on a similar scale to the problems in the United States. Indeed, Japanese central bankers are eager to point out the parallels between their nation’s financial collapse in the early 1990s and what is happening now in the American economy.

“We have faced a problem of the same magnitude before,” said Takashi Anzai, a former Bank of Japan official who is now president of Seven Bank, a Tokyo-based retail bank. “We bring rich experience to the table.”

For the time being, however, Tokyo faces its own problems of political gridlock and finger-pointing.

The main opposition party, the Democratic Party of Japan, has warned for weeks it would not approve nominees who come from the nation’s powerful Ministry of Finance, saying they would undermine the central bank’s independence. Despite the warnings, both candidates offered in the last week by Mr. Fukuda held top posts at the ministry.

Both sides have blamed the other for the impasse. But public opinion seems to be turning increasingly against Mr. Fukuda, especially after he unveiled the second nominee, Koji Tanami, a former vice finance minister who now heads the Japan Bank for International Cooperation. Even many members of Mr. Fukuda’s own party, the Liberal Democratic Party, expressed dismay at Mr. Fukuda’s seemingly stubborn insistence on nominating former ministry officials.

Political analysts said the choice reinforced the public perception that the prime minister was under the thumb of powerful ministry bureaucrats, as traditionally has been the case here. They said this would only strengthen the opposition Democrats, who have gained popularity recently by vowing to change politics as usual in Japan.

Political analysts speculated that Mr. Fukuda either grossly underestimated the opposition by the Democrats, or simply could not come up with a more appealing candidate in time. Either way, they said, he has the most to lose from a prolonged stalemate, which could force him to resign by eroding support within his party.

“The L.D.P. ends up looking arrogant,” said Norihiko Narita, a political professor and president of Surugadai University near Tokyo. “Mr. Fukuda is insisting on having his way.”

Meanwhile, some warn that few qualified candidates may be willing now to face the public scrutiny and possibility of humiliating rejection. They said the repeated vetoes by lawmakers have made it increasingly difficult to find a suitable candidate.

“No one likes being the third-best choice,” Mr. Wakatsuki said. “The list of possible candidates is getting shorter and shorter.”
578 2008-03-19 Markets in New York on Wednesday were poised to open lower on those banking worries.

Tuesday’s rally on Wall Street capped a week of extraordinary efforts on the part of the Fed to restore confidence in the wake of the near collapse of Bear Stearns. But while relief washed over some corners of the credit market, questions remained about the extent to which the Fed’s actions would resolve the lack of willingness among financial institutions to lend to one another.

“If you look at the policy moves over the last five days, the Fed is doing the best it can out of a bad situation,” said Jerry Webman, the chief economist and senior investment officer of OppenheimerFunds. “The issue now isn’t about the price of money,” he said. “This is really about financial institutions’ confidence in each other.”

Shares of financial firms soared on the New York Stock Exchange, particularly companies that investors had fled a day earlier. Shares of Lehman Brothers fell 19 percent on Monday after it was rumored to be running out of money. On Tuesday, the firm’s shares were up 46 percent, to $46.49, after reporting better-than-expected earnings for the first quarter.

MF Global, one of the world’s biggest commodities brokers, gained 35 percent, to $8.17 a share, a day after panicked investors sold off more than half its market value.

The surge in financial stocks buoyed the major stock indexes. The broadest measure of the American stock market, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, rose 4.24 percent, its best performance since October 2002.

The S.& P. 500 finished at 1,330.74, up 54.14 points. The Dow closed at 12,392.66, a gain of 420.41 points, or 3.51 percent. The Nasdaq composite index also gained 4.2 percent, or 91.25 points, to 2,268.26.

Fixed-income markets, however, sent a more ambivalent message about confidence.

The difference between the yields on 30-year Fannie Mae mortgage bonds and ultra-safe Treasury bills widened. Likewise, the difference between the yields on short-term loans between banks and United States government notes also grew. (A widening spread indicates greater risk.)

That unease is at the center of the credit crisis. The fact that investors remained uncomfortable, even after the Fed lowered rates, “showed that there is still some concern in the credit markets,” said David Kovacs, chief investment officer at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa.

But there was also some relief. Spreads on other types of credit, including swaps and some government-backed corporate bonds, narrowed. And speculation arose that regulators will ease, possibly as early as Wednesday, capital requirements for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the big mortgage lenders. In return, Fannie and Freddie will have to commit to shoring up their capital.

Commodities like oil and corn recovered from a sell-off a day earlier. Analysts said the rebound in prices reflected hopes that the Fed’s actions would avert an economic slowdown in the United States, with its accompanying reduction in demand for energy, metals and food.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1 16/32, to 100 3/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.49 percent, from 3.31 percent.
579 2008-03-19 The confrontation has brewed for weeks, although Japan’s economy is in danger of slipping into a recession after six years of moderate growth, battered by the plunging dollar, volatile stock markets and soaring oil prices.

Last week, the opposition, led by the Democratic Party of Japan, rejected the first candidate to take over as leader of the central bank, deputy governor Toshiro Muto, also a former top ministry of finance bureaucrat.

Lawmakers of the Democratic Party claim that both Mr. Tanami and Mr. Muto, with their long careers at the finance ministry, would undermine the central bank’s independence — even though Japan has a tradition of appointing former finance bureaucrats to head up the central bank.

A senior democratic legislator Naoto Kan said his party also wanted to avoid a vacancy at the central bank’s helm, but Mr. Tanami’s career was so similar to Mr. Muto’s, it wouldn’t have made sense to block one and not the other.

“People would think that’s too illogical,” he said in a news conference shown live on the Internet. “If you understand what happened, it is clear which side is responsible.”

The opposition also is angry because the ruling party has recently rammed through bills that require only lower house approval and is determined to show their clout in the Bank of Japan nomination.

The appointment of Bank of Japan chief needs approval from both houses of parliament. The ruling coalition controls only the lower house.

Political analyst Eiken Itagaki said a leaderless Bank of Japan will not damage monetary policy because the other board members will continue to hold meetings and make decisions.

“This shows how Prime Minister Fukuda is totally powerless,” Mr. Itagaki said. “This is a fight over the posts that have been traditionally promised to elite bureaucrats who graduated from the University of Tokyo.”

But Mr. Itagaki said the Democratic Party was not likely to push too hard on the issue because they weren’t quite ready for snap parliamentary elections. The most likely scenario was that the Democrats would agree to a compromise Ministry of Finance bureaucrat, or an outsider academic to resolve the standoff, he said.
580 2008-03-19 A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit that challenged a state law banning racial and gender preferences in government hiring and public university admissions. The ruling upholds the constitutionality of a measure approved by Michigan voters in 2006. It had been challenged by groups including the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The law may have had the most effect on the admissions policies of the University of Michigan. The school previously had considered race as a factor in admission, a policy that was challenged in court in the 1990s.
581 2008-03-19 The America’s Cup is headed for a rare one-on-one showdown in 90-foot multihull boats after a New York State Supreme Court judge sided with a United States yacht club Tuesday in a legal battle between billionaires.

Judge Herman J. Cahn refused to hear new arguments from the two-time champion Alinghi of Switzerland, letting stand his November order that San Francisco’s Golden Gate Yacht Club was the rightful challenger of record, not a Spanish club that had been chosen by the Swiss.

Golden Gate backs BMW Oracle Racing, which is headed by the Silicon Valley billionaire Larry Ellison.

The Alinghi owner, Ernesto Bertarelli, said he would not appeal and planned to face BMW Oracle Racing in a best-of-three showdown for the Cup, the oldest trophy in international sports.

“I didn’t throw the first punch,” Bertarelli said by phone from Switzerland. “I’m waiting to be on the water to do that.”

The BMW Oracle Racing spokesman Tom Ehman said his syndicate felt it had the right to hold the regatta in October. Alinghi is pushing for July 2009.

Alinghi will choose the competition site, which can be anywhere in the northern hemisphere.

America’s Cup Management announced last year that it was postponing the next America’s Cup regatta, which had been set for 2009, because of the legal skirmish.
582 2008-03-19 “That is a good infusion of capital,” said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., the founder of IPOScoop.com, a Web site that tracks the industry. “And it’s no secret that Wall Street is capital starved right now.”

Shares of Visa were priced above the expected range of $37 to $42. More than 406 million shares are being offered, with an option to add 40.6 million if there is demand. That means the size of sale could reach as much as $19.7 billion.

In going public, Visa is following in the footsteps of its smaller rival MasterCard, whose shares have risen more than 439 percent since its public offering in May 2006.

Many other companies, however, are struggling to sell stock given turmoil in the markets.

“There are just not the buyers out there in this environment,” said Scott Sweet, a partner at IPOBoutique, an industry research firm. “They are scared by the market volatility.” Just 10 companies went public during the first two months of 2008, according to Dealogic, a financial services research firm. That compares with 50 public offerings in the first three months of 2007.

Analysts say that the market has essentially been closed to companies outside the energy, natural resources and health care industries. Excluding Visa, roughly 190 deals, valued at a combined $37.7 billion, are still in the pipeline, according to IPO Scoop.com data.

Several high-profile initial public offerings have been scrapped or delayed in the last few months, including one for Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the big buyout firm. In all, about 77 percent of all public offerings have been withdrawn or postponed, according to bankers, including one this week by Pogo Jet, a jet charter service.

Many companies that have moved forward with sales have scaled back their offerings. CardioNet, a health care technology start-up, which Citigroup took public late Tuesday, cut the number of shares it allocated in half and lowered the price after several big shareholders backed out of the offering.

Visa, however, is the biggest player in its industry and has a brand known to nearly everyone with a credit card. Wall Street also understands the company’s business.

Visa and MasterCard have prospered as Americans increasingly swipe their cards rather than use cash nearly everywhere. The companies have not been hurt by the credit squeeze, because they do not actually make credit card loans; they merely process transactions for banks that do.

Visa, whose offering is being led by JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs with 17 other banks contributing, has been contemplating such a move for more than two years. In that time, it has bolstered its management team and revamped the company.

Industry observers say investors are complaining that they are being given only a fraction of the shares they requested. “I hear that allocations are being given out with eyedroppers,” Mr. Fitzgibbon said.
583 2008-03-19 Businesses paid more for gasoline, automobiles and most products last month, reinforcing fears that inflation is rising.

While prices for grain and gasoline have skyrocketed in recent months, the pressures had not appeared to seep into the broader economy. But the core measure of the Producer Price Index, which excludes volatile energy and food products, jumped 0.5 percent in February, the Labor Department said on Tuesday. It was the biggest gain since November 2006.

Over all, prices paid by producers rose 0.3 percent, slowing slightly from a 1 percent gain in January. Food prices fell 0.5 percent. But with stark rises in costs for prescription drugs, motor vehicles and capital equipment, inflation clearly remains a threat, even as the economy slows.

The report disappointed economists who had been cheered by a flat Consumer Price Index report last week. “We believe the producer-price data probably is more indicative of reality given the strong advance in commodity prices and the sinking U.S. dollar,” Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a hedge fund and trading firm in Greenwich, Conn., wrote in a note to clients.

Meanwhile, home construction fell again last month as builders scrambled to lower their inventories. Permits for new residential projects slumped 7.8 percent, to an annual rate of 978,000, seasonally adjusted, the slowest pace since the housing recession of the early 1990s.

The decline in permits “is a crystal clear indicator that demand for new housing is quite weak and can be expected to remain so, for the foreseeable future,” Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal, wrote in a research note.
584 2008-03-19 Hours after replacing a New York governor who resigned because of a prostitution scandal, Gov. David Paterson has confessed to extramarital affairs during his decades as a legislator in Albany. The new governor insisted Tuesday that he broke no laws, misused no campaign funds and violated no oaths of office.

Instead, in what seemed more like an “Oprah Winfrey Show” than a gubernatorial press briefing, Governor Paterson described a bad patch in his marriage in which he and his wife, Michelle, both committed infidelities. His wife, standing at his side, said: “No marriage is perfect.”

If all that is true, then Mr. Paterson’s personal revelations were just that: personal. At this point in the case of Eliot Spitzer, federal authorities are investigating possible lawbreaking. Unless Mr. Paterson is guilty of abuse of office, this tabloid moment should be the end of it. We would agree with the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, that the new governor’s “personal life is his personal life.”

The timing is, however, unfortunate. A former state senator and lieutenant governor, the accidental governor was only beginning to introduce himself to New Yorkers who do not live in his native Harlem or work, as he has for so long, in Albany. On Monday, he introduced a wider public to his considerable wit and a graciousness that included a promise to use the “collective talents” in Albany’s political community to achieve progress.

But in his first major speech, Mr. Paterson revealed only the barest hints about his agenda. He talked about education, which rallied the hopes of teachers. He examined the need for public service, a great boost to government workers. And he warned that because the economy is “reeling,” politicians and interest groups will need to come by his new office to help figure out how they can all live with less.

But so little of the Paterson plan is clear that progressives were painting him as liberal (“his political ideals ... should make all New Yorkers excited,” the Working Family Party cheered). At the same time, some supporters, like the Rev. Al Sharpton, were arguing that Mr. Paterson is a pragmatist who will govern from the political middle.
585 2008-03-19 American and Iraqi government officials have insisted that reduced violence will pave the way for harmony and an end to sectarian strife. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, speaking to the several hundred sheiks, clerics and politicians, Sunni and Shiite, who gathered in the auditorium of a heavily guarded convention center in the Green Zone, echoed this hope.

National reconciliation, he said, is “not just a political slogan” but “a safe boat” that would lead Iraq to stability, rebuilding the country’s infrastructure on a strong foundation.

But in interviews after the morning session, some who attended wondered how it was possible to have a dialogue with opponents who were absent.

“We were hoping to see more people invited, people who really represent the Iraqi components,” said Sheik Muhammad Fahman al-Rikahis, leader of the Shiite tribe Al Shibil in the south. “So the question is, why wasn’t everyone invited?”

Former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi’s party, the Iraqi Consensus Front, refused to attend the meeting, as did Hiwar, a minority party that includes Shiites and Sunnis, and Tawafiq, the largest Sunni political bloc.

Ayad al-Samurai, a spokesman for Tawafiq, said that although some members had received personal invitations to the conference, no official invitation had been received, and “therefore its members preferred not to participate.”

But Akram al-Hakim, whose Ministry for National Dialogue organized the conference, insisted in a news conference on Tuesday that, despite rumors “in the media” that some political blocs had not been invited, invitations had been sent “to the blocs directly and to the heads of blocs, too.”

Few participants interviewed could even agree on who was to blame for the rifts that every day tear new wounds in an already bloodied country. Some blamed Mr. Maliki’s government, others the insurgents. Still others pointed to Baathists loyal to Saddam Hussein, or pointed to Iran, which they said exercised a strong influence over the government and some Shiite militias.

Vice President Dick Cheney, who was visiting Iraq on Tuesday, spoke at Balad Air Base, north of Baghdad, of “incredible progress on the ground in Iraq.”

Mr. Cheney also traveled to the semiautonomous Kurdish region, where he asked for President Massoud Barzani’s help to “conclude a new strategic relationship between the United States and Iraq, as well as to pass crucial pieces of national legislation in the months ahead.”

More than 300 miles to the south, in the Shiite holy city of Karbala, blood still covered the walls of buildings where a bomb exploded Monday, killing at least 43 people. Family members placed the bodies in coffins and traveled to Najaf to bury them, chanting, “God is great, God is great.”

In the northern city of Mosul, a car bomb exploded, killing three people and wounding 40.
586 2008-03-19 Several senior Republicans said they were confident that Mr. Paterson would weather the controversy.

“David will be able to govern,” said Dean G. Skelos, a Republican state senator from Long Island. “It’s about the budget. It’s about the issues facing the State of New York. And he has to deal with his own personal life.”

Absent from the comments of lawmakers on Tuesday was any hint of the blood thirst that some politicians seemed to have for Mr. Spitzer after he acknowledged his own indiscretions.

James N. Tedisco, the Republican minority leader in the State Assembly who called on Mr. Spitzer to resign not long after the allegations were made public, was uncharacteristically terse when asked whether Mr. Paterson’s admissions might jeopardize his ability to govern.

That no one pounced on Mr. Paterson seemed to reflect his good standing among Republicans and Democrats in Albany. Unlike Mr. Spitzer, who often antagonized members of both parties at the state house, lawmakers said that Mr. Paterson had built a reservoir of respect and good will during his two decades as a state legislator.

Mr. Bruno said: “David is able to handle himself. He’s always been a good friend and handled himself properly, and I expect he will continue to handle himself properly.”

Mr. Silver said other families could find a lesson in what the Patersons endured, which he called a “nice story.”

“He basically said, ‘Here are the facts. It’s not an uncommon occurrence in people’s lives when marriages are failing, and this is how we worked it out,’ ” Mr. Silver said. “I think it should be a message to people who maybe find themselves in similar circumstances.”

Many lawmakers denounced what they said was an unnecessary level of intrusion into the Patersons’ personal lives.

“It’s a matter that the family resolved themselves several years ago,” said Assemblyman Michael Benjamin, a Democrat from the Bronx. “The fact that he’s expressed some honesty in discussing it is a credit to him. It has nothing to do with the business of the state or the business of the people. I think it’s a one-day news story, and it will go away.”

Others said that with all the recent drama in the state, they could hardly believe Albany was facing another political crisis of a sexual nature.

“I can’t keep up,” said Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Long Island.

Mr. Hannon added that while he did not think Mr. Paterson’s admission would damage his ability to govern, it did present the new governor with a crucial leadership test on only his second day in office.

“We have real problems right now,” Mr. Hannon said. “And he now has a chance to rise to the occasion.”

Around New York City, many people seemed to share the overriding sentiment in Albany, which was that problems in Mr. Paterson’s marriage were unimportant unless they affected his work.

“What can I say, he’s a human being,” said Moon Haq, 31, a server at a restaurant near Union Square. “It’s his personal life, as long as it doesn’t affect the city.”

Karen Seiger, 42, who works in marketing, said Mr. Paterson’s infidelities seemed less offensive to her than those of Mr. Spitzer, a man who looked hypocritical because he had built his career on ethics and reform.

“The difference with Spitzer was the bulldozer of righteousness and ethics,” she said. “I think it’s interesting that Paterson came right out with it. People can now focus on getting the work done in Albany. At the end of the day people are more worried about the economy and jobs in New York than they are about the governors having affairs.”

Not everyone was so forgiving.

“That is morally just not right,” said Elvira Vincze, 71, a designer and civil engineer from Forest Hills. “We have 350 million people in this country; don’t we have someone decent for the job?”
587 2008-03-19 Holders of the more than $300 billion in Bear Stearns bonds, in the meantime, are purchasing Bear stock to strengthen their hand in voting for the deal, thus guaranteeing that their bond investments will retain the backing of JPMorgan and its guarantor, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

The stock’s surge is the latest chapter in a week of tumultuous trading in the investment bank’s shares. Last week, shares in Bear plunged from $64 to $30 as rumors spread through the market that clients, counterparties and lenders were pulling their money from the firm.

On Tuesday, the Securities and Exchange Commission said that it had opened an investigation into whether investors spread false rumors about the company’s health while taking short positions, or investment bets that the value of Bear’s stock would go down.

But in assessing the stock’s unlikely ascent this week, investors and hedge fund executives said on Tuesday that the bulk of the buying was coming from bondholders and that speculators hoping for an increased price or a voided deal were on shaky ground. On Tuesday, one big investor, the Chinese financial firm Citic Securities, walked away from its proposed $1 billion investment in Bear, a deal that it struck last fall.

"The large bondholders are buying stock because they want the deal to go through," said Michael Holland, an investor in financial stocks at Holland & Company. "The screamers are on the equity side, but they have no economic standing. There is no arbitration significance here."

Backing this view is the notion that there are few financial institutions with the standing and financial health to be seen as a better alternative to the combination of JPMorgan and the Federal Reserve. And even if a buyer swoops in with a higher price, it is unlikely that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York would extend to the new buyer its guarantee of Bear’s $30 billion in risky assets.

Supporters of the deal also point to the many billions of dollars of litigation risk that JPMorgan is taking on should investors who lost money in Bear’s hedge funds, as well as its stock, file lawsuits. JPMorgan has the added advantage of having a right to move into Bear’s headquarters, even if the deal is voted down.

And time is running out. JPMorgan has said that it plans to have the deal ready for a vote by the end of the second quarter, but people involved in the transition talks say the bank is pushing for a closing as soon as the end of May.
588 2008-03-19 But the only inevitable action that will take place will be President Bush’s using his bully pulpit to stall until the new president takes office. It will be left up to the new president to make the tough, intelligent decisions necessary to clean up the mess left by the previous administration.

David Brooks asserts: “In normal times, the free market works well. But in a crisis like this one, few are willing to sit back and let the market find its own equilibrium.”

I would like to point out that the current financial crisis is a perfect counterexample to Mr. Brooks’s assertion that the free market works well in normal times. In these most recent “normal” times, the market was freely allowed to engage in reckless lending and investing practices that resulted in the current crisis.

I still fail to understand why home ownership is treated as an inalienable right and not a privilege. And now the government’s misguided undertaking is simply cementing this notion of entitlement.

In the blame game that has unfolded around the miseries of the housing market, the people who made the irresponsible purchases and took on mortgages they could never afford should be held accountable, not assisted out of their mistakes, which have been driving this country’s economy into a steady decline.

What did they expect when they took on mortgages they wouldn’t be able to pay off in hundreds of years? Why must they be allowed to continue living in homes they own at the expense of us, the more responsible taxpayers who do know what we can and cannot afford to own?

The national mortgage calamity, often dubbed the subprime crisis, will continue for several years as various iterations of adjustable rate mortgages come of age.

Instead of a bailout as outlined in the column, a solution is required that stabilizes home values involving participation from homeowners, lenders and government.

For the last several months I have discussed such a plan with elected officials, government agencies and investment firms that own mortgages at risk.

“Appreciating America” is a plan I put forward that will help homeowners who need to be refinanced to prevent foreclosure.

This plan involves using a shared appreciation second mortgage to finance the shortfall between the amount owed and the current value of the home.

This is a financial instrument commonly used in commercial real estate transactions, and was recently supported in a speech by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman.

After five years, the homeowner and the lender will share in any appreciation of the home, giving all involved a stake in preventing foreclosure and rebuilding property values.

The plan can be adopted by all mortgage servicers, promoted to ailing homeowners and supported by the Federal Housing Administration. It can be carried out immediately.

Let’s not talk about bailouts until we provide bootstraps and solutions.

The rescue of Bear Stearns by the federal government from the brink of disaster demonstrates the value of a financial safety net. The fabric of that safety net is the notion of spreading risk between leveraged institutions and financially stable ones.

That sounds suspiciously like social insurance, which spreads risk and its financial consequences among members of a population.

A cornerstone of universal coverage in many countries, it has been demonized as “socialized medicine” in the current health reform debate.

Curiously, the Bush administration practices “socialized finance” to save financial institutions from their own bad decisions and risky investments but sees little value in a social safety net that would protect uninsured citizens from poor health and financial ruin.

Don’t uninsured Americans deserve protection from medical bankruptcy in the same way that financial institutions are now protected from insolvency?

The writer is a professor of health policy and management at Boston University and executive director of the university’s Health Policy Institute.
589 2008-03-19 Mr. Li acknowledged that some of Mr. Hu’s comments had been “pungent,” but argued that the government should not ban speech.

“We’re hoping for a more tolerant government,” he said, adding that the verdict should be announced within a week.

Mr. Hu’s case is prompting further criticism of China as the Communist Party is facing a domestic political crisis because of antigovernment protests in Tibet.

Human rights groups say jailing peaceful dissidents like Mr. Hu violates the Communist Party’s promise to create a “harmonious society” and its stated commitment to human rights.

Mr. Hu’s short morning trial coincided with a news conference by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao that closed the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress. Asked about Mr. Hu’s case, the prime minister denied that the government was trying to silence dissent.

“As for critics’ view that China is trying to increase its efforts to arrest dissidents ahead of the Olympic Games, I think all these accusations are unfounded,” Mr. Wen said.

However, a new examination of Chinese law enforcement statistics found that the number of people arrested in 2007 on suspicion of political crimes like subversion was the highest in eight years. The analysis found that 742 people were arrested last year on charges like subversion, more than twice the number in 2005, according to the Dui Hua Foundation, a nonprofit group based in San Francisco that is involved in Chinese legal issues.

Mr. Hu has worked on many causes in China, including volunteering to help AIDS patients and participating in tree-planting campaigns. He is a prominent blogger who also disseminates information about peasant protests, dissidents and other issues often censored in the Chinese news media.

On Dec. 27, security agents dragged him from his apartment as his wife, Zeng Jinyan, also a well-known blogger, was bathing their infant daughter. She has remained mostly under house arrest during her husband’s incarceration.

In the past, state security agents detained Mr. Hu, though they never formally arrested him. At different times, he and his wife were under house arrest at their apartment in a complex named Freedom City. During one confinement, Mr. Hu videotaped state security officers loitering outside his apartment in a short documentary he titled “Prisoners in Freedom City.”

At the trial on Tuesday, Mr. Hu spoke little as his lawyer presented his case. His wife was listed as a prosecution witness but was barred from the trial. But she and Mr. Hu’s mother were allowed to meet with him afterward.

Prosecutors were not available after the trial for comment. But Mr. Li, the defense lawyer, said they had described writings by Mr. Hu as threatening state security.

“We have a major dispute on how to interpret Chinese law,” Mr. Li said. “We hope the court will give him a just verdict and give him freedom.”
590 2008-03-19 After running a campaign that in many ways tried not to be defined by race, Mr. Obama placed himself squarely in the middle of the debate over how to address it, a living bridge between whites and blacks still divided by the legacy of slavery and all that came after it.

His language reached at times for the inspiration and idealism of the civil rights movement, but for the most part addressed the politics of race in straightforward terms that seemed intended to keep the discussion grounded in the realities of the moment.

“It’s a racial stalemate we’ve been stuck in for years,” Mr. Obama said. “Contrary to the claims of some of my critics, black and white, I have never been so naïve as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy — particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own.”

For Mr. Obama, who is engaged in an intense fight for his party’s nomination with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the 37-minute speech five weeks before the Pennsylvania primary was an attempt to realign his campaign after a turbulent two weeks. Images of Mr. Wright, replayed again and again on television, threatened to damage a coalition of black and white voters that Mr. Obama has been trying to forge.

“I can no more disown him than I can disown my white grandmother,” he said, “a woman who helped raise me, a woman who sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed by her on the street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made me cringe.”

The speech, delivered before a small audience of local supporters, elected officials and clergy members at the National Constitution Center, was broadcast live on cable. His words were directed at a variety of constituencies, including the superdelegates who, it now seems likely, will decide the nomination, and white voters in states like Pennsylvania that could be vital both in the primary and in the general election.

Mr. Obama stayed up well into the night writing much of the speech himself, aides said. His words carried familiar strains of the biography he wrote more than a decade ago about his search for racial identity.

In recent days, televised images of Mr. Obama have been accompanied by old sermons of Mr. Wright delivering a blistering critique on white America. As the days go on, it remains an open question whether the images of the pastor will fall to the side and Mr. Obama’s campaign message regains its prominence. This speech was a political risk, his advisers said, whose wisdom may not be fully known for months.

“It was very dicey at a time when race is misunderstood by some and overplayed by others,” L. Douglas Wilder, the mayor of Richmond, Va., who was the nation’s first elected black governor, said in an interview. “It was a very, very difficult subject to bring up. It had to be approached in a way that was really something of substance.”

Mr. Obama indicated that he wanted to move quickly to other issues, scheduling two high-profile speeches over the next two days on topics other than race.

“I suppose the politically safe thing would be to move on from this episode and just hope that it fades into the woodwork,” Mr. Obama said. “We can dismiss Reverend Wright as a crank or a demagogue, just as some have dismissed Geraldine Ferraro, in the aftermath of her recent statements, as harboring some deep-seated racial bias.”

He noted that his candidacy had been successful in predominantly white states and in largely black states, but he conceded that the nation’s racial divisions remained firmly ingrained and that black anger and white resentment was rarely interchangeably understood.

“For the men and women of Reverend Wright’s generation, the memories of humiliation and doubt and fear have not gone away, nor has the anger and the bitterness of those years,” Mr. Obama said. “That anger may not get expressed in public, in front of white co-workers or white friends, but it does find voice in the barbershop or the beauty shop or around the kitchen table.”

“In fact, a similar anger exists within segments of the white community,” he said. Later, he added: “So when they are told to bus their children to a school across town, when they hear that an African-American is getting an advantage in landing a good job or a spot in a good college because of an injustice that they themselves never committed, when they’re told that their fears about crime in urban neighborhoods are somehow prejudiced, resentment builds over time.”

A few hours after the speech, Mrs. Clinton arrived at City Hall here for a campaign stop. She said she had not seen it, but said she was “very glad” that Mr. Obama had made it, given that race had been a “complicated” issue in America marked by “pitfalls” and “detours.”

For nearly a week, Mr. Obama has struggled to distance himself from statements by Mr. Wright, who had cast the government as racist, corrupt and murderous among other things. Mr. Obama concluded over the weekend that he had failed to resolve the questions, aides said, and told advisers he wanted to address the firestorm in a speech.

Standing against a backdrop of eight American flags on Tuesday morning, Mr. Obama offered the most thorough explanation to date about his association with the church and his pastor, whom he has known for nearly 20 years.

“For some, nagging questions remain. Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of course,” he said. “Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in church? Yes. Did I strongly disagree with many of his political views? Absolutely — just as I’m sure many of you have heard remarks from your pastors, priests or rabbis with which you strongly disagreed.”

“The profound mistake of Reverend Wright’s sermons is not that he spoke about racism in our society,” he added. “It’s that he spoke as if our society was static, as if no progress has been made.”
591 2008-03-19 SOAKING a cake in liquor or syrup is an old concept, one that has sometimes been abused.

The best results are baba au rhum or the wonderful British sticky toffee pudding. The worst are cake-mix pudding cakes that try to accomplish the same thing.

Bake a standard cake — here I make a yellow, or “golden” cake — and when it’s done, pour enough sweetened, butter-laden alcohol over the top to really saturate it.

I like bourbon, but Calvados may be more appropriate given the apples added to this cake. Really, any brown liquor with flavor will do nicely. The result is strong and juicy and makes frosting superfluous.

I make the batter in the food processor, which is perfect for lazy people. Just don’t overprocess once you add the flour, or the cake will be tough.

You can bake this in a large rectangular baking pan or a bundt pan; the batter will fill either nicely. A bundt pan is preferable because it allows the liquid to reach more surface area.

A couple of technical notes: puréeing apples takes a couple of minutes, so don’t stop when they are merely shredded or chunked.
592 2008-03-19 “I’m sorry,” Mr. McCain said, “the Iranians are training extremists, not Al Qaeda.”

Mr. McCain has based his campaign in large part on his assertion that he is the candidate best prepared to deal with Iraq, and the Democrats wasted little time in jumping on his misstatement to question his knowledge and judgment.

“After eight years of the Bush administration’s incompetence in Iraq, McCain’s comments don’t give the American people a reason to believe that he can be trusted to offer a clear way forward,” Karen Finney, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement. “Not only is Senator McCain wrong on Iraq once again, but he showed he either doesn’t understand the challenges facing Iraq and the region or is willing to ignore the facts on the ground.”

Brian Rogers, a spokesman for the McCain campaign, responded: “In a press conference today, John McCain misspoke and immediately corrected himself by stating that Iran is in fact supporting radical Islamic extremists in Iraq, not Al Qaeda — as is reflected in the transcript. The reality is that the American people have deep concerns about the Democratic candidates’ judgment and readiness on matters of national security, and that’s why the D.N.C. launched their attack today.”

The Democrats noted that Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, had made similar comments about Iran training Al Qaeda in an interview with “The Hugh Hewitt Show,” a radio program he called from Amman. “As you know, there are Al Qaeda operatives that are taken back into Iran, given training as leaders, and they’re moving back into Iraq,” Mr. McCain said, according to a transcript posted on the show’s Web site.

It was not the first time that Mr. McCain’s remarks during a Congressional trip overseas have caused headaches for his campaign. It was nearly a year ago that his talk about the improving security situation in Iraq made headlines, after a trip he made to a marketplace there was guarded by more than 100 soldiers in armored Humvees and attack helicopters, becoming fodder for Democrats and critics of the war.

Mr. McCain later said he misspoke. And in a speech he gave last April about the need to succeed in Iraq, he made light of it. “I just returned from my fifth visit to Iraq,” he said. “Unlike the veterans here today, I risked nothing more threatening than a hostile press corps.”

The latest trip was a Congressional fact-finding mission, but Mr. McCain, a presidential candidate, planned to hold a fund-raiser on Thursday at a stop in London. He traveled with two senators who strongly support his presidential bid: Mr. Lieberman, an independent of Connecticut, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. Their trip to Iraq on Sunday coincided with one by Vice President Dick Cheney; both trips, in which the visitors spoke about the improvements in Iraq, were somewhat overshadowed by a bombing on Monday that killed more than 40 people in Karbala.

From Iraq, Mr. McCain traveled to Jordan, and then here to Israel, where he and his colleagues paid their respects at Yad Vashem, the Holocaust museum, and then met with President Shimon Peres of Israel at his residence.

Mr. Peres called Mr. McCain a good friend of Israel. And noting that Mr. McCain had been hopping all over the Middle East, Mr. Peres told him, “I really admire your courage and stamina.”
593 2008-03-19 Some analysts saw the cut of three-quarters of a point as a compromise to appease those who wanted less. Others surmised that the Fed might have been reluctant to cut rates further immediately in part because as the rates inch closer to zero, the Fed leaves itself less room to maneuver in case of further financial shocks.

Investors reacted ambivalently to the initial news of the rate cut but pushed stock prices sharply higher by the end of the day. A rally began in the morning after two major investment firms, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers, reported profits that were higher than expected and reassured investors that they had adequate capital. Stock prices pulled back within minutes of the Fed’s afternoon announcement, before resuming their rise.

By the day’s end, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 420 points, or 3.51 percent, to 12,392.66.

The Fed’s statement and the vote highlighted a growing conflict about how to lift the economy out of a downturn while controlling inflationary pressures, which have become apparent in the falling value of the dollar and the prices of everything from energy to food.

The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has in recent weeks put top priority on propping up the economy, by both reducing interest rates and by unveiling a blizzard of emergency loan programs for cash-short banks and investment firms.

Frederic S. Mishkin, a Fed governor who is close to Mr. Bernanke, has argued in several recent speeches that some indicators of inflation pressure, like the falling dollar or the yields on inflation-adjusted Treasury securities, are not as ominous as they might appear.

The two dissenters in Tuesday’s decision were Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, and Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, both of whom have been outspokenly hawkish about inflation issues in recent months.

Several analysts said the dissent and the Fed’s warning on inflation indicated that policy makers struggled to agree on even the smaller rate reduction.

“I’m disappointed,” said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup. “It’s not as if we’re trying to gauge policy priorities on a sunny day. I’d like to know how you’re going to get inflation in an environment with suffocating financial restraint and pervasive slowing in demand.”

Mr. Bernanke, who took over as Fed chairman two years ago, has been more open to debate and dissent among policy makers than his most recent predecessor, Alan Greenspan.

Mr. Bernanke and other top Fed officials have acknowledged that consumer prices are rising faster than they would like, but they have predicted that inflation pressures will abate in part because of slowing economic growth.

In its statement on Tuesday, the Fed reiterated Mr. Bernanke’s prediction that inflation would probably “moderate” in the months ahead. But it also cautioned that “uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased.”

Ethan Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, discounted the inflation warning as “boilerplate” language intended to assuage the Fed’s inflation hawks.

“I don’t take it seriously,” Mr. Harris said. “The upside risks on inflation are actually very low. The economy is really quite weak, and we are probably in a recession right now. We’re just at the beginnings of a consumer slowdown.”

With the growing financial anxieties, economic concerns have replaced the war in Iraq as the dominant issue in the presidential campaign.

Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail have blasted President Bush, saying that he has responded too slowly and supported the bailout of banks and investment firms but not homeowners.

On Tuesday, just as the Fed was announcing its rate cut, Mr. Bush continued to act as cheerleader in chief by emphasizing the economy’s underlying strength.

“I understand there’s short-term difficulty,” he told workers and local lawmakers in Jacksonville, Fla. “But I want people to understand that in the long term, we’re going to be just fine. People will still be able to work.”

Without offering any details, Mr. Bush said the government would do more if necessary. “The point I want to make to you is, if there needs to be further action we’ll take it — in a way that does not damage the long-term health of our economy.”

Many private economists contend that the economy has already slipped into a recession. The Labor Department estimates that the nation lost 63,000 payroll jobs in February, the second straight month of job losses and the third month of job losses in the private sector.

But the Fed’s biggest worry in recent days has been on Wall Street, where investors have become so frightened about the rapidly deepening losses in mortgage-backed securities that credit markets have become increasingly paralyzed.

Mr. Bernanke has stunned investors over the past several weeks by unveiling a series of increasingly bold programs to lend hundreds of billions of dollars to banks and Wall Street investment firms.

On Sunday, Fed officials agreed to lend up to $30 billion to JPMorgan Chase to engineer its takeover of Bear Stearns, a major Wall Street firm that was near collapse.

But the Fed’s most powerful weapon against a slowdown is lower interest rates.

With the latest reduction, the federal funds rate is far below the rate of inflation, meaning that the “real,” or inflation-adjusted, interest rate is below zero. It is also well below the European Central Bank’s benchmark interest rate of 4 percent or the Bank of England’s rate of 5.25 percent.

A lower federal funds rate usually leads to lower interest rates for commercial borrowing and for consumer loans like mortgages.

Mr. Bernanke has offered few hints about what the Fed might do if its current efforts fail to stabilize the markets or the economy.

But analysts said the Fed had a long list of options. Having already agreed to accept mortgage-backed securities and other securities as collateral for loans to banks and investment firms, the Fed could go one step further and start buying up hard-to-sell securities itself.

If the Federal Reserve feels compelled to reduce the fed funds rate even more, it would have to start grappling with the question of what to do if the rate declines to zero.

In 2003, when the overnight rate was heading to new lows, Mr. Bernanke himself suggested one possible course of action — the Fed could easily infuse more money into the economy by buying up billions of dollars in longer-term Treasury securities and perhaps even commercial bonds.
594 2008-03-19 Marfa, Tex., played host to those who made this year’s best-picture Oscar winner, “No Country for Old Men,” and a prominent runner-up, “There Will Be Blood.” But most Marfans didn’t even have a chance to see “There Will Be Blood” until a few weeks before the Oscars — and then only if they drove 26 miles to the Rangra Theater in neighboring Alpine.

So people in the vicinity of Greenville, a small city in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains between Atlanta and Charlotte, N.C., figured enough was enough.

“Decade after decade, for well over a century now, the lowly movie extras have been ignored,” Robert McClure, a paramedic who expects to appear on screen both as a coach and a man who marks downs on the sidelines in “Leatherheads,” explained via e-mail.

Along with his fellow extras Bobby Brookshire (who played a peanut vendor), Tom Ervin (who, at 54, hoped to be cast as a player, but wound up a game official) and Rick Arboscello (another down marker), Mr. McClure was part of a self-appointed committee that decided that Greenville should have its own “Leatherheads” premiere.

The event is scheduled for four days after Mr. Clooney is expected to grace a somewhat fancier benefit premiere for the American Film Institute at Grauman’s Chinese Theater in Hollywood. (“None of us were invited,” Mr. McClure wrote.)

“Leatherheads” is a romantic frolic set against the backdrop of small-town football in the 1920s. In February 2007 Mr. Clooney, Renée Zellweger, John Krasinski and their associates popped into Greenville and its environs for a three-month shoot. For many of the natives it was even more fun than the blue crab and sweet onion soup at Restaurant O, a downtown dining spot favored by Mr. Clooney during his stay.

More than 400 extras were hired, at about $9 an hour. The men got funny haircuts, short on the sides with lots of styling stuff on top. The stars were almost like pals, for a while.

Mr. Clooney let the extras hang around when he was reviewing the takes. “He’d turn around to us and say, ‘Do you guys like that?’ ” recalled Mr. Ervin, who most of the time works as a disability lawyer.

Speaking by phone last week, Mr. Ervin said he had been especially impressed by the 46-year-old Mr. Clooney’s athletic prowess. “He can throw a football in a tight spiral 40 yards,” he said.

As of Tuesday, however, Mr. Ervin said he was still awaiting a response to invitations he faxed last week to agents and public relations representatives for Mr. Clooney and Ms. Zellweger.

Stan Rosenfield, Mr. Clooney’s publicist, said he did not believe his client would attend the Greenville premiere. But he said Mr. Clooney planned to return to the Carolina upcountry next week as part of a whistle-stop tour — perhaps partly by railroad — planned to promote “Leatherheads.” In the movie Greenville and various South Carolina and North Carolina locations stand in for Duluth, Minn., and other places in the Midwest.

Ms. Zellweger’s publicist did not respond to queries.

A Universal spokesman said the Carolina locations had been chosen partly because the period look was relatively easy to establish there. In addition, South Carolina — which has played host to a number of well-known films, including “The Patriot” with Mel Gibson and “The Prince of Tides” with Barbra Streisand — offered economic incentives to support the production.

Sometimes, of course, a movie comes to town and never really goes away.

“We had a re-enactment of the cemetery scene last year,” said Tom Whitehead, a retired journalism professor in Natchitoches, La., speaking of his town’s enduring attachment to the movie “Steel Magnolias,” which was shot there two decades ago. Visitors to a local bed-and-breakfast can still sleep in Shelby Eatenton Latcherie’s room, just as pink as when Julia Roberts, as Shelby, inhabited it in the film.

At other times a crew can form unexpected attachments. The forthcoming comedy “Just Add Water” portrays the desert town Trona, Calif., as pretty much the worst place in the world — but its makers took the town under their wing.

“One of my actors actually adopted a little boy there,” said Hart Bochner, who wrote and directed the film, set for release in Los Angeles next week.

Then again, some movies don’t show up at all. “The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio,” a 2005 picture that starred Julianne Moore, used locations in Ontario, Canada, despite the geographical promise of the title..

As for Greenville, Representative Harry Cato — chairman of the South Carolina Legislature’s labor, commerce and industry committee, and an advocate of expanded film incentives — said he would be on hand to help open “Leatherheads,” even without the stars.

And if Mr. Clooney comes, he said, “that’ll be all right too.”
595 2008-03-19 A recipe for Swiss Easter Rice Tart....
596 2008-03-19 I dug deep into the fridge and unearthed some roasted chicken.

What if I added the chicken to the soup and served it over rice? Not appealing enough. What else could I add?

Tomatoes or avocado might have lent a meaty textural contrast, but I didn’t have any. Nor were there any canned tomatoes to make it richer.

But there was a can of coconut milk. Wouldn’t that serve the same purpose? I gave it a try, simmering the tom yum broth with the coconut milk until silky, then mixing in the shrimp, chicken and rice. I squeezed on lime juice and dusted the top with chopped parsley.

To my astonishment, my stew — sweet, sour and savory — was delightful. I realized, as my husband and I spooned up the heady broth, that it was so easy because the premade tom yum provided most of the complex flavor. But was there a way to recreate it without calling my local Taste of Thai?

I decided to find out. First, I found a simple recipe for tom yum, the Thai hot and sour soup, online. Then I trotted over to my market.

Although the store is generally well stocked with Asian ingredients, my recipe called for things far too exotic for the likes of Park Slope, including galangal and fresh kaffir lime.

I found lemon grass, and figured I’d use lime zest instead of kaffir lime. I wanted to buy ginger to substitute for galangal, but the roots in the store were so shriveled that I decided on plump shallots instead, figuring they would add a different but just as welcome aromatic touch. I also got fresh cilantro and basil: more authentic than parsley.

Lastly, instead of chicken, I went for a combination of red snapper and shrimp because both looked good and fresh.

Once home, I made a quick broth using all my groceries, plus some fish sauce for a salty depth, and touches of brown sugar and rice vinegar to accentuate the sweet-tart flavors I was after. Then I threw in the fish, shrimp and herbs and let the flavors meld.

A few minutes later, my husband and I sat down to what turned out to be my favorite incarnation of my Thai experiments. Although it wasn’t authentic, it was profoundly flavored and nuanced, with pungent notes of herbs, lime and saline fish sauce softened by the coconut milk, supple seafood and rice.

At the end of the meal, there was a small amount left over. I couldn’t help but imagine, as I crammed the container into the refrigerator, just how I’d reinvent it the next time.

Or maybe, for once, I’d leave well enough alone.
597 2008-03-19 McCAFFREY--S.J. Rev. Lawrence Xavier, on March 17, 2008. Survived by brother Dr. Philip E. McCaffrey and many nieces and nephews. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at MurrayWeigel Hall, 515 East Fordham Road, Bronx, NY. Visiting Wednesday 2-...
598 2008-03-19 FED CUTS INTEREST RATE Hoping to stabilize the financial markets, the Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 2.25 percent.       How is it that a mess in subprime loans has left the economy on th...
599 2008-03-19 McCAFFREY--S.J. Rev. Lawrence Xavier, on March 17, 2008. Survived by brother Dr. Philip E. McCaffrey and many nieces and nephews. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at MurrayWeigel Hall, 515 East Fordham Road, Bronx, NY. Visiting Wednesday 2-...
600 2008-03-20 Oral Roberts has played some tough teams in past N.C.A.A. tournaments, but Coach Scott Sutton says Pittsburgh is the best....
601 2008-03-20 So, what are New Yorkers thinking about all of the news coming fast and furious about their governors? To recap, Eliot Spitzer, accused of patronizing prostitutes, resigned in ignominy last week. David Paterson, his lieutenant governor, ascended t...
602 2008-03-20 With the surprising surge of the commodities markets - and their recent two-day plunge - the commodities markets have come to the fore. As The New York Times pointed out on Thursday, some of the biggest speculators and lenders in the area are the ...
603 2008-03-20 (Reuters) Keith Bradsher of The New York Times reports from Taipei on Thursday that the violent protests in Tibet and China's crackdown have had a significant impact on Taiwan's presidential race. "What once seemed to be an insuperable lead for th...
604 2008-03-20 As the commodities markets sink, CNBC's David Faber examines how many new players are in the game.
605 2008-03-20 George Mason is still experiencing the positive impact that its run to the Final Four has had on the university....
606 2008-03-20 There is some reading to do before the action on the court begins....
607 2008-03-20 Credit Suisse warned it was unlikely to be profitable in the first quarter, partly because of this month's tough markets and partly because of previously flagged pricing errors that it said Thursday stemmed from "intentional misconduct by a small ...
608 2008-03-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
609 2008-03-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
610 2008-03-20 Barington Capital Group, the hedge fund that has been pressing for changes at Dillard's, is making its move to wrest more control of the department store chain. Barington, which represents investors that own about 5.6 percent of Dillard's stock, s...
611 2008-03-20 The booming commodities market has become increasingly attractive to investors, with hard assets like oil and gold perhaps offering a safe hedge against inflation, as well as the double-digit gains that have fast been disappearing from the markets...
612 2008-03-20 WASHINGTON (AP) — The nation’s cellphone companies won big in a record-setting government airways auction, the Federal Communications Commission announced Thursday.

AT&T and Verizon Wireless, the nation’s two biggest cellphone carriers, were some of the top bidders, dampening hopes that the auction would dramatically increase competition for wireless services.

The results raised concern that the auction had failed to attract any new competitors to the cellular telephone market to challenge the dominant carriers.

Google was not among the winners, meaning the search engine giant will not be entering the cellular telephone business.

One new entrant, however, Frontier Wireless, which is owned by EchoStar Communications Inc., won nearly enough licenses to create a nationwide footprint.
613 2008-03-20 WITH PROSECUTORS IN THE CENTRAL DISTRICT

Benjamin Brafman today announced that he has reached an agreement with prosecutors that would have Mr. Weiss plead guilty and thus avoid a trial of the indictment that is now scheduled for August 2008.

According to Brafman, Mr. Weiss will plead guilty to his limited participation in a criminal Conspiracy relating to allegations that he and other former Milberg Weiss attorneys agreed to share part of the firm’s fees with certain individuals who were Plaintiffs in several of the thousands of Class Action lawsuits filed by the firm during its 40 year history. The Plea Agreement provides that Mr. Weiss may receive a sentence of from 18-33 months imprisonment, with the Court having the discretion to substitute a period of home confinement and/or community confinement for up to half of any prison sentence, should the Court conclude that a prison sentence is appropriate. Mr. Weiss has also agreed to pay a total of $10 million dollars in fines and forfeiture penalties.

According to Mr. Brafman, “It is important for the public and legal community to note that despite his plea, Mr. Weiss provided access to the Courts for millions of victims of corporate wrongdoing. Through a lifetime of legal work and public service, he has participated in important pro-bono, humanitarian and philanthropic efforts that have improved the quality of life for millions of citizens throughout the world. Accordingly, despite his participation in the criminal conduct he has today acknowledged, I am nevertheless hopeful and confident that the Court will recognize Mel Weiss to be one of the true legal giants of his generation and a consummate humanitarian whose contributions to the Bar and the world community have been nothing short of spectacular.”

“I deeply regret my conduct and apologize to all those who have been affected, including all of the wonderful and extremely talented lawyers and other employees of the Firm, none of whom had any involvement in any wrongdoing. I believe that it is very important to preserve this unique legal resource for the benefit of victims of wrongdoing affecting the masses, who historically have been under-served in so many ways.”
614 2008-03-20 The broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had gained 2.39 percent or 31.09 points, reversing its losses from a day prior. The Nasdaq composite index was up 2.2 percent or 48.15 points.

But the day’s drama was focused on the commodity pits, where prices of wheat, sugar, corn, copper and platinum all fell. “These are all significant declines,” said James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC.

The precipitous drop in commodity prices began Wednesday morning, hours after the Federal Reserve lowered benchmark interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point.

Many investors had expected the Fed to cut by a full percentage point, which would have sent down the value of the dollar. For months, with the dollar in free fall, investors have plowed their funds into commodities, which are likely to go up as the dollar falls.

But the Fed’s smaller-than-expected rate cut sent the dollar up, and it has since extended its gains against the euro and the yen. The European currency fell more than 1 percent on Thursday to $1.5429

As a result, investors who had viewed commodities as a shrewd hedge against inflation were scrambling to get out of their bets. “The precious metals markets and all commodity markets had built in a higher cut,” Mr. Steel said.

Crude oil in New York closed down 70 cents to $101.84 a barrel after falling as low as $98.65. Retail gasoline prices in the United States, which had been setting records earlier in the month, have been dropping since Sunday, falling to a nationwide average for unleaded regular of about $3.28 a gallon. Diesel, however, is still rising and set a new record overnight of $4.03 a gallon.

The June contract for gold was trading around $925 a troy ounce in New York on Thursday morning, down more than 8 percent from its $1,008.80 closing price on Tuesday, as demand for the precious metal appeared to drop in some regions. “We had a battery of data showing a real erosion in jewelry demand in India and China,” Mr. Steel said.

Indeed, though some analysts said the flight from commodities suggests a less risky outlook — raw materials can be used as a safe haven in difficult economic times — others said the price declines indicate worries about demand.

Some investors say they are worried that the credit crisis is going to take a severe toll on the United States economy, hurting the market’s confidence that producers will escape the worst effects of a slowdown.

Ben Dell, an oil analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said he was concerned that global demand for crude oil will fall this year. “If gross domestic product comes in weak,” he said, “there’s a lot of room for a correction.”

But Paul Horsnell, a commodities analyst at Barclays Capital in London, played down the notion that sudden fears of a recession in the United States or anywhere else had triggered the recent slide in commodities prices. “If you get the kind of market turbulence you have had this week, you have knock-on effects in commodities,” he said.

Mr. Horsnell said that some estimates indicate that the world will use more crude oil than it did last year. That is sure to fortify arguments that the commodities boom, as much as before, is being driven by greater demand from China, India and other emerging economies.

Oil prices, he noted, are still at levels evoking the oil shocks of the 1970s. “We see headlines, ‘Oil collapses to $102,’ ” he said. “Is that really a collapse?”

On Wall Street, stocks were helped along by an upbeat report on domestic manufacturing. Industrial activity in the Philadelphia area shrank in March, but less than analysts had feared, according to a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.

The bank’s index, considered a bellwether for the nation, stood at negative 17.4 in March, a reading that indicates contraction, but an improvement over the negative 24 reading for February.

Businesses paid higher prices for their materials, a sign of rising inflation, but the drop in new orders was smaller than expected.
615 2008-03-20 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — The chairman of the House Financial Services Committee called Thursday for Congress to consider creating a “financial services risk regulator” with broad powers across a wide range of financial institutions.

Addressing the recent financial turmoil that brought down the investment bank Bear Stearns, Representative Barney Frank said Congress could consider authorizing the Federal Reserve to act in the role of risk regulator.

In a document outlining a speech to be given to the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said it was important to bring under scrutiny new financial players and older institutions that are doing new things.

“To the extent that anybody is creating credit they ought to be subject to the same type of prudential supervision that now applies only to banks,” said the speech outline.

Mr. Frank proposed that if non-bank institutions wanted access to the Fed’s discount window for cash, they would be subject to requests from the risk regulator for timely market information and be subject to inspections.
616 2008-03-20 A rising American currency makes dollar-denominated commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Its tumble this year was one of the reasons for the surge in commodity prices.

“People have done very well in commodities and they may be doing badly elsewhere,” said Ian Morley, chief executive at the fund manager Dawnay Day Brokers. “I wouldn’t be surprised if they are cashing in to meet margin calls.”

He added, “Prices in the long term may be going higher, but the recent rise has been speculative and we’ve run out of fundamentals to explain it.”

Some investors are nursing hefty losses in equity and fixed income markets, which has seen United States Treasury bond yields fall on an influx of money looking for safety, giving the dollar another boost.

Others seeing no end to financial instability have taken their portfolios back to neutral, which for many including U.S. investors means selling commodities and moving into cash.

Frances Hudson, global thematic strategist agrees there is an element of safety in the move to cash, but thinks the falls in oils and industrial metals are also to do with expectations of an American-led global economic slowdown.

“A lot is being touted on the U.S. slowdown and maybe its also a reaction to how far commodity prices rose,” she said.

Crude oil too hit a record high of $111.80 a barrel on Tuesday and since then has slipped by more than 10 percent to below $100 a barrel on concerns about demand erosion in the United States, the world’s largest consumer.

Weaker sentiment was reinforced by data showing a 3.2 percent fall in United States oil demand over the past four weeks compared with the same period last year.

Copper futures in London hit a five-week low of $7,648 a ton, a loss of more than 13 percent since the metal hit an all-time high of $8,820 on March 6.

Part of the gain between the middle of January and early March was due to new institutional and speculative money, which led many analysts to replay the decoupling theme.

But the idea that emerging markets would be able to withstand a United States recession is too optimistic.

“I’ve never really bought the story about the de-linking of Asia,” Mr. Morley said. “If we are heading into recession, which we are, and economic activity declines, then at some point the demand for commodities will also decline.”

Closing long positions in commodity markets also spread into soft commodities, which have recently jumped to new highs.

London cocoa futures fell by nearly 10 percent in early trade. White sugar was down 2.8 percent and May robusta coffee ceded 3.3 percent.
617 2008-03-20 The review also determined that the bank’s own security controls “were not effective in this case,” Mr. Dougan added.

The profit warning sent Credit Suisse shares tumbling more than 10 percent by midday in Zurich.

Mr. Dougan said the loss was only partly explained by the misconduct and that unprecedented market conditions also contributed to “put a tremendous strain on the entire industry.”

“March has been a very difficult month,” he said. “Trading results have been very difficult given the extreme volatility in the markets.”

Mr. Dougan said the bank would not identify the location or numbers of traders involved in the misconduct.

“We haven’t, for legal and regulatory reasons, been giving specific numbers,” he said. “It involves a handful of traders at various levels of seniority in this specific area.”

The employees had either been fired or “are in the process of being fired,” he said, describing the misconduct as a “disappointing situation and one that we cannot and will not tolerate.”

Like many other investment banks, Credit Suisse requires its traders to properly value their trades on a daily basis, and those calculations are supervised by their managers. These valuations are then cross-checked on a weekly, monthly or ad-hoc basis by independent controllers, who verify the valuations. The mismarkings were detected during a cross-check, bank officials said last month.

Mr. Dougan said he had “a very hard time understanding” the motivation of the traders involved “because it doesn’t seem like it works out very well and in this case there will be very severe consequences for the traders. It’s hard for me to understand why anybody would do something like that.”

He then suggested that personal profit could have been “a fairly obvious motivation.”

“Obviously I guess to the extent, though, that if you are a trader on a book and if you intend inflating the profits on your book,” he said, “and people will look at your performance and you’ll get paid more because of that,” he said.

Dougan said that there would be “various consequences for those terminated” and that his own compensation was reduced 40 percent from last year and that “part of that reflects my responsibility for this issue.”
618 2008-03-20 MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — FedEx reported a 6 percent drop in third-quarter earnings Thursday due to high oil prices and a slow United States economy, and indicated it would miss Wall Street forecasts for the fourth quarter.

The shipping company said its fourth-quarter earnings would fall from a year ago and said it expected only limited earnings growth for its next fiscal year.

Its shares fell $1.72, or 2 percent, to $84.51 in premarket trading.

FedEx said it earned $393 million, or $1.26 a share, in the three months ended Feb. 29 compared with $420 million, or $1.35 a share, for the same period last year. Revenue rose 10 percent to $9.44 billion, from $8.59 billion.

Analysts with Thomson Financial expected earnings of $1.22 a share on revenue of $9.11 billion.

“FedEx faces a challenging economic environment that includes persistently high oil prices, sluggish U.S. growth and continued concerns in the credit markets,” Frederick W. Smith, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement. “We are managing our costs while positioning our portfolio of global transportation solutions to increase our profitability and returns once conditions improve.”

Average daily package volume for FedEx Express, the company’s cargo airline, and FedEx Ground, its trucking division, grew 5 percent, the earnings report said.

FedEx predicted earnings in the fourth quarter of $1.60 to $1.80 a share, compared to $1.96 for last year’s final period. Analysts were looking for earnings of $1.95 a share in the fourth quarter.
619 2008-03-20 LOS ANGELES (Reuters) — Nike, the world’s largest maker of athletic footwear and apparel, said on Wednesday that its third-quarter net profit rose, helped by strong international sales of shoes and clothing that were buoyed by a weak dollar.

Net profit increased to $463.8 million, or 92 cents a share, from $350.8 million, or 68 cents a share, a year earlier. Total sales jumped 16 percent, to $4.5 billion.

The company’s growth in emerging markets for its Nike footwear has been rapid as it prepares for the Beijing Olympics, and demand is robust for its smaller non-Nike brands. Even though Nike has said that sports items are relatively immune to economic downturns, it has been controlling inventory in a challenging United States marketplace as athletic shoe retailers struggle.

Nike’s shares rose 16 cents, to $61.83, on Wednesday before its earnings were reported, and rose several dollars a share in after-hours trading.
620 2008-03-20 NEWARK — When she talked to detectives back in September, the 20-year-old woman said her boyfriend, now on trial on murder charges, had threatened to kill her if she talked to the police.

But in court on Wednesday, with her boyfriend sitting in the courtroom, the woman, Anyea Williams, told a different story. She gave one-word answers and sighed loudly when the prosecutor asked questions. She hid her face in her hands. She said that her boyfriend, Edward Peoples, had not threatened her. She pulled the hood on her sweatshirt, decorated with butterflies, down closer to her eyes.

The prosecutor, Roger Imhof, let her go home for the night.

Mr. Peoples, 23, is charged with murdering Rahman Jenkins, 33, in the courtyard of a Newark housing complex after the two men argued over drug turf in January 2006, the authorities said. Ms. Williams, who said in court that she was in Mr. Peoples’s apartment on the night of the killing, is one of at least two witnesses prosecutors are calling to testify. Another is an accomplice of Mr. Peoples’s with whom prosecutors cut a deal.

Mr. Peoples’s lawyer, Paul Bergrin, said his client was innocent, and was a young man hoping to go to college.

While prosecutors gave no indication on Wednesday that their case had been hurt by Ms. Williams’s performance on the stand — in fact, she testified that Mr. Peoples told her that he had shot Mr. Jenkins — Mr. Bergrin said that her testimony raised serious questions about her credibility. It also reflected problems that prosecutors in New Jersey often face.
621 2008-03-20 As in those markets, an evaporation of credit could force some large investors — especially hedge funds speculating with lots of borrowed money — to sell off their holdings, creating price swings that could affect a host of marketplace prices and wipe out small investors in just a few moments of trading.

“Right now is a very scary time” for commodity market regulators, said Michael Riess, a director of the International Precious Metals Institute, a consultant to commodities investors for more than 30 years. “It’s not a question of overregulating or underregulating. It’s a question of just being swamped by volume, volatility and a dramatic shift toward speculative interests.”

Developments on Wall Street in the last few days underscored the new risks. Both Bear Stearns and its prospective new owner, JPMorgan Chase, are important clearing brokers that process and guarantee their clients’ trades in the commodities markets.

Officials at the exchanges where those trades occur had to monitor Bear Stearns’s financial situation carefully throughout last week to ensure that its cash shortage did not affect its commodity positions or those of its clients.

Walter L. Lukken, who heads the federal agency that regulates most commodity markets, said his staff had been able, so far, to cope with both the markets’ growth and the recent tremors from Wall Street.

"Even with the enormous volume coming through,” said Mr. Lukken, acting chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, “we think we have gotten a very good handle on the market. You can’t catch them all, of course, and you worry that something will get past the goalie. But we have been able to scale up the regulatory monitoring system to deal with increasing volume.”

Regulators and exchange officials take comfort from the rising commodity prices, which reduce the risk that lenders will grow nervous about their collateral and withhold new credit. Despite a broad commodities sell-off yesterday, a Commodity Research Bureau index remains almost 40 percent higher than a year earlier.

But it has been a roller coaster: commodity prices can record daily percentage changes that dwarf typical movements in stocks. Yesterday, when crude oil gave back some of its 85 percent annual gain and gold dropped almost 6 percent after an annual gain of 44.5 percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.4 percent, leaving it down 7.4 percent over the last year. On its worst single day over the last year, it fell 3.2 percent.

So stock market investors seeking these formidable gains will find themselves on unfamiliar terrain. The heart of commodities markets is the so-called cash market, a “professionals only” setting where producers sell boatloads of iron ore, tanker ships full of oil and silos full of wheat for immediate use.

Wrapped around that core are the commodities futures markets. Here, hedgers and speculators trade various versions of a derivative called a futures contract, which calls for the delivery of a specific quantity of a commodity at a fixed price on a particular date.

Futures contracts trade both on regulated exchanges and in the immensely larger but less regulated over-the-counter market, where banks and brokers privately negotiate futures contracts with hedgers and speculators around the world.

The prices at which all these contracts trade indicate the potential strength of demand and supply for commodities still in the ground or in the fields. That makes them important to everyone who produces, buys and uses those goods — wheat farmers, baking companies, grocery shoppers, oil companies, electric utilities and homeowners.

Prices here can also influence the values of the increasingly popular exchange-traded funds, or E.T.F.’s, that focus on commodity investments. Born barely four years ago, these funds had net assets of $32.8 billion in January, compared with less than $4.8 billion in 2005.

But as the futures markets have grown, the ability of federal regulators to police them for fraud and manipulation has been shrinking, as a result of legislative loopholes and adverse court decisions. And despite widespread agreement that these regulatory gaps are bad for investors and consumers, they have not yet been repaired.

The oldest of these is the so-called Enron loophole, an 11th-hour addition to the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 that gave an exemption to private energy-trading markets, like the one operated by Enron before its scandalous collapse in 2001. Regulators later accused Enron traders of using this exempt market to victimize a vast number of utility customers by manipulating electricity prices in California.

Related to that loophole is a broader one for a category called exempt commercial markets, envisioned in the 2000 law as innovative professional markets for nonfarm commodities that did not need as much scrutiny as public exchanges.

What lawmakers did not anticipate was that one of the exempt markets, the IntercontinentalExchange, known as the ICE and based in Atlanta, would become a hub for trading in a product that mirrors the natural gas futures contract trading on the regulated New York Mercantile Exchange.

In 2006, traders at a hedge fund used the ICE’s look-alike contract as part of what regulators later asserted was a scheme to manipulate natural gas prices, again at great cost to users. The fund denied the accusation, and civil litigation is pending.

That case persuaded the commission that it needed more power to police these exempt markets, at least when they help set commodity prices. But so far, it has not received it, despite repeated requests to Congress.

Another attempt to close these loopholes is attached to the pending farm bill, which is scheduled to emerge from a Congressional conference committee next month. But this latest effort, too, faces market and industry opposition.

The courts have also curbed the commission’s reach. In three cases since 2000, judges have interpreted federal law to severely limit the commission’s ability to fight fraud involving both over-the-counter markets and specious foreign currency contracts used to victimize individual investors.

The commission has filed appeals, but a far quicker remedy would be for Congress simply to revise the laws, as the commission requests.

Mr. Lukken said he was confident that passage of the commission’s proposed language as part of the farm bill would address those shortcomings, as well as the exempt-market problem.

Finally, the commodities market has not yet dealt with what some economists say are inherent conflicts that have arisen as the futures exchanges, which have substantial self-regulatory duties, have been converted into for-profit companies with responsibilities to shareholders that could conflict with their regulatory duties. (For example, shareholders may benefit when an exchange’s regulatory office ignores infractions by a trader who generates substantial income for the exchange.)

By contrast, when the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq became profit-making entities, they spun off their self-regulatory units into an independent agency, now called the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.

The C.F.T.C. never encouraged that approach, trying instead — so far unsuccessfully — to adopt principles that would encourage the for-profit exchanges to add independent directors to oversee their self-regulatory operations.

Independent directors do not owe any less loyalty to shareholders than management directors would, said Benn Steil, director of international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations. "The statutory regulators have got to acknowledge these conflicts and act accordingly," he said.

His view is opposed by Craig Donohue, chief executive of the CME Group, the for-profit company that operates the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade and may soon merge with the New York Mercantile Exchange.

“We succeed because we are regulated markets, among other things. That’s part of our identity and brand,” Mr. Donohue said. Effective self-regulation, he added, is “very consistent with the shareholder interest.”

Mr. Lukken nevertheless plans to push ahead with his call for more public directors. “The important point is trying to minimize and manage conflicts,” he said. “Public directors are uniquely qualified to balance the interests of the public as well as the requirements of the act.” Although the effort has been delayed, he added: “This is not an indefinite stay. It’s a priority of mine that we hope to complete in the coming months.”

But some with experience in the commodities market remain nervous about the new money pouring in so quickly.

Commodity trading firms that have survived for any length of time have excellent risk-management skills, said Jeffrey M. Christian, managing director of the CPM Group, a research firm spun off from Goldman Sachs in 1986. Mr. Christian said he was less certain how the newcomers would deal with risk.

“You have the stupid money coming into the market now,” he said last week. “And I think the smart money is beginning to get a little frightened about what the stupid money will do.”
622 2008-03-20 All evidence to the contrary, Mr. Bush is still trying to make it seem as if was connected to the that attacked America on Sept. 11, 2001. He tried to justify an unjustifiable war by ticking off benefits of deposing , but he somehow managed to forget the nonexistent weapons of mass destruction.

Vice President was equally deep in denial on Monday when he declared at a news conference in Baghdad that it has all been “well worth the effort.”

Tell that to the families of nearly 4,000 Americans who have been killed — far too many of them because Mr. Bush and his arrogantly incompetent secretary of defense, , failed to plan for an insurgency that many others saw coming. Thousands more Americans have been wounded and deprived of adequate post-conflict care while Iraqis have died by the tens of thousands. More than five million have been driven from their homes.

Add in a cost to the United States that some say could exceed $3 trillion, the new political opening created for , the incalculable damage to America’s reputation and the havoc wreaked on Iraqi society. Few lament Saddam Hussein’s passing, but the war has left Iraq a broken country, made the United States more vulnerable, not safer, and stretched the American military to a point that compromises its ability to fight elsewhere.

The increase in American forces last year initially produced a steep decline in insurgent attacks. But the conflict has drifted into a stalemate with the levels of violence remaining constant, and unacceptably high, from November 2007 through early 2008, according to a report. As Mr. Cheney visited Iraq, a bombing killed 43 people.

One of the cruelest ironies is that Iraqis have not taken advantage of the American troop surge, which was intended to create space for them to resolve their political differences. After much foot-dragging, they passed a 2008 budget and a law granting amnesty to thousands of Sunnis and others in Iraqi jails. But a law on sharing oil wealth is stalled and one aimed at allowing former Baathist Party members back into government may actually drive many out. Another bill, mandating provincial elections by October, was passed by Parliament, then vetoed by the Presidency Council of Iraq’s top leaders. Only after pressure from Mr. Cheney was it suddenly revived.

The plight of Iraqis uprooted by violence is further proof of how broken the country is. Some 2.7 million Iraqis are displaced internally and another 2.4 million have fled as refugees, mostly to and . That’s nearly 20 percent of Iraq’s prewar population — the kind of inconvenient truth the Bush administration would rather ignore.

Although thousands of refugees returned to Iraq last year, most ended up leaving again because they did not feel secure. American, Iraqi and international aid to is insufficient, and many refugees, their savings depleted and barred from most jobs, are despairing, aid workers say. No one knows when — or if — they can ever return. Syria and Jordan generously allowed Iraqis in, but the huge numbers could destabilize both countries and fuel anti-America resentment.

The United States agreed to admit a paltry 12,000 Iraqi refugees in fiscal year 2008; so far, only 2,000 have been processed.

Brighter spots — Iraq’s economy is projected to grow 7 percent this year — are offset by problems: millions of Iraqis still don’t have clean water and medical care, thousands are jobless and the Iraqi Army, while improving, cannot defend the country on its own.

Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney refuse to let these facts interfere with their benighted notion of keeping troops in Iraq indefinitely and insisting that Iraq — not and where Al Qaeda and the have gained ground — must remain America’s top priority.

It was clear long ago that Mr. Bush had no plan for victory, only a plan for handing this mess to his successor. Americans need to choose a president with the vision to end this war as cleanly as possible.
623 2008-03-20 Still reeling from severe power shortages that struck the country in January, Eskom, the state-controlled utility, has asked regulators for a stunning 60 percent increase in the price of electricity, citing higher energy costs and what it called “demand-side management.” Economists say the private sector has been unwilling to invest heavily in power generation because the price of electricity was too low to generate profits. After public hearings, the regulators will decide how much of a price increase to grant.
624 2008-03-20 Kuwait’s emir dissolved Parliament and called for early elections after disputes between the government and lawmakers led to the resignation of the prime minister’s entire cabinet. The emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, left, said in a televised address that his directives for “fruitful cooperation” had not been heeded. The government and the 50-seat Parliament have been at loggerheads over many issues, including a raise for civil servants and a bill that requires the state to pay off consumer debts of private citizens. State television said new elections would be held on May 17.

Correction: March 24, 2008 

 A picture with a report in the World Briefing column on Thursday about early elections in Kuwait was published in error. The photograph was of the country’s prime minister, Sheik Nasser al-Mohamed al-Ahmad al-Sabah  not of the Emir of Kuwait, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, who dissolved parliament and called for the elections.
625 2008-03-20 “I’m not on trial,” Mr. Coicou said more than once. Justice Arthur J. Cooperman, who is hearing the case without a jury, at times seemed irritated with Mr. Coicou, at one point ordering him to answer a question about a meeting with prosecutors.

Mr. Coicou’s appearance was much anticipated, if for nothing more than to provide a glance at the mysterious character widely known in the case as “the S.U.V. guy” or “the man in black.”

The exchange with Mr. Bell began outside the Club Kalua in Jamaica, Queens, after Mr. Bell’s bachelor party, early in the morning of the day he was to be married. Witnesses have described Mr. Coicou as dressed all in black and standing with his hands in his pockets, as if he had a gun. Detective Isnora, working undercover that night, told grand jurors last year that he heard one of Mr. Bell’s friends say, “Go get my gun,” his lawyer has said. His partner that night, who has not been charged, testified that he heard the same statement, twice.

Two friends of Mr. Bell, Larenzo Kinred and Hugh Jensen, testified that they thought Mr. Coicou was armed or pretending to be.

But Mr. Coicou’s testimony on Wednesday disputed those accounts.

“I kept my hands in my pockets to demonstrate peace,” Mr. Coicou said.

The exchange began when Mr. Coicou, waiting beside his sport utility vehicle for his girlfriend, a dancer, to leave the club, said he saw Mr. Bell try to re-enter after Kalua had closed for the night.

“I said, ‘Alcohol has taken control of individuals,’ but I just mumbled it to myself,” Mr. Coicou testified. “Mr. Bell came to me and said alcohol had not taken control of him.”

The defense has described this exchange as heated, but Mr. Coicou said that the conversation ended soon afterward when they realized they were from the same part of Far Rockaway.

Mr. Coicou told Mr. Bell, “I got bread up in here,” referring to his girlfriend and the money she earned, he said. He said he noticed a bald man who did not seem to belong to the group, and suspected him of being an undercover officer. He later learned he was correct.

After the men walked away, Mr. Coicou said, he found himself alone in front of the club, and drove around the block. Last year, Mr. Coicou said he felt uneasy because several of the men were “peeking” at him and he thought “they were going to go get whatever to do whatever.”

But as he explained his actions on Wednesday, he said he never felt uneasy. “Let me just get out of here for a little bit, circle the block, come back around,” he said, recalling his thinking that morning.

When Mr. Coicou returned to his spot in front of Kalua, he stayed in his S.U.V. with the windows rolled up, he said, and did not hear the collision of Mr. Bell’s Nissan Altima and a police van or the 50 gunshots that followed. He said that he saw someone in tight jeans jump into bushes down the street but did not know why until his girlfriend came out of Kalua and said that someone had been shot.

In other testimony on Wednesday, the prosecution read from Detective Cooper’s grand jury testimony from March 7, 2007. In it, Detective Cooper said he believed he “fired one to three rounds” from his gun. On Tuesday, the prosecution recounted an interview the district attorney’s office had had with Detective Cooper on Jan. 9, 2007, in which he said he was certain he fired only one round. The police have said he fired four rounds.
626 2008-03-20 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Catapulted by the biggest initial public offering in American history, Visa shares soared 28 percent in their stock market debut on Wednesday as investors bet an accelerating shift to electronic payments will enrich the company.

After being priced above expectations at $44 a share in an initial public offering that raised nearly $18 billion, Visa shares finished at $56.50 on the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday. The run-up gives the San Francisco-based company, the world’s largest processor of credit and debit cards, a market value of about $45 billion.

“This is an exciting and historic day for Visa,” said the company’s chairman, Joseph W. Saunders, who received a $10.2 million bonus last year for laying the I.P.O. groundwork.

Visa generated $5.2 billion in annual revenue last year as it handled more than more than 44 billion transactions totaling more than $3.2 trillion. The volume puts Visa far ahead of its main rival, MasterCard, whose own shares have risen more than fivefold since their May 2006 initial price of $39; MasterCard closed on Wednesday at $208.39.

Visa is well insulated from the credit problems that have scarred many of the lenders that issue the cards bearing its brand.
627 2008-03-20 Despite those early defeats, despite eight losses in an 11-game stretch in December and January, and despite the loss of two key players to injury, the Wildcats (18-12) compiled a 12-4 record in the Southeastern Conference.

Their 11-2 finish in the regular season — and, perhaps, their famous name — helped them earn an N.C.A.A. tournament berth. They take a No. 11 seed into the South Region for a first-round game Thursday against sixth-seeded Marquette (24-9). The winner will face Stanford or Cornell on Saturday.

It could be a difficult test for Kentucky, which has won at least one tournament game every year since 1987. Its seeding this year is its lowest since the Wildcats were 12th in 1985. This is Kentucky’s 49th N.C.A.A. tournament berth and its 17th in succession, and it is uncommon for the Wildcats to be underdogs in a first-round game.

“People just count us out and don’t think we can win,” said Bradley, a Brooklyn native who goes by the nickname Smooth. “That’s the best place to be in, when no one believes in you.”

Those who doubt them have their reasons. First, it was the strained hip flexor to Jodie Meeks, a 6-foot-4 sophomore guard who last played Feb. 16. He has said he wants to play in the tournament, but Gillispie said Wednesday that was not likely.

Then the 6-8 forward Patrick Patterson, the Wildcats’ leading rebounder, was lost for the season Feb. 29 because of a stress fracture in his left ankle. Patterson, the SEC’s co-freshman of the year, had averaged 16.4 points and 7.7 rebounds.

“It’s been hard the entire way, and it gets harder as we go down the stretch,” Patterson said Wednesday. “Looking at our two seniors, I really want to play with them. It’s hard to not be there.”

Derrick Jasper, recruited as a 6-6 point guard, has been filling in at power forward. Kentucky’s tallest probable starter is Mark Coury, a 6-8 walk-on sophomore forward who averages 2 points and 1.8 rebounds.

Kentucky is capable of radically different results. It beat Vanderbilt by 6 points in double overtime in January, then lost to the Commodores by 41 a month later. Among the Wildcats’ weaknesses is an average of 15.9 turnovers a game.

Marquette’s guards — Dominic James, Jerel McNeal and Wesley Matthews — comprise one of the tournament’s best backcourts. McNeal has 73 steals, and James has 60.

Not all of Kentucky’s adversity has been on the court. Last Friday, waiting to play Georgia in an SEC tournament quarterfinal in Atlanta, the players heard a booming sound outside their locker room. A storm had ripped part of the roof from the Georgia Dome.

After a delay, the Wildcats were told their game would be delayed. After another delay, they were told they would play the next day. They lost in overtime, 60-56, at a different arena.

“It was chaotic,” Bradley said. The game was moved to the Alexander Memorial Coliseum on the Georgia Tech campus and played before a crowd announced as 1,458. Crawford said the uncertainty and changes were “kind of draining.”

“That was tough,” he said.

Kentucky’s current streak of N.C.A.A. tournament appearances is the country’s third longest, behind Arizona (24) and Kansas (19).

The last time Kentucky and Marquette met in the tournament was in 2003, when Dwyane Wade of the Golden Eagles had 29 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists in an 83-69 victory. That win sent Wade and Marquette to the Final Four.

Several players said Wednesday that watching that team’s performance on television helped persuade them to attend Marquette. One of the players was James, whose average of 13 points a game is tied for second on the team with Lazar Hayward. McNeal, at 14.3, is the Golden Eagles’ leading scorer.

“That’s probably the first time I really heard of Marquette,” said James, who was then a high school sophomore in Indiana. “It’s great to follow in the footsteps of guys like Dwyane Wade and Travis Diener and Steve Novak.”
628 2008-03-20 LONDON — In an unusual move to calm investors’ nerves, two of Britain’s top financial authorities stepped forward on Wednesday to quash a spate of rumors that had sent some financial stocks in London into a tailspin.

The Financial Services Authority said it was investigating whether some traders had spread “unfounded rumors” about British financial institutions over the last few days and profited from the resultant decline in the share price by shorting the stock, or betting that the value of shares would drop.

The Bank of England, which rarely makes public statements about specific lenders, denied rumors that it had met or was scheduled to meet with executives at a British bank to discuss potential liquidity problems.

“It reveals how nervous the authorities are that rumors can actually bring serious problems to a financial institution,” said Alistair Milne, senior lecturer at the Cass Business School in London.

Trading rooms were buzzing Wednesday morning with rumors that HBOS, the country’s largest mortgage lender, was in trouble. Selling of its shares wiped about £3 billion ($5.95 billion) off its market value before the lender, based in Edinburgh, could deny the rumors, saying it had “ready access” to funds. The stock recovered slightly from an earlier record drop of 17 percent in London, but remained significantly below Tuesday’s close.
629 2008-03-20 Amid debate over how much data companies like Google and Yahoo should gather about people who surf the Web, one new company is drawing attention — and controversy — by boasting that it will collect the most complete information of all.

The company, called Phorm, has created a tool that can track every single online action of a given consumer, based on data from that person’s Internet service provider. The trick for Phorm is to gain access to that data, and it is trying to negotiate deals with telephone and cable companies, like AT&T, Verizon and Comcast, that provide broadband service to millions.

Phorm’s pitch to these companies is that its software can give them a new stream of revenue from advertising. Using Phorm’s comprehensive views of individuals, the companies can help advertisers show different ads to people based on their interests.

“As you browse, we’re able to categorize all of your Internet actions,” said Virasb Vahidi, the chief operating officer of Phorm. “We actually can see the entire Internet.”

Phorm is not the first company to realize that providers of broadband services are sitting on deep caches of consumer data. Other advertising companies like Front Porch, NebuAd, Adzilla and Project Rialto are trying to do much the same thing. What distinguishes Phorm is the success — and scrutiny — it has had in the British market.
630 2008-03-20 ATLANTA (AP) — The pilots’ union at Delta Air Lines has rejected the idea of submitting to arbitration with their counterparts at the Northwest Airlines Corporation to break their impasse over integrating seniority lists as part of a possible combination of the carriers.

“In short, there will be no binding arbitration,” Lee Moak, head of Delta’s pilots’ union, said in an e-mail message Wednesday.

Pilot union leaders at Northwest suggested in a memorandum to rank-and-file Northwest pilots on Tuesday that arbitration might be a way to break the deadlock. Traditionally, arbitration in these situations is binding.

The memo said that “if management feels the time is now for consolidation, they would be wise to encourage both pilot groups to accept expedited arbitration.”

Arbitration can be a long process that traditionally follows announcement of a deal between airlines whose unions cannot reach contractual or seniority agreements on their own.
631 2008-03-20 Mr. Obama’s campaign carefully tracked the commentary and monitored talk radio after the speech in Philadelphia to see how it was going over around the country. One measure of its effectiveness, aides said, would be whether Mr. Obama has to address the subject again before the Pennsylvania primary on April 22.

Copies of the speech, “A More Perfect Union,” were in high demand. But it did not provide detailed answers about his relationship with Mr. Wright.

“For some, nagging questions remain,” Mr. Obama said Tuesday. “Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of course. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in the church? Yes.”

Mr. Obama did not specify what those controversial remarks were. On Wednesday, he did not hold a question-and-answer session with reporters traveling with him. He conducted a handful of interviews with North Carolina reporters, behind closed doors.

Asked about the remarks referred to in the speech, a spokesman for the campaign, Robert Gibbs, replied, ”Senator Obama explained clearly in his speech that some of Reverend Wright’s language in describing, for example, what he viewed as discrimination and how he expanded on that in terms that were sharp and jarring.”

Although the images of the minister’s sermons appeared less frequently on cable television, Mrs. Clinton’s supporters continued to press questions on blogs and in interviews about the tapes that depict the minister castigating the United States as a racist and murderous nation.

By design, advisers said, Mr. Obama had no immediate plans to revisit the themes of the speech, which bluntly confronted divisions between black and white and urged both races to understand each other’s anger, resentment and division.

Party officials in states with coming primaries said Wednesday that race was not what most Democratic voters wanted to discuss.

“People in our state are worried about their jobs and their health care and their mortgage,” said Dan Parker, the Indiana Democratic chairman, who is preparing for the most competitive primary since 1968. “Race? We don’t really want to talk about that.”

Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to campaign on Thursday in Indiana, after a visit last weekend from Mr. Obama. For his part, Mr. Obama plans to spend the day in West Virginia, where Nick Casey, the state Democratic chairman, said, “I’m not really sure there is a race issue.”

In North Carolina, the audiences at Mr. Obama’s two public appearances on Wednesday were made up of black and white supporters. When a voter asked the senator what he could do as president to curb crime in black communities, Mr. Obama said, “I touched on this a little bit yesterday in the speech.”

At the mere mention of the speech, the 1,700 people rose to give an ovation.

Throughout the day, that was Mr. Obama’s lone public reference to his speech, which aides had characterized as a critical test of his candidacy. Advisers said they hoped to return the focus to domestic issues that voters list as their chief concern.

“He wants the same goals as white people,” said Reva G. McNair, president of the North Carolina Senior Democrats, a retirees’ group, who saw Mr. Obama deliver a speech on national security on Wednesday. “We all want the same thing. But sometimes we look at color, and that stops us.”
632 2008-03-20 Is it real? As real as a perfect convertible day.

What they said: Ernst Leib, Mercedes’ chief executive in the United States, noted that the classic Mercedes 300SL Gullwing was first shown in New York in 1954. Yet the SL “has never looked better than it does today,” he said.

What they didn’t say: That the new SL hardtop roadster, while offering solid upgrades in power, styling and features, isn’t a top-to-bottom redesign. That will wait until 2011.

What makes it tick? A 5.5-liter V-8 with 382 horsepower. The AMG version bumps that to 6.2 liters and 518 horsepower, spun through Mercedes’ new 7-speed automatic transmission. Benz promises its transmission, which shifts in less than 100 milliseconds, will offer the best of both automatic and manual worlds.

How much, how soon? In May at roughly $97,000 to start for the SL550, or about $132,000 for the hyperfast AMG version.

How’s it look? Sleek, with its pointy schnoz and a hood with double bulging “power domes.” But mostly, it looks like another Mercedes we can’t afford.
633 2008-03-20 These days, the clues are usually digital and are broad invitations to get to know the person behind the Ph.D. It is not uncommon for professors’ Web pages to include lists of the books they would take to a deserted island, links to their favorite songs from bygone eras, blog posts about their children, entries “written” by their dogs and vacation photographs.

While many professors have rushed to meet the age of social networking, there are some who think it is symptomatic of an unfortunate trend, that a professor’s job today is not just to impart knowledge, but to be an entertainer.

Certainly, professors have embraced the Internet since its earliest days, using it as a scholarly avenue of communication, publication and debate. Now it is common for many to reveal more personal information that has little connection to their work.

Some do so in hopes it will attract attention for a book or paper they have written; others do so inadvertently, joining Facebook to communicate with students and then finding themselves lured deeper by its various applications.

Many, though, say that by divulging family history and hobbies, they hope to appear more accessible to students.

William Irwin, an associate professor of philosophy at King’s College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has a Facebook profile, appeared on “Professors Strike Back” and, last summer, created a MySpace page (with a harpist playing music by Metallica) that he says had some 10,000 friends.

Note the word “had.” Mr. Irwin’s page, on which he was blogging constantly, he said, vanished around Thanksgiving for reasons he has yet to unravel.

“There were all kinds of people I was meeting,” he said. “It was kind of an exciting alternate universe to be part of.”

Mr. Irwin updates his Facebook page with photos and titles of books he is reading, but he misses what he calls the Las Vegas feel of MySpace. Still, his postings ignite a conversation with students. “Anything I can do to kind of meet them halfway,” he said, “I try to do.”

This sentiment is shared by scholars who think that knowing that your Latin professor likes fly fishing and runs a knitting circle could improve the teacher-student relationship.

David H. Collingwood, a mathematics professor at the University of Washington and a Web page pioneer, whose online photographs show him drinking wine in Italy, mountaineering and scuba diving, said in an e-mail message that undergraduates in large classes often fear approaching the professor for help. Having a common interest can break the ice.

“I have students come to my office hours and comment on a commonality between their interests and mine,” he wrote. “For example, one student said they had sat in precisely the same spot as I had in the Italian Cinque Terre town of Vernazza.”

Nate Ackerman, a lecturer in mathematics at the University of Pennsylvania, whose Web page includes information about his wrestling achievements and photos of him with his cats, agreed. “It’s better when your professor’s human,” he said.

Some scholars suggest that the need to present oneself so chummily is indicative of student demands. Sam Gosling, a psychologist and an associate professor at the University of Texas at Austin, who has about 300 students on his MySpace page, said there are students today who think professors are not doing their jobs unless they convey information in zany, interactive ways.

It is something he sees reflected in student evaluations and something that anyone can observe on RateMyProfessors, where students critique classes with comments like “bring a pillow.”

When David Linton, a communication-arts professor at Marymount Manhattan College, was asked in “Professors Strike Back” to respond to a student who said his class was “not a happy learning experience,” he said in part: “What the hell does that mean? Who the hell said it was supposed to happy? I hope it’s good. I hope it’s stimulating.”

With his frank rebuttals and voluminous puff of gray hair, Mr. Linton has become something of a celebrity thanks to such appearances. “I walked into the gym the other day and some woman on the treadmill looked up and said ‘I just saw you on RateMyProfessors.com,’ ” said Mr. Linton, who is now dreaming up a series, “Professors at Play,” that would juxtapose scholars’ work at universities with their personal hobbies. Were he to have his own episode, he would like to be ice or roller skating.

“It bespeaks a certain kind of desire that all of us have for that moment of fame,” he said.

But there are those who prefer to be more opaque, at least in cyberspace. “I can see it if somebody’s using a Web page to store syllabi and articles and store biographies, store vita and that’s fine,” said Stephen Eric Bronner, a political science professor at Rutgers. “But just to say ‘I shoot pool’ or ‘I play poker,’ this kind of thing, what does it really mean? You humanize yourself in front of your students. You don’t have to do it through that.”

Mr. Bronner, who recently returned from Darfur, was perplexed that more people remarked about his appearance on “Professors Strike Back” than his trip. “I don’t know, I find it a very odd thing,” he said. “It’s just, it’s irksome in a way.”

There are many reasons professors have embraced the Web and other media to reveal more of themselves. Mr. Gosling, whose studies include personality and virtual environments, noted that people are far less formal in all areas of life. “Twenty years ago, many fewer professors would have been wearing jeans and sneakers to work,” he said.

It is also possible, he added, that some professors are doing online what they have long done in their offices: displaying family photos and personal artifacts, decorating with posters, literally keeping their doors open.

Mr. Friedman of mtvU said it is the nature of the age. “I think it’s part of this increased transparency,” he said.

He acknowledged that watching the uninhibited scholars responding to student criticism on “Professors Strike Back” is “almost as if your therapist, who you know nothing about, is going to come and respond.”

“It feels as if they are breaking some kind of wall,” he said.

And yet, in some ways, the online and on-screen chumminess may not cross over beyond those realms. A number of professors said the most disarming thing of all to students is when they encounter a professor not on a Web page, but in the real world.

When a student spotted Mr. Gosling on a street near campus, he said, “She looked at me in, like, horror. Like, ‘Wait a minute, you have a life?’ The idea that I would continue to exist — it was sort of a violation of her expectations.”
634 2008-03-20 There is no legalized ethnic discrimination in China, but privilege and power are overwhelmingly the preserve of the Han, while Tibetans live largely confined to segregated urban ghettos and poor villages in their own ancestral lands.

Chinese news programs on the events in Lhasa have reinforced an impression of separate universes that scarcely intersect — one Han and one Tibetan. The programs were clearly intended as propaganda to place the blame for riots on Tibetans and rally Han Chinese in support of a government-led suppression. Over and over, television broadcasts have repeated the same scenes of rampaging Tibetans smashing shop windows and of injured, hospitalized Han, while making no mention of the widely reported deaths among Tibetans during the police crackdown that followed, nor of the underlying grievances that sparked them.

Since the last widespread unrest in Tibet two decades ago, Beijing has sought to undermine separatists in what it calls the Tibetan Autonomous Region. It has invested billions of dollars, encouraged an influx of Han Chinese and inserted itself deeply into the mechanics of Tibetan Buddhism to eliminate the influence of the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader, who fled China for exile in India in 1959 after a failed uprising. But real assimilation, if it were ever the goal, remains elusive.

Caidan, the peasant in Gabu Village, part of Qinghai Province, said there was only one way to solve the grievances of Tibetans under Chinese rule: allow the Dalai Lama to return. “We are unhappy that the state suppresses us, and as long as the Dalai isn’t allowed to return, we will remain unhappy,” he said. “Tibet is the Dalai’s home.”

In the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, Han shopkeepers, hostel owners and others who are picking up the pieces of their lives after riots that destroyed many Chinese-owned business there spoke with scarcely concealed condescension, and often with outright hostility, of Tibetans whom they described as lazy and ungrateful for the economic development they have brought.

“Our government has wasted our money in helping those white-eyed wolves,” Wang Zhongyong, a Han manager of handicraft shops, said in an interview in Lhasa. Mr. Wang’s shops sell Tibetan-themed trinkets to tourists. One of his shops was smashed and burned in the riots. “Just think of how much we’ve invested in relief funds for monks and for unemployed Tibetans,” he said. “Is this what we deserve?”

Among Han in Lhasa, comments like these stood out for their mildness.

“The relationship between Han and Tibetan is irreconcilable,” said Yuan Qinghai, a Lhasa taxi driver, in an interview. “We don’t have a good impression of them, as they are lazy and they hate us, for, as they say, taking away what belongs to them. In their mind showering once or twice in their life is sacred, but to Han it is filthy and unacceptable.

“We believe in working hard and making money to support one’s family, but they might think we’re greedy and have no faith.”

Even among long-term residents in Lhasa, Han Chinese said they had no Tibetan friends and confessed that they tended to avoid interaction with Tibetans as much as possible. “There’s been this hatred for a long time,” said Tang Xuejun, a Han resident of Lhasa for the last 10 years. “Sometimes you would even wonder how we had avoided open confrontation for so many years. This is a hatred that cannot be solved by arresting a few people.” Tibetans, meanwhile, complain that they have been relegated to second-class citizenship, that their culture is being destroyed through forced assimilation, that their religious freedoms have been trampled upon.

A Tibetan university student in her early 20s who declined to give her name explained relations this way: “I really don’t want to talk about politics, saying whether or not Tibet is part of China. The reality is that we are controlled by Chinese, by the Han people. We don’t have any say, so in my family we don’t even talk about it.”

Although the young woman said that her family was relatively well off and that she was receiving a good education, the future was bleak here even for someone like her because the system favors the Han.

“I’m not even sure I can get a job after graduation,” she said. “For rich Tibetans and for officials, they send their children out to Chengdu or Beijing.”

A sense of the fear many Tibetans live with could be heard in the comments of a religious leader in Aba Prefecture in Sichuan Province, the site of a protest by monks and others this week in solidarity with the Lhasa demonstrations, and the scene of a subsequent fierce crackdown.

“I only know that the Communist Party is good, that they are good to us,” said the religious leader, Ewangdanzhen, when asked about official explanations that have blamed the Dalai Lama for the protests. “I only believe in the Communist Party. Splitting is bad. We want unity and harmony. We don’t have any contacts with him and we don’t need to contact him.”

Far from giving up on their way of life, though, or renouncing their attachment to the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader whom the Chinese government has long vilified as a separatist, or “splittist,” most Tibetans interviewed while dodging heavy police checks during a 450-mile road trip through Tibetan areas in Gansu and Qinghai Provinces professed near-universal devotion to the Dalai Lama, and vowed to continue resisting government attempts to control their faith.

“All Tibetans are the same: 100 percent of us adore the Dalai Lama,” said Suonanrenqing, a 40-year-old resident of a Tibetan village in Jianzha County, in Qinghai Province. Asked about China’s decision to commandeer an ancient Tibetan religious rite and select the Panchen Lama, the second highest figure in Tibetan Buddhism, in 1995, and the implications for how Beijing would manage things after the Dalai Lama, who is 72, dies, Suonanrenqing’s response suggested indefinite tensions between Chinese and Tibetans.

“We’re not sure if it’s true that the Panchen was appointed by the government, but if it is true, we cannot support him,” he said. “We wouldn’t support a Dalai Lama appointed by the government either. These people should be chosen by monasteries.”

Although Suonanrenqing spoke candidly, worrying only at the end of a lengthy conversation if his comments could bring him trouble, many conversations with Tibetans began with nervous denials that they knew anything at all of the events of Lhasa. Their wariness was warranted by a severe security crackdown in clear evidence wherever Tibetans live in large numbers.

After dodging one police roadblock, a reporter making his way late at night toward a town in Gansu Province where Tibetans had protested in sympathy with the Lhasa demonstrators the day before was set upon by plainclothes police officers at a highway tollbooth and forced into a nearby building for questioning before being turned away.

The following day, when visiting Taersi, an important Tibetan monastery in Qinghai Province, the reporter was closely followed by plainclothes police officers who were seen videotaping his conversations with local monks.

“I have no idea what’s happening in Lhasa,” said one 32-year-old monk, who agreed to sit and chat in a small restaurant with a foreign visitor but apparently felt the topic was too dangerous to touch upon. “We don’t have anything to do with that.”

Despite the vigilant police, the nearby Lijiaxia Valley, a starkly beautiful area dominated by the Yellow River with craggy, desiccated mountains and wind-swept farmland, Tibetan villages were easy to spot by the colorful prayer flags that flew from roofs and hilltops.

Here, many initially claimed to know nothing of the events in Lhasa. But some quickly dropped this cautious pose. One poor villager, who rolled homemade cigarettes using old newspaper, was aware that Chinese news broadcasts were showing scenes of Tibetans rioting in Lhasa.

“Have there been any pictures of Tibetans getting killed?” he asked. When told no, he nodded and said, “Of course not.”
635 2008-03-20 Although the McCanns have been named as suspects by the Portuguese police, the police have neither produced evidence against them nor charged them with their daughter’s disappearance. Mr. and Mrs. McCann have always maintained their innocence, saying they believe Madeleine was abducted.

Speaking of their families, the McCanns said, “Their pain over the loss of Madeleine has been compounded by having to witness the irresponsible and libelous reporting that we have successfully challenged today.”

It is highly unusual for British newspapers to correct errors, let alone apologize for them. It is even rarer for them to publish corrections or apologies that readers are actually able to find.

“Generally speaking, they’re tucked away toward the back of the paper,” said Paul Gilbert, a media lawyer at Finers Stephens Innocent.

Noting that The Star ran a similar mea culpa on its own front page on Wednesday, Mr. Gilbert added, “As far as I can tell, you’ve never had a situation where two papers have published apologies like this on the same day.”

In English law, the burden of proof in libel cases rests on the defendants, meaning that to win their case newspapers have to prove the accuracy of their statements. Clearly unable to prove in court that Madeleine’s parents had murdered her, the newspapers seemed to have no option but to settle.

“They were staring down the battle of a defamation claim, and it’s probably a cheap out for them,” said Leigh Ellis, a media lawyer at Gilhams Solicitors.

In the offending articles, The Express pursued such angles as Mrs. McCann’s demeanor after Madeleine disappeared — was she too cool, too unemotional? — whether Mr. McCann was hiding an explosive temper under his affable exterior, what they might have done with Madeleine’s body after her supposed murder and whether Madeleine’s blood was found in a car the McCanns rented after she had vanished.

A spokesman for Express Newspapers refused to comment on whether the articles had been or would be taken down from the Web. “We have nothing to add to what has been said in court and in our titles,” he said tersely, referring to the printed apologies. Then he hung up.

But articles of the type The Express has been printing are par for the course in the world of British tabloid journalism, and The Express is hardly the only guilty paper in the McCann case. Outside court, the McCanns’ lawyers suggested that the couple would consider pursuing other papers whose reporting had crossed the line.

Mr. Gilbert, the media lawyer, seemed to suggest that he had some sympathy for the newspapers, whose reporters have to contend with cutthroat competition and management demanding scoops.

At the same time, he said, the Portuguese authorities, unschooled in how to deal with the news media, seemed to be happy to provide the British newspapers with all sorts of half-baked theories disguised as official lines of inquiry.

“There was a lot of misinformation flying around, both official and unofficial,” Mr. Gilbert said. “It’s understandable that some of this stuff was going to be published.”
636 2008-03-20 Though it may sound like a budding conglomerate, Homeboy is a nonprofit charitable corporation that last year had a budget of $5 million and goals that emphasize rehabilitation over revenue.

“The aim of the cash-producing businesses is that they bring in enough to pay for the free services,” said the Rev. Gregory Boyle, a Jesuit priest who founded Homeboy Industries in East Los Angeles two decades ago and is now its executive director. Those services include mental therapy for former gang members, housing assistance, job development counseling and tattoo removal treatments.

The tattoo removals are not a fashion statement but a safety concern. Gang tattoos are a marker of the rivalries among the 26,000 members of Los Angeles’s 250 gangs, according to the Los Angeles Police Department. Many gangs have been in existence for decades, and, police department figures show, their activities in the last five years have resulted in 12,000 assaults, 10,000 robberies, 784 homicides and 500 rapes.

Twenty years ago, when he was assigned to Dolores Mission Church, the poorest parish in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles , Father Boyle decided to try employment as a way to break the cycle of gangs, crime and imprisonment for the neighborhood’s young men. He tried to persuade businesses to hire reforming gang members through a parish organization he called Jobs for a Future. Then, in 1992, he bought an abandoned bakery with a contribution from Ray Stark, the Hollywood producer (“Funny Girl,”, “California Suite,” and “Annie” among others). Father Boyle put a half dozen former gang members — “homeboys” in street parlance — to work cleaning up the bakery and producing tortillas for sale. Tortilla sales led to making bread for a large baking company that supplied restaurants.

That ultimately led to Homeboy bakers being trained at Mi Vida-My Life, a family bakery run by Mr. Ocegueda, who tutored them in the mystical tradition of baking. “You knead the dough by hand and all of the tensions and the spirit you are feeling go into the bread,” Mr. Ocegueda said in an interview.

Homeboy Bakery was offered a grant to buy an automatic dough mixer, Mr. Ocegueda said. “But Father Greg said no, it is better to have them knead by hand because we can employ more people.”

The assignment seems anachronistic because Homeboy Bakery, with its gleaming new ovens and storage bins, is now housed in the Fran and Ray Stark Homeboy Industries headquarters, an $8.5 million center built with philanthropic contributions and opened last October.

But Homeboy’s emphasis is on putting gang members to work. “Our most important task is job training,” Father Boyle said in a telephone interview from Italy, where he is on a three-month sabbatical to write a book on Homeboy’s work in reclaiming lives. Indeed, Mr. Ocegueda’s assignment is to double the number of Homeboy bakers to 50 next year. The jobs pay $9 to $10 an hour, with health benefits after the employee is on the job three months. The aim is to introduce gang members to the discipline of work and eventually to graduate them to jobs in the commercial marketplace.

The Homeboy organization conducts thousands of job development interviews every year, with Father Boyle seeing more than 50 people a day. In his current absence, the chief operating officer, Veronica Vargas, is taking on that work. The organization is now compiling a database of all the people who have been helped or treated through the years, said Mona Hobson, director of development.

The organization is also anticipating expansion. The new Homeboy headquarters, a few blocks from Los Angeles City Hall, “gives us a chance to reach out to African-American gangs; our focus is countywide,” Father Boyle said.

The new center has spurred ideas for growth among supervisors of the businesses, some of whom were once troubled youths but not gang members. “I was a tagger,” a graffiti painter, said Rosaliano Mendez, who heads the maintenance business. “I dropped out of school, but I went back and now I’m studying for an associate degree in business.”

Mr. Mendez sees opportunity for expansion in commercial office cleaning. Eric Bennett, who heads the retail operation, said he “met Father Greg when I was in some trouble.” Mr. Bennett said he was hopeful that “we can spread the Homeboy brand in off- campus stores not only in California but across the country.”

Homeboy Industries’ board, whose members are business and professional people, would like to see expansion. “I think the bakery should be bringing in $4 million to $5 million in revenue per year,” said David Adams, the chairman of real estate investment firms in Santa Barbara and Los Angeles and the chief fund-raiser for the new Homeboy headquarters.

At the moment, the bakery is close to signing a big order for bread and pastries from a chain of coffeehouse restaurants and is seeking other big customers.

Ruben Rodriguez, who with his wife, Cristina, heads the silk screen business, also says he believes expansion is possible. A big factor for Mr. Rodriguez, one of the longest-serving Homeboy supervisors — “I met Father Greg at a bad time in my life.” — is that “Father Greg does all the marketing” for Homeboy products and services.

A question for Homeboy Industries, which is common to all small businesses, is whether the company could go on and prosper without its entrepreneurial founder. Father Boyle, 54 and healthy today, survived leukemia six years ago.

“Several years ago, I might have doubted that it could,” said Michael Hennigan, president of the Homeboy directors and founder of a Los Angeles law firm. “But today I think the organization is large enough and talent from the Jesuit order and elsewhere would come forward. The organization will go on and prosper.”
637 2008-03-20 ROME — Pope Benedict XVI appealed Wednesday for an end to the violence in Tibet and neighboring areas in China, saying that the government and Tibetan protesters must choose a “road of dialogue and tolerance.”

Speaking at his weekly public audience here, the pope said he felt “sadness and pain in front of the suffering of so many people.”

While condemning the violence, the pope’s statement appeared carefully worded so as not to cast blame on either side. Benedict has made improved relations between the Vatican and China a chief priority of his papacy, though the effort has moved forward tensely because each side claims ultimate authority over Roman Catholics in China and the right to appoint bishops.
638 2008-03-20 The inventive new-music ensemble Counter)induction called its Tuesday-night program at Merkin Concert Hall “Fast Forward: Composers at the Edge.” But although the “on the edge” part was indisputable, the players might as accurately have called their program “Rewind.”

The opening and closing works, both by Mauricio Kagel, were relics of the late 1960s avant-garde and haven’t worn terribly well. A Gyorgy Kurtag work paid tribute to Schumann, and a piece by Douglas Boyce was built around the 15th-century song “L’Homme Armé,” refracted through modern dissonance.

Anthony Coleman’s “Flat Narrative” (2008) seemed not to be rooted in any time at all. A meditation on an element of literary technique, “Flat Narrative” turns the ensemble — piano, violin, viola, cello and bass clarinet — into a small symposium. At first the bass clarinet holds forth in conversational rhythms and motifs. The other instruments provide a counterpoint of responses, comments and arguments, sometimes all at once, but often in succession, with one instrument’s lines mirroring and expanding on its predecessors.

The unfolding of the dialogue in the work’s first five minutes was promising, but Mr. Coleman eventually lost the thread, and the discussion descended into a stream of oddly clunky figures. The ensemble seemed to lose interest as well: what had been a fairly tight performance at first splintered into fuzzy, imprecise attacks and passionless playing.

Mr. Boyce’s Quintet “L’Homme Armé” (2003), with its sharp-edged harmonies and zesty rhythms, fared considerably better, as did the succession of alternately shimmering and meditative fantasies that make up Mr. Kurtag’s “Hommage à R. Sch.” (1990). In these the playing, rooted by Blair McMillen’s pianism, was focused and lively.

Mr. Kagel’s “Atem” (1970) has a theatrical impulse. Benjamin Fingland, the clarinetist, sat beneath a standing lamp at center stage, producing a nightmarish range of sounds on instruments of different sizes and configurations. A second musician sat at a table (also with a lamp) and cleaned a flute, but never played.
639 2008-03-20 Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, said: “We heard Senator McCain confuse Sunni and Shiite, Iran and Al Qaeda. Maybe that is why he voted to go to war with a country that had no Al Qaeda ties.”

That led Mark Salter, a senior McCain adviser, to counter that Mr. Obama’s proposal to end the war would lead to more violence there. “To say that invading Iraq was used as a recruiting tool for Al Qaeda is one thing,” Mr. Salter said. “To pretend that our defeat there won’t provide an even bigger one is foolish supposition.”

Here in Israel, though, Mr. McCain spent the day dwelling on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The visit to Sderot provided him with an opportunity to express again his support for Israel and to condemn Hamas, which governs Gaza.

“It’s very difficult to negotiate with an organization that is dedicated to your extinction,” he said.

Palestinian militants in Gaza say they launch rockets in response to Israeli military aggression.

Mr. McCain said the situation in Sderot, where children dressed up for Purim walked the streets on Wednesday, highlighted the urgency to pursue the peace process. At a news conference here with Israel’s defense minister, Ehud Barak, he said there had been some 900 rocket attacks in the past few months.

“Obviously this puts an enormous and hard-to-understand strain on the people here, especially the children as they celebrate their version of Halloween here,” said Mr. McCain, of Arizona, referring to Purim.

Mr. McCain praised the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, calling him “committed to the peace process.” But while he met personally with many Israeli leaders — including the prime minister, the president, the defense minister and the foreign minister — during the two-day trip, he spoke with Mr. Abbas only on the phone .

“I’ve had other meetings with him in the past,” Mr. McCain said, “and I will have other meetings with him in the future.”

At a news conference in Jerusalem, a senior Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, was asked whether the Palestinians believed that Mr. McCain would continue with the peace process and be an honest broker if he were elected president. Mr. Erekat said that he knew Mr. McCain well and that “I know that he’s committed to peace based on a two-state solution.”

Sderot was quiet during Mr. McCain’s visit. During a surge in hostilities in late February and early March, hundreds of rockets were fired at Israel, and 120 Palestinians, many of them civilians, were killed in an Israeli campaign against the rocket launching squads. Four Israeli soldiers and an Israeli civilian were killed by Palestinian fire.

Mr. Amar spoke about trying to rescue his wife, who uses a wheelchair, from the rocket attack on the house that Mr. McCain visited. He said the constant air raids were grueling.

“It can be in the morning, the afternoon, in the night,” he said as he waited for Mr. McCain and his entourage to arrive. “You hear the siren, and you are running like a mouse. You get any shelter, and after a few minutes you can go out.”

When Mr. McCain was asked if he agreed with President Bush’s approach to the peace process and how his approach might differ, he demurred, noting that he was traveling as part of a Congressional delegation and not on a campaign trip.

“If I’m president of the United States, I will articulate it, or if I come back as a candidate for president of the United States,” said Mr. McCain, who plans to hold a campaign fund-raiser Thursday in London. “But, very frankly, I’m here assessing the situation.”
640 2008-03-20 Whatever attitude comes through — and it is almost always fraught with ambiguity — religion suffuses Mr. Clarke’s realm. He demands the canvas of Genesis and upon it he enacts experiments in thought. All science fiction does this to a certain extent, trying to imagine alternative universes in which one factor or another is slightly different. What if carbon were not the fundamental element in life forms? What if a society existed that never experienced nighttime?

Mr. Clarke’s enterprise, though, is at the edges of the frame: trying to examine the moments when things come to be and when they come to an end. In the short story “Rescue Party” aliens come to save Earth from an imminent solar explosion. They find that humans, a primitive species that had known how to use radio signals for barely 200 years, had already saved themselves, launching a fleet of ships into the stars, knowing their journey would take hundreds of years.

The rescuers are shocked by humanity’s daring and determination. “This is the youngest civilization in the Universe,” one notes. “Four hundred thousand years ago it did not even exist. What will it be a million years from now?” The story foretells the dominance of this species even though it is outnumbered by the creatures of the heavens — a dominance that, as Mr. Clarke makes sure we feel, will not always be welcome.

Such apocalypse is the bread and butter of science fiction, but sometimes with Mr. Clarke it is also the communion, the sharing of a moment of transcendence in which some destiny is fulfilled, some possibility opened up. Hence the fetus of “2001.” That transformation may also not be something to be desired by current standards. The prospects are just too alien, like the ineffable Overmind in “Childhood’s End” that propels humanity to a new evolutionary stage, inspiring as much horror as awe.

This side of Mr. Clarke’s work may be the most eerie, particularly because his mystical speculations accompany an uncanny ability to envision worlds that are eminently plausible. It is Mr. Clarke who first conceived of the communication satellites that orbit directly over a single spot on Earth and allow the planet to be blanketed in a network of signals. There are many other examples as well.

But acts of reason and scientific speculation are just the beginning of his imaginings. Reason alone is insufficient. Something else is required. For anyone who read Mr. Clarke in the 1960s and ’70s, when space exploration and scientific research had an extraordinary sheen, his science fiction made that enterprise even more thrilling by taking the longest and broadest view, in which the achievements of a few decades fit into a vision of epic proportions reaching millenniums into the future. It is no wonder that two generations of scientists were affected by his work.

For all his acclaimed forecasting ability, though, it is unclear whether Mr. Clarke knew precisely what he saw in that future. There is something cold in his vision, particularly when he imagines the evolutionary transformation of humanity. He leaves behind all the things that we recognize and know, and he doesn’t provide much guidance for how to live within the world we recognize and know. In that sense his work has little to do with religion.

But overall religion is unavoidable. Mr. Clarke famously — and accurately — said that “any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.”

Perhaps any sufficiently sophisticated science fiction, at least in his case, is nearly indistinguishable from religion.
641 2008-03-20 WEISSMAN--Seymour. July 27, 1928, died March 19, 2008. Beloved husband of Beverly, father to Larry, Debbie and David, and grandfather to 3 much loved grandchildren. Services Friday March 21, 2008 at noon at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 Statio...
642 2008-03-20 BOOMING COMMODITIES Hoping for better gains and a safe hedge against inflation, investors are flocking to the surging commodities market, despite some dangerous risks and its vulnerability to fraud.      BATTLEFIELD STRATEGY James Dimon, the chair...
643 2008-03-20 WEISS--Sam, on March 19th, 2008. Music industry pioneer and legend. Beloved husband of Twinnie (Enid). Devoted father of Deborah Glass and Michael Weiss and father-inlaw of Daniel Glass and Julie Weiss. Cherished grandfather of Sean, Maxie, Liam, ...
644 2008-03-21 Also in Morning Buzz: the tough tactics used against Eliot Spitzer by federal authorities, allegations of sexual blackmail by an immigration agent, and talks over a possible purchase of Newsday....
645 2008-03-21 Despite a noble effort, the Fighting Irish land on the NCAA tournament bubble....
646 2008-03-21 Alan Romberg, Doug Paal and Richard Bush all have mentioned that the unrest in Tibet has had an impact on the Taiwan elections, seemingly narrowing the gap between Ma Ying Jeou and Frank Hsieh. As Richard Bush notes, the DPP has skillfully exploit...
647 2008-03-21 As expected, Manager Joe Girardi named Chien-Ming Wang the starter for the Yankees' season opener against the Toronto Blue Jays on March 31....
648 2008-03-21 Analysts say that Verizon got a much better deal in the government auction than AT&T. Verizon bought four times the capacity for less than twice the price that AT&T paid....
649 2008-03-21 A reader asks how likely it is that our old e-mails and text messages will come back to haunt us....
650 2008-03-21 Yes, it is the phone company. But Verizon is investing to actually have people who can read e-mails from customers and respond to their service requests....
651 2008-03-21 Ivy League fans may take comfort after Cornell's loss on Thursday by remembering Princeton's run to the Final Four with Bill Bradley....
652 2008-03-21 Aired Thursday night on NBC: Osama bin Laden has released another tape. The title of his latest message is, "The response will be what you see, not what you hear." Oh, what, is bin Laden the Riddler now? Well, in the latest statement, bin Laden th...
653 2008-03-21 Two evolutionary biologists — P. Z. Myers of the University of Minnesota, Morris, and Richard Dawkins of Oxford — tried to go to the movies at the Mall of America in Minneapolis Thursday evening. Dr. Dawkins got in. Dr. Myers did not.

On those facts, everybody agrees. After that, things break down.

The movie the two scientists wanted to see was “Expelled,” whose online trailer asserts that people in academia who see evidence of supernatural intelligence in biological processes — an idea called “intelligent design” — have unfairly lost their jobs, been denied tenure or suffered other penalties as part of a scientific conspiracy to keep God out of the nation’s laboratories and classrooms.

Dr. Myers asserts that he was unfairly barred from the film, in which both he and Dr. Dawkins appear, and that Dr. Dawkins would have been, too, if people running the screening had realized who he was — a world leader in the field of evolutionary biology.

But Walt Ruloff, a partner in Premise Media, the film’s producer, said the screening was one of a series the producers have organized for the film, which opens April 18, in hopes of building favorable word-of-mouth among people likely to be sympathetic to its message. People like Dr. Myers and Dr. Dawkins would not have been invited, he said.

Mark Mathis, a producer of the film who attended the screening, said that “of course” he had recognized Dr. Dawkins, but allowed him to attend because “he has handled himself fairly honorably, he is a guest in our country and I had to presume he had flown a long way to see the film.”
654 2008-03-21 TOKYO, (Reuters) — The acting governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, said on Friday that dealing with global market turmoil was his top priority, but warned those expecting a cut in interest rates that he has no preconceptions on where to take monetary policy.

Japan has entrusted the bank to Mr. Shirakawa, its first temporary governor in more than 80 years, as central banks work together to combat a credit crisis and calm gyrating markets.

“To appropriately deal with the turmoil in international financial markets triggered by the U.S. subprime loan problems is the most important task,” Mr. Shirakawa told reporters on his first news conference in the job.

Mr. Shirakawa, a former bank official who is returning as a deputy governor, landed in the hot seat after Parliament twice failed to agree on a successor for the previous governor before he retired on Wednesday.

The failure to find a new permanent leader for the central bank in the world’s No. 2 economy has raised new doubts about the leadership of Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda, whose popularity was already sliding because of policy deadlocks in parliament.

Investors have priced in around a 30 percent chance of a rate cut by the bank by June and Goldman Sachs said this week that a cut may come as early as Mr. Shirakawa’s first rate review in early April.
655 2008-03-21 HONOLULU (AP) — Aloha Airlines has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a little more than two years after emerging from bankruptcy.

Aloha Airgroup, the parent of Aloha Airlines, said it was unable to generate sufficient revenue because of what it called “predatory pricing” by Mesa Air Group’s discount airline, Go.

Mesa Air Group, based in Phoenix, introduced Go to the inter-island market in 2006 to compete with Aloha and Hawaiian Airlines.

“It is a travesty and a tragedy that the illegal actions of a competitor and other factors completely beyond our control have forced us to take this action,” Aloha’s president and chief executive, David A. Banmiller, said in a statement on the airline’s Web site.

Aloha said on its Web site that it would continue to operate as normal and did not expect to cancel any flights.
656 2008-03-21 In a conversation with her Chinese counterpart, Yang Jiechi, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also urged dialogue with the Dalai Lama, who lives in exile in India. Ms. Rice called the Dalai Lama “an authoritative figure who stands against violence and who also stands for the cultural autonomy of the Tibetan people but has made very clear that he does not stand for independence,” Reuters reported.

In a briefing with the international news media on Thursday, however, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman continued to blame what he called the “Dalai clique” for the recent Tibetan unrest. The spokesman, Qin Gang, repeatedly refused to provide evidence of involvement by the Dalai Lama in the protests, and rejected his recently repeated statements that he does not seek independence. “He has said that he is not a separatist,” Mr. Qin said. “But all of his propositions and actions prove that he has never stopped his splitist words and deeds.”

Tibetan rights groups said that dozens of people were killed during the police crackdown in Lhasa, and that others were killed or wounded in Sichuan, Qinghai and Gansu Provinces.

In the first announcement of details of arrests in the wake of the protests in Lhasa, Tibetan authorities said Thursday that 24 people would be charged with “endangering national security as well as beating, smashing, looting, arson and other grave crimes.”

On Saturday, the government announced a deadline for the surrender of people involved in protests and looting the Tibetan capital, saying that those who turned themselves in within the next day could receive lenient treatment.

By Wednesday, Xinhua said that 150 Tibetans had surrendered. On Thursday, a Chinese television news broadcast showed the first images of those who the government said had turned themselves in. Most appeared somber as they lined up against a wall.

Since then, Tibetan TV has repeatedly shown images of suspects said to be wanted by the police.

On Thursday, the last foreign journalists were expelled from Tibet, Reporters Without Borders said. Chinese security forces blocked foreign press access to many Tibetan areas in other provinces, making it impossible to independently confirm casualties or security conditions. In recent days, foreign journalists have reported seeing large truck convoys of Chinese troops heading for deployment in Tibetan areas.

The press freedom advocacy group said China’s official Internet Surveillance Bureau had also warned Tibetans against sharing news about the disturbances.

“We inform Internet users that it is forbidden to post news about Tibetan events,” the notice read. “From today, the Internet Surveillance Bureau will carry out filtering and censorship.”

The bulletin, obtained by Reporters Without Borders, also warned that “anyone infringing this ban will have their I.P. address sent to the police who will take the necessary steps.”
657 2008-03-21 “Google is the happy loser,” Mr. Levin said.

The auction raised $19.12 billion for the Treasury after more than seven weeks of secret bidding. That amount does not include a block for which bidding failed to meet the reserve price.

Perhaps the biggest surprise of the auction was that Dish Network, the satellite television company formerly known as Echostar Communications, bid $711 million for 168 wireless licenses. Dish declined to say what it planned to do with the frequencies, citing government rules that restrict bidders from explaining their strategy until they make their down payments on their winning bids. Those payments are due April 3.

Analysts speculated that Dish was likely to offer some sort of video service. It could be a video-on-demand service to satellite TV customers, some suggested. Others guessed that the company might provide a video service for cellphones.

It is less likely to enter the mobile telephone business because the frequencies Dish bought are less appropriate for two-way communications than the other frequencies that were sold.

Qualcomm, which operates the MediaFlo service that delivers television to wireless handsets, bought $558 million worth of spectrum in the auction.

Jason Armstrong, an analyst for Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note Thursday to clients that AT&T’s purchase of Aloha Partners licenses last fall for $2.5 billion appears to be a bargain compared with the prices in much of the auction. Wireless bandwidth is typically measured on the price of one megahertz per person in a coverage area. On that basis, AT&T paid $1.06 for the Aloha spectrum and an average of $2.67 for the spectrum it purchased in the auction.

Verizon, Mr. Armstrong wrote, was taking risks in its bidding. The C block frequencies it bought carry the open-access restrictions. Other frequencies in what is known as the A block have interference risks. And a few of the licenses it bought in the B block had “extremely high valuations.” These included one for the Chicago area that it bought for $9.19 per megahertz per person, the highest price of the auction by that measure.

Sprint and T-Mobile, the third- and fourth-largest carriers, did not bid in the auction.

Because the two largest carriers are solidifying their hold on spectrum, it is unlikely that competition will bring prices down for consumers. The new spectrum may, however, improve wireless service quality.

The new spectrum uses frequencies in the 700-megahertz band, formerly used by UHF television stations. Signals at these frequencies penetrate buildings better than current cellular service, which operates at 850 and 1900 megahertz.

Wireless customers will need to buy handsets that are compatible with the new frequencies, but otherwise they are not likely to notice changes to their service.
658 2008-03-21 Oil, gold and other major commodities fell sharply on Thursday, capping their steepest weekly drop in a half-century, as investors fled what many had believed to be the last safe haven in turbulent markets.

Oil tumbled 6.9 percent in two days of trading, and most other commodities fell by 7 percent or more in that period — including a precipitous 15 percent drop for wheat.

This week’s declines brought an abrupt end to months of big price increases that had attracted speculative cash. “It was the last thing that bankers could hang their hats on,” said Fadel Gheit, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. “Everything else had melted before their eyes.”

For the four-day week ending Thursday, an index created by the Commodity Research Bureau in Chicago fell 8.3 percent, the sharpest one-week decline since the index began in 1956. (Markets are closed for Good Friday.)

Seeking to make sense of the sharp declines, some analysts on Thursday saw a bubble bursting.

“Commodities prices got way out of hand because people felt that when you couldn’t buy stocks because of the soft dollar and the economy, the place to be was in these hard commodities,” said Michael Rose, a trader at Angus Jackson in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. “Every speculator in the world bought gold and crude oil and the grains and coffee and sugar and cocoa. Prices became insane.”

If the declines continue, they could be good news for consumers. Lower prices for commodities like oil and wheat can translate into lower inflation for many products, including gasoline and groceries. Such a development would ease the job of the Federal Reserve, which is battling lower economic growth with steps that risk adding to inflation.
659 2008-03-21 Yet, a handful of radical Tibetan exile groups have said angrily that the “middle way” has achieved nothing in nearly 30 years. They have called for an Olympic Games boycott, burned Chinese flags and refused to call off a march from here to Lhasa, Tibet’s capital, which he has called impractical in opposing a mighty state intent on using force.

So the question arises of whether the Dalai Lama, who has spent the last 49 years here in India and built one of the most powerful exile movements in the world, is out of touch with his own people. Or is this monk, regarded by his followers as a reincarnation of Avalokitesvara, the Buddha of Compassion, the ultimate political pragmatist?

There is no clear answer. Whether his doggedly conciliatory posture will ever assuage China’s government, or whether his allies will intensify pressure on China on his behalf remains a mystery.

But a hint of his influence here bleeds through the often angry, inventive protests that have gone on nearly nonstop for over a week. For all the slogans of fury — “Free Tibet” and “Death to Hu Jintao” — China’s president, the most common is a call-and-response homage: “Long live the Dalai Lama.”

Nuns chant it. Scruffy young men with painted faces shout it. Indeed, half the town seems to have gone hoarse this week calling out his name. He remains revered.

Mr. Wangdue, 26, is representative of the foot soldiers of the Tibetan exile movement. Born here to refugee parents, he has never seen Tibet, but dreams of going there one day and coaching the first Tibetan soccer team. He will go back when there is freedom, he said, and though he has never farmed, he will become a farmer on the family’s ancestral land.

He was educated in Tibetan schools here, raised on a curriculum that emphasized Tibetan suffering and Chinese atrocities, and studied politics and sociology in Delhi University, in the Indian capital. Twice he was arrested for protesting in front of the Chinese Embassy there.

This week, he was shouting “Free Tibet!” up and down the hills. During the protests, several Chinese flags were burned. “I’m a supporter of the Dalai Lama,” he confessed. “But when I saw these demonstrations, the blood was boiling in me.”

The most explicit face-off here came this week when the Dalai Lama summoned the groups organizing the march to Lhasa. He told them they would risk not only alienating their Indian hosts (the government does not like refugees agitating against China on Indian soil), but also invite fatal fire from Chinese troops on the border.

He told reporters after the meeting that while he welcomed dissent, he felt compelled to ask the groups to be “practical.” They are after all the foot soldiers of his movement, and his appeal to them was a sign of how they present both opportunity and a headache for his movement.

“I have no authority, no power to say ‘Shut up!’ ” he said. “I’m always telling them: ‘You are fighting for our rights. But today we are almost a nation dying. This moment important is survival. Practical solution is necessary.’ ”

But voices of Tibetans here in the seat of the government in exile made it plain that while they had reverence for the Dalai Lama’s leadership, they did not feel bound by his directives.

Tashi Phuntshok, 40, a resident of a dormitory for new refugees here, said he understood that the Dalai Lama’s political strategy was intended to spare more Tibetan lives. If he called for independence, Mr. Phuntshok said, there would be outright war. “His Holiness, he is kind-hearted,” Mr. Phuntshok explained.

“For us,” he said, “it should be full independence.”

Onpo Lobsang, rushing up the road on his way to pick up a banner for a demonstration, said he backed the march to Lhasa despite the Dalai Lama’s reservations. “Our goal is the same, we need both sides,” said Mr. Lobsang, 29, who came here with his parents at age 9. “He’s the supreme leader, but we don’t need to listen to everything he says. He is a Buddhist monk. We are common men.”

Tsering Dorje, 34, came out of an Internet cafe on the same road, having scoured the Web for the latest news inside Tibet. He regarded the “middle way” as still the soundest strategy, but said that China would have to respond favorably soon for Tibetans to keep faith in the concept. “It’s time for China to show whether it has the courage,” he said. “If China doesn’t change its stance, I will change my mind.”

Samdhong Rinpoche, the prime minister of the Tibetan government in exile, said he recognized the “energy and fire” of younger, more radical exiles, but dismissed their expectations.

“They have all lived in a world of dreams,” he said. “And they are driven by emotions.”

He maintained that his cause enjoyed greater prospects of success than ever before. His statement offered a window into at least the rationales of the Dalai Lama’s political circle.

Samdhong Rinpoche, 69, also a monk, gave three reasons: first, that China would find it impossible to continue to suppress by force; second, that public opinion had become divided in China; and third, that his government’s demands for greater autonomy had widespread international support, which China, as an aspiring world power, could not ignore forever.

“If you talk about the long-term Tibet issue, I am very much hopeful,” he said. “I never live in dreams. I live in reality, and in the present.”

The Dalai Lama has flatly said that to call for independence would be to lose the support of world leaders, including that of his hosts in India.

The Dalai Lama and the government here have had talks with the Chinese government since 2002, most recently last summer. On Thursday, he said he was ready to talk again, but not in Beijing, unless there was “a concrete development” in government policies toward Tibet. He did not elaborate.

China has said it will talk only if he gives up on a claim of independence. The Dalai Lama has said repeatedly that he has. “One hundred times, thousand times I have repeated this,” he told reporters Thursday. “It is my mantra — we are not seeking independence.”
660 2008-03-21 Every state allows medical exemptions, and most permit exemptions based on religious practices. But an increasing number of the vaccine skeptics belong to a different group — those who object to the inoculations because of their personal beliefs, often related to an unproven notion that vaccines are linked to and other disorders.

Twenty states, including California, and , allow some kind of personal exemption, according to a tally by the .

“I refuse to sacrifice my children for the greater good,” said Sybil Carlson, whose 6-year-old son goes to school with several of the children hit by the measles outbreak here. The boy is immunized against some diseases but not measles, Ms. Carlson said, while his 3-year-old brother has had just one shot, protecting him against .

“When I began to read about vaccines and how they work,” she said, “I saw medical studies, not given to use by the mainstream media, connecting them with neurological disorders, and immunology.”

Ms. Carlson said she understood what was at stake. “I cannot deny that my child can put someone else at risk,” she said.

In 1991, less than 1 percent of children in the states with personal-belief exemptions went without vaccines based on the exemption; by 2004, the most recent year for which data are available, the percentage had increased to 2.54 percent, said Saad B. Omer, an assistant scientist at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.

While nationwide over 90 percent of children old enough to receive vaccines get them, the number of exemptions worries many health officials and experts. They say that vaccines have saved countless lives, and that personal-belief exemptions are potentially dangerous and bad public policy because they are not based on sound science.

“If you have clusters of exemptions, you increase the risk of exposing everyone in the community,” said Dr. Omer, who has extensively studied disease outbreaks and vaccines.

It is the absence, or close to it, of some illnesses in the United States that keep some parents from opting for the shots. Worldwide, 242,000 children a year die from measles, but it used to be near one million. The deaths have dropped because of vaccination, a 68 percent decrease from 2000 to 2006.

“The very success of immunizations has turned out to be an Achilles’ heel,” said Dr. Mark Sawyer, a pediatrician and infectious disease specialist at Rady Children’s Hospital in San Diego. “Most of these parents have never seen measles, and don’t realize it could be a bad disease so they turn their concerns to unfounded risks. They do not perceive risk of the disease but perceive risk of the vaccine.”

Dr. Sawyer and the vast majority of pediatricians believe strongly that vaccinations are the cornerstone of sound public health. Many doctors view the so-called exempters as parasites, of a sort, benefiting from the otherwise inoculated majority.

Most children get immunized to measles from a combined measles, and vaccine, a live virus.

While the picture of an unvaccinated child was once that of the offspring of poor and uneducated parents, “exempters” are often well educated and financially stable, and hold a host of like-minded child-rearing beliefs.

Vaccine skeptics provide differing explanations for their belief that vaccines may cause various illnesses and disorders, including autism.

Recent news that a federal vaccine court agreed to pay the family of an autistic child in who had an underlying mitochondrial disorder has led some skeptics to speculate that vaccines may worsen such conditions. Again, researchers say there is no evidence to support this thesis.

Alexandra Stewart, director of the Epidemiology of U.S. Immunization Law project at , said many of these parents are influenced by misinformation obtained from Web sites that oppose vaccination.

“The autism debate has convinced these parents to refuse vaccines to the detriment of their own children as well as the community,” Ms. Stewart said.

While many parents meet deep resistance and even hostility from pediatricians when they choose to delay, space or reject vaccines, they are often able to find doctors who support their choice.

“I do think vaccines help with the public health and helping prevent the occasional fatality,” said Dr. Bob Sears, the son of the well-known child-care author by the same name, who practices in San Clemente. Roughly 20 percent of his patients do not vaccinate, Dr. Sears said, and another 20 percent partially vaccinate.

“I don’t think it is such a critical public health issue that we should force parents into it,” Dr. Sears said. “I don’t lecture the parents or try to change their mind; if they flat out tell me they understand the risks I feel that I should be very respectful of their decision.”

Some parents of unvaccinated children go to great lengths to expose their children to childhood diseases to help them build natural immunities.

In the wake of last month’s outbreak, Linda Palmer considered sending her son to a measles party to contract the virus. Several years ago, the boy, now 12, contracted when Ms. Palmer had him attend a gathering of children with that virus.

“It is a very common thing in the natural-health oriented world,” Ms. Palmer said of the parties.

She ultimately decided against the measles party for fear of having her son ostracized if he became ill.

In the late 1960s and 1970s, measles outbreaks in and California triggered strong enforcement of vaccine mandates by states, and exemption laws followed.

While the laws vary from state to state, most allow children to attend school if their parents agree to keep them home during any outbreak of illnesses prevented by vaccines. The easier it is to get an exemption — some states require barely any paperwork — the more people opt for them, according to Dr. Omer’s research, supported by other vaccine experts.

There are differences within states, too. There tend to be geographic clusters of “exempters” in certain counties or even neighborhoods or schools. According to a 2006 article in The Journal of The , exemption rates of 15 percent to 18 percent have been found in , Ore., and Vashon, Wash. In California, where the statewide rate is about 1.5 percent, some counties were as high as 10 percent to 19 percent of kindergartners.

In the San Diego measles outbreak, four of the cases, including the first one, came from a single charter school, and 17 children stayed home during the outbreak to avoid contracting the illness.

There is substantial evidence that communities with pools of unvaccinated clusters risk infecting a broad community that includes people who have been inoculated.

For instance, in a 2006 mumps outbreak in that infected 219 people, the majority of those sickened had been vaccinated. In a 2005 measles outbreak in , there were 34 cases, including six people who had been vaccinated.

Here in California, six outbreaks infected 24 people in 2007; only 2 of 24 were documented as having been appropriately immunized.

A surveillance program in the mid ’90s in of infants and preschoolers found that cases of Hib fell to between 8 and 10 cases a year from 550 a year after a vaccine program was begun, and roughly half of those cases were among children whose vaccine failed.
661 2008-03-21 Credit Suisse said on Thursday that it was likely to post its first quarterly loss since 2003 because of large write-downs and “intentional misconduct” at its trading desk.

The giant Swiss bank revealed in February that certain asset-backed securities had been priced incorrectly, but it was unclear whether it had been done intentionally. On Thursday, the bank said its internal review had found that a handful of traders acted deliberately, and suggested personal gain as their motive.

The employees were fired or “are in the process of being fired,” Brady W. Dougan, the chief executive, said in a conference call. He described the misconduct as a “disappointing situation and one that we cannot and will not tolerate.”

The trading irregularities at Credit Suisse, on the heels of the trading case at Société Générale in France, added to questions about how banks worldwide were managing risk during the expanding credit crisis that stemmed from failing mortgages in the United States.

“The Credit Suisse situation reflects a lack of a proper accounting system and a lack of control of the accounting system,” said Jean Dermine, a professor of banking finance at Insead, the international business school in Fontainebleau, near Paris. “It is clear that this is not unique to Credit Suisse when you see how much time it took for Citibank and Bear Stearns to really announce the magnitude of their losses, reflecting in all the cases a lack of a proper accounting systems.”

After the announcement, Credit Suisse shares tumbled more than 10 percent in Zurich. In New York trading, shares fell 37 cents, or 7 percent, to $49.48. Credit Suisse said on Thursday that it had taken steps to prevent and detect misconduct, including reassigning responsibilities and improving controls.
662 2008-03-21 The clothing retailer Children’s Place said Thursday that it was exiting its Disney Stores business in North America and would reduce spending and cut jobs. Its shares rose $2.65, to $22.25.

The children’s retailer said it was in talks for the Walt Disney Company to regain ownership of two-thirds of the Disney Store chain. Disney confirmed it was in discussions about the potential deal.

Children’s Place, which like many retailers has suffered from a tough economic environment that has made consumers more reluctant to spend, said it would cut 80 jobs of its shared-services work force and not fill 50 open positions as part of the plan to exit the Disney Stores business.

The company said capital spending would be down by more than half in 2008.

“All the actions they’ve announced today are positive,” an analyst at Sterne Agee, Margaret Whitfield, said. “Most importantly: the exit from the Disney Store — it was a drain — the cutback in capital spending, the inventory strategy, and the job cuts.”

Children’s Place also posted a net loss for the fourth quarter, in contrast to a year-ago net gain, mostly reflecting one-time charges related to its exit of the Disney Store.

The company reported a quarterly net loss of $58.5 million, or $2.01 a share, in contrast to a profit of $44.7 million, or $1.48 a share, a year earlier.

While Children’s Place posted a gain when one-time items were excluded, the results still fell short of analysts’ average estimates.
663 2008-03-21 Colorado’s law, the court said, is specific: smoking is smoking, and it does not matter what is being burned. The court cited as proof of the State Legislature’s intent a proposal that would have exempted theaters. Lawmakers considered the exemption, the court said, and rejected it.

A lawyer for the three local theaters that filed the suit over the smoking ban, A. Bruce Jones, said that an appeal to Colorado Supreme Court was likely.

Other experts on smoking bans said that Colorado’s tussle over on-stage smoke — and the oddly Neverland mixture of art, health, law and illusion that the issue had opened up for discussion — was the first major legal fight of its kind in the nation.

“To my knowledge, Colorado is the only one,” said Mike Freiberg, a lawyer with the Tobacco Law Center at the William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul, which advises public officials and advocacy groups on smoking laws.

In its ruling, the Court of Appeals said that theaters were already in the business of make-believe, and that barring smoking was essentially no different from barring the use of illegal drugs or real violence.

“Murders are not committed, actors do not fire live bullets at each other or at the audience, the theater is not set afire to illustrate the burning of Rome in ‘Julius Caesar,’ ” the court said. “The audience is aware that the scenes are not real.”

But theater people are also a creative bunch and have been fighting back in other ways than the courtroom.

One of the theaters challenging the ban, the Curious Theater Company in Denver, has referred to the law on stage for comedic effect. In a world premiere production in late 2006 of tempOdyssey by Dan Dietz, a character repeatedly put a cigarette into his mouth, then wagged a finger at the audience and grabbed for a jar of dry ice marked “simulated smoke,” and puffed the swirling carbon dioxide vapors instead.
664 2008-03-21 WASHINGTON (AP) — A prominent House Democrat is calling for tougher and broader regulations of the financial system after the fall of the investment bank Bear Stearns.

Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, wants to give either the Federal Reserve or a new regulator the power to oversee the activities of major financial players, regardless of whether they are a bank, securities firm or hedge fund.

Mr. Frank, who made the proposal Thursday in a speech to a business group in Boston, also suggested that investment banks be required to hold cushions against losses, a mandate that currently applies only to commercial banks.

The concept, if enacted, could reshuffle the existing landscape of financial regulators, whose duties are split among several federal agencies, including divisions of the Treasury Department, the Fed and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Lawmakers are to return from a two-week recess this month, and the events leading to the Bear Stearns buyout will top many an agenda. Like Mr. Frank, other members of Congress are not waiting to return to the nation’s capital to weigh in on Washington’s role in steadying the financial sector.

Some fear that the bargain-basement sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, engineered by the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department, opens the door to more government efforts to aid troubled financial players, ultimately putting taxpayers at risk. The Fed, which is providing $30 billion in backing for that deal, could wind up turning a profit, but its payments to the Treasury could be diminished if the investments it is backing do not pay off.
665 2008-03-21 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved a $700 million liquefied natural gas terminal on Thursday for Long Island Sound, but the project faces opposition on environmental grounds and the possibility of a catastrophe should the terminal become the target of a terrorist attack.

New York officials have yet to decide whether to issue permits for the project, and Connecticut officials have warned that they will fight it to the United States Supreme Court.

Broadwater Energy, a consortium of Shell Oil and TransCanada Pipelines, wants to build the terminal, which would sit 9 miles from Long Island and 10 miles from Connecticut. Plans call for construction to begin in October 2009 and for the terminal to be operating by December 2010.

The commission, which voted 5 to 0 to approve the project, says it will be the first floating terminal in the United States for storage and delivery of natural gas.

“It’s a reasonable and sensible decision,” said Gary Hale, a Broadwater spokesman. “They have input from thousands of hours of efforts from the best scientific minds in the nation, environmentalists, and from the Coast Guard.”
666 2008-03-21 MOSCOW — The United States Embassy in Minsk has temporarily stopped issuing visas to citizens of Belarus in response to pressure by the government there to reduce its personnel. Tensions between the countries have intensified in recent weeks in response to sanctions that the United States has imposed on Belarus, its top state-owned businesses and senior officials.

Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, the country’s authoritarian president, has preserved Belarus as a museum-quality relic of the Soviet Union. As retaliation for vocal criticism from the United States of the government’s shoddy human rights practices, Belarus has recently moved to squeeze the American Embassy in Minsk.

The State Department said Thursday that the situation on the ground had forced the embassy to temporarily suspend its visa services. It said officials were reviewing the government’s request to greatly reduce its staff of 30 to 40 people.

The Belarus government also pressured Karen B. Stewart, the United States ambassador, to return to Washington last week.

On Thursday, Andrei Popov, a spokesman for the Belarus Foreign Ministry, said dialogue with the United States would resume after “the removal in full of sanctions against Belarussian subjects,” the official BelaPAN news agency reported.

The United States imposed sanctions against Mr. Lukashenko and other members of his government after the police arrested dozens of protesters at opposition demonstrations following presidential elections in March 2006. Last November, the Treasury Department froze the assets of the state energy and chemical company, Belneftekhim.
667 2008-03-21 MOSCOW — In the wake of high-level talks between the United States and Russia, the Kremlin appears to be expressing somewhat less hostility toward the Bush administration’s plan for a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.

In an interview published Thursday in the newspaper Izvestia, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said the American side had presented proposals that could assuage some Russian concerns. The proposals were offered during a visit this week to Moscow by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.

The exact details of the proposals have not been disclosed by either side. President Vladimir V. Putin said at the talks that a letter from President Bush containing the proposals was “a very serious document.” Mr. Putin seemed to adopt a more conciliatory tone than he had at earlier such meetings.

Still, the two countries are not close to an agreement on the missile defense system, and the White House has made clear that it will press ahead no matter what.

In the Izvestia interview, Mr. Lavrov said the Americans had promised that the Russians could monitor the system in Eastern Europe.
668 2008-03-21 MOSCOW — In the wake of high-level talks between the United States and Russia, the Kremlin appears to be expressing somewhat less hostility toward the Bush administration’s plan for a missile-defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.

In an interview published on Thursday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said the American side had presented proposals that could assuage some of Russia’s concerns. The proposals were offered during a visit this week to Moscow by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.

The exact details of the proposals have not been disclosed by either side. President Vladimir V. Putin said at the talks that a letter from President Bush that contained the proposals was “a very serious document,” and Mr. Putin seemed to adopt a more conciliatory tone than he has at earlier such meetings.

Still, the two countries are not close to reaching an agreement on the missile system, and the White House has made clear that it will press ahead no matter what.

In the interview, published in Izvestia, a Russian newspaper, Mr. Lavrov said the Americans had promised that the Russians would be able to monitor the facilities in Eastern Europe.
669 2008-03-21 The scientists said their analysis of hand and arm bones showed the species “most probably also climbed trees, presumably to forage, build nests and seek refuge.”

A more surprising result to emerge from the study appeared to contradict an earlier hypothesis about Orrorin’s relationship to later species in the human lineage, Dr. Richmond and Dr. Jungers said.

The fossils were first thought to be related more closely to the genus Homo than to Australopithecus, an intermediate genus that first emerged nearly four million years ago and included species living as recently as two million years ago. This seemed to make Orrorin a more direct human ancestor, possibly relegating “Lucy” and other australopithecines to a side branch of the family tree.

Dr. Richmond and Dr. Jungers found instead a close similarity between the Orrorin thigh bone and hip mechanics and those of Australopithecus. This suggests, they said, that the basic pattern of two-legged walking appeared very early in human evolution and persisted with only minor variations over a period of four million years.

“I expected much greater differences between the two, given that Orrorin is twice as old,” Dr. Richmond said.

An accompanying article in the journal quoted Dr. Pickford and Dr. Senut as being pleased to have confirmation that their fossil species was bipedal, but did not back off from their insistence that other aspects of the skeleton showed its closer resemblance to much later Homo.

Other scientists agreed that the findings seemed to confirm Orrorin was indeed an early ancestor of humans and not more closely linked to apes, as had been argued by critics.

In light of the new research, Dr. Richmond said, Orrorin not only was a “basal member” of the human family but also had walking mechanics that went largely unchanged until the rise of Homo, especially in Homo erectus less than two million years ago.

More recent fossil discoveries, in Chad, have apparently revealed a protohuman species even more primitive than Orrorin. The species, Sahelanthropus tchadensis, is estimated to have lived close to seven million years ago, which is thought to be when the human and chimpanzee lineages diverged from a common ancestor. But the fossils from Chad, mainly a single skull, are too fragmentary for scientists to establish whether this species also walked on two legs.
670 2008-03-21 No one knows how widespread sexual blackmail is, but the case echoes other instances of sexual coercion that have surfaced in recent years, including agents criminally charged in Atlanta, Miami and Santa Ana, Calif. And it raises broader questions about the system’s vulnerability to corruption at a time when millions of noncitizens live in a kind of legal no-man’s land, increasingly fearful of seeking the law’s protection.

The agent arrested last week, Isaac R. Baichu, 46, himself an immigrant from Guyana, handled some 8,000 green card applications during his three years as an adjudicator in the Garden City, N.Y., office of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of the federal Department of Homeland Security. He pleaded not guilty to felony and misdemeanor charges of coercing the young woman to perform oral sex, and of promising to help her secure immigration papers in exchange for further sexual favors. If convicted, he will face up to seven years in prison.

His agency has suspended him with pay, and the inspector general of Homeland Security is reviewing his other cases, a spokesman said Wednesday. Prosecutors, who say they recorded a meeting between Mr. Baichu and the woman on March 11 at which he made similar demands for sex, urge any other victims to come forward.

Money, not sex, is the more common currency of corruption in immigration, but according to Congressional testimony in 2006 by Michael Maxwell, former director of the agency’s internal investigations, more than 3,000 backlogged complaints of employee misconduct had gone uninvestigated for lack of staff, including 528 involving criminal allegations.

The agency says it has tripled its investigative staff since then, and counts only 165 serious complaints pending. But it stopped posting an e-mail address and phone number for such complaints last year, said Jan Lane, chief of security and integrity, because it lacks the staff to cull the thousands of mostly irrelevant messages that resulted. Immigrants, she advised, should report wrongdoing to any law enforcement agency they trust.

The young woman in Queens, whose name is being withheld because the authorities consider her the victim of a sex crime, did not even tell her husband what had happened. Two weeks after the meeting in the car, finding no way to make a confidential complaint to the immigration agency and afraid to go to the police, she and two older female relatives took the recording to The Times.

A slim, shy woman who looks like a teenager, she said she had spent recent months baby-sitting for relatives in Queens, crying over the deaths of her two brothers back in Cali, Colombia, and longing for the right stamp in her passport — one that would let her return to the United States if she visited her family.

She came to the United States on a tourist visa in 2004 and overstayed. When she married an American citizen a year ago, the law allowed her to apply to “adjust” her illegal status. But unless her green card application was approved, she could not visit her parents or her brothers’ graves and then legally re-enter the United States. And if her application was denied, she would face deportation.

She had another reason to be fearful, and not only for herself. About 15 months ago, she said, an acquaintance hired her and two female relatives in New York to carry $12,000 in cash to the bank. The three women, all living in the country illegally, were arrested on the street by customs officers apparently acting on a tip in a money-laundering investigation. After determining that the women had no useful information, the officers released them.

But the closed investigation file had showed up in the computer when she applied for a green card, Mr. Baichu told her in December; until he obtained the file and dealt with it, her application would not be approved. If she defied him, she feared, he could summon immigration enforcement agents to take her relatives to detention.

So instead of calling the police, she turned on the video recorder in her cellphone, put the phone in her purse and walked to meet the agent. Two family members said they watched anxiously from their parked car as she disappeared behind the tinted windows of his red Lexus.

“We were worried that the guy would take off, take her away and do something to her,” the woman’s widowed sister-in-law said in Spanish.

As the recorder captured the agent’s words and a lilting Guyanese accent, he laid out his terms in an easy, almost paternal style. He would not ask too much, he said: sex “once or twice,” visits to his home in the Bronx, perhaps a link to other Colombians who needed his help with their immigration problems.

In shaky English, the woman expressed reluctance, and questioned how she could be sure he would keep his word.

“If I do it, it’s like very hard for me, because I have my husband, and I really fall in love with him,” she said.

The agent insisted that she had to trust him. “I wouldn’t ask you to do something for me if I can’t do something for you, right?” he said, and reasoned, “Nobody going to help you for nothing,” noting that she had no money.

He described himself as the single father of a 10-year-old daughter, telling her, “I need love, too,” and predicting, “You will get to like me because I’m a nice guy.”

Repeatedly, she responded “O.K.,” without conviction. At one point he thanked her for showing up, saying, “I know you feel very scared.”

Finally, she tried to leave. “Let me go because I tell my husband I come home,” she said.

His reply, the recording shows, was a blunt demand for oral sex.

“Right now? No!” she protested. “No, no, right now I can’t.”

He insisted, cajoled, even empathized. “I came from a different country, too,” he said. “I got my green card just like you.”

Then, she said, he grabbed her. During the speechless minute that follows on the recording, she said she yielded to his demand out of fear that he would use his authority against her.

The charges against Mr. Baichu, who became a United States citizen in 1991 and earns roughly $50,000 a year, appear to be part of a larger pattern, according to government records and interviews.

Mr. Maxwell, the immigration agency’s former chief investigator, told Congress in 2006 that internal corruption was “rampant,” and that employees faced constant temptations to commit crime.

“It is only a small step from granting a discretionary waiver of an eligibility rule to asking for a favor or taking a bribe in exchange for granting that waiver,” he contended. “Once an employee learns he can get away with low-level corruption and still advance up the ranks, he or she becomes more brazen.”

Mr. Maxwell’s own deputy, Lloyd W. Miner, 49, of Hyattsville, Md., turned out to be an example. He was sentenced March 7 to a year in prison for inducing a 21-year-old Mongolian woman to stay in the country illegally, and harboring her in his house.

Other cases include that of a 60-year-old immigration adjudicator in Santa Ana, Calif., who was charged with demanding sexual favors from a 29-year-old Vietnamese woman in exchange for approving her citizenship application. The agent, Eddie Romualdo Miranda, was acquitted of a felony sexual battery charge last August, but pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery and was sentenced to probation.

In Atlanta, another adjudicator, Kelvin R. Owens, was convicted in 2005 of sexually assaulting a 45-year-old woman during her citizenship interview in the federal building, and sentenced to weekends in jail for six months. And a Miami agent of Immigration and Customs Enforcement responsible for transporting a Haitian woman to detention is awaiting trial on charges that he took her to his home and raped her.

“Despite our best efforts there are always people ready to use their position for personal gain or personal pleasure,” said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services. “Our responsibility is to ferret them out.”

When the Queens woman came to The Times with her recording on Jan. 3, she was afraid of retaliation from the agent, and uncertain about making a criminal complaint, though she had an appointment the next day at the Queens district attorney’s office.

She followed through, however, and Carmencita Gutierrez, an assistant district attorney, began monitoring phone calls between the agent and the young woman, a spokesman said. When Mr. Baichu arranged to meet the woman on March 11 at the Flagship Restaurant on Queens Boulevard, investigators were ready.

In the conversation recorded there, according to the criminal complaint, Mr. Baichu told her he expected her to do “just like the last time,” and offered to take her to a garage or the bathroom of a friend’s real estate business so she would be “more comfortable doing it” there.

Mr. Baichu was arrested as he emerged from the diner and headed to his car, wearing much gold and diamond jewelry, prosecutors said. Later released on $15,000 bail, Mr. Baichu referred calls for comment to his lawyer, Sally Attia, who said he did not have authority to grant or deny green card petitions without his supervisor’s approval.

The young woman’s ordeal is not over. Her husband overheard her speaking about it to a cousin about a month ago, and she had to tell him the whole story, she said.

“He was so mad at me, he left my house,” she said, near tears. “I don’t know if he’s going to come back.”

The green card has not come through. “I’m still hoping,” she said.
671 2008-03-21 “I have served my time; I’ve done two tours in Iraq,” said Capt. Kirkner Bailey, 26, of the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Mosul.

“For the past three years of my life I have either been in Iraq or training to go to Iraq,” he added. “I just know that there is more to life than this war, and my girlfriend, Shannon, and I are interested in finding out what that is.”

“I can’t speak to trends,” he said. “But 8 of my 10 friends who are captains are leaving the Army.”

It is hard to overstate the importance of these Army and Marine officers to the American war effort. Capt. Brian Gilbert, 30, who controls a million-dollar monthly Army budget for his sector of 200,000 residents here in Jisr Diala, a city east of Baghdad, has pulled together a group of tribal leaders as well as a local Iraqi security force, not to mention kept a close eye on the elected city council.

On a recent afternoon, he ordered traffic control barriers installed to prevent car bombs, checked on refurbished water pumps for farmers and approved money to connect the pumping station to the Baghdad electricity grid. Then there were soccer uniforms to be dropped off for a community team, heated disputes to resolve, an influential sheik to visit.

“It is purely my fight in my area of operation,” Captain Gilbert said. “I decide the targets, I decide the development projects and I choose to partner with the Sons of Iraq,” a reference to the local security group that he helped to set up.

Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, said: “It is the captains who turn the ‘big ideas’ and broad guidance issued at high levels into specific actions geared to local circumstances. Captains plan and execute the operations that often prove the most important, at ground level, where gains are truly achieved in this type of endeavor.”

As the war has worn on, many captains say, the nature of that work has changed. General Petraeus’s counterinsurgency doctrine is centered on relatively small groups of soldiers establishing outposts in communities and living among the Iraqis. The result is a war that has largely been transformed into a fight on the ground by the captains.

When Captain Gilbert began his third tour in Iraq in February 2007, he inherited a sector of Jisr Diala that had been patrolled only part time. “There was at least one kidnapping a day,” he said. The streets in some areas were lined with roadside bombs, one of which destroyed a Humvee, killing three of Captain Gilbert’s soldiers.

“I’ve lost more of my friends in Iraq than I can count on two hands,” he said.

His company pushed on, conducting foot patrols, talking to residents and gaining trust. And with the creation of a local security force, violence has been reduced significantly; in their first month of operation, the Sons of Iraq found four large arms caches, one containing more than 100 I.E.D.’s, or roadside bombs. They began to fight side by side with the Americans against insurgents, and last year one of their members was killed when he tackled a suicide bomber approaching a group of Captain Gilbert’s soldiers.

“My previous tours were frustrating,” Captain Gilbert said. “The first tour there was jubilation at the fall of Saddam. Then it was like, ‘Now what do we do?’ We were just doing security.

“On the second tour, we were fighting 24 hours a day in Samarra. If we saw Iraqis they were often shooting at us or reconning us. We got hit with an I.E.D. on every patrol we went on. I felt successful because I killed the enemy, but I was frustrated every day. I couldn’t rebuild the area. When we’d do a project, the next day they would blow it up. We couldn’t win hearts and minds because we were under constant threat.”

Now, he said, the Iraqis he works with are more than receptive. “If I do a project in one village, they go and brag about it, and then the next village wants the same thing.”

Still, for all the seemingly endless projects and negotiations, Captain Gilbert said: “The real question is, how does the population feel about you. Are you an occupier or a friend?”

For the captains, there is also the irrepressible strain of repeated deployments. Captain Gilbert was in Iraq when his daughter, now 2 ½, was born. He has spent more than half her life here and has misgivings about being away from his family.

“When I got home from my last deployment, the phone was ringing all the time with job offers from headhunters,” Captain Gilbert said. “They’re not pushy, but they tell you what they were able to do for other captains.”

Despite the pressures, Captain Gilbert sees himself returning to Iraq, saying “We’re getting where we want to be.”

But only a day after he was pinned with his captain’s bars in early March, Captain Bailey in Mosul knew he would leave the Army as soon as his deployment was over.

“We’re leaders proven under fire,” said Captain Bailey. “Put me in the most stressful corporate board meeting and I’ll laugh.”

In 2007, the Army authorized retention bonuses for captains of up to $35,000. But corporate recruiters have matched that, captains say. And most captains make a base pay of $4,000 to $5,000 a month in the military, a figure they can easily exceed in corporate America.

Even so, money is not the deciding factor in leaving the military, most captains say.

“Many of the brightest and most experienced captains of my generation are being driven out of the Army by the prospect of a career filled with deployments every other year,” said Capt. Patrick Ryan, who added that he was certain to leave the Army when his five-year commitment was done. “I think the Army stands to lose a generation of battle-tested junior leaders.”

Even “in the one-year time window between deployments, much of your time home is not really yours,” Captain Ryan added.

It is a sentiment echoed by many captains. “The pressures during the year at home are tremendous,” said Capt. David Sandoval, 35, commander of Company A, First Battalion, Eighth Infantry of the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment.

There is constant training, new gear and technology to be mastered, new soldiers to fit into the units. And there is round-the-clock responsibility for the men under their command. Disintegrating marriages, financial problems, sick children and post-traumatic stress fall on their shoulders.

“We got back from our last tour and immediately there were rumors we were redeploying,” said a captain who requested anonymity for fear of displeasing his superiors. “Some of these guys are 18, 19 years old. They’d just been through a year of combat. They went crazy. They started fighting, drinking, crashing cars.”

Captain Sandoval’s company also had troubles upon returning home. “They’re not all all right when they come home,” he said. “There are domestic-violence problems. I’m part marriage counselor, part drug and alcohol counselor, part suicide-prevention counselor. It’s an emotional roller coaster.”

Here in Iraq, however, Captain Sandoval cannot even sleep when his men are out on patrol, and almost every night they are. His men say he goes for days without sleep. He denied this. “I sleep at least three hours a day,” he said, his eyes rimmed with red.

And he worries about the burden on his own family, on his wife, who is in charge of helping all the other families of Company A soldiers back home, and on his 13-year-old son and 9-year-old daughter. He kept his most recent deployment from them until the last minute, he said.

“My daughter struggles the most,” he said. “Every month it is a little tougher for them.”

Yet Captain Sandoval loves the Army and plans to stay in: “I joined at 19. I thought I’d do two years, be out at 21 and have money for college. Sixteen years later, I’m still here.”
672 2008-03-21 In February, the month before he became the presumptive Republican nominee, John McCain raised $11 million, which was slightly less than he had raised in January and reflects the thinness of his financial backing, even as he headed toward a certain nomination.

Mr. McCain, whose ability to raise money has risen and fallen with his political fortunes, has embarked on a nearly daily schedule of fund-raising since March 4. But, in February, as he racked up one primary win after another, his attention focused more on gaining delegates than dollars. The $11 million he raised that month was less than the $11.7 million raised in January. At the same time, his campaign maintained the same amount of bank debt as before, slightly under $5 million.

Mr. McCain’s financial fortunes may change in the months ahead, however. He has said that he plans to focus on fund-raising and has scheduled 20 to 30 events a month.

At the end of February, according to Federal Election Commission reports filed Thursday, Mr. McCain had $8 million in cash on hand. He began February with $5.2 million, and then raised $11 million, while spending $8.7 million.

In the same month, the Democratic candidates, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, raised a total of $80 million, according to those campaigns; their election commission filings were not yet public on Thursday night.

The McCain campaign has long run a shoestring operation, especially after high expenses last summer nearly doomed his effort. Since then, as his fund-raising prospects brightened, he has said that he wants to decline the public money, a move that may be challenged by the Federal Election Commission itself.
673 2008-03-21 WEISS--Sam. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Sam Weiss. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Friday, March 21, at 11:15am, at Rivers...
674 2008-03-21 WEISSMAN--Seymour. July 27, 1928, died March 19, 2008. Beloved husband of Beverly, father to Larry, Debbie and David, and grandfather to 3 much loved grandchildren. Services Friday March 21, 2008 at noon at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 Statio...
675 2008-03-21 DARK SCENARIOS As the economy continues to show signs of a slowdown, many financial experts say a recession could dig deeper and last longer, even into next year.      HEADLINE NEWS Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, and two oth...
676 2008-03-22 Pretty good story on the coming fight over financial regulation. But it lets the Bushies off way too lightly, by suggesting that lack of coordination between agencies led to the awesome failure of regulators to take action against the bubble: Exce...
677 2008-03-22 A look at the way the foreign press viewed the Republican candidate this week....
678 2008-03-22 Adam Segal and Shelley Rigger are correct that events in Tibet, and Ma Ying-jeou's statements about them, create a cloud over the future. But Ma's talk of an Olympic boycott was well hedged, and his margin of victory suggests that the public wasn'...
679 2008-03-22 Israel says it will begin outfitting the country’s airliners with missile defense systems within weeks. Military officials say the system fires flares that distract heat-seeking missiles and will be installed first on planes that fly to destinations considered dangerous, mainly in Africa and Asia. The need was recognized six years ago, when Islamic militants using shoulder-fired rockets fired at but missed an Israeli passenger jet after it took off from an airport in Kenya.
680 2008-03-22 Wang, who is refining his slider and his changeup, also used his trusty sinker to record 10 of the first 16 outs on ground balls. His pitches were up in the strike zone in the sixth, the inning in which he gave up four runs and three hits. He left after five and two-thirds innings, having allowed four runs and six hits.

“The kids were swinging at everything,” Wang said.

While Wang’s statistics (2-1, 8.44 earned run average, not including the minor league start) have been abysmal, Girardi said he was confident Wang would be sharp and would have a more varied repertory this season.

As solid as Wang has been over the last two years, he is not rated as highly as aces like Josh Beckett of the Boston Red Sox or C. C. Sabathia of the Cleveland Indians. Wang was also 0-2 with a 19.06 E.R.A. in the 2007 playoffs, the ugly ending to a stellar season. He said it took him a month to get over those two games.

“I’m glad it took him a month,” Girardi said. “That tells me that he really cares and that he wants to get better.”

Also Friday, the Yankees added infielder Morgan Ensberg to their 40-man roster. Ensberg said he would not wear No. 21, which has not been worn by a Yankee since Paul O’Neill retired after the 2001 season. To open a roster spot, Pavano was placed on the 60-day disabled list. ... Darrell Rasner pitched four scoreless innings in his first start this spring as the Yankees beat the Rays, 2-1.

MARTíNEZ FEELS STRONG Like many of his teammates, Pedro Martínez cannot wait for spring training to end, having had it with the monotony, the early mornings. For him, though, the dawning of the regular season will signal a meaningful accomplishment: that he will, after a one-year hiatus, break camp with the Mets and be ready to pitch in the opening week.

“I can’t wait to get it over with, just to go, to tell that I already made it over the hump,” Martínez said after pitching five strong innings in the Mets’ 8-2 victory against the Washington Nationals. “If anything is going to happen, it’s going to happen during the regular season.”

The Mets wanted Martínez, 17 months removed from rotator cuff surgery, to throw about 75 pitches. He threw 71, up from 58 in his debut Sunday, with customary efficiency (51 strikes).

He allowed two runs and five hits, including a bases-empty home run by Austin Kearns. He struck out four and did not walk a batter.

The dry and windy conditions hindered Martínez’s ability to grip the ball, making it difficult to throw his breaking pitches with any consistency. But he was pleased with the command of his fastball, which touched 90 miles an hour once and hovered mostly in the 86- to 88-m.p.h. range.

“I think once you see the other team and everything counts and everything’s meaningful, you start to click it up a little bit,” Martínez said. BEN SHPIGEL NEW BONDS INDICTMENT SOUGHT The federal government has informed the United States District Court in San Francisco that it will go before another grand jury to seek a new indictment in the case against Barry Bonds.

The new grand jury will not investigate the allegations against Bonds but will be asked to approve a rewriting of the charges against him. Bonds is not likely to be called before this grand jury.

Bonds’s lawyers had challenged the original indictment as ambiguous and faulty. On Feb. 29, United States District Judge Susan Illston agreed and advised the government to seek a new one. CAROL POGASH
681 2008-03-22 Peter Keane, a constitutional law professor at Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco and a former police commissioner there, said, however, that it would be difficult to stop the Web site if it used only information available in the public domain.

“There would not be any legislation that would pass muster that attempted to shut this site down,” he said. “It’s a matter of free speech under the First Amendment and press freedom as well because they’re publishing opinions.”

Legislation may not be necessary. RateMyCop was recently shut down for a day by its former Web host, GoDaddy.com, because too many users were trying to access the site at once, said Chirstine Jones, general counsel for GoDaddy. But Mr. Sesto said the traffic numbers for that day did not exceed the site’s bandwidth.

On March 12, RateMyCop flickered on and off under a new domain host, Rackspace.com, but it was soon spurned by that company, too.

In an e-mail message to Mr. Sesto, Rackspace’s senior corporate counsel, Beth Sherfy, said the company would not be the site’s host because it “could create a risk to the health and safety of law enforcement officers.” RateMyCop then found a third domain host, which Mr. Sesto would not identify, and is back online.

Six months ago, Mr. Sesto and the site’s other founder, Rebecca Costell, began sending letters to thousands of police and sheriff’s departments around the country requesting the names and badge numbers of officers. Based on the responses and information on department Web sites, they created a database of officers from more than 500 departments in every state except Maine, Rhode Island and Alabama. The site focuses on departments in major cities, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Dallas, Atlanta and Miami.

Sgt. James Russo of the New York Police Department’s freedom of information law unit said the department would decide by the end of the month whether to send the Web site the requested information on its officers. Washington, D.C., and Chicago have turned down RateMyCop’s request.

Users can search for officers by name, department or state and give them up to five stars based on professionalism, fairness and overall satisfaction during an encounter.

Users must register with the site by leaving their names and e-mail addresses before rating or commenting on officers and are urged to flag inappropriate postings. Some comments have been removed after users complained that they were worrisome or offensive, according to Mr. Sesto. “We want a safe environment,” he said.

Mr. Sesto said he had decided to create the site after trading stories about traffic tickets with a friend last year. “There are sites like rate my doctor, rate my lawyer, rate my teacher, so why not have rate my cop?” he said. “We are taxpayers. We pay for the service that’s provided, so why can’t we give feedback on that service?”

The average rating since Feb. 28, the site’s first day online, has been 3.7 stars.

Many users gave high marks and thanked officers for being helpful or professional. Among raters who were not as impressed was “imdlaw1” who gave two stars to a San Diego sheriff’s deputy and described him as “a little red-head napoleon.” “Tate” described his encounter with a Dallas police officer with one word: “Lies.”

Mr. Sesto acknowledged that a user might register under a false name and e-mail address, though he pointed out that e-mail addresses can be traced. But that lack of transparency is a big problem, said a San Diego Police Department spokeswoman, Monica Munoz. “There are many sites out there where people can put information up,” she said, “and there’s no method of verifying if that information is accurate or if the person even did have contact with, in this case, an individual officer.”

Mr. Keane, the law professor, said RateMyCop should not be judged by the same criteria as Web sites like RateMyProfessors.com or RottenNeighbor.com, a forum for disgruntled neighbors, because of the special relationship between officers and their communities. “This site could discourage contacts between police officers and members of the public,” he said. “You want police to have encounters to investigate and solve crimes.”

Another danger, according to Mr. Keane, is that serious complaints will be lost among the chatter of trivial ones, rather than coming to the attention of officers’ superiors through official channels. “A legitimate complaint,” he said, “is going to get lost in the shuffle.”
682 2008-03-22 High-tech products accounted for 70 percent of the island’s 2007 exports. Taiwan is the world’s largest supplier of notebook PCs, and liquid-crystal-display panels for flat-screen televisions, according to the government.

Two of the world’s biggest contract microchip makers are based in Taiwan — Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and the United Microelectronics Corporation — and their foundries, the world’s two biggest, are based in the science park, one of three on the island.

The Hsinchu Science Park was opened in December 1980, Southern Taiwan Science Park in 1996 and the Central Taiwan Science Park in 2003. The Hsinchu Science Park is home to 440 companies and is where most of Taiwan’s top high-tech manufacturers are based.

But profit margins for many of the companies in the park have been narrowing. Some have moved production to China, while others are considering relocation to Vietnam for lower costs on labor and production.

“Back in 1999 and 2000, these companies enjoyed quite healthy profit margins,” said Ming-Kai Cheng, regional head of technology research for CLSA, a leading Asia research, brokerage and investment group. “Now the number of companies in profit stage has dropped.”

Revenue growth at Taiwan semiconductor companies, for example, has fallen to single digits from double digits. A main reason is what Mr. Cheng calls the “me, too” mentality, or too many Taiwan companies doing the same thing.

“A lot of companies think if you’re going to make something profitable, I’m going to make the same thing slightly less profitable,” Mr. Cheng said.

About 50 percent of the companies in the Hsinchu Science Park carry out semiconductor manufacturing, design or related work, with revenue from the sector comprising 71 percent of the park’s total revenue.

Taiwan companies are also largely focused on making products for global brands like Dell, Apple and Intel, instead of coming up with their own brands, and they focus on hardware manufacturing, where only a small percentage of the price the consumer pays for a product is earned.

As little as 5 percent of the consumer price for a product like a laptop can be earned by the Taiwan companies that assemble them, while a higher percentage — about 20 percent — is earned by contract manufacturers, also known as original equipment manufacturers, or O.E.M.’s — which make chips or other parts for the brand holders, according to industry estimates.

With their own brands, the companies could earn as much as 30 percent of the consumer value of a product, analysts estimate.

Transformations are nothing new for an island that has evolved from an agriculture- and textile-dominated society after World War II to a factory for light industrial and labor intensive products like sneakers in the 1960s and 1970s to an electronics production base in the 1990s and now to a high-tech center.

Huang Der-Ray, director general of the Hsinchu Science Park Administration, said companies in the park had increased spending on research and development from 4 percent of total revenue in previous years to 7 percent in the last three years.

Companies have also begun to focus on innovation and building their own brands. Mediatek, a chip design company that initially focused on optical storage drivers’ chips, has ventured into other areas, including designing chips for wireless communications and high-definition digital televisions. The company is one of the most profitable in the science park and is considered a pioneer in its designs.

Several companies have focused on research into new technologies, including solar energy, Mr. Huang said. One, Gintech Energy, has been successful in designing solar panels, which it sells to power companies around the world.

More companies are also moving toward design instead of just manufacturing. A decade ago, only about 20 or 30 companies in the Hsinchu Science Park were chip design companies, with most being contract manufacturers. Now, there are 80 companies whose focus is design, Mr. Huang said.

Analysts said a challenge that Taiwan companies faced in developing a global brand was overcoming the label-consciousness of consumers, who prefer internationally recognized brands rather than domestically designed products. Other than Acer and ASUS, which are Taiwan laptop brands, few of the island’s high-tech products are known around the world, unlike the situation in South Korea.

Workers like Mr. Liang, while worried, say they think that Taiwan can again find a way to engineer am economic miracle.

“I’m optimistic,” he said, while adding that “to compete, Taiwan has to invest a lot of money.

“Some of it has to come from the government. That’s the only way to compete with the big companies overseas.”
683 2008-03-22 Still, women control only 3 percent of the roughly $1.9 trillion invested in hedge funds, according to data compiled by Susan Solovay, whose Pomegranate Capital invests in funds run only by women.

Women are newer to the university endowment world — three of the five female investment officers were appointed within the last three years. Evaluating their performance is therefore difficult because they inherit investment strategies that require time to change.

But they all outperformed the median annual return of 17.5 percent for university endowments, as measured by the National Association of College and University Business Officers. However, they underperformed the 21.3 percent return for endowments over $1 billion for the fiscal year that ended June 30.

Foundation results are harder to compare because their fiscal years vary. However, at least two foundations run by women outperformed the 21.3 percent benchmark for universities in that same time period.

Why are they gravitating to the field?

A number of female chief investment officers said that they were drawn to the opportunity to be measured purely on performance, as well as a sense of mission and greater flexibility in their personal lives.

“Your reward is not just making rich people richer,” said Alice Handy, who ran the University of Virginia endowment for 29 years before starting an investment company to handle smaller endowments. She recalled that in 2000, her funds generated strong enough returns that the school could provide financial aid to first-year students without requiring them to take out loans. “It was a really happy event.”

Flexible schedules also appeal to many women who are raising children. Their role at endowments is to select investment managers, giving them a measure of control over their travel schedules.

“People who are selling services are at the beck and call of their clients,” said Rosalie Wolf, who ran the Rockefeller Foundation for six years and now heads Botanica, an investment advisory firm. “They have to be on the road convincing people to buy and tolerating frequent rejection. It is a more hectic life.”

Others say more women are in such jobs simply because there are a greater number of candidates. “More women are going to business school and more women are getting C.F.A.’s,” said Hank Higdon, who runs an executive search firm.

And there are more positions for money managers at nonprofit groups, family offices and funds that invest in hedge funds. “There is a bull market for chief investment officers because of the amounts of money around,” said Rebecca W. Rimel, president of the Pew Charitable Trusts. “People are creating new foundations and new charitable vehicles on an almost daily basis.”

Not everyone sees real progress, however. “The good news is that there are more women, we are managing large pools of capital, and we are more visible, but the bad news is that there are still not that many of us,” said Kathryn Crecelius, who became Johns Hopkins’ first chief investment officer in 2005.

Susan E. Manske, vice president and chief investment officer of the $6.5 billion MacArthur Foundation, had overseen Boeing’s $46 billion pension fund when a headhunter called her about MacArthur. “I love investing,” she said. “This married my interest with working in a culture of philanthropy.”

Ms. Manske said that foundations and endowments generally have stronger returns because they invest in a wider variety of asset classes. Indeed, many institutional investors consider foundations and endowments to be the most successful long-term investors, noted Deirdre Nectow, director for business development at Cambridge Associates, a consultant to nonprofit groups.

So far only a handful of women have used their track records in the nonprofit field to raise money and start ventures of their own, but those numbers may grow.

Five years ago, Ms. Handy began Investure, a firm that now invests $6.5 billion from small endowments. Last year, Stephanie Lynch of the Duke Endowment joined with two partners to start a similar business. And Anne Casscells, who had been chief investment officer at the Stanford Management Company, left in 2001 to become managing director of Aetos Capital, a money management firm.

Even within the nonprofit world, there are more investment manager positions because more institutions, like Carnegie, are setting up in-house management teams.

Managing that money was once typically the job of investment committees. But as the sums and investment choices have grown, committees have begun handing off that responsibility.

For all its perceived advantages, the nonprofit world comes with an important trade-off: the pay is lower than for similar work on Wall Street. In 2006, according to foundation records, Ms. Shuman earned $711,582 and Ms. Strumpf earned $986,406.

“The endowments generally pay more than the foundations because more of the investment committee members are men, and there are a lot of alumni who understand the business world,” said Ms. Wolf of Botanica, the investment advisory firm. “But they don’t make as much as if they were running an investment portfolio at Goldman Sachs or Merrill Lynch. The range is enormous. Wall Street could pay three to five times as much. There is no reason to expect that gap to close dramatically. They want to keep their costs down, and they are not used to business levels of compensation.”

Ms. Shuman, who was previously director of investments for the real estate portion of the Yale Endowment, is particularly drawn to the foundation world because she finds it very collegial — even compared with university endowments. “Schools are just fundamentally more competitive,” she said. “Let’s face it, the schools are competing for faculty and students. In the foundation world, we don’t have to bash each other to do that.”

Ms. Shuman likes the public service component of her work. “I have an aptitude for math, but I thought I might do something in the public sector,” she said. “I was interested in higher education, and my first job was doing the budget for Yale, so I ended up across the hall from the Yale Endowment offices. I could have gone to Wall Street, but it just wasn’t me.”

Kristin A. Gilbertson, who worked at the World Bank and the Stanford Endowment before joining the University of Pennsylvania, said she turned down jobs in the for-profit sector. “I get calls all the time for higher-paying jobs,” she said. “I love what I do.” She dismisses the idea that her workdays are shorter than those of her counterparts on Wall Street. “I work harder than most hedge fund managers who manage money for us,” she said.

Ms. Shuman’s job is to determine the asset allocation for the $3 billion endowment, and then get approval from the investment committee. “We are looking at things that are out of favor because that is how you make money.”

Longer horizons help, too. “A lot of times in our world the best thing is to do nothing and be patient,” Ms. Shuman said. “The guys who say when a crisis hits, you have to have a plan of action — why? A lot of times, people want to sell at the bottom.”

A similar question is being asked about commitments to women in the chief investment office.

“The interesting question,” said Ms. Crecelius of Johns Hopkins, “is whether in the next couple of years, in what looks to be difficult markets, will the institutions stick with the women and will we recruit more women?”
684 2008-03-22 When Ms. Garrison’s father retired, he chose a pension disbursement option with larger monthly payments that would end when he died — although he could have chosen smaller payments that would have continued for his wife after his death.

“My mother was livid when she found out,” Ms. Garrison said. “But my father was gambling that he would outlive my mother — and luckily, in a way, things worked out, because he did.”

While some research suggests a shift is occurring, and younger women are more inclined to control their own finances, the aversion of many women to money tasks is still surprisingly common — and so is the risk they assume, says Tahira K. Hira, professor of consumer economics at Iowa State University at Ames.

In a study, “Gender Differences in Investment Behavior,” Professor Hira and her co-author Cäzilia Loibl, assistant professor of consumer sciences at Ohio State University, studied more than 900 randomly selected households with incomes of $75,000 or higher. The study forms a chapter in “The Handbook of Consumer Finance Research” (2007, Springer).

The authors found that while “men were more engaged in their personal finances, generally speaking, women tend to do more of the day-to-day tasks,” Professor Hira said. They tended to abdicate their financial roles when it came to planning for the future, saving and investing. “The majority of women found investing to be stressful, difficult and time-consuming,” she said.

PROFESSOR HIRA believes a lack of confidence causes some women not to take a more commanding role. Traditionally men are expected to be competent financially, whether it’s their bent or not. “For women,” she said, “the expectation is often that somebody wonderful will be there to do it.”

She points to a Catch-22: “Many women have low confidence because they haven’t done a lot of planning or investing. And because they find it difficult and stressful — or they aren’t expected to deal with it — they don’t get the experience that would boost their confidence.”

She found that women who were more at ease with money matters took charge “when some critical incident occurred,” like a divorce, illness or job loss. “They had to do it for a bigger good.”

This made Professor Hira rethink what might inspire more women to take the financial reins. “There’s nothing different that I would tell a woman versus a man about the risk-return relationship, for example, but the social context is what helps women to stay engaged. A man will sit down at a computer and do research on his own. Women like social support, they like discussions and interaction.”

Amanda Clayman, a therapist in New York who focuses on financial issues, says she doesn’t hear women saying they don’t want to handle their money, “but rather, ‘Why don’t I want to deal with it? What’s wrong with me?’ ”

Her answer is in step with Professor Hira’s: “Maybe it’s time for a new type of financial planning.”
685 2008-03-22 Asian stock prices mostly rose in light trading Friday, closing out a turbulent week.

Japan’s main stock market index rose 1.8 percent, and South Korean shares extended their winning streak into a fourth session as the nation’s main market indicator gained 1.4 percent. Prices edged up in Thailand and Malaysia, while stocks were mixed in China.

Trading was subdued; many financial markets, including those in the United States, were closed for Good Friday.

It was a quiet end to a week that began with global markets plunging on news that JPMorgan Chase would buy the troubled investment bank Bear Stearns, which had been battered by the subprime mortgage crisis.

Asian markets rebounded Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point, setting off a huge rally on Wall Street.

Wall Street posted a big advance Thursday that left stocks higher for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average rose about 260 points on the day, giving the blue chips a gain of more than 3 percent for the week. Broader indexes finished the week with gains of 2 to 3 percent.
686 2008-03-22 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Treasury Department deals in millions and billions and even trillions of dollars, but it can think small, too.

Officials announced on Friday that starting next month, individuals will be able to buy Treasury securities in amounts as small as $100, down from the current minimum of $1,000.

The change will take effect for the weekly auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills that will be held on April 7.

Treasury said the reduction in minimum bid amounts was being made possible by an improved processing system for government debt auctions. The hope is that the reduction will attract smaller investors.

“U.S. Treasury securities, the world’s safest, most liquid investments, should be accessible to the broadest universe of investors — large and small,” said Anthony Ryan, assistant Treasury secretary for financial markets. “Being able to buy securities in $100 increments adds a new degree of flexibility for all market participants.”

The reduction in the minimum sales amount is the first to occur since 1998, when the purchase amount was cut to $1,000. Until then, the minimum purchase amount had been $10,000 for Treasury bills, which are securities with a maturity of one year or less, and $5,000 for Treasury notes with a maturity of up to four years.
687 2008-03-22 IN his new book, “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society,” Farhad Manjoo, a writer for Salon, argues that “new communications technologies are loosening the culture’s grip on what people once called ‘objective reality.’ ”

In an excerpt posted this week, he looks at an area where facts often become particularly slippery, specifically perceived bias in the news media against, of all things, a technology company: Apple.

“Last year,” Mr. Manjoo writes, “I praised the iPhone in something of the way Romeo once praised Juliet: The device, I said, is revolutionary — ‘it marks a new way of life. One day we’ll all have iPhones, or things that aim to do what this first one does, and your life will be better for it.’ ”

But because he mentioned that the phone was a bit pricey, “several readers alleged that I was an Apple-hater.” One wrote him to ask, “Does Salon actually pay you or are you being paid under the table by rival companies?”

Anybody who has ever written about Apple products will tell the same story — introducing even a hint of negativity into a review or article will bring down the wrath of Apple’s most fanatical fans.

What explains this? Mr. Manjoo cites a study (a pdf is available here) by Robert P. Vallone, Lee Ross and Mark R. Lepper, psychologists at Stanford University, in 1985. That study measured perceptions of media bias relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. People who held strong opinions on the conflict going in were more apt to perceive bias in news accounts. Pro-Palestinian subjects saw a pro-Israel bias, and vice versa.
688 2008-03-22 Connecticut plays Cornell on Sunday in Bridgeport, Conn. The Scarlet Knights and Huskies can play again in the Regional final.

Back in the Rutgers locker room after the news conference, Carson, a 6-foot senior guard/forward, said: “We don’t pay too much attention to the seedings. Coach Stringer does that.”

When the women’s tournament bracket was unveiled Monday night, C. Vivian Stringer, the Rutgers coach, pronounced herself “stunned and shocked.” She expected Tennessee, which her team came within a point of beating in February, or North Carolina to be placed in the Scarlet Knights’ path to Tampa, Fla., site of this year’s Final Four.

But Connecticut? They have played each other twice this season. In the first meeting, in February, Rutgers handed the Lady Huskies their only defeat. In the rematch in the teams’ regular-season finale, the Scarlet Knights lost by 20. They followed that with a one-point defeat to Louisville in the Big East tournament, losing consecutive games for the only time this season.

“We are anxious to get back on track,” Stringer said. “I think we are more focused than any time all year.”

First up for Rutgers is Robert Morris, a No. 15 seed blessed with the No. 2 scorer in the country, Sade Logan, a 6-0 junior guard who is averaging 25.2 points. The teams play here Saturday at Wells Fargo Arena, with the winner advancing to a game Monday against either seventh-seeded Iowa State or No. 10 Georgia Tech.

Led by Logan and the senior Chinata Nesbit, a junior college transfer who this season recorded the program’s first two known triple doubles, the Colonials run a dribble-drive offense that is about as rare in the women’s game as the dunk. “It’s good for a team like ours with a lot of athletes,” Robert Morris Coach Sal Buscaglia said.

The matchup problems that the Colonials (23-9) can create are a worry, but the Scarlet Knights have stared down worse. They took on Imus, didn’t they? The accomplished but largely anonymous women of Rutgers felled a media kingpin with their grace and poise under pressure.

They were led by Carson, who began her Rutgers career as the Quiet One, but once coaxed out of her shell, proved an eloquent spokeswoman. “It wasn’t easy at all,” Carson said. “But it was something that had to be done.”

Carson was happy to leave it at that. She and her teammates are weary of addressing the sexist and racist comments by Imus that brought them more attention than they gained for their inspired runner-up finish to Tennessee in last year’s N.C.A.A. final.

Stringer, who surpassed 800 victories this year, had guided teams to 20 N.C.A.A. tournament appearances before Imus led her and her team into the vortex of sexual and racial politics in this country.

The Scarlet Knights were already a success, but Imus made them famous. Buscaglia can understand if that is a source of unease for Stringer and her players. “They should know Rutgers,” he said, referring to the public at-large, “because they’re a Final Four team and they do a great job and not because of the unfortunate situation that occurred.”

What happened last year motivated Stringer to write her autobiography. The next chapter for Rutgers women’s basketball? That starts here and will be written by her players. They cannot wait to get going.
689 2008-03-22 “It’s very gratifying,” Haith said. “It helps us move forward in terms of the building process.”

After a lethargic first half in which he scored only 6 points on 3-of-6 shooting, McClinton dominated the second half.

With Miami trailing by 5, he scored 10 straight points during a 13-3 run that put the Hurricanes ahead, 40-35, with 16 minutes 25 seconds left, their largest lead to that point.

After he made a 3-pointer during that stretch, McClinton shouted at the Miami bench, “Let’s go.” The outburst further energized Miami as it opened the second half with a decisive 25-5 run that crippled St. Mary’s (25-7).

McClinton’s 32 points in the second half matched the offensive output of the entire St. Mary’s team in the half.

“I was just trying to be more aggressive, trying to drive the ball,” McClinton said, also a member of the A.C.C. all-Academic team. “And once I was able to get a couple of drives, the defense was kind of on their heels, which opened me up for my shot.”

McClinton, who entered Friday averaging 17 points, was 12 of 19 from the field, including 3 of 6 from 3-point range. He was also 11 of 11 from the free-throw line. He added four rebounds, three assists and had only one turnover in 37 minutes.

His previous career high was 34 points, scored earlier this month in a victory against Virginia.

Asked if Friday was the best game of his career, McClinton said he was unsure.

“That’s a good question,” he said. “What do you think? Maybe it is. I’ll have to watch film.”

In the game’s opening minutes, Miami played sloppily and St. Mary’s raced to 7-point lead. But the Hurricanes rallied with a 7-0 run to tie the game at 9-9 with 12:26 left in the first half.

MISS. STATE 76, OREGON 69 Mississippi State’s Charles Rhodes scored a career-high 34 points and the eighth-seeded Bulldogs came back from a 13-point second-half deficit for a victory over ninth-seeded Oregon.

Mississippi State (23-10) trailed, 41-28, after Malik Hairston’s 3-pointer at the start of the second half, but Oregon did not make another 3 until the final seconds, finishing 9 of 38 and 2 of 21 after halftime.

Rhodes scored 6 consecutive points to start the Bulldogs’ rally — part of an 8-0 run that cut the lead to 5. Mississippi State then fell behind by 9 before Barry Stewart made a 3-pointer with just over 13 minutes remaining — the Bulldogs’ first of the game after 12 straight misses.(AP)

TEXAS 74, AUSTIN PEAY 54 A. J. Abrams scored 26 points for Texas, and the Longhorns put on a dazzling display of balance and power as they overwhelmed Austin Peay.

Four Longhorns finished in double figures — Abrams, Connor Atchley (12) and Dexter Pittman (11) almost outscored Austin Peay on their own. D. J. Augustin dished out eight assists and Justin Mason had a line coaches would love: 9 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists. Damion James added 10 points for the Longhorns.

Texas (29-6) moved within a victory of matching the team record for victories.

The victory sets up a second-round game Sunday with the former Longhorns assistant Frank Haith, now the coach at Miami. The seventh-seeded Hurricanes (23-10) defeated the 10th-seeded St. Mary’s, 78-64, in the early game Friday.(AP)

MEMPHIS 87, TEX.-ARLINGTON 63 Chris Douglas-Roberts scored 23 points and Antonio Anderson and Derrick Rose added 17 apiece as No. 1-seeded Memphis rolled to a victory over 16th-seeded Texas-Arlington.
690 2008-03-22 SHANGHAI — The Chinese government, pursuing its crackdown on Tibetan protesters, has released photos of the 21 most-wanted suspects it blames for violent riots in Lhasa, Tibet’s capital, last week.

The grainy photos of suspects, which have been circulated on major Internet portals in China, appear to have been taken from video of the looting that swept Lhasa’s center on Saturday.

According to Chinese news reports, 2 of the 21 have already been arrested.

On Thursday, local Tibetan television began broadcasting similar bulletins identifying suspects and calling for the public to turn them in.

China’s official news agency, Xinhua, said Friday night that the toll from anti-Chinese riots in Tibet had risen to 19 dead and 623 injured. It said 18 civilians and a police officer had been confirmed dead in the unrest. The news agency said 241 police officers and 382 civilians had been injured in Lhasa.

China had earlier placed the number of dead in the last week of disturbances, which began in Lhasa and have spread to many smaller towns on the Tibetan Plateau, at 13, insisting that all of those were victims of the Lhasa riot. Beijing has repeatedly contended that it has exercised “maximum restraint” in putting down the disturbances, notably avoiding the use of deadly force.
691 2008-03-22 He has refused to do either.

“If people push me, I do exactly the opposite,” he said.

Mr. Wilders, 44, is in the news here these days for a 10-to-15-minute film he says he has made depicting the Koran as the inspiration for terrorist attacks and other violence. Having failed to persuade a single Dutch television network to broadcast the film in its entirety, he said he planned to release it on the Internet by the end of this month.

He routinely equates the Koran with Hitler’s “Mein Kampf,” saying it should be banned in the Netherlands, and he declared in an interview that the Prophet Muhammad could be compared to the German dictator.

“In his Medina time, if he would be alive today, Muhammad would be treated as a war criminal, being sent out of the country, being sent to jail,” he said.

Moderate Dutch Muslim leaders like Mohamed Rabbae, chairman of the Dutch Moroccan Council, are exasperated by Mr. Wilders’s standpoint on Islam and its prophet.

“Wilders is a little bit crazy, if I may say it in this way, because he is fighting against somebody who has been living in the sixth century, not in our time,” Mr. Rabbae said.

Virtually no one knows exactly what is in Mr. Wilders’s film; even the Netherlands’ worried prime minister has not been granted a screening. But the simple fact that Mr. Wilders is its muse makes people here and in parts of the Islamic world nervous.

Mr. Wilders said he made the film to show that “Islam and the Koran are part of a fascist ideology that wants to kill everything we stand for in a modern Western democracy.”

SOME here see Mr. Wilders’s film — titled “Fitna,” Arabic for civil strife — as a potential hate crime and have already filed police complaints in various Dutch cities, concerned that his past statements and the film will polarize religious groups and foster discrimination.

His supporters say he protects traditional Dutch values. His critics, and there are many, say he is an out-of-control, right-wing extremist risking his country’s good name for his own political gain. Others are even harsher; one former trade union leader called Mr. Wilders “evil.”

“Of course I am not evil,” Mr. Wilders responded, looking a little annoyed. “Do I look evil to you? Maybe I do, but I’m not.”

Mr. Wilders, who lives under constant police protection in an undisclosed location, is undeterred by threats from the Taliban to escalate attacks against Dutch soldiers in Afghanistan if the film is released.

Nor is he moved by Dutch expatriates abroad who, remembering the fallout from the Danish cartoons featuring the Prophet Muhammad, worry that the film may make their lives harder, or even dangerous.

Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch foreign minister, told a public television reporter that he found it “irresponsible to broadcast this film.”

“That’s because Dutch companies, Dutch soldiers and Dutch residents could and will be in danger,” Mr. Verhagen said.

Such statements spur Mr. Wilders on, and in his opinion unintentionally prove that Islam is a rigid, intolerant religion whose followers try to muffle criticism, often violently. Framing himself as a defender of free speech, Mr. Wilders said there would not be such a fuss about his film if it were about the Bible.

“We can never allow people who use nondemocratic means, people who use violence instead of arguments, people who use knives instead of debates, we can never allow them to set the agenda,” he said.

After the 2004 release of a short film here that graphically portrayed the abuse of women in the Islamic world, the director, Theo van Gogh, was killed by a Muslim extremist.

Mr. Wilders, already in the Dutch Parliament for six years at that point, was not associated with that film, but he went briefly into hiding when government security forces feared he might become the next target.

Two years later, memories of the van Gogh murder — coupled with concerns about Muslim immigration — helped Mr. Wilders and his newly formed Party for Freedom capture 6 percent of the seats in Parliament.

Of the Netherlands’ 16.5 million residents, a million are either Muslim or of Muslim descent. Many of them are so-called guest workers from Morocco, Turkey and other Islamic countries who came here decades ago to work in factories and stayed to raise families of their own.

Occasionally, conflicts arise between mainstream Dutch society — which supports gay marriage and legalized prostitution, for instance — and the often more conservative Muslim minority, and Mr. Wilders has successfully mined the unease between them.

“Ten to 15 percent of the Dutch voters more or less see him as a new leader, one who dares to say what he thinks,” said Hugo van der Parre, deputy editor of the Dutch television news program “Nova.” But “many people see him, as well, as a nut case.”

MR. WILDERS says he detests Islam but not Muslims. “I believe the Islamic ideology is a retarded, dangerous one, but I make a distinction,” he said. “I don’t hate people. I don’t hate Muslims.

He added: “I am not saying all Muslims are wrong or are terrorists or criminals. You will never hear me say that.”

Mr. Wilders, who is married and has no children, was raised Roman Catholic, but is no longer religious. The youngest of four children, he traveled and worked his way through the Middle East for two years after his high school graduation. Since then, he said, he has visited Israel at least 40 times and maintains close contacts there. But he has no real connections from his time in the rest of the region, admitting he does not have any Muslim friends.

His claims to the contrary, some Muslims believe that Mr. Wilders’s animosity toward Islam extends to them.

“If you say the prophet is a war criminal, you say, I hate Muslims,” a Dutch newspaper columnist, Youssef Azghari, said in an interview. “Because the prophet is a symbol. He was the one who invented the Islam.”

Since no one has actually seen Mr. Wilders’s film, some here have started wondering if it is as fake as his hair color, a clever publicity stunt devised to prove his point that Islam and freedom of speech cannot coexist.

Mr. Wilders insists the film is every bit as real as his long-held belief that Islam is a danger to Dutch and other Western societies.

“I get in so much trouble, both privately and politically, that if I would do it for publicity reasons, I would be a fool,” he said.
692 2008-03-22 The first thing to do is take stock of your life. Determine how secure your job is, which, in these uncertain times, may not be easy.

If your job is relatively safe, step back and look at your financial situation.

It may seem overwhelming, but there are a few basic steps everyone can take to achieve some peace of mind. Since most banks are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, your accounts are insured up to $100,000. In addition, most individual retirement accounts and Keogh retirement accounts held by those institutions are insured up to $250,000.

“The F.D.I.C. is about as safe as it gets in this world,” Mr. Daugherty said.

Next, take a hard, realistic look at your debt.

It may be somewhat painful, but now is the time to ask some difficult questions. Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst with Bankrate.com, suggests starting with these: Are you having trouble keeping up with your debt payments? Are you relying on debt to keep up with your lifestyle?

Consumers, Mr. McBride said, have been drawing on credit in recent years, but some “are finding that the well has run dry.” He suggested that you “ask yourself whether you can honestly afford the lifestyle you’re living.”

A good indicator that things are going in the wrong direction, he said, is if your credit card balance has been rising in the last year but your savings balance has been falling.

“As interest rates are on the decline, it serves as a real tail wind to debt repayment,” Mr. McBride said. “More of each dollar goes to principal rather than to the interest. So each dollar goes further as interest rates fall.”

Now, what about investments? First, experts say, consumers should confirm that their investments are covered by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, an independent organization set up by Congress in 1970.

If a brokerage firm or other insured firm fails, the investor corporation covers $500,000 of a customer’s assets, of which $100,000 can be claimed for cash. Keep in mind that money market funds are securities, not cash, said Stephen P. Harbeck, president and chief executive of the S.I.P.C.

The good news is that membership is not voluntary; when a company registers with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it is required to be a member of the investor protection corporation.

Be sure, however, that when you make out a check to your broker, it goes to a member of the S.I.P.C., Mr. Harbeck said. There are cases where corporate entities that are part of the same holding company are not members of the investor corporation.

You should ask brokers whether their firms are members, or you can check out members on the investor corporation’s Web site, www.sipc.org. If your investments are in a company not covered, then you are not covered.

But Mr. Harbeck said the S.I.P.C. is a floor, not a ceiling; each investor also receives a prorated distribution of customer assets depending on how individual situations are resolved.

Since 2004, the corporation has stepped in only seven times to cover consumer losses, Mr. Harbeck said. In all but one of those cases, consumers were fully reimbursed.

Brokers can buy additional insurance to cover higher amounts; ask your broker whether that is the case for your investments and request a copy of the agreement in writing.

Although many consumers’ first instinct may be to sell their stocks and move into bonds — or perhaps cash under the mattress — financial advisers generally agree that would be the wrong move.

“Don’t abandon the stock market,” said John C. Bogle, founder and former chief executive of the Vanguard Group.

David B. Tysk, a private wealth adviser with Ameriprise Financial, said the recent financial upheaval might offer some opportunities.

Too many people buy stocks when they are going up and sell when they are going down, he said.

“Small investors always make the worst timing decisions because emotion is involved,” Mr. Tysk said. “This is precisely the wrong time to move to safer options. The stock market has dropped dramatically and now is the time to invest — don’t close the stable door after the horse has left.”

Everyone agrees that diversification is crucial, but that does not mean the same thing for everybody. Are you 24 and just starting to save for retirement? Forty years old and saving for your children’s college education? Or a retiree on a fixed income?

Mr. Bogle’s rule of thumb is that the allocation of bonds in your portfolio should be about 10 percentage points less than your age. So if you are 60 years old, aim to have 50 percent in bonds.

“As you get older, you want more bonds; bonds produce income and time is less on your side to recoup losses,” he said.

He suggests half short-term bonds (one to two years) and half intermediate-term bonds (six to seven years). When interest rates go up, so will the income on the short-term bonds.

For retirement accounts, like I.R.A.’s, “inflation is a big, big worry,” he said. “Everybody should consider a significant holding of U.S. Treasury inflation bonds.”

Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, known as TIPS, are securities whose principal is tied to the Consumer Price Index.

With inflation, the principal increases, while with deflation, it decreases. When the security matures, the United States Treasury pays the original or adjusted principal, whichever is greater.

Many analysts also encourage investors to diversify within the stock market in terms of domestic and overseas companies — Mr. Bogle suggests a split of 80 percent domestic and 20 percent foreign.

“We got fat, dumb and happy,” Mr. Bogle said. “We can’t control the future returns of the stock market, but think of what we can control. Keep turnover to a minimum for tax efficiency and to reduce cost. Ask tough questions of an adviser.”

Hard as it is to believe, there is an up side. Consumers will eventually see lower rates on their credit cards, Mr. McBride said, although — not surprisingly — card issuers tend to pass along rate increases faster than decreases.

He said there is generally a three-month lag after the Fed lowers its federal funds rate. The average rate on a variable-rate credit card six months ago was 14 percent; he said it is now about 12.26 percent.

In terms of home mortgages, the people who will benefit most are those who are resetting their adjustable-rate mortgages, Mr. McBride said, because rates on many of these home loans are tied to the one-year Treasury bill, which tends to move down as the Fed is cutting rates.

But, Mr. McBride warns, those looking to buy a house should focus on fixed-rate mortgages. His advice sounds obvious, but many home buyers ignored it in recent years.

“If they can’t afford the payment on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, then they cannot afford a house,” he said.
693 2008-03-22 But their claims — like Norway’s — all require asterisks, like home-run records buoyed by steroids. And as the Norwegian plan shows, achieving a carbon-neutral state, for now, often depends as much on how you make the calculation and how much money you spend, as it does on hard work, sacrifice or even innovation.

“We’re a nice little selfish country of petroholics, and that has made us lazy,” said Frederic Hauge, president of Bellona, Norway’s largest nongovernmental environmental organization. “The move from 2050 to 2030 is a sign of good intentions, but unless I see action, I’ve heard it all before.”

Despite its pledges, seen from the perspective of its smoke-spewing rigs producing billions of barrels of oil a year — Norway is the third largest exporter in the world — industrial Norway does not look like a poster child for environmental friendliness.

In the short term, the country is poised to become carbon neutral by financing environmental projects abroad, as allowed under the United Nations environmental accounting policy. That means that emissions at home can be “canceled out” by things like planting trees or cleaning up a polluting factory in a country far away.

But Norway’s actual plan for reducing its own emissions is much less clear. Like all the environmentally conscious Scandinavian countries, Norway made the easy changes decades ago. Any further cuts in emissions — the essential thing scientists agree is needed to stem the momentum of global warming — are likely to be painful.

If anything, its early experience shows that cutting carbon dioxide emissions will require real sacrifice closer to home, like driving less, flying less and putting restrictions on businesses. Instead, so far it is relying in large part on developing unproved technology.

The Norwegian model, critics say, may not be a path to the future of carbon neutrality and may not be sustainable, because it requires deep coffers and, anyway, there are not enough environmental projects in poor countries to cancel out all the emissions of the developed world.

“They’re willing to spend a lot of money on a climate policy that’s based abroad, but so far they haven’t been quite so willing to make politically difficult choices at home that people will feel,” said Steffen Kallbekken, a senior analyst at Cicero, the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research, a nongovernmental group here. “So it’s not so much of a model as it could be.”

The same goes for the Vatican, which “offsets” its emissions by planting forests in Hungary, but it did not enter into the calculation the polluting travel of its priests and officials — nor the emissions caused at properties outside Vatican City.

Wal-Mart, an acknowledged leader on the environmental front, is encouraging suppliers to emit less carbon, but does not take into account the emissions caused by the millions of people who have to drive to its stores, which are in many cases located in places where public transportation is often unavailable.

Those kinds of accounting gaps and trade-offs are widespread and mask the true challenges ahead, even for well-intentioned countries like Norway, scientists and environmental groups say.

Behind Norway’s green pledge lies an uncomfortable truth: though this country of five million is fairly eco-friendly — with, for example, high taxes of cars and fuel — as one of the world’s top sources of oil and natural gas, it exports emissions all over the world. It also maintains a broad industrial base of its own.

In its recently released Climate Change Performance Index 2008, the nonprofit group Germanwatch, which is active on environmental issues, ranked Norway 16th out of 56 countries, tied with Indonesia, and well behind Sweden, Britain and Germany.

Heidi Sorensen, state secretary of Norway’s Environment Ministry, acknowledged the contradiction. “We are living in a constant dilemma in Norway because we have grown rich on the petroleum sector, releasing CO2 into the atmosphere,” Ms. Sorensen said. “So there’s a lot of discussion about what responsibility we have. If we’re going to tell countries like China and India to lower emissions, we have to do something, too.”

That something has been to finance good-will projects globally. At the climate conference in Bali, Indonesia, in December, Norway announced that it would spend 3 billion Norwegian kroner (about $538 million at the time) to prevent deforestation, with a special focus on projects that would also try to alleviate poverty in Africa. “We hoped this would serve as a model for other countries,” Ms. Sorensen said.

Such projects fall outside international carbon accounting schemes. If those project were taken into account, “we could be carbon neutral now,” Ms. Sorensen said.

But critics of the approach say the country’s leaders are not doing enough at home. Mr. Hauge of Bellona said the government needed to be more specific and aggressive in following through on its plans.

Norway has also been investing in emerging technologies, particularly carbon capture and storage, in which emissions produced by factories are stored underground. Perfecting the technique would be “Norway’s moon landing,” the government announced, a piece of inspirational science to benefit the world.

Most everyone in Norway applauds those moves, but that is where the cheering ends. The government has not been specific about its plans to reduce emissions at home, and that is making many nervous.

“We are very positive about dialogue with the government and very positive about reducing greenhouse gases, but we want to be very careful that industry doesn’t end up a loser,” said Finn Bergesen, director general of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise. “It’s a good thing to set goals, but goals have to be realistic.”

Recently, a Norwegian aluminum producer announced that it would open a new plant — in Dubai. “We have some of the cleanest plants in the world, and if they close up here and pop up in China — where they will not be so clean — that’s not to anyone’s benefit,” Mr. Bergesen said.

The one large political group that opposes the carbon-neutral goal, the Progress Party, has become increasingly vocal.

“They have a goal but they don’t have a plan, and for me spending money without focus on things that are merely symbolic is a problem,” said Siv Jensen, the party’s leader, who is sometimes mentioned as a candidate to become Norway’s next prime minister.

Ms. Jensen would like more money spent on things like roads, improving Norway’s recycling program and exporting knowledge of hydropower. Any further steps will not be easy.

Cars and fuel in Norway are already heavily taxed, and gas-guzzling cars have long been taxed more than small, economical models. A sport utility vehicle in Norway costs four times as much as one in the United States.

Other countries can close highly polluting coal-fire electricity plants as an easy first step toward reducing emissions. But Norway barely uses any coal at all. More than 95 percent of the country’s electricity is from waterfalls — eco-friendly, renewable hydropower.

The main polluter in Norway is heavy industry — oil, gas, metal refining. They are, of course, the industries that have made Norway rich. Their revenues ensure high pay and good benefits here, and they help pay for reducing deforestation in Africa.

Environmental advocates say Norway should take the next step, issuing fewer permits for oil exploration, for example, and even raising gas taxes. Instead of exporting energy, Mr. Hauge suggests, Norway should use some of it domestically to create things like low-priced solar panels for use in the developing world.

“We will sacrifice — in our own rich country way,” he said. “We can’t go to ski so easily anymore. Maybe you’ll have to stop your electric car after 350 kilometers,” about 217 miles. “But will we freeze? No. We’ll be able to solve it.”
694 2008-03-23 Found at flickr.com:...
695 2008-03-23 Feuding Democrats have handed John McCain the gift of time, and how well he uses it may determine his chance to beat them....
696 2008-03-23 Two of the teams from Sunday's games in Tampa, Fla., will get another chance to play the underdog role in the next round....
697 2008-03-23 The winner of the Western Kentucky-San Diego game will face plenty of distractions back on campus....
698 2008-03-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
699 2008-03-23 “According to the rankings, we’d have to be the underdog,” said San Diego forward Gyno Pomare, grasping tightly to the Toreros’ 13th seed.

Western Kentucky Coach Darrin Horn took a down-the-middle approach, putting the underdog label on his team and the Toreros.

Villanova’s Dwayne Anderson offered a similar line of thinking. “There’s a lot of confusion because of the number that’s in front of your ranking,” he said. “That means like you’re basically a better team, which is not true, as you can see from the scores. Siena and ourselves, we were both underdogs coming into the tournament and we’re still going to have the same approach on tomorrow’s game.”

If only by default, Villanova may be viewed as the marquee team left in the games here — an odd twist given that the Wildcats were among the last teams to receive an at-large bid. They won 7 of their last 11 games, but they lost by 19 points to Georgetown in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament.

Villanova appeared headed for an early exit Friday against after falling behind by 18 points late in the first half. Scottie Reynolds, who scored 14 of his 21 points in the second half, and Corey Fisher, who had 12 of his 17 points in the final 20 minutes, came to the rescue offensively. The Wildcats focused defensively, too, and held Clemson to 2-of-16 shooting on 3-pointers in the second half.

Villanova also has a recent history of making strong runs in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Two years ago, the Wildcats reached the final eight. In 2005, they advanced to the Round of 16. Each time, they lost to the eventual national champions.

Still, Jay Wright rejects the idea of being at the head of this higher-seeded class. “The way our team has been all year, to hear us called the marquee team right now is funny,” he said.

he added, “you can’t say anything about favorites. What went on here in this first round is just the beauty of the N.C.A.A. tournament. It’s incredible. We won’t feel like the favorites tomorrow.”

Bill Grier, San Diego’s first-year coach, learned how to play both sides of the fence as an assistant for 16 seasons at Gonzaga, the quintessential midmajor that for many years played down its chances against opponents with bigger reputations.

Even after knocking off Connecticut, Grier soft-pedaled the Toreros’ success and declared Western Kentucky the team to beat.

“I still think we’re the underdog,” he said. “They’re 28-6. They had a heck of a year. They’re a senior-dominated team for the most part.”

He added: “That’s still the approach we’re going to take. Also, the motivation of being 40 minutes away from something really special. I don’t think it will be an issue to get these kids ready to play.”

Jackson, the Toreros’ sophomore guard, considered all the talk as simply part of the game plan.

“Each team is going to come out and think they’re the underdog because that’s how they won,” he said.

“In their brackets, people might not put them down, but everybody likes the underdogs.”
700 2008-03-23 Fabian Cancellara won the Milan-San Remo one-day classic after breaking away late from a group of riders.Cancellara, from Switzerland, made his move 1.5 miles from the end of the 185-mile race, finishing in 7 hours 14 minutes 35 seconds.A fast pace hurt the sprinters Alessandro Petacchi and Oscar Freire, whose teams had worked to keep the group together in an effort to have the race end in a sprint finish.
701 2008-03-23 HARTFORD (AP) — Connecticut basketball officials say A. J. Price has a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is expected to need six months to recover.

Price, a junior guard, was injured midway through the first half of Connecticut’s 70-69 overtime loss to San Diego on Friday in the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Price led the Huskies this season, averaging 14.9 points, with a team-leading 191 assists. He was scoreless and the game was tied at 16-16 when he was hurt.

UConn officials said Price would have surgery near the end of the week.

Jeffrey Anderson, the team’s director of sports medicine, gave the six-month timetable for clearing Price to play in a game, meaning he would probably not miss any of next season.
702 2008-03-23 “My first thought was to keep the kids safe,” she said. “All my flowers were starting to come up, but now I’m wondering: Am I going to have a place to take my daughters? Are we going to have a place to live? It’s scary.”

Not everyone in the flooded area left. Jim Nantz, whose home is built on an elevated foundation roughly a half-mile from the river, spent much of Friday barbecuing on his front porch.

“My place has got about three feet of water around it and in the crawl space, but there’s no water in the house,” Mr. Nantz said.

The storm, which caused flooding in counties from Texas to Pennsylvania, has been blamed for at least 16 deaths. After showering more than a foot of rain on parts of Missouri and Arkansas earlier in the week, the storm moved northeast, where the National Weather Service said it dumped more than a foot of snow on parts of the Upper Midwest.

But the worst flooding has been in Missouri, where President Bush approved federal disaster aid this week for St. Louis and 70 Missouri counties. The flooding has been most concentrated along the Meramec River and in the southeastern part of the state, where at least 200 homes were evacuated in Cape Girardeau County, said Susie Stonner of the State Emergency Management Agency.

On Saturday, traffic was stalled along Interstate 44 west of St. Louis, where crews barricaded against the river’s swelling waters. Near Valley Park, waters drenched the Interstate’s shoulders, submerging the interchange with Highway 141.

Meanwhile, the authorities in Valley Park put faith in a new $49 million levee, which was designed to withstand water levels of up to 45 feet, well above Saturday’s crest of 37.8 feet.

Mayor Jeffery J. Whitteaker said that not everyone in the town of 6,500 people had been optimistic about the levee, and that about 100 homes near it had been evacuated.

“We let the citizens be their own guide,” Mr. Whitteaker said. “The major concern was that this was the first initial test of the levee. I don’t blame anyone for leaving.”

But John Beard, who lives within 400 feet of the levee, had refused to decamp.

“Why would we spend $50 million on a levee if we’re going to get scared and move every time the water comes up?” Mr. Beard said, standing in his yard. “It defeats the purpose.”

By Saturday afternoon the waters in Pacific had begun to recede and residents were allowed to enter the flooded area. Mayor Herbert Adams said he would allow residents to enter for a “quick inspection” of their homes. He added that in light of earlier flood estimates, he was hopeful the damage would not be too severe.

In Pacific, Jim Smith, a real estate agent who had left his offices, said people would keep coming back no matter how many times it flooded.

“We’ve been here for 200 years,” Mr. Smith said. “It’s hard to leave. We love these river bottoms.”

Among those who will be returning is Gerald Grimm, a semiretired cattle farmer whose property has been flooded three times since 1982.

“It’s going to eat into my pocketbook,” said Mr. Grimm, 79. “But I’ve been there all my life, I figure I’ll finish it there.”
703 2008-03-23 In the last year, she said, the store has adopted an “entrepreneurial spirit” campaign to give salespeople and managers more latitude on prices in order to retain customers.

The sluggish economy is punctuating a cultural shift enabled by wired consumers accustomed to comparing prices and bargaining online, said Nancy F. Koehn, a retail historian at the Harvard Business School.

Haggling was once common before department stores began setting fixed prices in the 1850s. But the shift to bargaining in malls and on Main Street is a considerable change from even 10 years ago, Ms. Koehn said, when studies showed that consumers did not like to bargain and did not consider themselves good at it. “Call it the eBay phenomenon,” Ms. Koehn said.

“The recession is helping to push these seedlings to the surface,” she added. “It’s a real turnabout on the part of the buyer and the seller.”

John D. Morris, an apparel industry analyst for Wachovia, said that the ailing economy was not necessarily forcing all retailers to negotiate. But he says he believes that when there is an opportunity for negotiation, the shopper has the upper hand.

“This is one of the periods where the customer is empowered,” Mr. Morris said. “The retailer knows that the customer is enduring tough times — and is more willing to be the one who blinks first in that stare-down match.”

While tough times give people more incentive to change their behavior, it is the wealth of information about products made available on the Internet that gives consumers the know-how to try it. People now can quickly amass information on product availability and pricing, helping them develop strategies to get the best deal.

Michael Roskell, 33, a technology project manager from Jersey City, N.J., said he and a friend from high school periodically visit electronics stores. While Mr. Roskell expresses interest in buying an item, his friend acts as though he is dissatisfied with the price and threatens to leave.

In February, he said, the friends got $20 off a pair of $250 speakers at 6th Avenue Electronics in the New York area. Earlier, he and the same friend negotiated to buy two 46-inch high-definition Sony televisions at P. C. Richard & Son, a New York-area electronics chain.

“My parents never did this,” Mr. Roskell said. “But once you get it, you realize there’s a whole economy built on this.”

The strategy can even work when buying pants. At least it did for David Achee of Maplewood, N.J., who said he went to a Polo Ralph Lauren store in the SoHo neighborhood of Manhattan last month and became interested in a pair of pants on the clearance rack for $75. He told the salesperson that he had seen a similar pair on the Internet for $65, adding that he thought the pair on the rack looked worn (even though he did not really think so). He got the pants for around $50, he said.

Among his other tactics, he said, he sometimes threatens to walk out of a store and go to a competitor, as he did recently to get a price break on a drum set at a music store. But, mainly, he relies on researching prices and coming armed with information — prices he finds on the Internet and in ads from competitors.

“You can negotiate, but you have to do your research,” said Mr. Achee, who works for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. “When I’m bargaining, I’m bargaining with information.”

Information from the Internet helped Amber Kendall, 24, and her husband, Matt, when they shopped for a camera last October. The couple, who live in Boston, found the Canon camera they wanted online for $350, then used the Internet price to bargain with Ritz Camera, where the price was $400. Then they used the Ritz Camera offer to get the same price at Microcenter, where they preferred the warranty offer.

The technological influences are not just on the consumer side. Retail industry analysts said corporate retailers have begun using computer systems that let them do real-time pricing and profit analysis. Such systems tell a company what price it can set and still make money, and they illuminate the trade-off between lowering prices and raising sales volumes, said Andy Hargreaves, a retail industry analyst with Pacific Crest Securities.

Mr. Hargreaves did a little negotiating himself recently. At Best Buy last November, he bargained down the price of a 50-inch Samsung plasma television.

“They gave me a number. I gave them another number, and he gave me a final number,” he said, noting that he got a $100 price break in addition to the $200 sale discount. “A lot of people don’t realize you can go into Best Buy and ask them for a lower price.”

Frederick Stinchfield, 23, was a Best Buy salesman in Minnetonka, Minn., until last January. He said about one-quarter of customers tried to bargain. Much of the time, he said, he was able to oblige them, particularly in circumstances where a customer buying electronics (like a camera) also bought an accessory (like a camera bag) with a higher markup. He said the cash registers at Best Buy were set up so that prices could be reset at checkout.

Salespeople and managers had the latitude to drop prices, though some were more likely to do so than others.

His advice for bargainer hunters? “If you get denied once, go looking for someone else who looks nice,” said Mr. Stinchfield, who now works for the federal government in Washington. He added: “Come armed with information, and you will be rewarded.”

Priya Raghubir, a marketing professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said that retailers willing to haggle were making a calculated gamble that acceding to lower prices means establishing customer loyalty. The retail mantra is “customer lifetime value,” meaning any single sale might not be that profitable, but an enduring relationship with a shopper would be.

There is just one problem with the theory, Ms. Raghubir said. It does not prove true over time.

Rather than retaining customers, the rise in haggling is making shoppers highly price-conscious and loyal ultimately to the least expensive offer, not to a brand or a retailer.

Home Depot, among others, begs to differ. Ms. Gallagher, the company spokeswoman, said that by allowing salespeople and store managers to make some pricing decisions, the company was creating a friendly environment that feels more like a local store than a monolithic corporate superstore. (She declined to say how much leeway individual salespeople or managers have.)

Ms. Raghubir says that retailers are realizing that customers are going to keep pressing them on price, because whatever reticence customers had about bargaining has evaporated.

“In the past, when you tried to get yourself a deal and it was an embarrassing thing — the kind of thing you did if you couldn’t afford to pay,” she said. “Now it’s about being a smart shopper.”
704 2008-03-23 Couldn’t Butler and Drake have come up with names that would allow non-alums to remember one thing about them? Given recent news events, can right-thinking Austin Peay fans really be comfortable taking children to watch the Governors at play? If the committee (N.C.A.A., not admissions) had enough of a sense of humor to match up Cornell and Stanford in the first round, why not Oral Roberts and Brigham Young or other themed contests? Yes, they’re there every year, but remind me who George Mason was?

And, most important, how come almost everything in American life seems to be about college — the games on television, the obsession about getting in, the pain of paying for it once you’re there, or the sad fact that it’s all downhill once you leave? Who came up with this system where you live maybe 90 years, but we’re supposed to think they’re defined by the four in which you get to stay up late every night, having more fun than you’ll ever have again, and your parents get to go broke paying for it?

It’s not as if there were no overlap between the anxiety of March Madness and the anxiety of April Madness. In fact, many in this year’s cast of characters in the first (Stanford, Cornell, Duke, Georgetown, among others) are prominent parts of the most overheated version of the second. But still, there is a disconnect that’s a little unsettling, as if April Madness could use a bit more March Madness.

SO, for instance, if ESPN’s Dickie V. were doing the admissions briefing for squads well beyond the bubble for the Field of 65, potential applicants might be getting a scouting report on Columbia along the lines of: “Coach Knight at Texas Tech. Gone. Coach Sampson at Indiana. Gone. You can say what you want about Team Turmoil, but Coach Lee C. Bollinger has put together a squad in Morningside Heights that can flat-out scrap. Ever since they recruited the crafty Iranian swingman Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to campus, it’s been nonstop turmoil for the Lions, but don’t count them out, because they can flat-out get after it, baby.”

We’d hear more about the controversial diaper dandies recruited for the basketball team at Harvard, more about the cross-dressers on the edgier campuses and less about the crossover of Derrick Rose at Memphis.

The truth is, March Madness and April Madness have much in common. Both are elaborate branding exercises in which status comes with perceived success. “We’re a brand name society,” said Carol Gill, a college admissions consultant. “Some people think that Coach bag is really important. For some people, having the right sticker on the window of your car is the same kind of status symbol.”

Both depend on their own elaborate versions of Bracketology, with the N.C.A.A. seedings, however imperfect, certainly more rooted in something verifiable than the annual college rankings in U.S. News and World Report.

And both, as Eliot must have known, have their cruel numbers games, that three at the buzzer that sank Drake, the demographic bulge and stampede to the brand name colleges that leave too many great applicants with the thin envelope or — sorry, pal — e-mail message in April.

You feel more for the high school kids sucked into this demoralizing arms race than for the college kids who get a chance to play on such a heady stage, or for the rest of us, tossing our brackets in the garbage yet again after the first weekend.
705 2008-03-23 That approach is working out well for him in spring training. Through Friday, Tulowitzki was hitting .324 with a team-leading four home runs.

“He’s special,” Rockies Manager Clint Hurdle said. “He’s in a good place. He’s solid from an offensive standpoint and defensive standpoint. I’m a big fan of giving him the freedom to play and let him write his own story. He’s written it pretty well so far.”

Tulowitzki hit .291 with 24 home runs last season. He also drove in 99 runs, the most by a major league rookie shortstop, eclipsing Nomar Garciaparra, who had 98 in 1997 with Boston.

Tulowitzki also led all qualifying shortstops in fielding percentage, making 11 errors in a National League-leading 834 total chances.

He was rewarded by the Rockies with a six-year deal worth $31.5 million in the off-season, the biggest contract ever awarded to a second-year player.

Tulowitzki then rewarded himself by buying a new home in Denver and a black Maserati, which he drove to spring training.

“It drives nice,” said Tulowitzki, who finished a close second to Milwaukee’s Ryan Braun in the N.L. rookie of the year voting.

He said he was still surprised the Rockies made such a long-term financial commitment to him. Not that he is arguing.

“It was a nice gesture,” he said. “Since Day 1, the organization has been nothing but great to me.”

With the departure of Kazuo Matsui, Tulowitzki will inherit the No. 2 slot in the batting order. He figures to see even better pitches to hit this season with likes of Todd Helton, Matt Holliday, Garrett Atkins and Brad Hawpe behind him.

But he refused to speculate on the type of numbers he would post this season.

“Individually, I only care about what kind of year I have because if I’m doing good, it means the team is doing good,” he said. “But I’m confident and believe in my abilities.”

For as good of offensive season as Tulowitzki turned in, he took more pride in his defensive accomplishments. He led all shortstops in putouts (262), assists (561) and double plays (114). He also turned in an unassisted triple play against Atlanta, the 13th in major league history.

“My father stressed defense to me when I was young,” Tulowitzki said. “Defense and pitching wins games, and since I’m obviously not a pitcher, I take pride in my defense.”

The Colorado pitching staff clearly appreciates his fancy glove work and ability to cover a lot of ground.

“He’s fantastic,” the left-hander Jeff Francis said. “He makes a lot of the spectacular plays and all the routine plays. He’s about as solid as it gets.”

Tulowitzki insisted his life had not changed since his breakout season. He has kept the same group of friends, works out just as hard, can still sneak into restaurants unnoticed and endures the same amount of good-natured razzing from his teammates.

“I’m still the same guy,” he said.
706 2008-03-23 Indeed, when the government moved last weekend to help save Bear Stearns, the fifth-largest securities firm on Wall Street, from bankruptcy, policy makers were motivated by concerns that the investment bank’s failure could start a chain reaction of collapses at other investment houses. Stopping those dominoes was such a priority that the Federal Reserve helped broker the sale of Bear Stearns to its rival JPMorgan Chase.

A century ago, such government hustle would have been unthinkable. Even the distinction between a recession (a significant decline in economic activity that lasts more than a few months) and a depression (a decline that is much longer and deeper) didn’t really matter, because turmoil in the economy was often taken for granted.

Between 1857 and 1929, while regulators largely stood idle, the American economy swung through 19 national boom-and-bust gyrations that sometimes threatened to wipe out whole industries within months.

But in the wake of the Great Depression, American policy makers began actively managing the economy with a handful of tools, including adjusting interest rates and using massive government spending to spur growth. Since 1945, there have only been 10 boom-and-bust cycles, most of them much shallower than earlier ones, and the unemployment rate has never topped 9.7 percent.

Much of that stability, economic historians say, stems from reforms designed to calm consumers during downturns, like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which guarantees most checking and savings accounts up to $100,000 if a bank fails.

But as the Internet boom and recent housing bubble demonstrate, even relatively stable periods can be part of a cycle of extreme ups and downs. The prolonged expansion that just ended had an unusually long run of more than six years. As a result, some are speculating that the crash will be equally drawn out.

“The biggest difference with this recession is that it’s starting in the housing market,” said Victor Zarnowitz, an economist at the Conference Board who is also a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research’s business-cycle committee. For the first time in more than 50 years, the nation faces a broad risk “that people’s most important asset, their home, will lose value,” he said.

As homeowners see the value of their homes decline, they become more likely to delay purchases of the big items — like automobiles, electronics and home appliances — that are ballasts of the American economy. When those purchases decline, large manufacturing firms, suddenly short on funds, could begin laying off employees. Those workers, uncertain about the future, might in turn stop buying Starbucks lattes and movie tickets, and in a worst-case scenario, that could spur coffee shops and theaters to begin layoffs of their own.

Such a chain reaction was one reason unemployment during the Great Depression was so persistent and widespread.

But today, say economists, fundamental changes make such contagion unlikely. For one thing, incomes are more stable. Many more Americans hold jobs in service sectors, like medicine or education. And more Americans work for the government, which is less inclined to fire people just because the economy turns gloomy.

Moreover, there are safety nets that can be traced to the Great Depression, like Social Security, unemployment benefits, food stamp programs. These “give people a sense of security even when they’re out of work,” said the Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman. “That establishes a floor for how panicked consumers become.”

Even if consumer confidence hit rock bottom, that most likely would not be enough, by itself, to cause a depression. For things to become really dire, the nation’s financial institutions would have to fail at the same time that unemployment began significantly rising. Only if banks suddenly closed, or it became impossible for companies to access short-term lines of credit, would things begin spiraling out of control.

A credit shortage, in fact, has played a significant role in today’s economic turmoil, and was the reason some economists began invoking the Great Depression. But those comparisons were more to stress how differently policy makers are behaving today than their counterparts did in 1930, when a wave of panics started that eventually caused one-fifth of the nation’s banks to fail.

Today, the Federal Reserve is so cautious about the stability of major financial institutions that regulators sometimes jump into action almost immediately, as they did in the Bear Stearns case. One goal of such an intervention, say economic historians, is to slow down the turmoil as much as possible. In the 1920s and early 1930s, policy makers became overwhelmed by a cascade of crises they were unable to temper.

“In the 1920s, everyone was still reeling from the First World War, which had realigned capital structures and boundaries and had put the defeated countries in positions where they had much less economic flexibility,” said Peter Temin, an economic historian at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In particular, one cause of the Great Depression was that policy makers in the United States and elsewhere were either reluctant or unable to increase their countries’ supplies of money, which at the time were often backed by gold.

“Today, we have a lot more flexibility and we can prop up banks and the economy to give us enough time to let things stabilize,” Professor Temin added. Already, some lawmakers are proposing to help refinance or purchase failing mortgages in order to slow down how quickly other problems might spread; that approach, however, might carry risks of its own, like encouraging irresponsible behavior and increasing government deficits.

Of course, all of these techniques do not guarantee an easy path to rosier times. Some economists and financiers say it’s likely that the current recession will extend for at least a year. Others think the American economy will suffer from an extended malaise as Japan did in the 1990s.

But whatever name economists give the current downturn, we are unlikely to see the bread lines, shantytowns and dust bowl of the Great Depression. More likely, these economists say, would be a sudden increase in the number of people selling belongings on eBay.

Hollywood, which until now has largely catered to American tastes, might begin more explicitly choosing scripts based on how they would play in rising economies like India and China. And while exports of manufactured goods might accelerate, the outsourcing trends that sent some American jobs abroad might reverse. Already, Germany-based BMW is expanding a South Carolina plant, betting that the weak dollar will make American workers cheaper than those in Germany or Japan.

Which isn’t to say that anyone is starting to hum “Happy Days Are Here Again.” Even the Federal Reserve chief, Ben Bernanke, has warned against becoming too sanguine.

“To understand the Great Depression is the Holy Grail of macroeconomics,” Mr. Bernanke wrote in a 1994 paper, when he was a professor at Princeton focused on analyzing the financial cataclysm that began in 1929. While economists have made great progress, he continued, “we do not yet have our hands on the Grail by any means.”
707 2008-03-23 Basaraba, an associate professor of pathology at Colorado State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, has made it a particular crusade to understand and root out avoidable Iditarod fatalities.

“Despite all our attempts, there are unexpected deaths,” said Basaraba, who has been studying dogs on the Iditarod since 1995. “The goal is to try to avoid that. We don’t know if that’s realistic or not, but this gives us the best chance.”

At least one dog has died every year since the first Iditarod, in 1973. Animal-rights groups denounce the race, which requires dogs to pull sleds weighing 250 pounds or more across mountain passes, frozen lakes and tundra in biting winds and temperatures that can dip below minus 50, a journey that can take 9 to 18 days.

“The death toll continues to mount,” Lisa Wathne, a spokeswoman for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, said in a telephone interview. “This is a grueling event that is cruel and inappropriate to the dogs, who obviously don’t have a choice in the matter.”

Wayne Pacelle, the president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States, said his organization used to send people to monitor the race but had not focused on it as much in recent years. Although he shares concerns about the strenuous nature of the Iditarod, he said by phone that “there is also the issue of culling and overbreeding.”

“The number of animals dying in the race is dwarfed, I’m sure, by the number of animals that may be shunted aside in one way or another,” Pacelle said, referring to practices that include selling them or disposing of them.

Basaraba and others counter that their research has improved mortality rates, especially considering the increasing number of entrants. This year, a record 96 teams of 16 dogs started the race.

“I’m very confident in the system that has been put in to place to assure the animals get the best care that is possible,” Basaraba said in a recent phone interview from his home in Fort Collins, Colo. “I have no reservations about the integrity of the race.”

Many mushers, past and present, agree. They say the fatality rate associated with the Iditarod is probably lower than for a similar group of 1,500 dogs in the general population anywhere in the world.

“You can be totally assured that the dogs are being better taken care of than anyone’s pets, even pampered ones,” said Bud Smyth, who competed in the first Iditarod and served as a race marshal in 1978. “They didn’t even know how many dogs died in the old days. It was a mess.”

“The truth is, the race has some intrinsic dangers that could cause the demise of dogs, like any sporting event,” he added recently by phone. “But there are things we haven’t solved about dogs working under this much stress.”

Basaraba and the team of veterinary pathologists have identified warning signs for common killers like myopathy, or muscle degeneration, and gastric ulceration, which can cause a dog to vomit and predispose it to pneumonia, a common killer.

Trail vets now encourage mushers with dogs showing signs of myopathy in the early part of the Iditarod to leave them behind. In the latter stages, when exercise becomes more prolonged, vets will pull a dog out of the race if it has symptoms of gastric ulceration.

This research has helped identify remedies. Mushers now often administer common over-the-counter ulcer medications to their teams (in weight-appropriate doses) as preventative measures.

“The whole point is to try to identify these conditions early and give treatment,” said Basaraba, adding that researchers could not identify the cause for 30 percent of the deaths in the study.

“We don’t completely understand how all of them occur,” he said. “That’s why we’re focusing on them.”
708 2008-03-23 Jim Cramer expresses opinions with a certitude, not to mention amplitude, that leaves the audience of his CNBC show, "Mad Money," in no doubt about where he stands on a topic. Yet after being widely ridiculed last week for seeming to dismiss concerns about the future of Bear Stearns days before the bank was rescued and its stock collapsed, Mr. Cramer has complained that he was misunderstood.

In a March 11 broadcast, viewed tens of thousands of times on YouTube and parsed by satirists like Jon Stewart, Mr. Cramer told a viewer who asked whether he should remove money from Bear: “No, no, no! Bear Stearns is fine. Bear Stearns is not in trouble.” He then advised: “Don’t move your money from Bear. That’s just being silly.”

Late last week, Mr. Cramer said in an interview that he was referring to assets in Bear Stearns brokerage accounts, not the stock.

On the contrary, he said, he later made “an unbelievable call” that the stock would end up worthless. A transcript of a broadcast on March 14 has him panning the stock, although he did not say unequivocally that it would fall close to zero. As for his earlier assessment that Bear Stearns was not in trouble, well, that was somewhat off the mark. CONRAD DE AENLLE

ANOTHER SIDE OF THE AUTO WORLD

Finbarr J. O’Neill, who left Hyundai in 2003, is taking up residence at a company whose closely watched consumer surveys helped solidify his reputation as Hyundai’s savior. Mr. O’Neill will join J. D. Power & Associates as senior vice president and general manager of international operations, heading development in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and Canada.

Mr. O’Neill resurfaces five months after he left Reynolds & Reynolds, an auto dealership software company where he was chief and then vice chairman. Previously, he was C.E.O. of Mitsubishi Motors North America.
709 2008-03-23 It was a week of extraordinary intervention in the financial markets by the Federal Reserve, and of wild swings in prices. The stock market ended up with substantial gains, while commodities had their biggest sell-off in decades.

The Fed helped arrange JPMorgan Chase’s acquisition of Bear Stearns, and it began giving investment banks access to cheap, plentiful loans. On Tuesday, it cut the federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, and stocks had their biggest one-day rally in five years. They plummeted the next day but soared on Thursday. Meanwhile, commodities prices fell more sharply, by one measure, than in any week since at least 1956. The markets were closed for Good Friday.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 410.23 points, or 3.4 percent, to close at 12,361.32. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index jumped 41.37 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 1,329.51. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 45.62 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 2,258.11. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.33 percent, from 3.47 percent the previous week.
710 2008-03-23 From the Bronx to Staten Island, the disintegration of a bank known for its seven- and eight-figure salaries seemed to expose just how eager many New Yorkers are to release a little air from the city’s wealth bubble. Corey K. Cox, 32, who works at an equity research firm, hopes that the troubles for Bear Stearns workers may make it easier to buy a three-bedroom apartment or even a house in Brooklyn. His wife is expecting their second child in April.

“The environment right now is definitely more favorable to people who don’t make those Wall Street bonuses,” Mr. Cox said.

On Web sites devoted to New York, there was a healthy dose of schadenfreude.

“I am willing to risk a recession if it means tons of ibankers will be gone,” wrote one anonymous poster on Curbed.com, a Web site about real estate.

New York City has always been defined by the yawning gap between its haves and have-nots. But the last 15 years have witnessed the rise of a class of financiers whose salaries and bonuses have reached staggering heights. Over the last five years, the median compensation for a managing director working in investment banking rose from $650,000 to $1.37 million, according to Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm.

That is a pittance compared with hedge-fund managers. The highest-paid managers earned at least $240 million a year in 2006, according to the Institutional Investor’s Alpha magazine, nearly double the amount of 2005 (and up from a minimum of $30 million in 2002).

Their pay — and eagerness to spend it — has encouraged the growth of a luxury market in everything from groceries to restaurants to spas to specialty boutiques. Witness the Marc Jacobs-ization of the West Village, the surging average price of a two-bedroom apartment in Harlem to $1.1 million, and the rise of $15 tubs of ice cream in, of all places, the Lower East Side, at Il Laboratorio del Gelato.

In a city where the median household income in 2006 was $46,480, it’s no wonder that many people are bitter.

Robert H. Frank, an economics professor at Cornell, has written about the phenomenon of Americans who feel impoverished because of the towering wealth of those above them. In New York City, he said, those feelings are compounded by the sense that much of the wealth at the top is derived from financial instruments that merely move money around.

“It’s one thing if people are adding value to society,” Professor Frank said. “But there is skepticism that this is all a shell game and these guys are not adding value, at least to the extent that justifies their salaries.”

Kathryn Lyon, 62, who works at a legal staffing firm, and her husband, who works for the city, have wanted to buy an apartment in Manhattan for the last seven years, but have felt priced out by the wealthy.

“The city has been so damaged by this wealth, and the middle class has been forced out,” Ms. Lyon said. “You’re holding on by your fingernails to stay in the city.”

“I love New York,” she added, “But there’s always the risk of the city being swallowed up by wealth.”

At the same time, the troubles at Bear Stearns and the rest of Wall Street may well create hard times for New Yorkers. Many of the 8,000 Bear Stearns workers in the city are expected to lose their jobs. Citigroup announced that it will lay off 2,000 employees, and more job cuts are likely at companies like Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs.

The trickle-down effect may allow people like Ms. Lyon to buy an apartment, but it could also make the city a far less desirable place to live. During the last prolonged slump on Wall Street, after the crash of the stock market in 1987, a combination of large job losses at banks, trouble in the credit markets and a glut of new commercial and residential real estate on the market (sound familiar?) battered the city .

Office vacancies soared. Housing prices fell, with bad loans leaving some buildings worthless. Crime surged. And tourism plunged.

Jonathan Miller, the president and chief executive of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan real estate appraisal company, remembers appraising a studio co-op apartment in the now-exclusive Tudor City for $11,000 in 1990.

Even though he could afford to charge the studio on his Visa, he decided that it wasn’t worth the risk. “There was great concern whether many of these co-ops would remain solvent,” he said.

That’s why the troubles at Bear Stearns are a mixed blessing for New York’s lower ranks. The same masters of the universe who have made housing so expensive have beefed up the tax base, its sanitation services and its police force. They have, in many ways, underwritten the “new” New York City of the late 1990s and 2000s, defined by pristine parks and low murder rates.

Some Bear Stearns executives already are unloading homes. One of them called a Manhattan broker last week to put his town house up for sale. Ray Schmitz, an associate broker at Coldwell Banker Previews International who stood outside of Bear Stearns on Monday morning handing out business cards, said he received calls from two employees interested in selling.

But, at least so far, New York real estate prices show few signs of declining. The weak American dollar is encouraging thousands of foreigners to buy what seem like bargain apartments. “The condo market is not negotiable because we have Europeans throwing so much money at it,” said Darren Sukenik, an executive vice president for luxury sales at Prudential Douglas Elliman.

And don’t count on suddenly getting a next-day reservation at New York’s most popular restaurants. Waits for prime-time tables at Nobu are still four weeks, said Drew Nieporent, the force behind more than a dozen restaurants, including Rubicon and Tribeca Grill.

Even at the height of the ’80s economic downturn, Mr. Nieporent did not lower prices at his restaurants. But he did make one big concession: a B.Y.O.B. Monday at Montrachet.

Still, many New Yorkers hope prices decline. Even some on Wall Street.

Michele Kleier, the president of Gumley Haft Kleier, a Manhattan brokerage, received a call from a giddy client, a financier. The bidding war over a seven-room $4 million apartment had suddenly turned in the client’s favor. His rival, it turned out, was an executive at Bear Stearns, a once-glittering credential that might now hurt his chances with the seller and the co-op board.

“It’s like an old Western movie where the vultures are gathering,” Ms. Kleier said between showings for multimillion-dollar listings.
711 2008-03-23 The Yankees’ and Mets’ openers March 31 are rites of spring that require celebratory fizz.

Languedoc supplies an appropriate white, Blanquette de Limoux. Light, zippy, produced mainly from mauzac grapes, it is made more interesting by the blended-in chardonnay and chenin blanc.
712 2008-03-23 “I’m very outgoing, so it’s very easy to talk to people,” Ayazhia explained. “I go up to everyone, I take cookies everywhere. Sometimes people say they’re too fattening. We tell them they’re not that big — GIRL SCOUT COOKIES!”

Ayazhia’s sales pitch? “I just basically say they’re good for you and they’re only on sale once a year and they freeze well, so there’s never enough.

“To be a good salesman,” she continued, “You have to talk clearly, you have to look them in the eye. It shows respect. That way, they think you don’t care about anything else but them — GIRL SCOUT COOKIES!”

Ayazhia has sold to most everyone at her church and three boxes each to all nine of her teachers at Lawrence Road Middle School in Uniondale. By the time the other Girl Scouts at school asked, they heard those immortal words: “Ayazhia already got me.” She’s been door to door twice in her Uniondale neighborhood — first in January, then again in March.

Some girls go with an order slip, then come back two weeks later with the boxes. She takes orders in the morning and delivers that afternoon. “If you deliver right away, in a few weeks, they eat them all,” Ayazhia said. “They might want more.”

Peek behind most great cookie salesgirls, and you’ll find a network of family support. Ayazhia’s mother, Marissa, 30, always keeps 15 cases of cookies handy in the living room to ensure same-day delivery. Her father, David, 31, a union electrician, and her maternal grandmother, Carrie Hendricks, 56, a social work supervisor, take orders at the office. Sonia Oxford, 54, her other grandmother, who’s been a troop leader for 20 years, and Simone Oxford, her aunt, also a troop leader, accompany the girls selling.

People buy cars despite the salesmen; they buy cookies because of those little salesgirls. “Sweet, very sweet,” said Chemar Smith, who was not referring to the Do-si-dos she had just bought at the mall. “These girls — I know it takes a lot to be out here selling in the evening, after a long day of school, and they need our support.”

As to why Ayazhia in particular gets so much support, her friend Katherine — no slouch herself at 120 boxes so far this year — said: “She’s just so outgoing. It’s the face, the voice — ”

“She’s definitely not shy,” said Katherine.

For those who haven’t been steamrolled yet and seek to stay out of harm’s way: Lay low, there are only a few weeks left to the national cookie drive. However, few escape unscathed. Last year Girl Scouts sold 1.18 million boxes in Nassau County. That’s about one box for every man, woman and child in the county, netting $2.4 million, according to Donna Rivera-Downey, the organization’s Nassau marketing director. Cookie sales are the county scouts’ biggest revenue source, she said. And as good as Ayazhia is, two Girls Scouts in the county were better last year: Margaret Edelman of Hicksville (1,584) and Tara Philippou of Lawrence (1,500).

Girl Scouting began in 1912, and there have been cookie drives since 1917. By 1933, the Philadelphia Girl Scout Council was selling boxes of 44 cookies for 23 cents. These days Americans buy 200 million boxes annually, spending $700 million.

The same web of family support that keeps Ayazhia in front of the cookie-buying public helps keep her parents going. At age 11, Ayazhia is the oldest of six children and the only girl born to Mr. and Mrs. Lee. She has five brothers: Ajahni, 7; Amahri, 6; Isaiah, 4; Alijah, 2; and Alexander, 3 months. The Lees are not rich — the eight of them live in a four-bedroom house here. Mrs. Lee, a teacher by training, stays home full time, and the family lives on Mr. Lee’s $40,000 salary as an electrician.

But they had confidence they could manage a large family because Mr. Lee and his mother, Ms. Oxford, who immigrated to the United States from Jamaica, both come from big families. He is one of 8; his mother, one of 10. Many of these aunts, uncles, great-aunts and great-uncles live nearby and help out.

“We’ve never had to hire a baby sitter or pay for day care,” Mr. Lee said.

The Lees are not churchgoers, but Ms. Oxford takes their four oldest to Grace Lutheran here every Sunday; Ayazhia is active in several church youth groups. John Johnson, a great-uncle, takes the three oldest boys to museums and cultural events in the city; Mrs. Lee’s mother baby-sits and drives the children to school.

When a reporter visited, and the Lees needed quiet in the house, a great-aunt, Maggie Clough, took the three oldest boys out. Even so, Mrs. Lee stood during the entire interview, rocking the baby; Mr. Lee had 2-year-old Alijah in his lap. “This is about as free as we get,” said Mr. Lee. “Everything in our life revolves around kids.”

To fill the gaps that family can’t, there’s also a network of godparents, including Ben and Debbie Williams, as well as three women who graduated with the Lees from Uniondale High in 1995: Aisha Boothe, Aisha Jarmond and Danielle Hurdle.

The Lees like the values their daughter learns through scouting; she’s earned the Please and Thank You merit badge. She’s also done a truckload of community service. With her troop, she ran a bake sale to raise money for a nearby homeless shelter, put on a carnival for underprivileged children and took part in a cancer walk.

For every 300 boxes sold, girls earn a $75 credit toward scouting activities like summer camp. As a top seller last year, Ayazhia also won a $100 gift certificate for her mother to attend a spa.

The parents like the business skills cookie sales teach.

“Looks good on the résumé,” Mr. Lee said.

While most girls have finished selling by now, Ayazhia says these last weeks of the national drive are actually the time to clean up.

“I tell people it’s their last chance until next year,” she said.

Indeed, when first observed at the mall in early March, Ayazhia had sold just 717 boxes; by a return visit last week, she was over 1,000.

Claudia Levy, who was pushing her daughter Jada in a carriage, had passed the booth when the sales pitch registered. She switched into reverse and bought a quick box of Samoas. As she headed off toward the Disney Store, she could be heard saying, “I really don’t need these.”
713 2008-03-23 Another product that could be useful in older homes — and even in co-op and condo apartments — is the STEP Warmfloor, an electric radiant heating system.

Joseph Myers, president of East Coast Warmfloor in Milltown, N.J., said that while most radiant heating systems use a heated liquid flowing through tubing installed beneath the floor, STEP Warmfloor is a flexible polymer mat one-eighth of an inch thick that can be installed beneath tile, wood, carpet or laminate flooring.

The mat heats up when a 24-volt electric current is passed through it. “The heat produced by the mats is self-regulating,” Mr. Myers said. He explained that once a mat reaches 82 degrees, just enough to warm the floor without damaging the flooring material itself, it shuts off, cools down to 78 degrees and then turns back on.

Literally every inch of the mat is self-regulating, he said. So if part of the floor is warmed by the sun, it will shut itself off while the rest of the floor continues to heat.

Mr. Myers said the system was ideal for “spot heating” rooms like bathrooms and kitchens and for heating additions that would be difficult or expensive to connect to the home heating system. And since the system uses a low-voltage electric current, not a liquid, co-op and condo boards typically allow for its installation.

A STEP Warmfloor costs about $15 a square foot installed. (Information is available online at www.warmfloor.com.)

Is your roof curling, cracking, rotting or leaking? NewYorksBestRoof.com of Poughkeepsie sells and installs the aluminum Interlock Roofing System, which comes in a variety of styles, colors and textures that mimic shingles, slate and even flat membrane roofing and terra cotta.

Mark Vance, the company’s vice president for marketing, said that an Interlock roof was maintenance-free and noncombustible and carried a fully transferable warranty.

Since the roof is permanent, installation can cost two or three times that of an ordinary roof.
714 2008-03-23 Mr. Green quoted Mike Daisey lamenting that regional theaters have lost sight of their founding mission “to house repertory companies of artists.”

We in Houston disagree. The Alley Theater has had a resident acting company since 1989. We are committed to this concept, and we are expanding the company to 24 from 12 actors over the next few years.

The writer is the managing director of the Alley Theater.
715 2008-03-23 You devoted your March 9 issue to a discussion of how the wealthiest Americans can best have an impact on philanthropy. But none of the articles asked a fundamental question: Is the nation’s reliance on voluntary, uncoordinated charity — provided by people who may benefit from massive tax cuts — the best way to solve pressing social problems?

Modern American society seems to accept as a given that the wealthiest should have unfettered free choice to spend their billions on vacation homes, multimillion-dollar bequests to their pets or donations to charities, including well-funded medical, cultural and educational institutions. In contrast, most Western European nations tax the wealthy far more equitably, and their societies as a whole, through their democratically elected representatives, determine how excess wealth should be spent. Such countries have stronger social safety nets and less homelessness and poverty than America.

Jim Holt (“Good Instincts”) may be accurate in listing cynical reasons for altruism. But what of it? Charitable funding is desperately needed. Those who may be giving for the wrong reasons could just as easily be spending on useless material goods rather than giving to worthy endeavors.

Francis Bacon said, “In charity there is no excess.” I’m reasonably certain he would have agreed that there is also no wrong reason to give.

Why all the analysis about altruism? Seems to me it’s as basic as wanting a sense of purpose, a reason for our existence. Who cares if that’s technically “selfish”? The bigger question is why people who can afford to be generous choose not to, in spite of the overwhelming evidence that a self-absorbed life is a sad one.
716 2008-03-23 WILLIE KATHRYN SUGGS has been selling brownstones in Harlem since the bad old days, when crime was rampant and downtown brokers did not venture there. Now Ms. Suggs, a key figure in the Harlem town house renaissance over the last two decades, is in danger of losing two town houses she owns in West Harlem.

A legal advertisement published by the city sheriff on March 14 announced that two houses owned by Ms. Suggs — a three-story tan brick town house on Hamilton Terrace, in the heart of the Hamilton Heights Historic District, and a four-story limestone building on West 145th Street near Amsterdam Avenue — would be auctioned off in May to pay a legal judgment against her.

It turns out that last November, Ms. Suggs, who has worked in real estate since 1985 and has operated her own firm in Harlem since the 1990s, suffered a devastating setback in an eight-day civil trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The jury, according to court records, found that Ms. Suggs had acted for personal motives when she filed complaints with the district attorney and the police that led to the arrest of a sales agent working for her in 2000. The employee was accused of stealing documents from the office.

The former employee, Raquel Brown, was completing a yearlong stint as a sales agent, required by the state before she would become a broker and go into business for herself. But a few days before her term was up, she said, Ms. Suggs had her arrested, withheld commissions and warned her that she would never work in real estate in Harlem again. Ms. Suggs maintained that she had acted properly.

The six-member jury voted unanimously to award Ms. Brown $2.6 million in damages to compensate her for abuse of the legal process, with punitive damages to be set at a later date. The jury also found Ms. Suggs liable for unpaid commissions and interest.

Ms. Suggs referred questions to her lawyer, Morton Newburgh. He said that this was a complaint from one agent “out of all the years Ms. Suggs has been in business working with many, many agents.” Sales agents who have worked for Ms. Suggs testified both for her and against her.
717 2008-03-23 Until now, lodging possibilities on Kangaroo Island, often considered the Australian Galápagos, with its 21 national parks and five wilderness protection areas, home to wildlife like koalas, wallabies, and kangaroos — only consisted of boutique hotels and bed-and-breakfasts. But on March 29, the first large-scale luxury lodge is set to open there. Southern Ocean Lodge (www.southernoceanlodge.com.au) will offer 21 suites with sunken lounges and outdoor terraces, a spa with treatments based on Aboriginal medicine and spirituality, and a restaurant with a view of Hanson Bay.

The property was designed by the architect Max Pritchard, who focused on integrating it as naturally as possible with the environment, using local limestone, recycled wood and glass. Baillie Lodges, the owner of the resort, is also joining with the South Australian government to finance environmental projects on the island, like researching 15 threatened plant species. Nightly rates start at 900 Australian dollars a person, about $825 at 1.09 Australian dollars to the U.S. dollar.
718 2008-03-23 “We need to listen to the views and respect the collective will of our democratic allies,” Mr. McCain wrote in the article, signaling a more collaborative tone after years in which the United States has been widely criticized as conducting a headstrong, go-it-alone foreign policy. “When we believe that international action is necessary, whether military, economic or diplomatic, we will try to persuade our friends that we are right. But we, in return, must also be willing to be persuaded by them.”

But some analysts question whether a new tone, however welcome, and the adoption of a few policies that are more in line with the rest of the world would be enough by themselves to improve America’s image, given the searing unpopularity of the Iraq war — which Mr. McCain strongly supports — in much of the world.

“In terms of public opinion, I think the war in Iraq is paramount,” said Nicole Bacharan, an expert on the United States at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris.

James M. Goldgeier, a political scientist who studies trans-Atlantic relations at the Council on Foreign Relations, said of Mr. McCain: “There are positions that he’s taken that are very different from that of the Bush administration, and sound much better to European ears, on climate change and torture.”

The precipitous decline in America’s reputation abroad — after no unconventional weapons were found in Iraq and the revelations about abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib, among other milestones — is underscored by a series of surveys conducted overseas by the Pew Global Attitudes Project. The percentage of respondents in Britain, America’s strongest ally, who said they viewed the United States favorably fell to 51 percent last spring, down from 83 percent before the Iraq war began; in France it fell to 39 percent from 62 percent before the war began, said Andrew Kohut, the director of the project.

It is an issue that resonates with some voters back home; Mr. McCain is often asked on the campaign trail what he would do to restore America’s reputation.

Now, as the world takes Mr. McCain’s measure, one of the questions people are likely to grapple with is very much like one of the questions voters in the United States have been asking: to what extent a President McCain would represent a break from Mr. Bush’s policies, and to what extent he would be the continuation of them.

Some of Mr. McCain’s differences with Mr. Bush are clear; others go unspoken. Mr. McCain has traveled far more extensively than Mr. Bush had when he was elected president, and has been to all corners of the world. As a Navy officer, Congressional liaison and senator, he has visited dozens of spots around the world, from Antarctica to the Arctic Circle to every nation in NATO. At nearly every stop this week, he was greeted at the formal photo-ops by local officials as an old friend; he noted Friday that his meeting here with Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, was his third.

But Mr. McCain remains perhaps the biggest booster of the unpopular Iraq war (though he was critical of the Bush administration’s conduct of it before last year). How he winds up being viewed abroad, as at home, will most likely depend on what happens there. At nearly every stop this week Mr. McCain told listeners that the situation in Iraq was improving, and that “Al Qaeda is on the run, but not defeated.”

But some of his message of being the most knowledgeable about Iraq was undermined at a stop on Tuesday when he said several times in Amman, Jordan, that Iranians were taking Al Qaeda into Iran, training them, and sending them back — a mistake he corrected, but which drew criticism from Democrats back home.

Military officials have said that they believe that Iran, a Shiite country, has been largely training and financing Shiite extremists in Iraq, and taking select Shiite militants to Iran for training. Al Qaeda in Iraq is a Sunni insurgent group.

And while military officials have said that they have found evidence that Iran is also aiding some Sunni insurgents, they have also said that they have not seen evidence that Iran is directly aiding Al Qaeda in Iraq.

In London, a skeptical editorial in The Independent, headlined “A hawk lands in London,” called Mr. McCain’s misstatement about Iran and Al Qaeda “a troubling error” but went on to say that “a McCain brand of hawkishness is likely to be less inflexibly, and ignorantly, ideological than George Bush’s.”

A supportive column in The Daily Telegraph credited Mr. McCain as being the architect of the new strategy that has led to diminished violence in Iraq, and went on to say that “it is unlikely, had Mr. McCain occupied the White House before the invasion, that he would have tolerated the inept handling of prewar diplomacy in Washington that led to the greatest rift in the trans-Atlantic alliance since the 1956 Suez crisis.”

But, as at home, the hotly contested Democratic primary is garnering more attention in Europe than the Republican nominee, and the Democrats are widely seen as offering the prospect of a more significant break from the Bush years. As Mr. McCain arrived in London, the newspapers were full of Senator Barack Obama’s speech this week on race relations. The Times of London even ran a review of it by its theater critic.

Still, even with the ascendance of Mr. Sarkozy, a pro-American French president, it would have been almost unthinkable four years ago, in the height of anti-French sentiment and freedom fries, to see a Republican presidential candidate praising France.

“I think that our relations with France will continue to improve no matter who is president of the United States,” Mr. McCain said after leaving Mr. Sarkozy at the Élysée Palace on Friday, “because this president is committed to great cooperation, and values our friendship.”
719 2008-03-23 To the Editor:     Re ''Rescue Me: A Fed Bailout Crosses the Line'' (Fair Game, March 16), by Gretchen Morgenson:...
720 2008-03-23 ''GIRL SCOUT COOKIES!'' bellowed Ayazhia Lee, 11....
721 2008-03-23 WEISS--Murray, 100, departed peacefully on March 21st, 2008, Riverdale, NY exactly 7 weeks after the death of his beloved wife, Belle, 99, and just 3 months before celebrating their 75th wedding anniversary. They will be missed by their children, ...
722 2008-03-24 Google has praised the government rules that will force Verizon to open its cellphone network to rivals. But experience suggests it may be hard to take advantage of these rules....
723 2008-03-24 The Web site of Netflix, the popular movie rental service, "is temporarily unavailable."...
724 2008-03-24 The Clinton campaign says Senator Hillary Clinton may have "misspoke" recently when she said she had to evade sniper fire when she was visiting Bosnia in 1996 as first lady....
725 2008-03-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
726 2008-03-24 Drew Carey's prime time try-outs went well. "The Price is Right" will be shown on Wednesday nights in May. (Monty Brinton/CBS) CBS, which started showing "The Price Is Right" on Friday nights last month, has ordered four more after-dark episodes o...
727 2008-03-24 The WB, above, became one half of The CW in 2006. ­ - Why is Warner Brothers reviving the WB television network with a new Web site? Because the company is unhappy with "how the ratings-challenged CW network is being programmed and marketed under...
728 2008-03-24 The sangria ban in Virginia, and other surprising bans....
729 2008-03-24 Critics of the Fox News Channel regularly complain that the network beats up on Democrats and takes comments out of context. Usually, though, those critics are not Fox anchors. On Friday Chris Wallace, host of the weekend political talk show "Fox ...
730 2008-03-24 The results are in from the Shapes Experiment, featuring a game in which Lab readers repeatedly chose between two shapes and scored points proportional to the area of the shape. Most of the players hurt their scores by spending too much agonizing ...
731 2008-03-24 There were plenty of things to talk about after the N.C.A.A. tournament's wild weekend....
732 2008-03-24 Any growth in the ranks of women at the highest reaches of corporate America tends to be measured in small increments, particularly in the so-called C-suite jobs like chief executive and chief operating officer. There has, however, been a notewort...
733 2008-03-24 The blockbuster initial public offering of Visa - the largest ever in the United States - will do little to revive the slowing I.P.O. market, which has been dampened by investors spooked by the credit crisis. With its $17.9 billion offering, the w...
734 2008-03-24 China Life Insurance, the country's biggest life insurer, said on Monday that it had invested $300 million in Visa's initial public offering in its maiden overseas investment. China Life Chairman Yang Chao has said that he was interested in taking...
735 2008-03-24 From The Onion: JPMorgan Chase Acquires Bear Stearns In Tedious-To-Read News Article NEW YORK-As a volatile market reacts to news of the Bear Stearns fire-sale deal with a surge in stock prices but reduced bond yield, officers from JPMorgan Chase ...
736 2008-03-24 NEW DELHI — After months of talks, the Ford Motor Company and Tata Motors may finally have a deal.

The two companies are expected to announce on Wednesday that Tata is buying the luxury brands Jaguar and Land Rover from Ford for about $2 billion, a person briefed on the negotiations said Monday. Ford will announce the deal from its headquarters in Dearborn, Mich.

The final details of the deal were nearly completed on Monday, the person said, but the companies were waiting until Wednesday because Jaguar and Land Rover employees are on Easter vacation until then.

With the deal, Britain’s iconic Jaguar and Land Rover will switch from a parent company in the throes of painful contraction to one with ambitious international expansion plans. Ford lost $15 billion over the last two years and is actively pushing employees to take buyouts. Profits at Tata Motors, meanwhile, jumped 26 percent in the last reported fiscal year, and exports were up nearly 10 percent in the last reported quarter, which ended in December. Tata and other Indian carmakers are trying to transform India into a low-cost automobile manufacturing center.

How the British luxury brands will fit into Tata Motors remains to be seen. Tata is best known for its pocket-book friendly family cars, like the Indica and the Indigo, though domestic sales of both have dropped recently. Earlier this year the company introduced its long-awaited Nano — a four-door passenger car that will sell for about $2,500.

Tata is also marketing its own high-end brands. In March the company introduced the Sumo Grande, a sport utility vehicle “with the comforts of a family car” that retails for as much as 749,000 rupees ($18,710). New Jaguars sell for at least three times as much.

Negotiations between Tata and Ford have dragged on longer than expected. Ford said in January that Tata was its preferred bidder, virtually sealing the deal and barring any rival from entering a counter bid. But union demands and pension plan shortfalls have complicated the transaction.
737 2008-03-24 Mississippi State (23-11) made 14 of 20 free-throw attempts (70 percent). The Bulldogs had a game-high 21 points from Gordon, a junior guard.

“We made more free throws than them,” Calipari said. “We beat them at the free-throw line.”

Douglas-Roberts and his fellow guard Derrick Rose led Memphis with 17 points each, and forward Joey Dorsey had 13 points, 12 rebounds and 6 blocks.

“There isn’t nervousness at all,” Douglas-Roberts, who was 5 of 7 from the line, said of his team’s free-throw shooting. “We just have to be consistent, but I feel very comfortable in my teammates at the line. It’s all mental.”

The Tigers are in the Round of 16 for third consecutive year and will face fifth-seeded Michigan State (27-8) on Friday in Houston.

“I like the mental attitude of my team,” Calipari said. “They’re having fun playing. They competed today against a good and physical team, and we march on.”

After trailing by as many as 6 points in the first half, Memphis regained the lead, 22-21, with 6 minutes 21 seconds left in the half. The Tigers then went on a 14-6 spurt to close the half and take a 36-27 lead at intermission.

Their lead ballooned to as many as 13 points early in the second half, but Mississippi State tied the game at 52-52 with 8:33 remaining.

Ahead by 61-57, Memphis elevated its play when Dorsey returned with four fouls at the 5:39 mark after sitting for nearly three minutes. His return helped the Tigers push their lead to 73-65 with 33 seconds left.

Dorsey then fouled out on a failed 3-point play by forward Charles Rhodes. That was followed by a 3-pointer by Gordon to cut Memphis’s advantage to 75-70 with 19 seconds remaining.

Four seconds later, Tigers guard Antonio Anderson missed two free throws and Rhodes dunked at the opposite end to cut Mississippi State’s deficit to 3 points with 10 seconds left.

The Bulldogs fouled Rose, who made one of two free throws for a 76-72 lead with nine seconds left. After a layup reduced his team’s advantage to 2 points, Douglas-Roberts made his free throw before Gordon’s unsuccessful heave at the buzzer.

“We were going to put Memphis at the line,” Mississippi State Coach Rick Stansbury said. “They missed enough free throws for us. Gave us opportunities. If they make their free throws, you don’t have the opportunities we had.”

Calipari said he was not as worried about his team’s shaky free-throw shooting as some might imagine. He noted that he had lightened his team’s free-throw shooting in practice.

“The free throws we need to make, we’ll make,” Calipari said. “I’ve got absolutely no issues. There are three, four other issues I worry about. It’s not free-throw shooting.”
738 2008-03-24 “His phrasing and his attack and how he functioned in the orchestra was unique to Cachao,” the actor Andy Garcia, who reinvigorated Cachao’s career by producing albums and documentaries in the 1990’s, said in a telephone interview on Sunday. “He always played bass with the bow in his hand. He would go back and forth. And as he was strumming with his fingers, he always had the bow in his hand and the bow would strike the bass percussively.”

It has been estimated that the López brothers wrote thousands of songs. They worked in established Cuban forms, like the elegant charanga and danzón, while testing new ideas. In 1937, they came up with the first mambo. It was a failure. “It was too fast for dancing, and we were six months without any work,” Cachao told The Miami Herald in 1995. “People didn’t like it. When we slowed it down, then it became danceable.”

The original mambos were for the string ensembles that played dances at the time. But big-band leaders picked up the rhythm and applied it to more aggressive brass arrangements — notably Dámaso Pérez Prado, who popularized the mambo worldwide. During the 1950’s and 1960’s, the mambo filled dance floors at New York City’s famous Palladium club and nationwide. In Havana, Cachao gathered top Cuban musicians for jam sessions or descargas, and a handful of recordings by Cachao y Su Ritmo Caliente — beginning with an after-midnight studio session in Havana in 1957 — became cornerstones of salsa.

Cachao left Cuba in 1962. He spent two years in Spain, then came to New York City, where he performed with mambo bands led by Tito Rodríguez, José Fajardo and Eddie Palmieri. For decades, he worked almost entirely as a sideman. He moved to Las Vegas — where he lived until he became, he said, a compulsive gambler — and then to Miami. Cachao made only three albums as a leader between 1970 and 1990. In Miami, he played at clubs, bar mitzvahs and airport hotel lounges, although he hadn’t been forgotten. Mr. Garcia said, quoting the Cuban saxophonist Paquito d’Rivera, “All the people who needed to know who Cachao was, knew.”

In 1990, Mr. Garcia — a longtime fan of Cachao’s music — organized recording sessions with leading Cuban musicians and a tribute concert for Cachao in Miami. “Master Sessions Volume I” and “Master Sessions Volume II” were made in five days; Volume I won a Grammy Award. The concert was also the basis for a documentary, “Cachao, Como Su Ritmo No Hay Dos.”

Mr. Garcia went on to produce two more albums for Cachao, “Cuba Linda” (2000) and the Grammy-winning “Ahora Sí” (2004). Another documentary, “Cachao: Uno Más,” will be released next month. During one recording session, Mr. Garcia recalled, he suggested that Cachao write a descarga that started with a fugue. “He said, ‘Tell the musicians to go and take a break and bring me a sheet of paper and a pencil,’ ” Mr. Garcia recalled. Using a conga drum as a desk and whistling the melodies, Cachao wrote a four-part fugue during the break, and recorded it immediately.

With renewed recognition, Cachao spent the 1990’s and 2000’s touring and recording worldwide and collecting awards. He performed with younger admirers and with his Cuban contemporaries, including the pianist Bebo Valdés, joining Mr. Valdés on a Grammy-winning trio album “El Arte del Sabor.”

He received a National Heritage Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts, and he has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Before he grew ill in early March, Cachao had planned a European tour and new recording sessions. His manager, Mr. Albareda, said that Cachao told him: “You’ve got years. I’ve got minutes.”

He is survived by a daughter, María Elena López and a grandson, Hector Luis Vega. Orestes López’s son, Orlando López, is nicknamed Cachaito, and has been the bassist with important Cuban groups including the Buena Vista Social Club.
739 2008-03-24 Mr. Belda is particularly frustrated, given that he is a Moroccan-born citizen of Brazil whom Alcoa brought to the United States in the early 1990s when immigration rules were looser. Now, with visas for immigrants with special skills tightly controlled and awarded in an annual lottery in early April, managing a global enterprise from New York can be a competitive disadvantage, he said.

“After 9/11, it just became more and more complicated,” Mr. Belda said. “You’re fighting to get everybody in, “he said, then fighting for renewal of their visas so that they can stay more than three years. “How do you move somebody with a family if they don’t know they’re going to be renewed?” he said.

Until now, visa restrictions have been seen as a problem that primarily affected technology companies in Silicon Valley and elsewhere in the West. Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, has been railing against them for years.

But according to the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group, there is more demand for visas for specialized jobs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut than in California, and most of the demand comes from small and midsize companies, not the largest corporations. The partnership, whose members include many of the city’s biggest employers, has lobbied legislative leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles E. Schumer, for a relaxation of visa policies.

“New York’s ability to compete with London, which has much more open immigration, or with the emerging financial capitals in Asia and the Middle East, depends on mobility of talent, both in terms of new and current employees,” said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the partnership. “What people miss is, New York’s standing as an international capital of business and finance depends on the professionals within these companies being able to come to New York to be trained and groomed for leadership positions around the world.”

Indeed, companies are capitalizing on more open visa policies elsewhere to recruit some of the leaders educated and trained in New York. Gaurav Gaur, for example, an Indian who earned his M.B.A. from Cornell in 2004, said he seized the chance to leave New York last year for London to work for Barclays, though it meant turning his back on opportunities at Bloomberg L.P. and other American companies.

“The whole visa situation was one of the biggest reasons that I took the job,” Mr. Gaur said in a telephone interview from London, where he is a senior project manager for the British bank. “I didn’t want to keep going through this uncertainty — it’s just a nightmare.”

In New York, Mr. Gaur, 33, had managed to secure one of the three-year visas for professionals known as H-1B visas, and he probably could have renewed it for another three years, he said. But after that he knew he would be faced with the prospect of year-to-year renewals while he waited in a long and unpredictable line for permanent residency — and remained tethered to whatever company was sponsoring him for a green card.

Moreover, he said, his wife, Bhavna, who has a master’s degree in social work from Washington University in St. Louis, had work visa woes of her own in a field where few employers were familiar with the H-1B program.

In Britain, he said, “it’s drastically different.” There is no cap on work visas, and since he had a work permit, his wife was automatically allowed to work; she quickly found a good social work job.

“If I stay here for five years,” he added, “I automatically become eligible for a green card, for permanent residency.”

In the United States, companies apply for the three-year H-1B visas annually, starting on April 1. The demand typically far outstrips the total supply of visas, limited to 65,000 a year, with an additional 20,000 available for those with advanced degrees from American universities. Last year 120,000 applications came in on April 1 alone, including hundreds of duplicates, and United States Citizenship and Immigration Services conducted a lottery for the first time.

This year, officials warned, multiple petitions by the same company for one candidate will be disqualified, to prevent businesses from trying to game the system.

In 2006, more than 10,000 companies sought H-1B visas for jobs in New York City, according to the partnership’s analysis in a soon-to-be-published report. Only about one-tenth of those applications came from the country’s 1,000 biggest companies, it said.

Data about who holds these visas and where they work is closely guarded. But judging by the applications filed, the partnership concluded that the greatest demand is from the New York area.

More than one-fifth — 21 percent — of the applications were for jobs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to the report, titled “Winning the Global Race for Talent.” In contrast, about 18.2 percent of the H-1B visa applications were for jobs in California. Texas ranked fourth behind New York and New Jersey with about 7.7 percent of the applications, according to the report. A survey by the partnership found that employers had complaints about other immigration policies, including long delays in obtaining visas for employees transferring from offices in other countries and visas for their employees to make short-term visits to the United States. They also said they were constrained by big backlogs on applications for employment-based green cards, which offer permanent residency to sponsored workers.

The partnership recommended adjusting the cap on H-1B visas to meet demand and more than doubling the annual limit on employment-based green cards to 290,000 from 140,000. It also suggested exempting workers with advanced degrees in science and math from any cap on H-1B visas and extending the term of visas for workers receiving practical training to 29 months from 12 months.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, which advocates less immigration, dismissed the partnership’s argument as merely “trying to bend the law to benefit them financially.”

The H-1B visa program creates a form of indentured worker whose pay, on average, is lower than that of American counterparts, Mr. Krikorian contended. The only morally defensible way to bring workers into the country, he said, is with green cards that allow them to quit working for the sponsoring employer and stay in the United States. Still, he added that he opposed increasing the number of such green cards without the immigration service’s raising its standards “so that it’s really Einstein immigration.”

“It’s a 20th-century, pre-globalization mentality that thinks somehow American companies and jobs can grow if we cut ourselves off from foreign talent,” she said.
740 2008-03-24 Such swings are common in politics, but for Mr. McCain, Mr. Daschle said, “those swings have been far more pronounced and far more frequent.”

In the spring of 2001, Mr. McCain was by most accounts still angry about the smear campaign that had been run against him when he was campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination in the South Carolina primary the previous year. He had long blamed the Bush campaign for spreading rumors in the state that he had fathered a black child out of wedlock, which Bush aides denied. Mr. McCain was also upset that the new White House had shut the door on hiring so many of his aides.

“Very few, if any, of John’s people made it into the administration,” Mr. Daschle later wrote in his book “Like No Other Time.” “John didn’t think that was right, that his staff should be penalized like that.”

Mr. McCain had begun to ally himself with the Democrats on a number of issues, and had told Mr. Daschle that he planned to vote against the Bush tax cuts, a centerpiece of the new president’s domestic agenda. Mr. McCain often made “disparaging comments” about Mr. Bush on the floor of the Senate, Mr. Daschle recalled.

Still, Democrats were stunned one Saturday in late March when, by their account, John Weaver, Mr. McCain’s longtime political strategist, reached out to Thomas J. Downey, a former Democratic congressman from Long Island who had become a lobbyist with powerful connections on Capitol Hill. In Mr. Downey’s telling, Mr. Weaver posed a question to him over lunch that left him stunned.

“He says, ‘John McCain is wondering why nobody’s ever approached him about switching parties, or becoming an independent and allying himself with the Democrats,’ ” Mr. Downey said in a recent interview. “My reaction was, ‘When I leave this lunch, your boss will be called by anybody you want him to be called by in the United States Senate.’ ”

Mr. Weaver recalls the conversation differently. He said that Mr. Downey had told him that Democrats, eager to find a Republican who would switch sides and give them control of the evenly divided Senate, had approached some Republican senators about making the jump. “I stated they couldn’t be so desperate as they hadn’t reached out to McCain,” Mr. Weaver said in an e-mail message last week.

Whatever transpired, Mr. Downey raced home and immediately called Mr. Daschle. It was the first step in what became weeks of conversations that April between Mr. McCain and the leading Democrats, among them Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and John Edwards, then a senator from North Carolina, about the possibility of Mr. McCain’s leaving his party. One factor driving Mr. McCain, Mr. Downey said, was his bad relations with the Republican caucus.

“They had booed him once when he came in,” Mr. Downey said. “It was bad stuff in the caucus. He didn’t see his future with these guys.”

Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers, said that Mr. McCain, although flattered, never took the idea of leaving the party seriously. The topic was in any case overtaken in May when Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont abandoned the Republicans and changed the balance of power. By June, when Mr. Daschle spent a long-planned weekend with Mr. McCain at Mr. McCain’s Arizona ranch, the question of changing parties was moot.

But less than three years later, Mr. McCain was once again in talks with the Democrats, this time over whether he would be Mr. Kerry’s running mate. In an interview with a blog last year, Mr. Kerry said that the initial idea had come from Mr. McCain’s side, as had happened in 2001.

Mr. Kerry, reacting to reports in The Hill newspaper last year about Mr. Weaver’s 2001 approach to Mr. Downey, said he saw a pattern. “It doesn’t surprise me completely because his people similarly approached me to engage in a discussion about his potentially being on the ticket as vice president,” Mr. Kerry told Jonathan Singer of MyDD.com, a prominent liberal blog, in remarks that are available in an audio version online and that Mr. Kerry’s staff said last week were accurate. “So his people were active — let’s put it that way.”

Two former Kerry strategists said last week that Mr. Weaver went to Mr. Kerry’s house in Georgetown a short time after Mr. Kerry won the Democratic nomination in March and asked that Mr. Kerry consider Mr. McCain as his running mate. (Mr. Weaver said in his e-mail message that the idea had come from Mr. Kerry.) Whatever the case, both sides say that Mr. Kerry was so enthusiastic about the notion that he relentlessly pursued Mr. McCain, even to the point of offering him a large part of the president’s national security responsibilities.

Mr. McCain, who has rarely spoken publicly of his talks with Mr. Kerry, said last month that he had dismissed the vice-presidential offer out of hand. “He is, as he describes himself, a liberal Democrat,” Mr. McCain said of Mr. Kerry when he was asked about the episode by a participant at a public forum in Atlanta. “I am a conservative Republican. So when I was approached, when we had that conversation back in 2004, that’s why I never even considered such a thing.”

Mr. Kerry declined last week to discuss his conversations with Mr. McCain, but three former Kerry strategists said that Mr. McCain had not immediately dismissed the notion of sharing the Democratic ticket. “McCain did not flat-out say no, regardless of what he’s saying now,” said one strategist who asked not to be named. “He was interested in this discussion.”

But however Mr. McCain reacted, he ultimately decided, Mr. Salter said, that the idea would never work. At one point Mr. McCain told Mr. Kerry, Mr. Salter recalled, “What if something happens to you? Your party’s going to be pretty surprised about the kind of president they’re going to have.”

Still, that did not stop a number of Kerry strategists from thinking that Mr. McCain might have helped propel the Democrats to the White House in 2004. “It was a way to extend the reach of the candidacy,” said Mike Donilon, who was one of Mr. Kerry’s media advisers and had been a college roommate of Mr. Salter’s. “I thought it could have been a very strong ticket.”
741 2008-03-24 Boston reliever Hideki Okajima received a rousing ovation. Okajima, who played nine seasons with Yomiuri, was an All-Star as a rookie last year with the Red Sox, posting a 2.22 earned run average.

“Today was the biggest ovation I’ve ever seen him receive here,” Yomiuri Manager Tatsunori Hara said.

Okajima pitched a scoreless seventh, with flashes popping when he threw.

“With all the cameras and stuff, that was pretty cool,” the Red Sox’ Coco Crisp said.

LIRIANO MAKING PROGRESS Francisco Liriano, hoping to break camp with the Minnesota Twins 15 months removed from surgery on his left elbow, struck out five, walked two and did not give up any runs or hits during four innings. Liriano got the win as the Twins defeated the Baltimore Orioles, 3-1.

“He’s stretching out fine,” Twins Manager Ron Gardenhire said. “He was better out there than the last time. We’ll see how he does Friday.”

Liriano, who went 12-3 with a 2.16 E.R.A. as a rookie in 2006 until he was injured, has lowered his spring E.R.A. after each of his last three starts. He lowered it this time to 5.06, from 8.10.

CABRERA CLOSE TO DEAL General Manager Dave Dombrowski did not confirm reports by ESPN and The Associated Press that Miguel Cabrera and the Tigers had reached a preliminary agreement on an eight-year deal for about $152 million, saying only that “we’ve made progress,” according to The Detroit News.

GRANDERSON OUT THREE WEEKS Detroit center fielder Curtis Granderson, who broke a finger on his right hand Saturday, was placed on the 15-day disabled list and will miss opening day. Granderson, who is wearing a splint on the hand, said he would miss at least three weeks.

ROLEN BREAKS HIS FINGER Toronto Blue Jays third baseman Scott Rolen broke his finger during a fielding drill and may not be available for opening day.

A batted ball hit Rolen on the fingernail, breaking the top knuckle on his right middle finger. “It ripped his nail completely off his finger,” General Manager J. P. Ricciardi said.

HOST CITIES NAMED Mexico City, Tokyo, Toronto and San Juan, P.R.,were selected Monday to play host to first-round games during the second World Baseball Classic in 2009. Sites for the later rounds have not been announced.

The tournament, with the same 16 countries that played in the first Classic in 2006, will switch from a round-robin format to double elimination during the first two rounds.

CAPUANO MAY NEED SURGERY The Milwaukee Brewers left-hander Chris Capuano has a torn ligament in his pitching elbow and will probably need reconstructive elbow surgery for the second time in his career. The 29-year-old Capuano injured his elbow Monday.
742 2008-03-24 The visible part of Mr. Davis’s plan involves laying a sturdier foundation for Mr. McCain’s positive, but relatively shallow, public image. It starts in earnest on March 31 with a “Service for America” tour, intended to link the senator’s biography with his values and policy stances. Along the way, it will underscore life events that occurred in battleground states — like Virginia, where Mr. McCain attended high school, and Florida, where he trained as a Navy pilot. He will address the dominant domestic issue with events in April promoting his economic agenda.

Drawing attention amid the Clinton-Obama battle will not be easy. Mr. Davis counts on regional news media coverage from Mr. McCain’s travels and on the instinct for the spotlight of “the best earned-media candidate in history.”

The campaign plans cable television advertising, but only a little, because Mr. McCain is demonstrably not the best candidate in history at raising money. The $12 million he collected in February was less than a quarter of the $55 million for Mr. Obama, of Illinois. To close that gap, the campaign has scheduled a dozen fund-raising events for the next week alone and promises a similar pace throughout the spring.

Another priority is to bolster Mr. McCain’s campaign infrastructure, which has been skeletal since his 2007 fund-raising collapsed. His early triumph in the nominating process allowed him to install operatives at the Republican National Committee, who in tandem with White House political aides can help with strategic planning.

Yet Mr. McCain still does not have a pollster, and his ad maker, Mark McKinnon, has said he will not work against Mr. Obama’s bid to become the first black president. Other aides expect Mr. McKinnon to overcome his reluctance, but some Republicans outside the campaign worry about the pace of organizational progress.

“If they’re not doing it now, they’re going to find themselves behind the eight ball,” said a veteran strategist, Tony Fabrizio.

Beneath promising horse-race numbers in national polls lies the political terrain that Mr. McCain will confront. He enjoys robust approval among Republicans (78 percent in the most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll) and conservatives (68 percent), but not as robust as Mr. Bush four years ago among the same groups (93 percent and 77 percent, respectively).

Mr. McCain commands considerable support among independents, especially against Mrs. Clinton, of New York. This suggests that should she win the Democratic nomination, he would have an easier time winning states like New Hampshire and Colorado. Against Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain fares worse among independents but slightly better among Democrats. That signals opportunity in states filled with lunch-bucket Democrats, like Michigan and Ohio.

Long before the Democratic race ends, Mr. Fabrizio said, Mr. McCain must “war game” a strategy and a message for either outcome.

Democratic operatives have prepared a sustained attack against what they call myths underlying Mr. McCain’s reputation for straight talk. “It’s going to take a while to tear that down,” said Jim Jordan, a consultant who will lead a Democratic Party advertising campaign to aid its nominee. Lamenting the Clinton-Obama fight, Mr. Jordan added, “That’s why it would be nice to get this over with as soon as possible.”

For now, Mr. Obama faces continued fallout from the controversy over his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. And Mrs. Clinton continues to fend off Mr. Obama’s attacks on her integrity. If that has not made Mr. McCain the fall favorite, it has left him in a far better position than a month ago.

“Everything about the playing field still tilts against us,” said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. “But the slope is not as steep. As a Republican, things have started to look a little brighter.”
743 2008-03-24 Critics of the Fox News Channel regularly complain that the network beats up on Democrats and takes comments out of context. Usually, though, those critics are not Fox anchors.

On Friday Chris Wallace, host of the weekend political talk show “Fox News Sunday,” took the hosts of “Fox & Friends” to task for their conversations about Senator Barack Obama’s comments about race. His complaint — which created both a tense moment and some must-see TV — was that his colleagues were taking those comments out of context.

On Tuesday, in a speech that dominated the week’s news, Mr. Obama referred his white grandmother, saying that she had felt nervous passing black men on the street. On Thursday, while trying to clarify his remarks, he called his grandmother a “typical white person.”

On Friday, the “Fox & Friends” hosts questioned whether Mr. Obama’s remarks about his grandmother had been offensive — a process that involved playing the “typical white person” quote over and over again — and two of the three hosts seemed to say that they were. Mr. Wallace came on during the third hour of the program to say that the hosts had too often clipped the quote and played it in isolation.

“It seems to me that two hours of Obama-bashing on this ‘typical white person’ remark is somewhat excessive, and frankly I think you’re somewhat distorting what Obama had to say,” Mr. Wallace said during his regularly scheduled segment on the normally lighthearted morning show.
744 2008-03-24 By resorting to heavy-handed measures, the Communist government runs the risk of undermining Beijing’s pledge to the International Olympic Committee that the Games would promote greater openness in what a generation ago was still an isolated country. If still in place by the Games, the steps could alienate the half-million foreigners expected to attend.

Like the Olympics, live broadcasts from Tiananmen Square were meant to showcase a friendly, confident China — one that had put behind it the deadly 1989 military assault on democracy demonstrators in the vast plaza that remains a defining image for many foreigners.

“Tiananmen is the face of China, the face of Beijing, so many broadcasters would like to do live or recorded coverage of the square,” said Yosuke Fujiwara, the head of broadcast relations for Beijing Olympic Broadcasting, a joint venture between Beijing Olympic organizers and an Olympic committee subsidiary. The broadcasting company coordinates and provides technical services for TV networks, like NBC, that have rights to broadcast the Olympics.

Last week, however, officials with the Beijing Olympics Organizing Committee told Beijing Olympic Broadcasting executives that the live shots were canceled, according to three people familiar with the matter who were given anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the news media.

“We learned that stand-up positions would be canceled,” one of these people said. “No explanation was given for the change.”

Sun Weijia, the organizing committee’s official in charge of dealing with Beijing Olympic Broadcasting, declined to comment, referring the matter to press officers, three of whom also declined to comment.

The organizing committee’s decision may not be final. The International Olympic Committee president, Jacques Rogge, and other leading officials of the committee who are expected in Beijing next month for regularly scheduled meetings could persuade the Beijing Organizing Committee to change its mind.

Coverage of the marathon, which starts in Tiananmen, is also likely to be unaffected, the people said. An early indicator will be a marathon test event scheduled for April.

If the decision stands, it would be a blow to the TV networks whose payments for the right to broadcast the Games account for more than half the International Olympic Committee’s revenue. The biggest spender is NBC, a property of the General Electric-Vivendi partnership NBC Universal. It paid $2.3 billion for the rights for three Olympics from 2004 to 2008 — Athens, Turin and Beijing.

The unrest broke out March 10 in the Tibetan city of Lhasa and has since spread across western China. The government’s harsh response underscores the Communist leaders’ unease as the Olympics approach.

Activist groups have said for months that they planned to use the Olympics to promote their causes. But the challenge faced by China’s leadership seems to grow more pressing.

The government said it had foiled a plot this month by Muslim separatists in western China to blow up a China Southern Airlines plane. Foreign activists angry about China’s support for Sudan in the civil war in Darfur said last week that they would demonstrate in Beijing during the Games.

After the Icelandic singer Bjork shouted “Tibet!” at the finale of a Shanghai concert this month, officials ordered tighter scrutiny of all performances.

The Cub Scouts seem to have been caught in a response to both the Tibet protests and the Bjork concert. The police canceled all on-field entertainment for the exhibition baseball games, including the national anthems.

Officials of the Beijing Organizing Committee began signaling their discomfort with live broadcasts in Tiananmen Square to the International Olympic Committee a year ago, but discussions went back and forth, according to people involved.

The square — featuring a large portrait of Mao Zedong — has been a magnet for protests for decades.
745 2008-03-24 Daniel Clifton begins his “Marked Territory” on a decidedly melancholy note. As he repeatedly falls onto and rises from the floor, a small choir softly sings John Dowland’s “Flow My Tears,” whose line “Down vain lights, shine you no more!” sums up at least the look of what is to follow. In this moody dance-theater production, performed Friday at the Abrons Arts Center, the lights are kept deliberately low.

Often performers appear in half-shadows, casting the stage in a noir atmosphere while providing a setting for the minds of characters consumed by loneliness, violence and sexual desire. Yet for all the drama in this text-heavy piece (the presentation style is a bit like the Public Radio International program “Selected Shorts”), Mr. Clifton also tries to keep it light with comic touches.

Usually such moments are delivered in the form of self-depreciating monologues peppered generously with profanity. Johanna Cairns, as a narrator of sorts, sets the tone by describing her own actions or those of others: “Watch as he gets more aggressive. Once he gets her in the correct position, a thin yellow mist will spray from his right armpit and once this mist hits her skin, it means it’s marked territory.”

The production also incorporates video (featuring sound from “2001: A Space Odyssey”) and a band that is smartly revealed behind a panel at the back of the stage. Yet strangely enough, the dances are often the most incongruous element in Mr. Clifton’s bleakly drawn landscape. Sexual entanglements develop into weighty partnering phrases that are, for the most part, generic; in a more extensive group number, dancers circle one another with a waft of hip-hop aggression. Mr. Clifton, admirably ambitious, isn’t always able to integrate his disparate ideas. Perhaps in this production he has marked out too much territory.
746 2008-03-24 Last week, while millions of Americans were watching Beatles Week on “American Idol,” the British public was preoccupied with the travails of one particular Beatle, Paul McCartney, whose ex-wife won nearly $50 million against him — and promptly dumped a pitcher of water on his lawyer’s head.

The moment was not captured by the tabloid press, because journalists are not allowed access to divorce proceedings in the High Court in London. But it was recreated by the court’s sketch artist, who drew Heather Mills, the ex-wife, upending the pitcher on the lawyer, Fiona Shackleton.

Since Priscilla Coleman, the artist, is a member of the press, she had to base her image on glimpses and gleaned details. “I had to stay outside in the corridor, so my drawings are based on visual snapshots I could snatch when the court door was opened, and on details I picked up,” she said by telephone. “When Paul came out with Fiona Shackleton, I noticed her hair was really wet. I knew immediately it was not from just a glass of water. Then the details came out little by little.”

Ms. Shackleton, who is known for never speaking to the press, did not say anything. She previously represented Prince Charles and Prince Andrew in their divorce proceedings.

But Ms. Mills, angry that she had received only about a fifth of the amount she had been seeking, proceeded to give her side of things to the press outside the courtroom. And that helped Ms. Coleman capture the moment.

“When the court was empty I went inside, and on the table where the barristers sit there was a wet towel, and water scattered on Fiona Shackleton’s seat,” said Ms. Coleman, who is originally from Texas. “Then Heather Mills basically admitted it. She said to a reporter that Fiona Shackleton had been ‘baptized’ in court. The next day her solicitor advocate, David Rosen, filled in the blanks. He told me exactly where everyone sat, and I was able to re-create the scene.”

This is not the first time that Ms. Coleman has had to depict an action scene. She recalled a case between two soccer players: “One of them got really angry and grabbed the prosecutor around the neck. It took several policemen to drag him off.”
747 2008-03-24 SHANGHAI — A group of prominent Chinese intellectuals has circulated a petition urging the government to stop what it calls a “one sided” propaganda campaign about Tibet and initiate direct dialogue with the Dalai Lama.

The petition, which was signed by more than two dozen writers, journalists and scholars, contains 12 recommendations. Taken together, they represent a sharp break from the government’s response to the wave of demonstrations that swept Tibetan areas of the country in recent weeks.

Most of the signers are Han Chinese, China’s dominant ethnic group. Their petition accused the government of “fanning racial hatred” in China by blaming ethnic Tibetans for the violence and seeking to inflame passions among the Han to support the crackdown.

One of the signers, Wang Lixiong, is a prolific writer and leading analyst of Tibetan issues. Others are better known for their liberal political views and their willingness to speak out against government policies.

The Chinese government has sought to convey a sense of strong domestic and international support for putting down what is depicted here as a civil disturbance by lawless people being instigated by the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing denounces as a secessionist, or “splitist.” In recent days, the state-controlled media have also stepped up their criticisms of the international news media for what they say has been biased and overblown coverage of the Tibetan crisis. China has barred international journalists from Tibet and expelled most tourists and other foreigners from the region since the crisis began. As trouble has spread to neighboring provinces where many Tibetans live, the government has blocked access to these areas as well.
748 2008-03-24 Apple Considers iPod Subscription...
749 2008-03-24 NIMAROFF--Selwyn, of Summit, NJ. Former attorney in New York City, beloved husband of Suzanne, devoted father of Ellen Hirsch and Michael R. Nimaroff, loving grandfather. Funeral Services at ''Bernheim-ApterKreitzman'', 68 Old Short Hills Rd., Liv...
750 2008-03-24 PLATT--Ann (Ania Bienstock), of New Rochelle, New York, passed away on February 9, 2008 after a brief illness. Her husband of 63 years, Harold Platt, died following their 63rd wedding anniversary two years earlier. Born in Lvov, Poland in 1920, An...
751 2008-03-24 In most Republican primaries, self-identified independents were more likely to support Senator John McCain than any of the other candidates. Former Gov. Mitt Romney was backed by more independents than Mr. McCain in Utah and former Gov. Mike Hucka...
752 2008-03-24 Verizon Wins Cheap Bandwidth     An analysis of last week's  government's auction of wireless spectrum shows that Verizon got the best deals, beating its rival, AT&T....
753 2008-03-24 Intel Seeks Bigger Market for Laptop      Intel has larger ambitions for its Classmate PC, an inexpensive notebook initially intended for schoolchildren in poor countries. New versions of the low-cost machines will be introduced in a couple of wee...
754 2008-03-24 MOGUL IN THE MAKING By acquiring the television production company Reveille and combining it with the Shine Group in Britain, Elisabeth Murdoch has the beginnings of her own global entertainment business (the Murdoch family's second).      THE PER...
755 2008-03-25 A federal appellate court sided with the airline industry against New York’s “Air Travelers’ Bill of Rights,” which sets penalties for airlines that fail to provide adequate services to passengers stuck on planes....
756 2008-03-25 Save the penny, but lose the nickel....
757 2008-03-25 The announcement comes as the presumptive Republican nominee campaigns in Reagan territory....
758 2008-03-25 Emily's List, a PAC promoting female candidates, is set to make a strong push for Hillary Rodham Clinton in and around Philadelphia....
759 2008-03-25 The Republican candidate returns to domestic issues....
760 2008-03-25 The other part of what happened was an explosion of complex financialinstruments that weren't particularly well understood by even the mostsophisticated banks, lenders and hedge funds. To make matters worse,these instruments - which basically bundled together mortgages and soldthem to others to spread risk throughout our capital markets - weremostly off-balance sheets, and hidden from scrutiny. In other words, thehousing bubble was made worse by a series of complex, inter-connectedfinancial bets that were not transparent or fully understood. That meansthey weren't always managed wisely because people couldn't properlyquantify the risk or the value of these bets. And because theseinstruments were bundled and sold and resold, it became harder and harderto find and connect up a real lender with a real borrower. Capitalmarkets work best when there is both accountability and transparency. Inthe case of our current crisis, both were lacking.

Because managers did not fully understand the complex financialinstruments and because there was insufficient transparency when they didtry to learn, the initial losses spawned a crisis of confidence in themarkets. Market players are increasingly unnerved by the uncertaintysurrounding the level of risk, liability and loss currently in thefinancial system. Banks no longer trust each other and are increasinglyunwilling to put their money to work. Credit is drying up and liquidityis now severely limited – and small business and hard-working familiesfind themselves unable to get their usual loans.

The net result is the crisis we face. What started as a problem insubprime loans has now convulsed the entire financial system.

I will not play election year politics with the housing crisis. I willevaluate everything in terms of whether it might be harmful or helpful toour effort to deal with the crisis we face now.

I have always been committed to the principle that it is not the duty ofgovernment to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whetherthey are big banks or small borrowers. Government assistance to thebanking system should be based solely on preventing systemic risk thatwould endanger the entire financial system and the economy.

In our effort to help deserving homeowners, no assistance should be givento speculators. Any assistance for borrowers should be focused solely onhomeowners, not people who bought houses for speculative purposes, torent or as second homes. Any assistance must be temporary and must notreward people who were irresponsible at the expense of those who weren’t.I will consider any and all proposals based on their cost and benefits.In this crisis, as in all I may face in the future, I will not allowdogma to override common sense.

When we commit taxpayer dollars as assistance, it should be accompaniedby reforms that ensure that we never face this problem again. Central tothose reforms should be transparency and accountability.

Homeowners should be able to understand easily the terms and obligationsof a mortgage. In return, they have an obligation to provide truthfulfinancial information and should be subject to penalty if they donot. Lenders who initiate loans should be held accountable for thequality and performance of those loans and strict standards should berequired in the lending process. We must have greater transparency in thelending process so that every borrower knows exactly what he is agreeingto and where every lender is required to meet the highest standards ofethical behavior.

Policies should move toward ensuring that homeowners provide aresponsible down payment of equity at the initial purchase of a home. Itherefore oppose reducing the down payment requirement for FHA mortgagesand believe that, as conditions allow, the down payment requirementshould be raised. So many homeowners have found themselves owing morethan their home is worth, because many never had much equity in the houseto begin with. When conditions return to normal, GSEs (GovernmentSponsored Enterprises) should never insure loans when the homeownerclearly does not have skin in the game.

In financial institutions, there is no substitute for adequate capital toserve as a buffer against losses. Our financial market approach shouldinclude encouraging increased capital in financial institutions byremoving regulatory, accounting and tax impediments to raising capital.

I am prepared to examine new proposals and evaluate them based on theseprincipals. But I think we need to do two things right away. First, itis time to convene a meeting of the nation's accounting professionals todiscuss the current mark to market accounting systems. We are witnessingan unprecedented situation as banks and investors try to determine theappropriate value of the assets they are holding and there is widespreadconcern that this approach is exacerbating the credit crunch.

We should also convene a meeting of the nation's top mortgagelenders. Working together, they should pledge to provide maximum supportand help to their cash-strapped, but credit worthy customers. Theyshould pledge to do everything possible to keep families in their homesand businesses growing. Recall that immediately after September 11, 2001General Motors stepped in to provide 0 percent financing as part ofkeeping the economy growing. We need a similar response by the mortgagelenders. They've been asking the government to help them out. I'm nowcalling upon them to help their customers, and their nation out. It'stime to help American families.

More important than the events of the past is the promise of thefuture. The American economy is resilient and diverse. Even asfinancial troubles weigh upon it other parts of the economy hold up oreven continue to grow. I have spoken at length in other settings aboutthe need to keep taxes low on our families, entrepreneurs, and smallbusinesses; to make the tax code simpler and fair by eliminating theAlternative Minimum Tax that the middle class was never intended to pay;to improve the ability of our companies to compete by reducing ourcorporate tax rate, which today are the second highest rates in theworld;to provide investment incentives; to control rising health carecosts that threaten the budgets of our businesses and families; toimprove education and training programs; and to ensure our ability tosell to the 95 percent of the world’s customers that lie outside U.S.borders.

These are important steps to strengthen the foundations of the millionsof businesses small and large that provide jobs for Americanworkers. There is no government program or policy that is a substitutefor a good job. These steps would also strengthen the U.S. dollar andhelp to control the rising cost of living that hurts our families. Theseare important issues in this campaign and the debate with my Democratrivals. But I will get my chance to talk further another day. Now I lookforward to hearing from our small business owners – the very lifeblood ofour economy.
761 2008-03-25 The Bears were led by their frontline duo of Danielle Wilson with 15 points and Rachel Allison with 14. But Wilson went scoreless and without a rebound in the second half. Guard Angela Tisdale finished with 13.

Pittsburgh's dynamic duo simply took over the Panthers' offense and the game in the second half.

Walker, an intimidating 6-foot-4 center, scored 12 of her 17 points in the second half and grabbed nine rebounds before fouling out with 5:28 left. She got the last two fouls in a span of less than a minute and Pitt's 53-49 lead at the time was in jeopardy.

Not that Pitt coach Agnus Berenato was too worried.

"None of those thoughts ever entered my mind," said a smiling Berenato, who has lifted the Pitt program to national prominence.

Zellous took the Panthers the rest of the way. She hit three free throws with 4:59 left after being fouled behind the arc and Pitt holding a two-point lead. She then outhustled a Baylor player to a loose-ball rebound with 37 seconds left and the Panthers up 61-54.

"That's one of our themes. Do your job," Zellous said of her play down the stretch. "When Marcedes went out, I just did my job, which was scoring and playing defense."

A 3-pointer by Tisdale with 26.9 seconds left got the Bears within 61-57, but it was too little too late, especially after Baylor guard Kelli Griffin was whistled for an intentional foul with 24.5 seconds left.

Sophronia Sallard hit both free throws off the call, and two more free throws by point guard Mallorie Winn sealed it for the Panthers.

It was missed free throws and too many missed opportunities, not the intentional foul that hurt the Bears, said Baylor coach Kim Mulkey.

"It was the right call," Mulkey said. "You can't grab her like that. That was desperation. It had nothing to do with the outcome."

Much more important, said Mulkey, were Zellous' three free throws.

"That was a huge, critical call with a second left on the shot clock and us within two points," Mulkey said.

Mulkey also pointed to 11 missed free throws by the Bears and poor shooting at the end of the first half when Baylor couldn't build on a six-point lead. Baylor was 18-of-29 from the free throw line.

"We didn't extend the lead at the end of the first half and we had turnovers by some of our veteran players," Mulkey said.

Pitt will play the winner of the Stanford-UTEP game in the regional semifinals next week in Spokane.

The Panthers won despite going nearly nine minutes without a field goal in the second half. A putback basket by Taneisha Harrison with 1:57 left ended the drought, but Pitt had enough of a cushion after hitting its first five shots of the second half.

Baylor could get no closer than 56-53 as both teams, showing the effects of playing at mile-high altitude and the pressure of the NCAA tournament, traded turnovers and missed free throws late in the game.

With Pitt able to shut down Tisdale -- the Bears' leading scorer with a 16.5 average -- through the first 11 minutes, the 6-3 Wilson became the Bears' go-to option. The sophomore responded well, scoring 15 points in the first half while hitting 6 of 9 shots.

Tisdale, who scored 26 points in Baylor's 88-67 opening round win over Fresno State on Saturday, went scoreless through the first 11 minutes Monday.
762 2008-03-25 Fortress Investment Group, one of the few alternative-asset managers to be publicly traded in the United States, said Tuesday that it earned $78 million in the fourth quarter, setting aside compensation expenses related to last year's initial publ...
763 2008-03-25 Hillary Rodham Clinton told the Philadelphia Daily News, "I say a lot of things -- millions of words a day -- so if I misspoke, that was just a misstatement."...
764 2008-03-25 Would McCain's qualities really serve him well as president?...
765 2008-03-25 Breaking down what occurred in the first two rounds and what's two come for the rest of the N.C.A.A. tournament....
766 2008-03-25 Thanks to Visa's blockbuster initial public offering last week, JPMorgan Chase won't have to look very hard to come up with the extra money for its sweetened bid for Bear Stearns. JPMorgan's $1.36 billion windfall from Visa's I.P.O. will cover its...
767 2008-03-25 Wall Street appears to be developing a case of whiplash. In the latest of a string of sharp moves, stocks surged on Monday after last-minute negotiations salvaged the rescue of Bear Stearns and housing sales snapped a six-month streak of declines....
768 2008-03-25 China's sovereign wealth fund has taken a stake in Visa, according to a media report on Tuesday, dipping its toe back into the market as Beijing agonizes over whether to be more aggressive in its overseas investments. Scarred by big paper losses t...
769 2008-03-25 Tata Chemicals Ltd. will raise $850 million through debt to fund its acquisition of U.S. soda-ash maker General Chemical Industrial Products, its managing director said on Tuesday. "The finances have been tied up. The regulatory approval is expect...
770 2008-03-25 Eager for any positive signs, the property industry closely followed the recent elections in Spain. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero The reelection of prime minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero was seen as a new mandate for his socialist party (P...
771 2008-03-25 “Some Americans bought homes they couldn’t afford, betting that rising prices would make it easier to refinance later at more affordable rates,” he said.

Mr. McCain argued that even during the ongoing crisis, the vast majority of mortgage holders continued to make their payments.

“Of those 80 million homeowners, only 55 million have a mortgage at all, and 51 million homeowners are doing what is necessary — working a second job, skipping a vacation and managing their budgets to make their payments on time,” he said. “That leaves us with a puzzling situation: how could 4 million mortgages cause this much trouble for us all?”

Mr. McCain split the blame between the rising housing bubble and the use of confusing and complex financial arrangements, which he said were badly understood even by financial managers. He said initial losses, coupled with the lack of transparency, has caused a “crisis of confidence in the markets.”

“Capital markets work best when there is both accountability and transparency,” he said. “In the case of our current crisis, both were lacking.”

Any government assistance must be accompanied by measures to ensure the problems are not repeated, Mr. McCain said. He said homeowners and lenders must be clear from the outset about the terms and obligations of any mortgage.

“We must have greater transparency in the lending process so that every borrower knows exactly what he is agreeing to and where every lender is required to meet the highest standards of ethical behavior,” he said.

Mr. McCain did not rule out a bailout, instead saying any such aid should be temporary and “no assistance should be given to speculators.”

“Any assistance for borrowers should be focused solely on homeowners, not people who bought houses for speculative purposes, to rent or as second homes,” he said.

Democrats criticized Mr. McCain’s approach, arguing that it would not do enough to address the financial problems facing Americans.

“Instead of offering a concrete plan to address the crisis at all levels, McCain promised to take the same hands off approach that President Bush used to lead us into this crisis,” Howard Dean, the Democratic National Committee chairman, said in a statement. In his speech, Mr. McCain did not provide specifics about any immediate plans to deal with the crisis, saying he was “prepared to examine new proposals and evaluate them based on these principals.”

He also called for a meeting of the nation’s top mortgage lenders, asking them to pledge support for customers and homeowners.

“Working together, they should pledge to provide maximum support and help to their cash-strapped but credit-worthy customers,” he said. “They should pledge to do everything possible to keep families in their homes and businesses growing.”
772 2008-03-25 Home prices across the country continued to fall in January at record rates while one measure of consumer confidence reached a five-year low.

The value of single-family homes plummeted 10.7 percent in January compared with a year earlier, as measured by the Case-Shiller index, a closely watched survey of 20 major metropolitan regions.

It was the steepest year-over-year decline since the index began eight years ago, and economists said the slump was probably worse than at the height of the last housing recession in the early 1990s.

The reports sent stocks lower in morning trading, though by late Tuesday, the major indexes were mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average was down about 10 points, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite were showing modest gains.

The housing price decline may help to lure buyers back into the beleaguered market, where sellers are struggling under a wave of foreclosures and a tight credit market that has made it more difficult for many Americans to take out mortgages. Inventories have ballooned as purchases have dried up, as buyers hold out for prices to fall even further.
773 2008-03-25 Turkey opened bidding for the construction of its first nuclear power plant, part of a plan to reduce dependence on gas supplies from Iran and Russia. Turkey’s electricity agency said in a written announcement that bids would be accepted until Sept. 24 for the planned plant in the Mediterranean port city of Mersin. The plant is the first of three that the government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan plans to build by 2015.

Correction: March 27, 2008 

 A picture on Tuesday with a report in the World Business Briefing column about plans for Turkey’s first nuclear power plant was published in error. The man shown is Turkey’s president, Abdullah Gul  not its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
774 2008-03-25 Japanese land prices rose for a second straight year in 2007 on robust demand for prime commercial property. The average nationwide commercial land price climbed 3.8 percent last year, after a 2.3 percent increase in 2006, according to an annual survey by the government’s land ministry. The flow of money into the market began to slow late last year with stricter oversight from financial authorities, and has further dried up amid the global credit crisis.
775 2008-03-25 DES MOINES — Nothing was getting in the way of Rutgers guard Matee Ajavon making one more trip to the Round of 16. She was very adamant about that, drawing three charges in the first half of the Scarlet Knights’ second-round game against Iowa State at Wells Fargo Arena.

Following the lead of Ajavon, one of three seniors, No. 2-seeded Rutgers played Monday night with the urgency of a program parked in the top 10 with the meter running. Basketball is all about runs, a game’s momentum shifting course like a sailboat on high seas. The best teams weather their opponents’ defensive surges and scoring swells and tack their way to victory. If constancy and consistency are hallmarks of victory, they also are the distinguishing characteristics of all winning programs. The women of Rutgers are keenly aware of this, which is why their 69-58 victory, while expected, was so sweet.

The Scarlet Knights (26-6), who will play George Washington, a team they beat earlier this season, on Sunday in Greensboro, N.C., want to be considered on par with the Tennessees, the Connecticuts, the Stanfords and the L.S.U.’s. They yearn to be a perennial power.

To that end, it was not enough to make the Final Four last year. Rutgers’s run to the championship game, where it lost to Tennessee, was magical, but it would have been so much pixie dust in the wind if the Scarlet Knights could not survive the first week of this postseason.

They did not want go out in 2008 like the Georgetown men, which followed its Final Four appearance last year with a second-round exit.
776 2008-03-25 SAN FRANCISCO — The trial of the former cyclist Tammy Thomas began here Monday in what could be a preview of the government’s case against Barry Bonds. The trial is the first in connection with the five-and-a-half-year investigation of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative.

Thomas is accused of making false statements to a federal grand jury about whether she used performance-enhancing drugs; Bonds was indicted on similar charges in November.

In the government’s opening statement, Matthew Parrella, an assistant United States attorney, contended that Thomas received the designer steroid THG from Patrick Arnold, a former chemist for Balco. The government will have to prove that Thomas lied and that her statements to the grand jury were material to the investigation.

Ethan Balogh, Thomas’s lawyer, said in the defense’s opening statement that the government would not be able to show that Thomas received drugs from Arnold or that her statements were essential to the investigation.

“Even if you changed every answer from yes to no, it wouldn’t have made a difference,” Balogh said.

Dr. Margaret Wierman, a specialist in endocrinology and metabolism who examined Thomas in 2000, is expected to testify Tuesday. The government has said that Wierman warned Thomas that the growth of beard and chest hair was a side effect of steroid use.

Jeff Novitzky, a special agent for the Internal Revenue Service who was the lead investigator, is expected to testify later this week. It will be the first time Novitzky will be called to testify in open court regarding this investigation.
777 2008-03-25 German secret services are concerned that extremists in North Africa are reinforcing Al Qaeda, Ernst Uhrlau, the chief of the Federal Intelligence Service, known as the BND, said in an interview to be published in Der Spiegel on Tuesday. The groups “have established themselves in North Africa without being detected and are reinforcing the network of Osama bin Laden,” Mr. Uhrlau, above, told the news magazine. “The BND is monitoring with great concern what is growing over there, which has a new quality and is bringing the jihad to our door.”
778 2008-03-25 The 2010 census is in trouble again. At a recent Senate hearing, Census Bureau officials and outside experts warned that the bureau’s new hand-held computer system — nearly four years and $300 million in the making — is not up to the task of reliably counting millions of Americans. Congressional investigators recently put the census on their “high-risk list,” because of management and budget problems on top of the computer troubles.

To salvage the effort, the Census Bureau needs an emergency appropriation for 2008 and an increase in the $2.1 billion allotment in President Bush’s 2009 budget. How much more is still being worked out, but some analysts have put the total at more than $600 million.

There is plenty of blame to go around. In 2006, the contractor hired to develop the hand-held computers, the Harris Corporation, told the Census Bureau about technological problems and requested that more money from its multiyear contract be spent upfront. The White House budget office turned down the request.

The agency’s director and deputy director quit in late 2006 over the Bush administration’s lack of support for the census. It took seven months for the White House to nominate a new director and another six months for the Senate to confirm him. Steve Murdock, previously the state demographer of Texas, is qualified but will have to scramble to master the bureaucracy.

The bureau has also endured a series of bruising budget battles. The administration is not ideologically disposed to robust surveys, so it has not championed the bureau’s efforts. In Congress, the census has been the focus of partisan fights. The disagreements often turn on how much effort should be made to count racial and ethnic minorities and groups outside the mainstream, including the homeless and undocumented workers.

The danger now is that Congress and the White House will waste more time on politics, like blaming the hand-held mess on whoever asks for the extra money first.

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, whose department houses the bureau, is confronting the problems — a welcome contrast from his earlier hands-off approach. His continued leadership will be pivotal, with the first order of business after the Easter break being to tell appropriators how much money the census needs. He will then have to press the White House to ensure that the request is not stymied.
779 2008-03-25 A week ago, the Dow gained 420 points, its best daily advance in five years. It promptly plummeted 293 points, only to gain back 261 points a day later.

Few investing strategists were willing to venture a guess about what comes next.

“It’s like a barbell on a fulcrum,” Mr. Gendreau said. “Any little piece of information one way or the other can tip the market either way quite easily.”

On Monday, investors focused on the good news from real estate and Bear Stearns, which offered at least temporary respite for two of the economy’s most beaten-up sectors. The S.& P. 500 finished up 1.5 percent, at 1,349.88, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 3 percent, closing at 2,326.75.

Treasury yields rose as investors moved out of ultra-safe government bonds, a sign of renewed confidence. The price of crude oil dipped 98 cents, to $100.86 a barrel. Gold, a traditional safe haven, ticked down slightly, and the dollar gained against the euro.

But even the day’s positive developments came with a share of caveats.

The new deal by JPMorgan Chase to buy Bear Stearns was seen by some investors as a sign that the Federal Reserve is finally making headway in restoring confidence in the credit markets. Furthermore, the offer price for Bear rose fivefold, to $10 a share, from $2 in the original offer. The firm’s stock finished on Monday at $11.25, up 89 percent.

But Bear Stearns’s virtual collapse has reinforced anxieties that the current financial crisis may be one of the worst in decades. Credit markets on Monday showed some signs of improvement, but for the most part investors were still reluctant to buy securities that may turn sour. Shares of financial services firms ended the day mixed.

The housing figures also offered up a mixed picture. Sales of previously owned homes rose unexpectedly last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.03 million, up 2.9 percent from January, according to the National Association of Realtors.

Inventories of unsold homes, which have ballooned over the last year, fell back slightly to 4.03 million units, a 9.6-month supply at the current sales rate. The supply of single-family homes fell, but the backlog of condominiums and co-op apartments rose.

Still, home prices continued to plunge. The median price of a previously owned single-family home declined 8.7 percent in February, to $193,900, the biggest annual drop in four decades.

“Sellers are capitulating and slashing prices,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com. “Housing looks like it’s approachable now, compared to a year ago when it was just completely out of reach.”

That is good news for buyers, who had vanished in recent months as they waited for prices to fall further. But sellers are seeing sharp drops in their home equity.

“It’s not the all-clear sign for the housing market,” Mr. Zandi said. “But it signals the beginning of the end of what will be a long bottom.”

To help aid in the recovery, the Federal Home Loan Banks received permission on Monday to buy more than $100 billion in additional mortgage-backed bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a move that may make it easier for Americans to take out home loans. The decision came a week after Fannie and Freddie announced that their own regulator had freed up an additional $200 billion for the same purpose.

As investors headed home on Monday evening, few were certain about what to expect in the morning.

Mr. Silverblatt of Standard & Poor’s compared the stock market to a person with a multiple-personality disorder.

“It shows the uncertainty of the market,” he said. “People don’t know where we are going to be tomorrow, next week, next month.”

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note slid 1 27/32, to 99 17/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.56 percent, from 3.33 percent.

Following are the results of Monday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
780 2008-03-25 Economic worries played a central role in the decisive victory of Mr. Ma,who received more than 58 percent of the popular vote compared with less than 42 percent for Frank Hsieh of the Democratic Progressive Party.

Officials in Beijing have not issued any response to the outcome, but made clear before the voting that they preferred Mr. Ma.

The current president of Taiwan, Chen Shui-bian of the Democratic Progressive Party, has had frosty relations with the mainland as he sought greater political separation for Taiwan.

Investment from Taiwan in mainland China has dropped almost by half during Mr. Chen’s nearly eight years in office, to about $2 billion a year. Mr. Ma said he would lift the limits on how much capital can be invested there by Taiwan companies.

His running mate, Vincent Siew, is a longtime advocate of a common market with the mainland, an idea influenced by the economic integration of much of Europe.

Mr. Hsieh attacked this idea as leading to an influx of millions of low-wage mainland laborers into Taiwan. A Democratic Progressive Party rally featured a Trojan horse that, when its belly opened, turned out to have poisoned food from the mainland inside, summoning up the recent health and safety scandals involving products made in China.

Mr. Ma has recently said that he favors a closer economic cooperation agreement with the mainland that would be based on principles of the World Trade Organization.

During the campaign, he promised to raise Taiwan’s annual economic growth rate to 6 percent and ensure that a wider part of society benefited from growth.

While the economy grew 5.7 percent last year, the gains were heavily concentrated among professionals with jobs in the island’s highly successful computer manufacturing industry and among entrepreneurs with mainland investments, as many factories moved to China to tap low-cost labor there.

Enoch Fung, a Goldman Sachs economist, predicted in a research note Monday that economic growth in Taiwan would slow to 3.8 percent this year and 4.6 percent next year because of weaker demand for exports. But Mr. Fung also said that closer ties across the Taiwan Strait would increase the possibilities for greater growth.

Until the last few years, the Democratic Progressive Party tended to be the party of the young, having capitalized on its role in leading Taiwan to full democracy in the 1980s and ’90s. But young voters moved to the Nationalist Party this year, as was evident at a large rally on election eve.

Frankie Chen, a 22-year-old saleswoman for a computer company, attended the rally with two of her friends: Elliott Lee, a 23-year-old in a marketing training program, and Peggy Huang, a 23-year-old college graduate with a communications arts degree who has been unemployed for the last six months. The three said that many of their friends did not have jobs and that careers with decent paychecks were increasingly difficult to find.

They saw more trade with the booming mainland Chinese economy as a way to create well-paid jobs in Taiwan.

“If you didn’t go to a really good college, you don’t have a job right now,” Ms. Chen said. “We were born in an age when Taiwan was really rich, but now Taiwan is poor. It’s really, really tough for us.”
781 2008-03-25 George F. Schweitzer, the president of the CBS Marketing Group, concurred, and called the strike “inside baseball.”

Far from going negative, many of the post-strike commercials take a triumphant tone, seeking to play off the affection that most viewers feel for their favorite shows. ABC invites viewers to “start fresh” by watching old episodes on ABC.com before the new ones appear. NBC displays behind-the-scenes looks at cast and crew members accompanied by the “Welcome Back, Kotter” theme song from the 1970s. CBS showcases a large African antelope whose name is well-known among crossword puzzle fans: the gnu. Get it? “All gnu” shows?

Mr. Schweitzer of CBS gets credit for the “all gnu” slogan. “I only have one really weird idea a year, so I’ve used it up now,” he said in an interview.

NBC sought to capture the backstage camaraderie of the actors by filming the first days back at work on the sitcoms “30 Rock,” “My Name Is Earl” and “The Office,” said John Miller, the chief marketing officer for NBC.

The resulting commercial for “The Office” is unusually heart-warming. “You know the first moment you see someone you haven’t seen in a while?,” the narrator gently asks. On-screen, actors and crew members hug each other, smile and laugh. “On April 10, everyone’s back at their desks,” the narrator adds, “and Thursdays are right again.”

NBC’s other commercials emphasize the return of its Thursday comedies. “The ‘Welcome Back’ song is very memorable and it makes you feel good, and that’s exactly what we were going for,” Mr. Miller said.

The stakes are high: television executives will nervously eye the Nielsen ratings to see whether viewers return to a television season that has been truncated by the strike and dominated by reality shows and repeats. (Early evidence suggests that they will: new episodes of two CBS comedies posted season highs last week.)

But marketing executives specialize in trying to take a less-than-perfect situation and make it seem like a boon.

“Just like we have a fall launch, we’re calling this a spring launch,” said Mr. Benson of ABC.

Commercials with actual scenes from the new episodes are now supplementing the behind-the-scenes ones. In some spots, the networks are reminding viewers of the story lines that were put on pause months ago.

On “My Name is Earl,” the lead character was hit by a car at the end of the last original episode, which was shown in January. When the series returns April 3, Earl will still be lying in the street, so the on-air promos are reminding viewers of his predicament.

Similarly, three days before “Desperate Housewives” returns on April 13, ABC will repeat the last two episodes, showing a tornado that devastated Wisteria Lane.

“People are accustomed to going back to school and back to television in the fall,” said Allen Adamson, the managing director of the branding firm Landor Associates. Now television marketers face a challenge: “As the weather’s turning nice, get viewers to come back and tune in.”

Mr. Adamson said the forward-looking ads are a “tried-and-true brand-building tactic.”

“Branding rule No. 1 is: don’t go back and remind people of the problem or try to explain what happened,” he said. “Cut to the solution and tell them how it’s fixed.”

Mr. Miller of NBC said he sensed a hunger for new scripted programming among viewers and predicted that the returning series would do well in the ratings. “I imagine there will be a good bit of sampling,” he said.

ABC is hoping the sampling starts before the new episodes are shown. The “Start Fresh” campaign, which steers people to the network’s Web site, is an extension of the “Start Here” message introduced last fall.

“We’re really looking at ABC and ABC.com as one place now,” Mr. Benson said. “We’re marketing the full episodes at ABC.com more than we ever have. If viewers didn’t start with us at the beginning of the season, now is a great time to get caught up and start watching the shows that they’ve heard about.”

The network used its most prominent winter platform, the Academy Awards telecast in February, to run a one-minute commercial promoting the spring shows. Show-specific spots that promote the date of each premiere are gradually replacing the generic messages, Mr. Benson said. Most of ABC’s popular dramas return in mid-April, including “Brothers & Sisters” on April 20 and “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Ugly Betty” on April 24.

CBS is using its college basketball coverage to remind viewers of new shows, and Fox is harnessing the promotional power of “American Idol” to bolster other series. On CW, commercials tell viewers that the “most buzzed-about new shows are back,” referring primarily to “Gossip Girl,” which returns April 21. When the time comes, the networks plan to supplement these spots with radio and Internet ads.

With shows coming back over a six-week period, the networks have a comfortable amount of time to remind viewers of what they were missing. Fox has a month to promote the April 21 return of the Monday night dramas “House” and “Bones.” CBS will retire the logo-stamped gnu as it announces the return of dark dramas like “Criminal Minds” on April 2, “CSI” on April 3 and “Moonlight” on April 11.

Each fall, “everything seems to happen at the same time,” Mr. Benson said. “What’s unique about what’s happening now, at least with this spring launch, is that things are spread out.”
782 2008-03-25 BEIJING (AP) — A Chinese advocate for land rights was sentenced Monday to five years in prison and then given shocks with electric batons during a scuffle between his family and the police, his lawyer said.

The advocate, Yang Chunlin, had gathered more than 10,000 signatures for an open letter titled “We want human rights, not the Olympics.” Most of the signatures came from farmers demanding redress for land taken from them by officials for development.

Mr. Yang, a former factory worker, was convicted of subverting the power of the state, a charge that authorities commonly use to clamp down on dissidents.

Family members tried to talk to Mr. Yang as he was escorted from the courtroom in Jiamusi, in Heilongjiang Province, but the police pushed his son to the ground, said his lawyer, Li Fangping. When Mr. Yang tried to intervene, he was repeatedly shocked with electric batons, the lawyer said.

Mr. Yang, 54, has maintained his innocence and called the legal proceedings against him illegal because freedom of speech is supposed to be guaranteed in China, his lawyer said.

Property disputes and illegal land grabs have accelerated as China’s economy expands and farmland is gobbled up for industrial parks and skyscrapers.
783 2008-03-25 “Travel is a very big part of the design process in my company,” said Ms. Bowles, who attributes her career path to a junior year abroad in Perugia.

The reason travel spurs inspiration is the stimulus, said Jeannine McGlade, co-author of “Stimulated! Habits to Spark Your Creative Genius at Work.”

“When you’re in a new environment, you have what we call ‘eyes wide open,’ ” she said. “It’s not the ‘same old, same old’ where you tend to get into a rut and aren’t alert to having a ‘spark moment.’ Things are different and fresh during travel. You’re seeing things from a different perspective and you’re really paying attention.”

Jeff Tunks said that when he and his partners decided to open Ceiba, a Latin American-Caribbean restaurant in Washington, a few years ago, authenticity was the goal. Simply buying Latin-style furnishings locally was out of the question.

Mr. Tunks, as executive chef, did stints in restaurant kitchens in Mexico and Brazil and shopped in food markets in both countries, while his two partners, Gus DiMillo and David Wizenberg, went to quarries to find tiles for the foyer, bar and bathrooms. In São Paulo, they bought wood tables, chairs and bar stools; in Salvador, earthenware.

“It was an immersion — we wanted attention to detail,” Mr. Tunks said. “It gave us respect for what we’re trying to reproduce.”

For some travelers, the creative spark is visual. Frustration was the inspiration for Christina Domecq, who co-founded SpinVox, which converts phone messages to e-mail and text messages. Rushing to a meeting in Madrid a few years ago, she pulled over to the side of the road to hear her voice mail.

“I had to listen to 14 voice mails, including one that changed the location of my next meeting, so I ended up being late,” recalled Ms. Domecq, 31. “I could never understand why voice mail forced me to stop everything I was doing, change my behavior and write everything down.”

That night, she called an engineer friend to ask if he knew of a way to allow her to read voice mails as text. “I wanted to use it, not start another business, but he said nothing was out there to do that but it was a great idea," she said. The two ended up filing a patent for SpinVox.

The epiphany for Stanley Gyoshev, co-founder of a discount travel Web site, Lessno.com, was a daunting travel itinerary. An assistant professor of finance at Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business, he needed one summer to be in Boston; Sofia, Bulgaria; London; Zurich; and Moscow to work on research projects and present papers.

After checking with online travel sites and regular travel agents, “the best price quoted was over $5,000 and a journey with 12 legs,” he said. Already working on search engine technology with Assen Vassilev, a colleague and frequent traveler, he asked Mr. Vassilev if he could devise a better solution, which he did, for a total of $2,000 in only nine legs. They decided to apply their technology to a travel Web site for consumers.

A familiar scene in business travel — a room service trolley in a hotel hallway, tempting passers-by to snatch a delectable leftover — inspired a commercial for A.1. steak sauce from Draftfcb, the Chicago advertising agency. “It’s a general truth based upon hotel behavior,” said Rob Sherlock, chief creative officer, at Draftfcb, who added: “The best ideas and thoughts come when you’re outside of the office. If you live in a predictable way it’s a path of absolute sameness.”

But if budget or schedule preclude traveling regularly, don’t worry, Ms. McGlade said. Find small ways to get stimuli from a variety of sources. Read a variety of books and magazines, engage in a range of activities, socialize with different people and nurture your curiosity.
784 2008-03-25 Google proposed a plan on Monday that may let wireless Internet devices use vacant television airwaves without interfering with current equipment.

In a letter to the Federal Communications Commission, Google offered suggestions on how the airwaves, known as white spaces, could provide high-speed mobile access to consumers without disrupting televisions and wireless microphones.

Google and Microsoft are part of a group that wants the F.C.C. to unlock the airwaves for unlicensed uses, like mobile Web access, after broadcasters convert to digital signals in 2009. Google said that its proposals could help ensure that consumers anywhere would be able to use devices on those airwaves by late next year.

“Google is a strong believer in the potential of this spectrum to bring Internet access to more Americans,” Richard S. Whitt, a lawyer for the company, based in Mountain View, Calif., said in a conference call. “The spectrum is way too valuable to be wasted.”

Google plans to bolster revenue by creating more Internet services for mobile phones and devices. Portable technology is outselling personal computers, giving the company new spots to place online advertising. Only about 5 percent of the nation’s TV white spaces are being used, Mr. Whitt said.

Last week, Google scored a victory in an F.C.C. auction of airwaves after Verizon Wireless agreed to spend $4.74 billion on spectrum that will be available for any legal device. Bids had to surpass a $4.6 billion threshold to activate the so-called open-access rules on the spectrum. Google had sought the rules to spur the use of new wireless devices.

To protect airwaves used by the military and public safety agencies, Google proposed the use of spectrum-sensing technology, which would free up the airwaves when they are needed by the government. The company also backed ideas submitted by Motorola last year that would protect TV signals and wireless microphones.
785 2008-03-25 Don’t you miss the days when “politics makes strange bedfellows” was a metaphor for acts of convenience, and not an expression to be taken literally?

Don’t you miss the days when “constituent services” referred to traffic lights installed on streets where kids were being hit by speeding cars, and wasn’t code for a politician’s hotel stay with someone who might have lived in his district?

Don’t you miss the days when “lulu” was Albanyspeak for extra money slipped to lawmakers — it was shorthand for “payment in lieu of expenses” — and you didn’t have to wonder if it might be the name of a politician’s girlfriend?

Don’t you miss the days when officials in Albany spoke with worry about unions and they meant powerful labor organizations, not their marriages? Don’t you, while we’re at it, miss the days when the word “dysfunctional” routinely modified the political process in Albany and not husband-and-wife relationships?

Don’t you miss “the Bear Mountain Compact,” under which everyone stayed mum about any fooling around that politicians indulged in once they were north of the Bear Mountain Bridge? Now the hanky-panky has moved southward, to hotel rooms in Washington and on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.

Don’t you miss the days when complaints about being late with the money referred to a delay in passing the state budget, and didn’t mean the governor had dilly-dallied in reimbursing his political campaign for clothes and heaven knows what else?

Don’t you miss the days when a mention of “Ashley” alluded to one of the most popular names in New York for newborn girls, and didn’t make you think immediately about a high-priced call girl?

Don’t you miss the days when “prostitution” was a harsh metaphor for political deal-making and was not to be taken as a literal description of a governor’s supposed sexual preferences?

Don’t you miss the days when it would have been inconceivable for a reporter to ask a governor at a news conference if he had ever patronized a prostitute?

Don’t you miss the days, way back in the week of March 10, when a governor’s response to that cheeky question — “only the lobbyists,” he said — produced laughter and not wonder about whether he was telling the whole truth?

Don’t you miss the days when the biggest scandal in Albany focused on a possible misuse of state aircraft by the Senate majority leader and questions about whether the governor had gone too far in trying to wreck the senator’s career?

Don’t you miss the days when curiosity about what went on behind closed doors turned solely on questionable political bargains?

Don’t you miss the days when a politician in Albany fiddled with money other than his own so that his ailing wife could have a driver, and not so that he himself could have extramarital sex?

Don’t you miss the days when governors stood alone at news conferences and didn’t drag along their wives to stand beside them?

Don’t you miss the days when a governor’s wife was taken to task for leaning on political groups to buy a children’s book that she’d written — that would be Libby Pataki, for those of you who do not remember — and was not called to account for her own dalliances beyond the marital bed?

Don’t you miss the days when talk in Albany about reining in spending applied to government programs, not the cost of a hotel room?

Don’t you miss it all?

We do, even knowing that nostalgia isn’t what it used to be.
786 2008-03-25 “It’s not really a technical solution,” said Dr. Powell, who directs the New York State Task Force on Life and the Law. “It’s values. And the people are the experts on that.”

The report, “Allocation of Ventilators in a Public Health Disaster,” appears in the March issue of Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, a quarterly journal of the American Medical Association.

The project began in response to outbreaks of bird or avian flu, H5N1 influenza, in Asia. Although just a few hundred people are known to have contracted the disease so far, most of them died of it. So a widespread outbreak would overwhelmingly strain the health care system, not just in machinery, but also in the doctors, nurses and other health care personnel needed to use it.

The report says triage, separating those who will receive treatment from those who will not, should largely depend on the prognosis for recovery, not on factors like underlying health or age.

“We are not interested in quality of life,” Dr. Powell said in an interview. “We are just interested in whether you are able to survive this particular crisis.”

Anyway, she said, age has not been “a particularly sensitive discriminator for survival” in H5N1 flu. Many of its victims have been young.

Though allocating scarce resources is a perennial topic among ethicists and health officials, the authors say their guidelines are the first of their kind in the nation and could be a template for rationing in other catastrophes.

“This kind of thinking, as scary or even horrifying as it may seem, is absolutely critical and is much better done now than on the fly in the middle of a pandemic,” said Dr. Art Kellerman of Emory University, an expert on emergency medicine.

Dr. Kellerman, who was not connected to the study, said that a crisis like a flu pandemic was a matter of when, not if, and that he was “frustrated with people who want to pretend that it won’t be an issue or simply pass the buck to the emergency care physician.”

The guidelines confront that issue explicitly, recommending the appointment of “triage officers” to make ventilator decisions based on information about the number of incoming patients and their conditions, but who will not be involved in caring for them. If doctors and nurses caring for the sick must also make these triage decisions, the report says, the resulting stress can be “corrosive.”

Under the guidelines, “the person who is providing your direct care is not going to be the person who decides whether you stay on the vent or go off,” Dr. Powell said. “You need to know they are advocating for you. They cannot be looking out the door at how many people are waiting for care.”

Dr. Powell noted that rationing — or as she said it is called, “providing alternative standards of care” — was repellent to many Americans. In the early days of kidney dialysis, when dialysis machines were scare, “we were so uncomfortable with that as a nation we essentially made dialysis available to everyone who needs it,” she said. Similarly, she said, much effort has gone into building a fair system for allocating organs for transplant.

But that work “does not really apply to this kind of crisis situation,” she said. “This is a genuine emergency. You are not going to have time to do a careful sorting out, by list.”

So the panel began work by identifying crucial factors for rationing, including these:

¶Recognizing that patients deprived of mechanical breathing assistance should continue to receive care.

¶Using scarce resources like mechanical ventilators to save the greatest number of lives while continuing to care for patients individually. “As the number of affected patients multiplies, accommodating these two goals will require making increasingly difficult decisions,” the report says.

¶Planning, so as not to leave decisions in a pandemic “to exhausted frontline providers.” Public health agencies must accept this obligation, the report says, “despite the difficulties inherent in planning.”

For ventilators, the group established “exclusion criteria,” conditions that would classify people ineligible for ventilators. It includes recurrent cardiac arrest, metastatic cancer with a poor prognosis, severe burns, end-stage organ failure and neurological conditions with high expected mortality.

The report cites “much public comment” about whether it would be better to emphasize ventilator access for children rather than the elderly. And it lists kidney failure as a reason to withhold ventilator support, in part because patients needing dialysis already place increased demand on scarce nursing resources.

When a ventilator is removed from a patient who depends on it, the report says, health workers should follow their institutions’ existing guidelines for withdrawing life support and provide palliative care like sedation, so patients do not experience “air hunger.” In an epidemic, the report adds, “facilities should prepare for a significant increase in demand for palliative care.”

The guidelines are online at http://www.health.state.ny.us/diseases/communicable/influenza/pandemic/ventilators/.

Dr. Powell said she had discussed them at meetings of professional societies and at medical centers around the state and added that she hoped the new report would draw more public attention. One likely step, she said, would be to hold discussions by focus groups.

“The guidelines are intended to reflect the values of New Yorkers,” she said. “And if they don’t, we want advice on how to revise them.”

Dr. Kellerman of Emory said the report should not be allowed to gather dust. “It is important that those guidelines be out there and discussed and struggled with right now,” he said.

Many hospitals already struggle with chronically scarce resources like intensive care beds, he said, and in a pandemic the problem would be far, far worse.

Dr. Kellerman said he was not optimistic. In the first place, he said, the public tends to “tune out” on such disturbing questions. Or, he said, they may accept the guidelines only “until it’s their family member. Then people often feel very differently.”
787 2008-03-25 Re “Teenage Suicides Bewilder an Island, and the Experts” (March 18): Our small rural high school has also experienced an “epidemic” of suicides. One of the students was a member of my tightly knit gifted class of 12. We, too, were “descended upon” by outside experts, and what we learned was that we found it absolutely emotionally intolerable to be around anyone who had not known the student or was not a member of the class. This was an important lesson for me, and one that helps me to understand other people’s grief. “Outsiders” should say nothing more than “I’m sorry.”
788 2008-03-25 If beauty is in the eye of the beholder, then try to be beheld by a feminist.

A new study finds that women who describe themselves as feminists are more forgiving than other women when assessing the attractiveness of women who are either very underweight or very heavy.

Writing in the journal Body Image, researchers said the findings added evidence to the argument that women who considered themselves feminists might be less likely to be taken in by the notion that the most important thing for women is to be thin. That belief, especially in younger women, can lead the way to an eating disorder.

“Feminism,” the authors write, “does appear to afford women a more inclusive perception of who is physically attractive.”

For the study, the researchers, led by Viren Swami of the University of Westminster in London, showed a set of photographs to 129 women who said they were feminists and 132 who said they were not. The photographs were of 10 women, faces concealed and wearing tight gray clothing, who ranged in body mass index from emaciated to obese.

The study participants were asked to identify the thinnest and heaviest women they considered “physically attractive.” They were also asked to say which woman they thought was most attractive.

Feminists and nonfeminists tended to agree on which woman was the most attractive. But that woman was described by the researchers as somewhat underweight, suggesting that even feminists cannot fully avoid societal pressures to be thin.
789 2008-03-25 The avian flu situation in Indonesia is grave, and the risk of mutation into a human pandemic form will worsen if more is not done, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization warned last week.

“The human mortality rate from bird flu in Indonesia is the highest in the world,” said Dr. Joseph Domenech, the agency’s chief veterinary officer, “and there will be more human cases if we do not focus more on containing the disease at its source in animals.”

Indonesia is failing to contain its poultry epidemic, Dr. Domenech said. He blamed decentralized government, a shortage of veterinarians, indifference by commercial producers, a lack of political commitment and the fact that 30 million Indonesians raise backyard chickens.

Indonesia has confirmed 129 cases of H5N1 flu, of which 105 were fatal, according to the World Health Organization. The only other countries reporting human cases thus far this year are China, Egypt and Vietnam.

Health authorities are also worried, however, about poultry outbreaks in Bangladesh and India. This month, Bangladesh reported culling at more than 400 farms. Across the border in the West Bengal state of India, the government claimed to have wiped out its outbreak, then found new cases. Since the disease was found in crows, it presumably crosses borders there easily.

Dr. Domenech also noted that new H5N1 strains were evolving in Indonesia, possibly rendering current poultry vaccines useless. In Egypt, newly emerging strains found even in vaccinated flocks suggest that bad vaccine matches are speeding mutations.
790 2008-03-25 A recent e-mail chain has some people concerned about grapefruit. The messages refer to a 2007 study in The British Journal of Cancer that found an increased risk of breast cancer among postmenopausal women who ate large amounts of grapefruit. In the group of women, more than 46,000 over all, those who ate about a half a grapefruit every other day had a 30 percent higher risk of breast cancer than those who ate none, even after other risk factors were taken into account. Scientists said they suspected that a compound in grapefruit inhibits an enzyme known as CYP 3A4, thus increasing the level of substances that are normally metabolized by 3A4, including estrogen.

But a more recent report, published this year in the same journal, reached a far different conclusion. That analysis used data from the Nurses’ Health Study, which followed more than 77,000 women 30 to 55 over many years. The scientists looked at intake of both grapefruit and grapefruit juice and found no rise in breast cancer risk, either among women over all or among postmenopausal women.

Experts at the American Cancer Society said that there was insufficient evidence to change existing recommendations, but that women with concerns could cut back on grapefruit.

Studies have produced conflicting information on a link, if any, between grapefruit and breast cancer risk.
791 2008-03-25 Colin Harrison’s New York is an-eye-for-an-eye, dog-eat-dog Darwinian world with similar map coordinates to Tom Wolfe’s Manhattan and the Los Angeles of Raymond Chandler and James Ellroy. It’s a place where glossy corporate offices and glitzy penthouses float upon a nasty, bilge-filled river of power and ambition, where malice and murder and mayhem lurk beneath supposedly civilized exchanges about cool restaurants and expensive shrubbery and hot new investments. It’s a place where newly arrived immigrants from China and Mexico cross paths with highflying masters of the universe and mob-connected hooligans, a place where the newly globalized marketplace creates megadeals as well as mistrust, miscommunication and deadly misalliances. In short, a Weegee world on steroids and crystal meth.

In “The Finder,” as in earlier thrillers like “Manhattan Nocturne” and “The Havana Room,” Mr. Harrison combines a Balzacian eye for social detail and a poet’s sense of mood with a sleazily sensationalistic plot — this time, so gory at one point and often so far-fetched that it seems more like a story line borrowed from a straight-to-video production than a high-budget feature film. The result is a grisly page turner of a novel that lacquers its cheap thrills with an upscale literary veneer, even as it leaves the reader with some memorably visceral snapshots of a nervous, profligate New York City, barreling headlong into the new millennium.

Ray Grant, the hero of “The Finder,” like so many of the author’s characters, is a man haunted by his past: a former fireman, he was gravely injured in the collapse of the World Trade Center on 9/11 and in an effort to put that trauma behind him has spent years traveling to other disaster zones as a relief worker. He has since returned home to New York to tend to his ailing father, a former cop who is terminally ill.

Ray doesn’t like to talk a lot about his past, and he thought he’d found a happy match in Jin Li, a pretty young Chinese woman who is his equal in emotional reticence. Jin Li, it turns out, has a lot to hide. Ostensibly a supervisor for a company that cleans Midtown office buildings, she is actually an information thief who works for her wealthy brother Chen’s Shanghai-based company, which has been using the stolen data to make millions in the stock market.

Now, suddenly, someone at one of those corporations — Good Pharma, a drug start-up with some promising new products in the pipeline — seems to have discovered what Jin Li is up to. After two of her employees are brutally murdered and she is nearly killed herself, Jin Li is on the run, and a worried Ray is hoping he can find her before her would-be assassins can.

Mr. Harrison enlivens this very basic thriller premise with some acerbic portraits of the people involved in the scam. Most of the victims at Good Pharma and its big money backers, we soon learn, are even greedier and more unsavory than Chen and Jin Li, and their instruments of revenge are twisted, small-time killers who make Ralph Cifaretto in “The Sopranos” seem almost normal.
792 2008-03-25 Earlier Monday, Clinton advisers corrected the Bosnia anecdote, saying they did not want it to harm her credibility. One Clinton foreign policy adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity in exchange for being candid about her mistake, said that Mrs. Clinton had been “too loose” with her words and that she risked looking as if “she was trying to pump up a somewhat risky situation into a very dangerous one.”

In her most recent account, offered last week, Mrs. Clinton described an action-packed arrival in the Balkans.

“I certainly do remember that trip to Bosnia,” she said, in remarks that aides described Monday as not being part of her prepared speech. “I remember landing under sniper fire. There was supposed to be some kind of a greeting ceremony at the airport, but instead we just ran with our heads down to get into the vehicles to get to our base.”

In interviews Monday, aides to Mrs. Clinton at the time of the trip, as well as an Associated Press photographer who was on the trip, said that she and others were briefed before landing about the possibility of sniper fire around the airport in Tuzla, Bosnia. None of the aides remembered actual sniper fire. Nor did the photographer, Doug Mills, who now works for The New York Times.

“I remember being told we were going into a war zone, but I don’t remember any commotion at the airport,” Mr. Mills said. “I don’t recall her running to cars. If that had happened, we would have made a picture of it.”

Maj. Gen. William Nash, who has since retired but was then the commander of United States troops in Bosnia and was at the Tuzla airport that day, said in an interview that there was no threat of sniper fire at the airport during Mrs. Clinton’s visit. He said she was gracious during her visit and took pictures with the soldiers, who were there to enforce the terms of the Dayton peace accord, signed five months earlier.

“She never had her head down,” General Nash said. “There was no sniper threat that I know of.”

Before Mrs. Clinton’s admission that she had misspoken, a spokesman for the campaign, Howard Wolfson, was asked Monday on a conference call with reporters to square her recent accounts with other evidence. In response, Mr. Wolfson referred to news accounts at the time that described the region as hostile.

He then added, “There is no question if you look at contemporaneous accounts that she was going to a potential combat zone, that she was on the front lines.”

Minutes later, when pressed to clarify his comment, Mr. Wolfson said news accounts made clear that the area in which she was landing was “a potential combat zone and was hazardous.”

He said that in her memoir, “Living History,” Mrs. Clinton wrote about sniper fire in the hills and “clearly meant to say that” when she brought it up last week. He said she had described the event many times the same way and that “in one instance, she said it slightly differently.”

In her comments Monday, Mrs. Clinton made a similar point, saying, “I didn’t say that in my book or other times.”

Mrs. Clinton had described the sniper fire in similar terms at least twice in recent weeks. She mentioned it on Feb. 29 in Waco, Tex., when she was rolling out her “red phone” commercial, recalling the trip to Bosnia and saying that the welcoming ceremony “had to be moved inside because of sniper fire.”

According to Mrs. Clinton’s public schedule for March 25, 1996, she arrived in Tuzla at 8:55 a.m. and was greeted by the acting president of Bosnia, Ejup Ganic; the United States ambassador, John Menzies; two senior United States military officials; an 8-year-old girl, whose name was redacted from the schedule for privacy reasons; and a seventh-grade class that had been “adopted by Germany.”

The first lady’s public schedule, which was among more than 11,000 pages released by the National Archives last week, lists the greeting ceremony at the Tuzla airport this way: “Ambassador Menzies intros HRC to greeters; 8-year-old Bosnian Girl Reads Poem to HRC; HRC greets 7th grade class.”

Later that day, Mrs. Clinton spoke at a show for about 500 troops. She was joined by the comedian Sinbad and the singer Sheryl Crow, both of whom performed for the troops, according to the schedule. Later that day, Mrs. Clinton and her entourage left for Aviano Air Base in Italy.

Sinbad challenged her account of sniper fire soon after he heard it more than a week ago, saying the scariest part of the trip for him was wondering where the next meal would come from. Sinbad is supporting Senator Barack Obama for president.
793 2008-03-25 BERNIKER--Deborah. With deep and heartfelt sorrow Horace Mann School mourns the passing of Deborah Berniker, beloved wife of HM Coach and faculty member Neil Berniker, loving mother of J. Scott Berniker '87 and Eric Berniker '90, daughtersin-law M...
794 2008-03-25 James Carville, a political adviser to the Clintons, said Monday that he stood by his comment on Good Friday in which he compared Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico to Judas for his endorsement of Senator Barack Obama.     Though a Clinton campaig...
795 2008-03-25 COMEBACK FOR WALL ST. In an example of market volatility, stocks have soared on news of the increased offer for Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase and on a positive housing sales report.       WILLING TO COMPROMISE After JPMorgan and government offici...
796 2008-03-26 Authors of historical essays on 19th-century murder, blizzards and children’s picture books will appear at the CUNY Graduate Center tonight to recognize the Gotham History Blotter....
797 2008-03-26 The M.T.A. gave tentative approval to today to sell a 99-year lease to develop 26 acres of vacant land overlooking the Hudson River to Tishman Speyer Properties for just over $1 billion....
798 2008-03-26 Found on YouTube by my daughter Kate, who forwarded it to me. –MB...
799 2008-03-26 In the Enron debacle, one of the most disturbing disclosures was that Arthur Andersen's technical accounting experts were overruled by the engagement partners in Houston, allowing accounting decisions to be approved even though Andersen's experts ...
800 2008-03-26 The presumptive Republican nominee sets out a broad view of the role the United States should play in the world....
801 2008-03-26 In such a world, where power of all kinds is more widely and evenly distributed, the United States cannot lead by virtue of its power alone. We must be strong politically, economically, and militarily. But we must also lead by attracting others to our cause, by demonstrating once again the virtues of freedom and democracy, by defending the rules of international civilized society and by creating the new international institutions necessary to advance the peace and freedoms we cherish. Perhaps above all, leadership in today's world means accepting and fulfilling our responsibilities as a great nation.

One of those responsibilities is to be a good and reliable ally to our fellow democracies. We cannot build an enduring peace based on freedom by ourselves, and we do not want to. We have to strengthen our global alliances as the core of a new global compact -- a League of Democracies -- that can harness the vast influence of the more than one hundred democratic nations around the world to advance our values and defend our shared interests.

At the heart of this new compact must be mutual respect and trust. Recall the words of our founders in the Declaration of Independence, that we pay "decent respect to the opinions of mankind." Our great power does not mean we can do whatever we want whenever we want, nor should we assume we have all the wisdom and knowledge necessary to succeed. We need to listen to the views and respect the collective will of our democratic allies. When we believe international action is necessary, whether military, economic, or diplomatic, we will try to persuade our friends that we are right. But we, in return, must be willing to be persuaded by them.

America must be a model citizen if we want others to look to us as a model. How we behave at home affects how we are perceived abroad. We must fight the terrorists and at the same time defend the rights that are the foundation of our society. We can't torture or treat inhumanely suspected terrorists we have captured. I believe we should close Guantanamo and work with our allies to forge a new international understanding on the disposition of dangerous detainees under our control.

There is such a thing as international good citizenship. We need to be good stewards of our planet and join with other nations to help preserve our common home. The risks of global warming have no borders. We and the other nations of the world must get serious about substantially reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years or we will hand off a much-diminished world to our grandchildren. We need a successor to the Kyoto Treaty, a cap-and-trade system that delivers the necessary environmental impact in an economically responsible manner. We Americans must lead by example and encourage the participation of the rest of the world, including most importantly, the developing economic powerhouses of China and India.

Four and a half decades ago, John Kennedy described the people of Latin America as our "firm and ancient friends, united by history and experience and by our determination to advance the values of American civilization." With globalization, our hemisphere has grown closer, more integrated, and more interdependent. Latin America today is increasingly vital to the fortunes of the United States. Americans north and south share a common geography and a common destiny. The countries of Latin America are the natural partners of the United States, and our northern neighbor Canada.

Relations with our southern neighbors must be governed by mutual respect, not by an imperial impulse or by anti-American demagoguery. The promise of North, Central, and South American life is too great for that. I believe the Americas can and must be the model for a new 21st century relationship between North and South. Ours can be the first completely democratic hemisphere, where trade is free across all borders, where the rule of law and the power of free markets advance the security and prosperity of all.

Power in the world today is moving east; the Asia-Pacific region is on the rise. Together with our democratic partner of many decades, Japan, we can grasp the opportunities present in the unfolding world and this century can become safe -- both American and Asian, both prosperous and free. Asia has made enormous strides in recent decades. Its economic achievements are well known; less known is that more people live under democratic rule in Asia than in any other region of the world.

Dealing with a rising China will be a central challenge for the next American president. Recent prosperity in China has brought more people out of poverty faster than during any other time in human history. China's newfound power implies responsibilities. China could bolster its claim that it is "peacefully rising" by being more transparent about its significant military buildup, by working with the world to isolate pariah states such as Burma, Sudan and Zimbabwe, and by ceasing its efforts to establish regional forums and economic arrangements designed to exclude America from Asia.

China and the United States are not destined to be adversaries. We have numerous overlapping interests and hope to see our relationship evolve in a manner that benefits both countries and, in turn, the Asia-Pacific region and the world. But until China moves toward political liberalization, our relationship will be based on periodically shared interests rather than the bedrock of shared values.

The United States did not single-handedly win the Cold War; the transatlantic alliance did, in concert with partners around the world. The bonds we share with Europe in terms of history, values, and interests are unique. Americans should welcome the rise of a strong, confident European Union as we continue to support a strong NATO. The future of the transatlantic relationship lies in confronting the challenges of the twenty-first century worldwide: developing a common energy policy, creating a transatlantic common market tying our economies more closely together, addressing the dangers posed by a revanchist Russia, and institutionalizing our cooperation on issues such as climate change, foreign assistance, and democracy promotion.

We should start by ensuring that the G-8, the group of eight highly industrialized states, becomes again a club of leading market democracies: it should include Brazil and India but exclude Russia. Rather than tolerate Russia's nuclear blackmail or cyber attacks, Western nations should make clear that the solidarity of NATO, from the Baltic to the Black Sea, is indivisible and that the organization's doors remain open to all democracies committed to the defense of freedom.

While Africa's problems -- poverty, corruption, disease, and instability -- are well known, we must refocus on the bright promise offered by many countries on that continent. We must strongly engage on a political, economic, and security level with friendly governments across Africa, but insist on improvements in transparency and the rule of law. Many African nations will not reach their true potential without external assistance to combat entrenched problems, such as HIV/AIDS, that afflict Africans disproportionately. I will establish the goal of eradicating malaria on the continent -- the number one killer of African children under the age of five. In addition to saving millions of lives in the world's poorest regions, such a campaign would do much to add luster to America's image in the world.

We also share an obligation with the world's other great powers to halt and reverse the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The United States and the international community must work together and do all in our power to contain and reverse North Korea's nuclear weapons program and to prevent Iran -- a nation whose President has repeatedly expressed a desire to wipe Israel from the face of the earth -- from obtaining a nuclear weapon. We should work to reduce nuclear arsenals all around the world, starting with our own. Forty years ago, the five declared nuclear powers came together in support of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and pledged to end the arms race and move toward nuclear disarmament. The time has come to renew that commitment. We do not need all the weapons currently in our arsenal. The United States should lead a global effort at nuclear disarmament consistent with our vital interests and the cause of peace.

If we are successful in pulling together a global coalition for peace and freedom -- if we lead by shouldering our international responsibilities and pointing the way to a better and safer future for humanity, I believe we will gain tangible benefits as a nation.

It will strengthen us to confront the transcendent challenge of our time: the threat of radical Islamic terrorism. This challenge is transcendent not because it is the only one we face. There are many dangers in today's world, and our foreign policy must be agile and effective at dealing with all of them. But the threat posed by the terrorists is unique. They alone devote all their energies and indeed their very lives to murdering innocent men, women, and children. They alone seek nuclear weapons and other tools of mass destruction not to defend themselves or to enhance their prestige or to give them a stronger hand in world affairs but to use against us wherever and whenever they can. Any president who does not regard this threat as transcending all others does not deserve to sit in the White House, for he or she does not take seriously enough the first and most basic duty a president has -- to protect the lives of the American people.

We learned through the tragic experience of September 11 that passive defense alone cannot protect us. We must protect our borders. But we must also have an aggressive strategy of confronting and rooting out the terrorists wherever they seek to operate, and deny them bases in failed or failing states. Today al Qaeda and other terrorist networks operate across the globe, seeking out opportunities in Southeast Asia, Central Asia, Africa, and in the Middle East.

Prevailing in this struggle will require far more than military force. It will require the use of all elements of our national power: public diplomacy; development assistance; law enforcement training; expansion of economic opportunity; and robust intelligence capabilities. I have called for major changes in how our government faces the challenge of radical Islamic extremism by much greater resources for and integration of civilian efforts to prevent conflict and to address post-conflict challenges. Our goal must be to win the "hearts and minds" of the vast majority of moderate Muslims who do not want their future controlled by a minority of violent extremists. In this struggle, scholarships will be far more important than smart bombs.

We also need to build the international structures for a durable peace in which the radical extremists are gradually eclipsed by the more powerful forces of freedom and tolerance. Our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan are critical in this respect and cannot be viewed in isolation from our broader strategy. In the troubled and often dangerous region they occupy, these two nations can either be sources of extremism and instability or they can in time become pillars of stability, tolerance, and democracy.

For decades in the greater Middle East, we had a strategy of relying on autocrats to provide order and stability. We relied on the Shah of Iran, the autocratic rulers of Egypt, the generals of Pakistan, the Saudi royal family, and even, for a time, on Saddam Hussein. In the late 1970s that strategy began to unravel. The Shah was overthrown by the radical Islamic revolution that now rules in Tehran. The ensuing ferment in the Muslim world produced increasing instability. The autocrats clamped down with ever greater repression, while also surreptitiously aiding Islamic radicalism abroad in the hopes that they would not become its victims. It was a toxic and explosive mixture. The oppression of the autocrats blended with the radical Islamists' dogmatic theology to produce a perfect storm of intolerance and hatred.

We can no longer delude ourselves that relying on these out-dated autocracies is the safest bet. They no longer provide lasting stability, only the illusion of it. We must not act rashly or demand change overnight. But neither can we pretend the status quo is sustainable, stable, or in our interests. Change is occurring whether we want it or not. The only question for us is whether we shape this change in ways that benefit humanity or let our enemies seize it for their hateful purposes. We must help expand the power and reach of freedom, using all our many strengths as a free people. This is not just idealism. It is the truest kind of realism. It is the democracies of the world that will provide the pillars upon which we can and must build an enduring peace.

If you look at the great arc that extends from the Middle East through Central Asia and the Asian subcontinent all the way to Southeast Asia, you can see those pillars of democracy stretching across the entire expanse, from Turkey and Israel to India and Indonesia. Iraq and Afghanistan lie at the heart of that region. And whether they eventually become stable democracies themselves, or are allowed to sink back into chaos and extremism, will determine not only the fate of that critical part of the world, but our fate, as well. That is the broad strategic perspective through which to view our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many people ask, how should we define success? Success in Iraq and Afghanistan is the establishment of peaceful, stable, prosperous, democratic states that pose no threat to neighbors and contribute to the defeat of terrorists. It is the triumph of religious tolerance over violent radicalism.

Those who argue that our goals in Iraq are unachievable are wrong, just as they were wrong a year ago when they declared the war in Iraq already lost. Since June 2007 sectarian and ethnic violence in Iraq has been reduced by 90 percent. Overall civilian deaths have been reduced by more than 70 percent. Deaths of coalition forces have fallen by 70 percent. The dramatic reduction in violence has opened the way for a return to something approaching normal political and economic life for the average Iraqi. People are going back to work. Markets are open. Oil revenues are climbing. Inflation is down. Iraq's economy is expected to grown by roughly 7 percent in 2008. Political reconciliation is occurring across Iraq at the local and provincial grassroots level. Sunni and Shi'a chased from their homes by terrorist and sectarian violence are returning. Political progress at the national level has been far too slow, but there is progress.

Critics say that the "surge" of troops isn't a solution in itself, that we must make progress toward Iraqi self-sufficiency. I agree. Iraqis themselves must increasingly take responsibility for their own security, and they must become responsible political actors. It does not follow from this, however, that we should now recklessly retreat from Iraq regardless of the consequences. We must take the course of prudence and responsibility, and help Iraqis move closer to the day when they no longer need our help.

That is the route of responsible statesmanship. We have incurred a moral responsibility in Iraq. It would be an unconscionable act of betrayal, a stain on our character as a great nation, if we were to walk away from the Iraqi people and consign them to the horrendous violence, ethnic cleansing, and possibly genocide that would follow a reckless, irresponsible, and premature withdrawal. Our critics say America needs to repair its image in the world. How can they argue at the same time for the morally reprehensible abandonment of our responsibilities in Iraq?

Those who claim we should withdraw from Iraq in order to fight Al Qaeda more effectively elsewhere are making a dangerous mistake. Whether they were there before is immaterial, al Qaeda is in Iraq now, as it is in the borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Somalia, and in Indonesia. If we withdraw prematurely from Iraq, al Qaeda in Iraq will survive, proclaim victory and continue to provoke sectarian tensions that, while they have been subdued by the success of the surge, still exist, as various factions of Sunni and Shi'a have yet to move beyond their ancient hatreds, and are ripe for provocation by al Qaeda. Civil war in Iraq could easily descend into genocide, and destabilize the entire region as neighboring powers come to the aid of their favored factions. I believe a reckless and premature withdrawal would be a terrible defeat for our security interests and our values. Iran will also view our premature withdrawal as a victory, and the biggest state supporter of terrorists, a country with nuclear ambitions and a stated desire to destroy the State of Israel, will see its influence in the Middle East grow significantly. These consequences of our defeat would threaten us for years, and those who argue for it, as both Democratic candidates do, are arguing for a course that would eventually draw us into a wider and more difficult war that would entail far greater dangers and sacrifices than we have suffered to date. I do not argue against withdrawal, any more than I argued several years ago for the change in tactics and additional forces that are now succeeding in Iraq, because I am somehow indifferent to war and the suffering it inflicts on too many American families. I hold my position because I hate war, and I know very well and very personally how grievous its wages are. But I know, too, that we must sometimes pay those wages to avoid paying even higher ones later.

I run for President because I want to keep the country I love and have served all my life safe, and to rise to the challenges of our times, as generations before us rose to theirs. I run for President because I know it is incumbent on America, more than any other nation on earth, to lead in building the foundations for a stable and enduring peace, a peace built on the strength of our commitment to it, on the transformative ideals on which we were founded, on our ability to see around the corner of history, and on our courage and wisdom to make hard choices. I run because I believe, as strongly as I ever have, that it is within our power to make in our time another, better world than we inherited.
802 2008-03-26 (Photo: Mike Groll/Associated Press) It wasn't that long ago–10 years at most–that consumers would blanch at spending $800 for a large-screen traditional picture tube TV. But today, with CRT TVs nearing extinction (even Costco doesn't stock th...
803 2008-03-26 The increasingly bitter standoff between Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama could take a toll in November....
804 2008-03-26 Some hankering in the media for meatier issues in the Democratic race....
805 2008-03-26 Deutsche Bank's shares fell Wednesday in Europe after the German banking group warned that a business slowdown and possible write-downs could make it hard to achieve its profit goal for the year. The shaky outlook suggested that Deutsche Bank, whi...
806 2008-03-26 The London Stock Exchange's share price has hit nearly a four-year low, sparking fresh takeover rumors for the exchange that has been coveted by everyone from the Deutsche Borse to the Nasdaq Stock Market, Financial News reported. On Thursday, L.S...
807 2008-03-26 Drawing a sharp distinction between himself and the two Democratic presidential candidates, Senator John McCain of Arizona warned Tuesday against vigorous government action to solve the deepening mortgage crisis and the market turmoil it has cause...
808 2008-03-26 Shares of Thornburg Mortgage, a provider of jumbo mortgages that is trying to stave off a bankruptcy filing, rose 36 percent on Tuesday after the company disclosed plans to raise $1.35 billion. The rescue plan gives new investors debt that pays 18...
809 2008-03-26 BRUSSELS — European regulators on Wednesday opened an investigation of Visa Europe to determine whether the fees it charges on cross-border transactions within the European Union break laws against price fixing.

In a statement, the European Commission said it would investigate concerns about breaches of law by Visa Europe, which has 348 million cardholders.

Though the European Commission stressed that there is no evidence against Visa Europe, the European Commission last year ruled against similar types of fees levied by the company’s rival, MasterCard.

The charges in question are paid by retailers each time a customer uses a card to make a purchase. The customer’s bank deducts the fee and passes the remainder to the merchant’s financial institution.

Jonathan Todd, spokesman for the European Commissioner for Competition, Neelie Kroes, said the inquiry had been opened on the initiative of the regulator and not as a result of a complaint.
810 2008-03-26 In a sweeping accusation against one of the country’s largest accounting firms, an investigator released a report on Wednesday that said “improper and imprudent practices” by a once high-flying mortgage company were condoned and enabled by its auditors.

KPMG, one of the Big Four accounting firms, endorsed a move by New Century Financial, a failed mortgage company, to change its accounting practices in a way that allowed the lender to report a profit, rather than a loss, at the height of the housing boom, an independent report commissioned by a division of the Justice Department concluded.

The result of a five-month investigation, the report is the most comprehensive and damning document that has been released about the failings of a mortgage business. Some accusations echoed claims that surfaced about the accounting firm Arthur Andersen during the collapse of Enron, the energy giant, more than six years ago.

The 580-page report documents how New Century lowered its reserves for loans that investors were forcing it to buy back even as such repurchases were surging. Had it not changed its accounting, the company would have reported a loss rather a profit in the second half of 2006. The company first acknowledged that its accounting was wrong in February 2007 and sought bankruptcy protection less than two months later as its lenders stopped doing business with it.

The profit was important because it allowed executives to earn bonuses and convince Wall Street that it was in fine shape financially when in fact its business was coming apart, the report contended. But the report stopped short of saying that the company “engaged in earnings management or manipulation, although its accounting irregularities almost always resulted in increased earnings.”
811 2008-03-26 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — The space shuttle Endeavour returned safely to earth on Wednesday evening, completing a record-breaking 16-day mission to the International Space Station.

The shuttle landed at 8:39 p.m., roughly an hour after the shuttle’s commander, Capt. Dominic L. Gorie, fired twin braking rockets that brought the spacecraft out of orbit.

Mission managers canceled the day’s first landing opportunity, which would have brought the Endeavour to the runway at 7:05 p.m.; clouds threatened to obscure the site. After consulting with weather officers and Captain Gorie, however, the managers determined that conditions were improving by the time the second opportunity of the day came around and ordered Captain Gorie to bring the shuttle out of orbit and bring it and its crew of seven astronauts down to the 15,000-foot landing strip at the Kennedy Space Center.

“Good news,” Lt. Col. James P. Dutton of the Air Force, an astronaut in Mission Control, told the Endeavour’s crew shortly after 7 p.m. “You are ‘go’ for the de-orbit burn,” he said, referring to the rocket firing that brakes the shuttle out of orbit.

Captain Gorie had said the end of the long mission was bittersweet, but the crew and the shuttle were ready to return home. “The orbiter’s really been performing really marvelously this whole flight,” he said late Tuesday. “We don’t have any concerns at all about it.”

The crew includes Col. Gregory H. Johnson of the Air Force, the mission pilot; Richard M. Linnehan, a veterinarian; Capt. Michael J. Foreman of the Navy; Maj. Robert L. Behnken of the Air Force; and Takao Doi, a Japanese Space Agency astronaut.
812 2008-03-26 Senator John McCain made his case for continuing the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, saying on Wednesday that those countries are at the core of a region extending from the Middle East to Southeast Asia.

Making his first major speech on foreign policy since becoming the presumptive nominee, Mr. McCain said that withdrawing American military forced in those countries could allow them “to sink back into chaos and extremism” that would “determine the fate of that critical part of the world, but our fate, as well.”

While strongly affirming the need for military success in Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. McCain clearly sought to distance himself from the Bush Administration on a range of other issues. Speaking before the Los Angeles World Affairs Council, he said that the United States should “close Guantanamo and work with our allies to forge a new international understanding” on how to treat detainees determined to be dangerous.

Invoking his family’s military history — his father and grandfather were admirals — and his own service in Vietnam, Mr. McCain said: “I detest war. It may not be the worst thing to befall human beings, but it is wretched beyond all description.”

Nevertheless, he said: “We have incurred a moral responsibility in Iraq. It would be an unconscionable act of betrayal, a stain on our character as a great nation, if we were to walk away from the Iraqi people and consign them to the horrendous violence, ethnic cleansing and possibly genocide that would follow a reckless, irresponsible and premature withdrawal.”

Despite the continuing violence in Iraq, he said the troop increase known as the surge is producing results.
813 2008-03-26 Gold prices rallied for a second session Wednesday after the dollar sank and crude oil prices spiked — inflationary signs that pointed investors to the relative safety of precious metals.

The dollar slid further against the euro after a new round of dismal economic data: The Commerce Department reported that new homes sales fell to the slowest pace in 12 years, while orders for big-ticket manufactured goods dropped for the second consecutive time. The euro bought $1.5756 in Wednesday trading.

Declines in the dollar typically feed buying of gold since the metal is know for holding its value. A weak greenback also makes dollar-denominated commodities like gold appear cheaper to overseas buyers.

“Everything is predicated on the dollar right now,” said Kevin Grady, a gold trader with MF Global. “There’s a tremendous amount of dollars on the market and that constant flood of money is going to keep gold prices high.”

Gold for April delivery added $14 to fetch $949 an ounce in New York trading. Gold rose as high as $952.50, its highest level in a week.

In energy markets, crude futures shot up Wednesday after the dollar’s fall and lower-than-expected fuel inventories renewed buying of energy futures. Supplies of gasoline and distillates, which include heating oil and diesel fuel, fell more than analysts had expected, while crude inventories remained the same.
814 2008-03-26 DETROIT (AP) — The Ford Motor Company is selling its storied Jaguar and Land Rover businesses to India’s Tata Motors Ltd. in a deal that will net the struggling American automaker about $1.7 billion — roughly a third of the price it paid for the two luxury brands.

The deal announced Wednesday will expand the Indian carmaker’s reach around the globe.

The agreement had been in the works for months as cash-strapped Ford sought money to finance its turnaround plan.

Tata will pay $2.3 billion for the British brands, but at closing, Ford will pay about $600 million into the Jaguar-Land Rover pension fund, Tata’s statement said.

Ford bought Jaguar for $2.5 billion in 1989 and Land Rover for $2.7 billion in 2000. But it has been struggling and wants to focus on its main brands.

Tata said it expected no significant changes in the terms of employment for Jaguar and Land Rover’s 16,000 workers. It said the transfer of the brands would take place at the end of the second quarter.
815 2008-03-26 Mr. McCain has often addressed the mortgage crisis in general terms on the campaign trail, but in Tuesday’s remarks he offered a more comprehensive look at the challenge facing the nation — and the roots of the problem. He blamed a profusion of complicated and recently devised financial instruments “that weren’t particularly well understood by even the most sophisticated banks, lenders and hedge funds.”

Mr. McCain appeared to be trying to confront questions about his dexterity in dealing with the economy, a subject that he has admitted is not his strongest suit. But his remarks drew a quick, pointed rebuke from Mrs. Clinton, who criticized Mr. McCain’s hands-off, market-oriented approach, saying it would lead to “a downward spiral that would cause tremendous economic pain and loss” for Americans.

“It sounds remarkably like Herbert Hoover, and I don’t think that’s good economic policy,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters in Greensburg, Pa. “The government has a number of tools at its disposal. I think that inaction has contributed to the problems we face today, and I believe further inaction would exacerbate those problems.”

In addition to urging $30 billion in federal aid to states to help homeowners, Mrs. Clinton on Monday also endorsed federal legislation to expand the government’s ability to guarantee restructured mortgages, which she believes would lead more banks and other private entities to buy and resell mortgages.

Mr. Obama’s plan emphasizes making it easier to convert subprime loans to fixed-rate, 30-year loans, while requiring that borrowers have access to better data on loan costs and requiring greater scrutiny of lenders. On Tuesday, he said, “It’s deeply troubling that John McCain is suggesting that the best way to address the housing crisis is to sit back and watch it happen.”

While Mr. McCain left himself some room to support financial assistance for homeowners, saying he is “prepared to examine proposals” along those lines, his recommendations shied away from the large-scale relief that leading Democrats favor.

“Some Americans bought homes they couldn’t afford, betting that rising prices would make it easier to refinance later at more affordable rates,” he said. Later he added that “any assistance must be temporary and must not reward people who were irresponsible at the expense of those who weren’t.”

In place of large-scale government assistance, Mr. McCain recommended two immediate but limited measures. He said that accountants should meet to review the system by which real estate and related assets are valued, and he urged mortgage lenders to step forward voluntarily to help credit-worthy borrowers who may be strapped for cash at the moment.

“They have been asking the government to help them out,” he said. “I’m now calling upon them to help their customers and their nation out.”

Overall, the approach Mr. McCain suggested is even more cautious about federal intervention than that of President Bush. The Bush administration is looking to lower down payment requirements, at least temporarily. Mr. McCain said that he opposed reducing the down payment required for mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration, a step meant to revitalize slumping housing sales.

The housing crisis has emerged as a dominant topic in the campaign amid a steady drumbeat of worrisome economic data. A survey released Tuesday showed consumer expectations for the future at their lowest levels in more than 30 years, and polls show the economy has increasingly overshadowed issues like the Iraq war.

Mr. McCain spoke at some length about the problems caused by lenders and by Wall Street, which bundled mortgages into securities that were chopped into pieces and resold to investors in the United States and abroad. But he did not call for any kind of legislative or regulatory measures to fix those problems, other than to say that the government should eliminate obstacles to the ability of financial institutions to raise more capital.

Mr. McCain said he favored government intervention only when standing by would produce “catastrophic effects” to the economy. Asked if the Federal Reserve had gone too far last week in moving to prevent the collapse of Bear Stearns, he replied that it was “a close call, but I don’t think so,” because of the impact that the investment bank’s disappearance would have had on Wall Street and throughout the economy.

His approach drew a rebuke from economic policy experts aligned with Democrats.

“He’s not only far behind what either Clinton or Obama have proposed, he’s six months behind what the administration has already been doing,” said Andrew Jakabovics, associate director for the Economic Mobility Program at the Center for American Progress, a Democrat-leaning research group in Washington. Mr. Jakabovics was an early champion of programs like those now being discussed by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, to have the government either buy up or refinance millions of troubled loans.
816 2008-03-26 Japan has seen this sort of fanfare before. In 2004, the former Yomiuri Giants star Hideki Matsui opened the major league season in Japan when his Yankees took on Tampa Bay.

Japanese fans were out in full support then, in part because Matsui had played his entire career with the Dome-based Giants. Matsuzaka’s former club plays in the distant Tokyo suburb of Tokorozawa. But helping to create excitement this time, and foster a sense of pride, was the fact that the Red Sox were the first defending World Series champions to play in Japan.

Although Matsuzaka was the No. 3 starter for the 2007 Red Sox, and had a solid, but hardly great, first season in the majors, he clearly overshadowed his famous teammates here. The glossy, 90-page Japanese-language guide to the series began with several pages of color photos, advertisements and articles about Matsuzaka and Okajima before getting around to players such as Ramírez, Josh Beckett and David Ortiz.

Amid all this pride and joy about Matsuzaka, there was some uneasiness about this latest opener in Japan. Those associated with Japanese professional baseball are worried about inroads that M.L.B. might be making on their fan base.

This year, the two Red Sox-A’s games are taking place in the middle of the opening week for Japan’s Pacific League. Shinya Miyamoto, head of the Japanese players association, said of the Red Sox-A’s series, “Here we are doing our best to raise interest in our own game and now this.” He contended that a lot of people thought it was strange.

Even Matsuzaka seemed apologetic about the timing of the opener, saying, “I would have preferred to do this on another day.”

In fact, television ratings for the Tokyo Giants have fallen several points since live baseball telecasts from the United States became a regular morning affair in Japan. And the number of Japanese games shown in prime time has been reduced to 40, from 70, since last year.

Moreover, leaving Japan to play in the major leagues, once regarded as a traitorous act, has become a trendy thing to do. Players are attracted to the higher pay and prestige of the major leagues and are eager to be free of the lengthy practice sessions in Japan.

Those practice sessions created an interesting contrast for the Red Sox, who, in recent seasons, have established themselves as a colorful and loose group that wins championships. When Theo Epstein, Boston’s general manager, was asked if he would like to see Japanese-style practices instituted in Boston, he said no.

“It wouldn’t fit,” he said. “We give our players their freedom. We have a loose clubhouse environment. And they respond.” And they won Tuesday, with Matsuzaka and Okajima helping to lead the way.
817 2008-03-26 Moneywise, this is an eerily liberating time to be running for president or Congress. Donations are being harvested and spent at a record rate, while the Federal Election Commission — the campaign’s designated referee — has been reduced to a nonentity.

The panel has been unable to meet and function this year because it no longer has enough members to do business. There are four vacancies on the six-member commission, and a political standoff in the Senate centered on a hack Republican nominee is blocking attempts to fill them.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate’s Republican leader, has insisted that the four seats be filled as a single package on one vote, not separate votes on the merits of the individuals. Democrats object to one Republican nominee, Hans von Spakovsky, a notorious partisan who built a record at the Justice Department as an aggressive G.O.P. booster undermining voting rights for minorities and the poor.

Lacking a quorum, the commission has been left powerless to issue advisory opinions for candidates, write new reform regulations, open investigations and file lawsuits against violators. The result is a scofflaw’s paradise. The political landscape’s big-money fast lanes are slick enough without having the only traffic controller gone missing.

What this means on a practical level is that the supposed new breakthrough law called the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act is gathering cobwebs. The commission has been unavailable to write enforcement regulations for a law that could not be timelier. It requires presidential and Congressional candidates to report to the public on their lucrative bundled contributions — the large packages of multiple donations that lobbyists and other favor-seekers amass to secure out-size gratitude from candidates. If the commission ever gets back in business, the elections could be over and severe damage already done to the campaign.

Surely, Senator McConnell — long an outspoken opponent of campaign-finance reform — can’t mean to block a vital new law of the land in order to champion a discredited ward-heeler.
818 2008-03-26 ’s voters have given themselves and a chance for a healthy, new start. Last week, they elected a president who promised to strengthen relations with the mainland — while ensuring the autonomy of Taiwan’s vibrant democracy. That should be a relief for both sides of the straits.

Over the last decade, ’s push toward independence and ’s rhetorical bullying and real military buildup — including 1,000 missiles pointed at the island — fanned tensions and fears of war. The two governments must now seize this opportunity to build a productive new relationship.

Ma Ying-jeou, the Nationalist Party leader and Harvard-educated lawyer, won 58 percent of the vote by arguing that Taiwan’s best hope of boosting economic growth lies in closer relations with the mainland. He has advanced an ambitious agenda that includes regular direct flights, increased tourism and expanded commercial ties.

He is also talking about confidence-building measures — a hot line is one idea — that would reduce the chance of an accidental military confrontation. In the longer term, he says the two governments should negotiate a peace accord that would formally end hostilities dating from 1949 when the Nationalists fled to Taiwan after the Communists took over Beijing.

As for independence, Mr. Ma has sensibly said the issue would probably not be settled in his lifetime and has called for a diplomatic framework in which the two sides simply acknowledge each other’s existence.

Taiwan’s departing president, , has spent much of the last eight years baiting Beijing, talking about independence and pressing for international recognition. Beijing has been more than eager to take offense. As his final gambit, Mr. Chen insisted on a national referendum on whether the island should seek to join the under the name of Taiwan, instead of its legal name, the Republic of China. The Security Council, where China has a veto, would never have accepted this, and Taiwan’s voters rejected the idea by a substantial margin in last week’s election.
819 2008-03-26 A senior adviser to the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, cited the Democratic skirmishing to note that politicians sometimes made misstatements. That comment would apply to Mr. McCain, whose has made gaffes as a candidate, misspeaking last week on a Middle East trip about Iran’s support of Al Qaeda in Iraq.

The adviser, Steve Schmidt, also suggested that Mrs. Clinton’s comment about Bosnia could haunt her, especially if she keeps making such misstatements as saying Mr. McCain wants to keep American troops in Iraq for 100 years. He said it might be necessary to keep troops there for up to 100 years, for peacekeeping as in Germany and South Korea.

Strategists in both parties said few candidates were innocent of exaggerating. They also said Mrs. Clinton had to be especially careful because of a belief among many Americans, unfair or not, but detected in opinion polling, that the Clintons have a mixed and sometimes tortured history with being honest and giving direct answers.

“If any of them are going to put a purity test on each other, it’s going to be a very long fall campaign,” said Bob Beckel, a Democratic strategist who was Walter F. Mondale’s campaign manager in 1984.

“But for Hillary it’s particularly tricky, because she has made her foreign policy experience a major issue, and then the whole Clinton honesty thing in general,” Mr. Beckel said. “This is where her husband haunts her campaign. Is she really trustworthy? You can bet the Republicans will make that point.”

Mrs. Clinton pushed back on that point, admitting that she had made a mistake and that she had not intended to mislead anyone, especially because she has written correctly about the trip and a paper trail records that.

“I made a mistake and, you know, I had a different memory,” she said at a news conference after a rally here. “It proves I’m human, which for some people is a revelation.”

Earlier, Mrs. Clinton said on a radio station in Pittsburgh that people might cut her some slack, saying, “Occasionally, I am a human being like everybody else.”

Then she added about the Bosnia trip: “I have written about it in my book and talked about it on many other occasions, and last week, you know, for the first time in 12 or so years misspoke.”

At the news conference, she was pressed about the 12 years.

“I was joking — I mean, you know, gosh, lighten up guys,” she told reporters. “Obviously I say millions of words every week. There is a lot more room for error when you are talking as much as I am talking.”

After Mr. Obama’s campaign mocked her Tuesday for her misstatements, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign went on the offensive, citing news reports that identified instances where Mr. Obama had exaggerated.

“Senator Obama has called himself a constitutional professor, claimed credit for passing legislation that never left committee and apparently inflated his role as a community organizer, among other issues,” said a Clinton spokesman, Phil Singer. “When it comes to his record, just words won’t do.”

Republican analysts said the Bosnia case had left Mrs. Clinton exposed.

Yet Mr. Schmidt, Mr. McCain’s adviser, called the coverage about the sniper fire nonsense, saying, “Everyone misspeaks.”

He also said: “She does have a track record of misspeaking, including about being in Iraq for 100 years. Senator McCain has not said that. If she develops a long pattern of this stuff, it could become a bigger problem.”
820 2008-03-26 With home prices falling at record rates, Americans are also finding it more difficult to draw on their home equity, further depressing their spending power. A separate report on Tuesday said the value of single-family homes in major metropolitan areas plummeted 10.7 percent in January from a year earlier, the steepest annual decline since the 1990s housing slump.

“Consumer-led recessions are among the most difficult to turn around in an economy,” Mr. Baumohl said. “Particularly this one, because of the fact that many households feel a lot poorer than they did a year ago, primarily because of the collapse in the value of their homes.”

Sales of goods and services make up more than two-thirds of gross domestic product, so a significant spending slowdown can speed the onset of a recession or make a downturn even worse.

And the gloom among consumers appeared widespread. A quarter of those surveyed said that businesses conditions would worsen in the next six months, and nearly a third said the economy would have fewer jobs. Fewer Americans plan to purchase big-ticket items like refrigerators, vehicles and television sets, and more than half said that jobs were currently “not so plentiful.”

Responding to a question about income expectations, the proportion of Americans who said they expected their incomes to rise over the next six months dropped to 14.9 percent, the lowest level since the Conference Board began its survey in 1967.

Still, some economists said the report may represent the worst of the current downturn, rather than a harbinger of more pain to come.

“Typically, these readings look the worst when the economy is bottoming,” said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research and trading firm. He said that on average, the stock market has risen substantially in the six months after Americans’ economic expectations bottom out.

“As bad as this looks — and it is bad — it might mean we are in a recession right now,” Mr. Darda said. “It’s not necessarily a forward-looking indicator.”

Over all, consumer confidence — a measure of current sentiment — stood at a five-year low in March, the Conference Board said. The results echoed a separate consumer survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters, which reached a 16-year low in March.

Home values are also falling at a rapid rate, according to the closely watched Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller index, which on Tuesday released its latest survey of home prices in 20 metropolitan areas.

In January, all 20 regions recorded price declines, with the steepest losses in Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. Over all, prices dipped 2.36 percent in January, after falling 2.1 percent a month before.

Homes in Miami and Las Vegas have lost nearly 20 percent of their value in the 12 months ended in January. In only one area, Charlotte, N.C., have prices risen over the last year.

Though the price declines will hurt homeowners, they may also help to lure buyers back into the ailing housing market. Economists said the price drop was necessary to bring down inventories, which have ballooned in recent months as buyers waited for prices to fall even further.

“It’s a necessary thing,” Joshua Shapiro, an economist at the research firm MFR, said. “If pain is necessary, bring it on. That’s where we are right now.”

Falling prices may have already started to attract some buyers. Sales of previously owned homes ticked up last month, according to the National Association of Realtors, ending a six-month streak of declines.

The positive sales figure led some analysts to suggest that the housing market is approaching its bottom. But other economists predict that prices will have to fall further, and for several more months, before sales pick up in earnest.

In the New York metropolitan area, home values fell just 0.9 percent in January, and 5.8 percent compared with a year earlier. But the decline appeared to be gaining speed: values are down nearly 10 percent on a three-month annualized basis.
821 2008-03-26 Shares of Thornburg Mortgage, a provider of jumbo mortgages that is trying to stave off a bankruptcy filing, rose 36 percent on Tuesday after the company disclosed plans to raise $1.35 billion.

The rescue plan gives new investors debt that pays 18 percent and a chance at ownership of as much as 90 percent of the company, according to terms of a private placement that Thornburg outlined in a statement Tuesday. Thornburg, based in Santa Fe, N.M., is asking the New York Stock Exchange for permission to issue new securities without a shareholder vote because delay “would seriously jeopardize the financial viability of the company.”

Thornburg needs to raise almost $1 billion this week to meet margin calls from its bankers.

“Thornburg has a tight time window and you have to take measures you normally wouldn’t employ,” said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage industry research firm in Pompton Plains, N.J. “An 18 percent yield attracts instant attention.”

In trading Tuesday, Thornburg rose 46 cents, to $1.73, on volume of more than 52 million shares. Last June, the stock sold around $28.

MaitlinPatterson Global Opportunities Partners III, which invests in bankrupt and distressed companies, agreed to buy $450 million of the notes, Thornburg said in a separate filing. Mark Patterson, a MaitlinPatterson founder, said current prices on distressed debt made this a “great buying time.”

Thornburg has run short on cash as falling home sales cut into demand, and fixed-income investors, fearing losses on investments linked to subprime home loans, avoided the company’s securities.
822 2008-03-26 Forensic evidence from the murder of Linda Stein, the broker to the stars, showed that male DNA was mixed with her blood in a bathroom sink in her apartment, according to a medical examiner’s report disclosed by a defense lawyer on Tuesday.

The lawyer, Ronald Kuby, who is representing Natavia Lowery, the personal assistant who is accused of bludgeoning Ms. Stein to death with a yoga stick, said on Tuesday that the DNA results suggested that a man had been with Ms. Stein on the day of her death and might have killed her.

This DNA, he contended in a letter to Justice Micki A. Scherer of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, “was the DNA of the killer himself, who due to the force of the beating and bludgeoning of Linda Stein can be expected to have himself bled while trying to scrub clean. ‘Out damn’d spot,’ indeed.”

But Barbara Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said on Tuesday that the DNA was found in a “tiny speck of blood,” and that “there’s nothing to suggest the blood came from the murderer.”

Ms. Stein, whose clients included Madonna, Angelina Jolie and Elton John, was found in a pool of blood in her Fifth Avenue apartment on Oct. 30.
823 2008-03-26 PARIS (AP) — President Nicolas Sarkozy suggested Tuesday that a boycott of the opening ceremonies of the Beijing Olympics was a possibility, making him the first world leader to raise the prospect of punishing China over its crackdown in Tibet.

The United States, Britain and Germany condemned China for using force against Tibetan protesters, but stopped short of threatening to boycott the Games or the opening ceremonies.

Mr. Sarkozy, who had faced rising criticism in France for his relative silence on the issue, couched his comments cautiously. He made it clear that skipping the ceremonies on Aug. 8 was one of several possible French responses to the violence in Tibet.

“Our Chinese friends must understand the worldwide concern that there is about the question of Tibet, and I will adapt my response to the evolutions in the situation that will come, I hope, as rapidly as possible,” he said. Asked whether he supported a boycott, Mr. Sarkozy said he could “not close the door to any possibility.”

The timing of his comments appeared aimed at persuading other world leaders to join him. He will travel Wednesday to Britain, host of the 2012 Olympics, and European Union foreign ministers will meet Friday.

British officials have ruled out a boycott, saying close cooperation with China is the best way to influence it.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown spoke by telephone last week with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China and had said he would meet in May with the Dalai Lama. Mr. Brown’s office said he would attend the closing ceremonies of the Olympics as planned.
824 2008-03-26 “Though this will likely be chalked up to a bureaucratic snafu, the Chinese will view this through the prism of their own suspicions about U.S. intentions,” said Robert S. Litwak, an expert on proliferation at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars here.

President Bush and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates were informed of the discovery on Friday, and Mr. Gates immediately ordered an investigation.

“The department has initiated a complete physical inventory of all of these devices,” said Ryan Henry, principal deputy under secretary of defense for policy.

He said Mr. Gates told the Air Force and Navy secretaries “to conduct a comprehensive review of all policies, procedures, as well as a physical site inventory of all nuclear and nuclear-associated material equipment across their respective programs.”

Adm. Kirkland H. Donald, the director of Navy Nuclear Propulsion, will lead an investigation into how the fuses were shipped to Taiwan.

The Air Force secretary, Michael W. Wynne, said the four fuses were shipped in March 2005 from Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming for storage at a Defense Logistics Agency warehouse at Hill Air Force Base in Utah.

The fuses, packed inside canisters, were then shipped to Taiwan in the fall of 2006 to fill an order for helicopter batteries. It remained unclear, Mr. Wynne said, where in the supply chain the canisters were misidentified. Officials could not explain how the absence of the fuses was not discovered during the standard inventory reviews carried out four times a year.

Although the fuses were not nuclear parts, the technology is still closely guarded. Even devices that could be used to design or make nuclear arms and their parts are carefully controlled.

“This could not be construed as being nuclear material,” Mr. Wynne said. “It is a component for the fuse in the nose cone for a nuclear system.”

The nose-cone fuses are just under two feet long. Pentagon officials said they believed that the shipment was placed in storage upon receipt in Taiwan.

Even so, part of the investigation will include intelligence and technical analysis to determine whether the fuses were examined or otherwise tampered with.

Officials said the error came to light last week when Taiwanese officials alerted the United States. The fuses have since been given back.

Mr. Henry said the United States government was assessing whether any laws or treaties had been broken.

“If there was something that was amiss, it clearly was not intentional,” he said. “The United States stands up to its treaty obligations. And we’re dealing with this in the most straightforward manner we can.”

Mr. Henry said that the United States had spoken to the government of China and that “we will continue to have dialogue with them.”
825 2008-03-26 Teenagers are cynical about professional sports because of steroids (a “transcendent issue,” Mr. McCain once thundered in the Senate), so he has proposed that the government be given the authority to demand that even Division II college athletes be subject to the personal intrusion of random drug testing and punishment. Likewise, because betting on college sports could make one cynical about games possibly being thrown, Mr. McCain wanted to make that a federal offense.

The senator’s ideas for “reform” — taxing cigarettes, banning ultimate fighting, giving the president a line-item veto — typically empower the executive branch at the expense of American citizens and their representatives. Even his efforts to prohibit torture and overhaul immigration proved hostile to individual rights. His ban on the cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees was packaged with provisions that jeopardized habeas corpus. And his immigration bill would have required American workers to prove their citizenship.

Nowhere is this dynamic more apparent than in Mr. McCain’s signature issue: the corrupting influence of money in politics. His solution, the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, placed onerous restrictions on citizens who have no affiliation with sitting politicians.

When people raised First Amendment objections to the law, which prohibits citizen advertisements that so much as mention a federal candidate’s name within 60 days of an election, Mr. McCain responded, “I would rather have a clean government than one where quote ‘First Amendment rights’ are being respected that has become corrupt.” When the Supreme Court questioned the law’s constitutionality, he complained in a legal brief that ads were targeting “candidates in close contests — and almost invariably in a partisan manner.”

Mr. McCain’s stump speeches, as well as his five books, are chockablock with calls to elevate national greatness, collective duty and Washington rejuvenation over whatever individual roads we might be pursuing. In “Worth the Fighting For,” he wrote that “our greatness depends upon our patriotism, and our patriotism is hardly encouraged when we cannot take pride in the highest public institutions.” These institutions, Mr. McCain wrote, should “fortify the public’s allegiance to the national community.”

Like many country-first, party-second military officers who began second careers in Washington, Mr. McCain is often mischaracterized as a politician without any identifiable ideology. But all of his actions can be seen as an attempt to use the federal government to restore your faith in ... the federal government. Once we all put our shoulder on the same wheel, there’s nothing this country can’t do.

It can be a bracing approach when his issues line up with yours — I, for one, would welcome President McCain’s unilateral wars on pork-barrel spending and waterboarding — but it’s treacherous territory for those of us who consider “the pursuit of happiness” as something best defined by individuals, not crusading presidents-to-be.
826 2008-03-26 “Though this will likely be chalked up to a bureaucratic snafu, the Chinese will view this through the prism of their own suspicions about U.S. intentions,” said Robert S. Litwak, an expert on proliferation at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars here.

President Bush and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates were informed of the discovery on Friday, and Mr. Gates immediately ordered an investigation. “The department has initiated a complete physical inventory of all of these devices,” said Ryan Henry, principal under secretary of defense for policy.

He said Mr. Gates told the Air Force and Navy secretaries “to conduct a comprehensive review of all policies, procedures as well as a physical site inventory of all nuclear and nuclear-associated material equipment across their respective programs.”

Meanwhile, officials said, the fuses have been returned to American custody.

Admiral Kirkland Donald, the director of Navy Nuclear Propulsion, will lead an investigation into how the nose-cone fuses came to be sent to Taiwan.

Air Force Secretary Michael Wynne said the four nose-cone assemblies were first shipped in March 2005 from F.E. Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming for storage at a Defense Logistics Agency warehouse at Hill Air Force Base in Utah.

Then, in the fall of 2006, the four fuses, stored in canisters, were shipped to Taiwan to fill an order for helicopter batteries. It remained unclear, Mr. Wynne said, at which of the two American bases the canisters were misidentified as batteries.

“This could not be construed as being nuclear material,” he said. “It is a component for the fuse in the nose cone for a nuclear system.”

The nose-cone fuses are just under two feet long. Pentagon officials said they believed the shipment was placed into storage upon receipt in Taiwan.

Even so, part of the investigation will include intelligence and technical analysis to determine whether the fuses were examined or otherwise tampered with.

Officials said the error came to light last week when Taiwanese officials alerted the United States.

Mr. Henry said the United States Government was assessing whether the incident violated any domestic laws or treaty obligations.

“If there was something that was amiss, it clearly was not intentional,” he said. “The United States stands up to its treaty obligations. And we’re dealing with this in the most straightforward manner we can.”

Mr. Henry said the United States had spoken to the government of China and that “we will continue to have dialogue with them.”

Officials could not explain how the absence of the fuses was not discovered during the standard inventory reviews carried out four times a year.
827 2008-03-26 The logo of Rheon Cafe proclaims “Croissants since 1989.” But it has been only about three months since the shop opened at 189 Spring Street (Thompson Street) in SoHo, offering its specialty: croissants. The earlier date was when Rheon, a Tokyo company, introduced its bakery items wholesale in the United States.

Croissants are $2.50, minis $1.50; the minis can be had drizzled with chocolate and garnished with walnuts ($2.25). The deliciously flaky minis were my favorite, and I liked the chocolate topping more than the chocolate-filled croissant. All the croissants have a fine ratio of crust to crumb so they are not bready.

What makes these goodies different, the company says, is that they are formed by robotic machines so that the dough is not toughened by overhandling. The robots operate in plants in North Carolina and California; the results are then shipped frozen, to be gently thawed and baked in the shop, Rheon’s first outside Tokyo.

The cafe also sells cookies ($4 for an assortment) mini-quiches ($3.75) and sandwiches ($7.50 to $9), all made by humans: (212) 966-7040.
828 2008-03-26 “Lazy,” he sniffed, when I explained my version over the phone. “Hah!” I replied. “We’ll see about that!”

We met at his Brooklyn home for a kreplach face-off. I told him that Aunt Marcia told Aunt Evelyn, who told me, that Nana mixed the chopped meat with salt, pepper, onion powder and an egg.

Nothing doing, Mr. Schwartz said. He uses only real onions. I watched him cut one — so delicately that I wept for the destruction I have visited on every onion I have ever hacked at — then sauté it until perfectly browned. “Onions don’t taste Jewish until they’re browned,” he said, quite rightly. After adding some shards of garlic to the pan, he browned the meat, sprinkled it with salt and pepper, and turned off the heat.

For the dough, he proposed an egg noodle recipe that was little more than a mound of flour, two eggs and some water, and it took its shape quickly. He wanted to push it through a pasta roller to flatten it into sheets, but I refused. Nana used to roll it out onto an old tablecloth, Evelyn told me, and cut the squares from there.

As if dealing with an irrational child (as if?), he let me roll out the dough on a wooden board. While a tablecloth has its advantages, he said, he didn’t offer one, and the rolling was a lot harder than I had imagined.

The squares I managed to cut were closer to rectangles. Finally, I had a few to work with. I filled and sealed them, though the tips of the triangles seemed awfully thick. “We have a standard now from Italian pasta, so we have to roll it out more,” Mr. Schwartz said. “We didn’t have that then.”

He boiled the kreplach first, to cook the dough, then fried them. We filled a few more with his pot roast filling, and just to experiment he used won ton skins for some others.

The won ton skins were something of a bust, though he only boiled them. One step in, they tasted so Chinese, he knew we were on the wrong track. The kreplach with the pot roast filling tasted much better boiled, clearly meant for soup. When they were fried, the taste of the meat seemed to disappear.

As for my version, the dough was indeed too thick at its points — Nana’s was more uniform — but toward the middle, with that toothsome filling, well, it was mighty tasty. But was it Nana’s?

I’m sorry to say that it was not. Besides the difference in the dough, the chopped meat was a bit too assertive in flavor. Alas. I guess I had hoped that Nana might swoop down to guide my hand, and maybe she did — considering it was my first time, I impressed even myself — but my finished product was decidedly more homage than divine visitation.

Mr. Schwartz tried one. “This is good!” he exclaimed, quite generously, I thought. He acknowledged that his pot roast filling could not withstand the rigors of the frying pan, and perhaps best of all, he beamed as he said, “I love it that you taught me something.” He kept eating. “This means I don’t have to make chicken soup anymore,” he added, appreciatively.

But he could see that I was disappointed, having fallen short of my ideal. So, he told me a story:

There was a man whose wife died, and after a very long time, he remarried. The new wife cooked every night, knocking herself out to make meals as pleasing as his first wife’s, and every night the husband would taste them, shake his head and say, “Not as good.”

One night, the new wife was on the phone, talking to a friend, and the dinner burned. “Who cares,” she thought bleakly. “What does it matter.”

She served the burned food, and her husband was ecstatic. “Finally!” he exulted. “Now it’s as good!”

When I was done laughing, I ate every lumpy corner of fried dough on my plate and thanked my tutor profusely. Yes, I could try again. I could roll the dough longer, reseason the meat. I could make my kreplach better.

But they still wouldn’t be Nana’s. They just couldn’t be.
829 2008-03-26 PARIS — European and Asian stocks posted strong gains Tuesday after JP Morgan’s revised offer for Bear Stearns bolstered financial shares, but the U.S. market faltered at the opening on another dose of sobering housing data.

Stocks got a big boost Monday on Wall Street, after JP Morgan, working closely with the Federal Reserve, sweetened its takeover offer for Bear Stearns to $10 a share from $2 a share.

“The market is happy that the Fed is searching for other solutions to the crisis,” said David Thébault, head of derivative sales at Global Equities in Paris. He said the U.S. central bank appeared to be risking the possibility of stagflation — stagnant growth and rising prices — but its actions, including the Bear Stearns bailout and the $200 billion of new liquidity it announced last week, have helped to stabilize sentiment.

While “we’re still in the crisis,” he said, there is now hope that the official response will be adequate.

On Monday, better-than-expected home sales had offered investors hope that the U.S. real estate market downturn might be beginning to ease, but new data Tuesday offered a reminder that the picture remains grim. U.S. home prices fell 11.4 percent in January, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index of single-family homes in 10 major U.S. metropolitan areas. It was the steepest drop since S&P started collecting data in 1987. A broader index of 20 metropolitan areas was down 10.7 percent.
830 2008-03-26 A few years ago, some Kaiser managers grew alarmed by studies showing that a plastic used in many supplies — polyvinyl chloride, or PVC — turns to chlorinated dioxin, a toxin, when burned. Other studies showed that DEHP (diethylhexyl phthalate, a chemical that makes PVC malleable), can leach into the contents of intravenous bags, potentially causing reproductive problems in male babies.

So the team summoned experts to identify hospital products containing hazardous ingredients. Soon after, a Kaiser sourcing manager called suppliers to see if they could come up with safe and functional PVC-free alternatives for carpets, medical gloves and other supplies.

None were available. So Kaiser challenged manufacturers to create them and compete for its business. As of 2004, Kaiser has been rolling out carpets made by Tandus, of Dalton, Ga., which use a nontoxic polymer called polyvinyl butyral, or PVB. Meanwhile, Kaiser found a supplier, Baxter International, for intravenous bags free of PVC, DEHP and latex. It also buys nitrile gloves, a latex substitute, from Cardinal Health.

Kathy Gerwig, vice president and environmental stewardship officer at Kaiser, said it would be financially prohibitive to test the toxicity of all its products.

“We want to eliminate exposure of toxic chemicals among our patients and in our communities,” she said. “It’s really hard to do that in the absence of the kind of information we need that’s available.”

In 1976, Congress passed the Toxic Substances Control Act, which required that chemicals produced from 1979, when the toxic inventory began, be subject to review for toxicity before entering the market. But the act let some 62,000 chemicals that were produced before then avert scrutiny. That makes it tough for companies like Kaiser to know what potentially toxic chemicals might be in products they buy.

Many experts say that the federal Environmental Protection Agency is too lenient on product manufacturers. “This is a major regulatory and market failure,” said Michael P. Wilson, a toxicologist with the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.

The E.P.A. has preferred the carrot over the stick approach with industry. In 1995, it started a voluntary program to encourage manufacturers and researchers to create more environmentally sensitive processes and products.

Many companies are not waiting for the stick. They are making their products conform to stricter chemical regulations enacted by the European Union, Canada, Japan and other places.

“The benefit of more restrictive policies globally is that it allows us to make one product that we sell everywhere,” said Sean Cady, director of environment, health and safety for Levi Strauss & Company, the jeans maker in San Francisco. Eight years ago, Levi began publishing a list of chemicals that it prohibits or restricts in its products.

The list, which is updated annually, dictates the type of fabric and raw materials that Levi buys from suppliers. For example, four years ago, designers created a shirt fabric that incorporated an antimicrobial chemical called isothiazolinone to prevent underarm odor and stain. But once Mr. Cady’s team saw that the chemical was on its list, the idea was abandoned.

Peter Dunn, who heads Pfizer’s green chemistry projects in Sandwich, England, said the company’s efforts have yielded “tens of millions in savings” in the production of two of its top-selling drugs: Viagra, the erection-enhancing drug, and Lyrica, a pain killer.

Much of the savings have come from reducing organic solvents like acetone. For Viagra, the company has reduced the amount of organic solvents from 1,300 liters per kilogram of drug produced in 1990 to 6.3 liters today, Mr. Dunn said. Some solvents, like acetone, were eliminated or replaced with renewable solvents like water.
831 2008-03-26 SHOPPERS in the household cleansers aisle of a Wal-Mart here one recent morning glanced at Clorox’s new Green Works products with disinterest, enthusiasm and skepticism. Their comments neatly summarized the pros and cons of Clorox’s bid to appeal to customers who buy with the environment in mind.

For Clorox, a company that built its name on chlorine bleach, the products are another foray into green marketing, after its purchases of Burt’s Bees, the cosmetics company, and Brita water filters. More important, the Green Works products are about to be paired with a name — the Sierra Club — normally associated with fighting toxic waste.

At the same time, the Sierra Club will be taking a step in a new direction by using its brand to help Clorox get a piece of a $150 million market dominated by names like Seventh Generation and Method. It is the first product endorsement by the Sierra Club in its 116-year history, and it will receive an undisclosed portion of the proceeds.

Monisha Jackson of Mountain View was the first to walk by the display of Green Works products, which carry a small Clorox label below their logo — a label that, come April, will be joined by the Sierra Club’s pine-tree-and-waterfall emblem. The basic cleaner — think Fantastik — was $2.50 a quart, about 50 cents more than equivalent-size bottles of its “nonnatural” shelf mates.

“It looks interesting,” Ms. Jackson said. “I think it’s something I’ll try.”

Kris McCubben of Cupertino walked by minutes later. Asked about Green Works, she said: “I haven’t used them. I haven’t thought of using them. I haven’t heard of them.”
832 2008-03-26 Real estate, though, is different. For both economic and psychological reasons, there is no asset more conducive to hopeful overvaluation.

That means real estate slumps tend to grind on for years, until sellers submit to reality and reduce their prices. This week’s batch of economic reports suggest that the adjustment is finally starting to happen. The decline in house prices is accelerating, especially in some of the big metropolitan areas covered by the Case-Shiller index released Tuesday, while the number of home sales has recently risen a bit.

But prices still have a ways to fall. Relative to the economic fundamentals — like incomes and housing supply — the average price nationwide seems to be about 10 percent too high. (This, of course, hides a lot of variation. In Texas, prices look sensible, while in much of Florida and Arizona, they are probably about 25 percent too high.)

The slow unwinding of the real estate excess, in turn, means that the turmoil in the financial markets and the country’s broader economic problems also aren’t anywhere near their end. Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, recently told Congress that the stabilization of prices was “what we’re looking forward to.” That is, the end of the real estate slump is the only thing that can get the economy back on solid ground.

Until house prices stop falling, it won’t be clear how many more people will default on their mortgages. Even homeowners who stay current on their mortgage payments will be affected. With the value of their largest asset dropping, many will decide to spend less and save more, aggravating the economic slowdown.

On Tuesday, the Conference Board reported that Americans were more pessimistic about the economy’s direction over the next six months than at any point since the bad old days of the 1973 oil embargo.

In many ways, it would be better if the housing correction would happen more swiftly and sharply. The pain might be worse, but it would be over quickly. We seem to understand this principle when we’re removing a bandage. Why, then, is it so much harder with housing?

Because houses are almost perfectly engineered to trick owners into overvaluing them.

For starters, people have an obvious emotional connection to their house. After you have raised a family or enjoyed long meals with friends there, you are naturally going to place a higher value on it than a dispassionate buyer would. It’s your home.

In normal times, buyers and sellers can still come to an agreement because inflation allows sellers to feel that they have made a nice return on their house. People don’t sell houses frequently, so the sale price of a house is almost always higher than it was when the current owner bought it, just as the price of food, haircuts and everything else tends to rise over a five- or 10-year span. Because of leverage — the fact that people buy houses mostly on credit — these inflation-driven price increases turn into true investment gains.

In the wake of the biggest housing boom on record, it’s understandably hard to accept a new reality. Robert Glinert, a real estate agent in the Los Angeles area, said he has recently been saying no to almost half the sellers who have asked him to represent them. Their initial asking price is just too unrealistic.

“People say, ‘I don’t care about the market — my home is still worth what I paid for it in 2006,’ ” Mr. Glinert told me. “And I say, ‘To you. Only to you.’ ”

Doing what Mr. Glinert is asking sellers to do — dropping the asking price below their purchase price — is especially difficult. It’s tantamount to admitting defeat.

David Laibson, a leading behavioral economist, categorizes this sort of behavior under the heading of “the principle of the matter.” His point is that people often go to great lengths to avoid taking a loss — or simply having to acknowledge one. “Even a small loss evokes a sense of frustration,” said Mr. Laibson, a professor at Harvard. “There’s something magical about ‘at least breaking even.’ ”

Often, this hurts no one so much as it hurts the would-be sellers. They stay in homes where they no longer want to live, rather than accepting their loss and moving on. Or they move but endure the hassle of renting out their old home, waiting, usually in vain, for the mythical buyer who understands its charms. All the while, their money is tied up in the house, and inflation is eating away at its real value.

Back in 2005, after Mr. Harrison and his wife couldn’t find a house they considered fairly valued, they opted to rent instead. They pay $3,250 a month for a four-bedroom home, which is a bargain relative to what their mortgage payments would have been.

And that six-bedroom house listed for $1.875 million? The last Mr. Harrison checked, it still hadn’t sold.
833 2008-03-26 “The great problem is actually removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere,” said Geir Vollsaeter, an environment expert and former general manager of carbon dioxide at Shell International, a subsidiary of the oil giant.

While much engineering work would have to be done to make a business carbon negative, the outlines are clear.

Take the concept of building a coal plant that captures and stores carbon dioxide. Such a plant could have zero emissions, because the coal would be turned into gas and processed to produce hydrogen and carbon dioxide. The hydrogen, a pollution-free fuel, would be burned, and the CO2 pumped underground for permanent storage.

But Robert Williams, a research scientist at Princeton University, said that not only coal could be gasified; you could also make the same fuel by starting with plant matter or other biomass.

And then, he said, “if you put any CO2 underground that is derived from biomass, that’s negative CO2 emissions.” That is because plants or trees — the raw material for the fuel —pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as they grow, and the gasification and storage takes that carbon out of circulation.

Mr. Williams said the more likely route would be to gasify a mixture of coal and biomass to keep the process carbon neutral. But the balance depends on the cost of separation and storage versus what kind of tax or other fee Congress might put on emissions.

More audacious is a plan by two professors at Columbia University to suck carbon dioxide out of the air, using waste heat from a solar plant, which has no smokestack.

Peter M. Eisenberger, a professor of earth and environmental sciences whose résumé includes positions at Exxon and other major companies, and Graciela Chichilnisky, an economist and mathematician, have proposed a “global thermostat strategy,” which would adapt a chemical process for capturing carbon dioxide from smokestacks.

Ordinarily, the process requires a large amount of energy. But the professors noted that McMahan L. Gray, a scientist at an Energy Department laboratory, has modified the process so that the relatively small amount of waste heat from a solar-generating plant could do the job. They estimate that they could remove about five pounds of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced. (A coal plant emits about two pounds when it makes that much electricity.)

“If you want to solve the global warming problem, you can’t do that by staying even,” Dr. Eisenberger said.

It will probably take a bounty on a ton of carbon, though, before anyone will do tests to see how well the chemistry will work on a practical scale.

A carbon-based process that may be a step closer to commercialization was created by George A. Olah, a Nobel laureate in chemistry, and G. K. Surya Prakash, a fellow faculty member at the University of Southern California. To recycle carbon dioxide, they developed a kind of reverse fuel cell, which makes methanol by mixing the gas with water and applying a jolt of electricity.

If the source of the electricity is carbon-neutral — from a windmill or a nuclear reactor, for example — the process would be carbon negative. (Although if the methanol is used as vehicle fuel, the carbon would be released back into the environment, making the process carbon neutral.)

UOP, a subsidiary of Honeywell, announced in December that it had acquired rights to the technology, a sign somebody thinks it could be profitable.

The Department of Agriculture is considering carbon storage as a new crop, so to speak. “It’s one of the many, many ways the agriculture community is going to be a viable player in the renewable-energy field as we go forward,” said Edward T. Schafer, the secretary of agriculture, at a renewable-energy conference this month.

The method is called agrichar, in which some biological material — grass or trees grown specifically for the purpose; or a cornstalk or other agricultural waste — is cooked at a very high temperature in the absence of oxygen. That produces an oil that, with a little chemical work, can be used as a vehicle fuel.

But in a world focused on carbon, the important part may be the leftovers, a charcoal-like material that retains most of the carbon. It also has useful minerals, like potassium and phosphorus. Plowed back into a field, it helps the soil retain water and nutrients, which also enhances plant growth, said Robert C. Brown, director of the Bioeconomy Institute at Iowa State University.

Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, has introduced legislation that would pay for more research. If it works, he said, farmers would have a new crop. “You’d be growing allowances,” he said.

If being carbon negative becomes important, then some existing industries may try to describe themselves that way. In some cases, it may even be true.

For example, Covanta Energy of Fairfield, N.J., operates plants that make electricity by burning municipal solid waste, which is about 80 percent paper and other organic materials. But Anthony J. Orlando, Covanta’s president and chief executive, says he is hoping to collect carbon credits, because each ton burned, he said, would have otherwise been buried in a landfill where bacteria digest garbage to make methane, a potent greenhouse gas. The company is building plants in China that will qualify for credits, issued by the European Union, which companies in Europe can buy to offset their own carbon output, Mr. Orlando said. As for the United States, he said, “it depends on the legislation.”

A Washington company, the Solena Group, also has a carbon-negative plan, which emerged from the decision by regulators in Kansas last year to turn down a permit for two new coal-burning power plants because of the millions of tons of carbon dioxide they would produce. The regulators insisted that the builder of the plants, an electric co-op called Sunflower, had to permanently remove the carbon from circulation. Gov. Kathleen Sebelius and the Kansas State Legislature are still arguing over whether the plants should be built.

Solena says it can use the carbon. The company employs a high-temperature process to break up anything organic into a flammable gas. The organic material could be algae, which have an extremely high energy value per pound. And algae eat carbon dioxide.

Solena is in discussion with Sunflower to build a 40-megawatt power plant that would run on gasified algae; the algae would be grown in thousands of clear plastic cylinders, 3 feet wide by 10 feet tall, sitting in the Kansas sun and fertilized with sodium bicarbonate, made with carbon captured from Sunflower’s coal plant. For each 1.8 tons of carbon dioxide, the columns would yield a ton of algae.

A Solena subsidiary has been growing algae at a facility in Alicante, Spain.

If built, the system would make double use of the carbon from the coal and avoid digging more coal for more power. Alternatively, the gas could be turned into diesel fuel or other vehicle fuel, if prices favored that.

For the truly adventurous, there is the plankton ocean digester, the brainchild of Mark E. Capron, an American civil engineer. His idea is to take a natural process, the bacterial breakdown of algae in the ocean, and carry it out in an underwater tank without air. The process would produce methane, which could be piped to shore for use as fuel, and carbon dioxide, which could be pumped to the ocean depths, where it would stay.

Since the system would replace the need for oil or natural gas, it would reduce carbon loading in the atmosphere. And it would run on plants or anything else that came into the digester. “Fish, octopuses, we’re not picky,” Mr. Capron said.
834 2008-03-26 YOU have one. Everybody does. The dish that stands out above all others: the most delicious food ever cooked by a beloved person who is no longer here to cook it.      Mine is fried meat kreplach. Nana, my paternal grandmother, who died in 1968, m...
835 2008-03-26 BANKS BALK AT DEAL Clear Channel Communications and its two private buyers may go to court to force several banks to complete the $19.5 billion sale. [C1.]     FACEBOOK FOR ATHLETES A Hollywood talent agency and a hedge fund are planning to start ...
836 2008-03-27 The mayor’s highly orchestrated introduction of Senator Obama at a speech at the Cooper Union quickly resuscitated speculation that the billionaire mayor could end up as a vice-presidential candidate....
837 2008-03-27 Red Hat reported strong earnings, and its new chief executive said that as technology budgets tighten, the open-source software it provides becomes a more attractive alternative....
838 2008-03-27 Bill Bradley and Austin Carr both know what it's like to score a lot of points in the N.C.A.A. tournament....
839 2008-03-27 The Clinton camp says the Obama campaign is prone to attack, despite his lofty rhetoric of hope....
840 2008-03-27 Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, agreed with Barack Obama's take that African-Americans are entitled to be angry and offered a few ideas of his own....
841 2008-03-27 An animated depiction of an underwater scene with artificial reefs made of subway cars. (Courtesy of Reef Charts)
842 2008-03-27 The latest survey on the 2008 presidential candidates....
843 2008-03-27 The creator of the Egg McMuffin and the founder of Popeye's Fried Chicken....
844 2008-03-27 The four N.C.A.A. tournament games on Thursday night all have interesting storylines....
845 2008-03-27 General Electric used two deals on Thursday to shuffle its lineup. In one exchange, worth about $1.57 billion, GE Money and Commercial Finance agreed to swap several European banking assets with Banco Santander. Banco Santander of Spain will acqui...
846 2008-03-27 Salvatore Ferragamo SpA, the luxury shoemaker, will decide within two months whether to go forward with its planned initial public offering despite the volatile markets, the company's chairman told Bloomberg News in an interview. Many other compan...
847 2008-03-27 Motorcycle news and blog items we're reading around the Web......
848 2008-03-27 The Securities and Exchange Commission's enforcement director said on Wednesday that it's still too early to tell whether the current market turmoil involves widespread securities law violations or simply bad business decisions. Reuters reported t...
849 2008-03-27 Air France-KLM Group said it is willing to push back deadlines for an agreement to purchase Alitalia, in order to allow talks with unions to continue. In a statement, Alitalia said, "Air France-KLM said it is willing to alter some of the deadlines...
850 2008-03-27 Bill Raftery has fond memories of Western Kentucky and the equality shown by its former coach, E.A. Diddle....
851 2008-03-27 FAIRFIELD, Conn. (AP) — General Electric used two deals on Thursday to shuffle its lineup.

In one exchange, worth about $1.57 billion, GE Money and Commercial Finance agreed to swap several European banking assets with Banco Santander.

Banco Santander of Spain will acquire GE Money’s businesses in Germany, Finland and Austria and its credit card and auto businesses in Britain. Banco Santander will combine the operations with its consumer finance and card divisions.

In exchange, GE Money will receive Interbanca, an Italian commercial bank that Banco Santander acquired as part of the purchase of ABN Amro Holdings. Interbanca will become part of G.E.’s commercial finance division.

With the deal, GE Money can pull some assets from consumer finance to focus on growth in commercial finance, a spokesman for GE Money, Robert J. Rendine, said.

“From G.E.’s point of view,” Mr. Rendine said, “we get a good new growth platform for commercial finance and a solid market like Italy.”
852 2008-03-27 Chris Warren scored 5 of his 22 points in a 9-0 second-half run to lead Mississippi (24-10) to a 81-72 victory against Virginia Tech (21-14) in the National Invitation Tournament quarterfinals in Blacksburg, Va. Mississippi will face Ohio State (22-13) on Tuesday at Madison Square Garden. Kosta Koufos’s 21 points led the host Buckeyes to a 74-63 victory against Dayton (23-11).
853 2008-03-27 The bond insurer FGIC said on Wednesday that its exposure to mortgage losses exceeded legal risk limits and that it might raise loss reserves because of litigation related to the stricken German bank IKB.

FGIC, the parent of the bond insurer Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, filed a lawsuit this month accusing IKB, which is government-owned, of fraud in providing incomplete information on $1.9 billion of debt that FGIC had agreed to insure.

FGIC also said in a statement that it had a substantially reduced capital and surplus position through Dec. 31. As a result, insured exposures exceeded risk limits required by New York State insurance law, the company, which is based in New York, said.

“This is a bombshell,” said Rob Haines, senior insurance analyst at CreditSights in New York. “They are actually in violation of New York insurance law. If they don’t remediate this, the state has the ability to take control of the company.”

Mr. Haines estimated that FGIC would need to raise about $2 billion to stabilize the company.

A spokesman for the New York insurance superintendent, Eric R. Dinallo, said his office was reviewing the new FGIC information and declined to comment.

FGIC, in notes to its consolidated financial statements, said it planned to submit a plan to the New York superintendent to reduce its risk. FGIC also said it had voluntarily ceased writing new business to preserve capital.
854 2008-03-27 Shortly after, at 7:33, Mr. Gorie, who retired from the Navy as a captain, fired the rockets and re-entry began.

He said the end of the long mission was bittersweet. “The orbiter’s really been performing really marvelously this whole flight,” he said late Tuesday.

The crew included Col. Gregory H. Johnson of the Air Force, the mission pilot; Richard M. Linnehan, a veterinarian; Capt. Michael J. Foreman of the Navy; Maj. Robert L. Behnken of the Air Force; and Takao Doi, a Japanese Space Agency astronaut.

The Endeavour also took up the astronaut Garrett E. Reisman, who stayed aboard the station for long-term duty, and returned with Gen. Léopold Eyharts of the French Air Force, a European Space agency astronaut who has lived on the station since last month to activate a European science laboratory.

The shuttle’s mission was the longest flight to the station since construction of the multinational outpost began, and NASA officials said it accomplished all of its objectives. “In my view, it’s been extraordinary in every way that I can think of,” said LeRoy Cain, chairman of the Endeavour’s mission management team.

The shuttle delivered the first section of Japan’s large Kibo laboratory, an 18,500-pound storage compartment. The main laboratory, a unit the size of a bus, is scheduled to arrive in May aboard the shuttle Discovery. The Endeavour also ferried up a 12-foot, 3,400-pound Canadian Space Agency robot called Dextre, which is to perform maintenance outside the station.

Michael Griffin, the NASA administrator, said the successful mission meant all of the international partners in the project now have major parts on the station.

“There really isn’t anymore a U.S. space flight program or a Russian space flight program,” Dr. Griffin said. “There is a world space flight program centered around the space station.”

During 12 days at the station, shuttle astronauts performed five spacewalks, a number previously seen only during servicing missions to the Hubble telescope. Three of the excursions were needed to assemble Dextre and the others to deploy experiments, examine a malfunctioning rotary joint on a truss holding solar power panels, and stow a long shuttle-inspection boom that the Discovery will retrieve and use on the next shuttle mission.
855 2008-03-27 Edison is under orders from the state to produce 20 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2010, a goal Mr. Bryson said it was unlikely to meet. Among the challenges is building new transmission lines from areas that are appropriate for windmills or other renewable sources.

In contrast, the solar installations are simple, he said. “We kick this off, and we believe we will even have some on rooftops available to help meet the August summer peak,” he said. Finishing the $875 million project will take about five years, and it requires approval from state regulators.

Mr. Schwarzenegger is scheduled to appear at the announcement Thursday on the roof of a warehouse in an industrial neighborhood near the airport in Ontario, Calif.

He said in a statement, “These are the kinds of big ideas we need to meet California’s long-term energy and climate change goals.” He added that more partnerships between commercial building owners and utilities could “set off a huge wave of renewable energy growth.”

Edison plans to cut costs by putting in relatively large installations, with teams moving from building to building. Advocates hope that the project’s scale will change the basic economics of solar cells, whose power is far more expensive than conventional electricity. Southern California Edison will own the cells and install them on leased space.

The largest solar installation in this country is 14 megawatts, at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. The largest in the world, in Spain, is 23 megawatts. Of the top 10 worldwide, all are in Spain or Germany, except for Nellis.

While the installation is huge in solar terms, it is only about half the size of a modest coal-fired power plant, and its energy output over a year will be only about a fourth to a third of what a coal plant of the same size would produce. That is because the solar plant will work only in daylight, and produce maximum power only when the sun is directly overhead and unobstructed by clouds.
856 2008-03-27 The original exchange began when a self-described Democrat, whom Mr. McCain jokingly referred to as Ernest Hemingway because of his resemblance to the author, said, “President Bush has talked about our staying in Iraq for 50 years —— ”

“Maybe a hundred,” Mr. McCain interjected, almost cavalierly. “We’ve been in South Korea. We’ve been in Japan for 60 years. We’ve been in South Korea for 50 years or so. That’d be fine with me as long as Americans are not being injured or harmed or wounded or killed. Then it’s fine with me.

“I hope it would be fine with you if we maintain a presence in a very volatile part of the world where Al Qaeda is training, recruiting and equipping and motivating people every single day.”

Mr. McCain emphasized several times that he understood that the American public would not support an unending war with mounting casualties.

Since then, he has repeatedly tried to clarify his remarks. In Cleveland last month, he said: “The war will be over soon, the war for all intents and purposes, although the insurgency will go on for years and years and years. But it will be handled by the Iraqis, not by us.” He said the United States would decide “what kind of security arrangement we want to have with the Iraqis.”

But with the war a critical dividing line in the campaign, Democrats have pounced on his remarks. While some Democrats also propose keeping noncombat troops in Iraq indefinitely, they contrast the “hundred years” remarks with their call for imminent combat troop withdrawals.

In Youngstown, Ohio, last month, for example, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York warned that “Senator McCain is willing to continue the war in Iraq for 100 years, he said.” Senator Barack Obama of Illinois frequently refers to Mr. McCain’s “100-year war.”

On Wednesday, responding to Mr. McCain’s foreign policy address in Los Angeles, Howard Dean, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement, “John McCain’s empty rhetoric today can’t change the fact that he has steadfastly stood with President Bush from Day 1 and is now talking about keeping our troops in Iraq for 100 years.”

Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the McCain campaign, said, “There is a deliberate misrepresentation of the statement under way by the two Democratic candidates and by the Democratic National Committee.”

Mr. Schmidt said the issue was “American presence versus American casualties,” adding “there are no American people, for example, protesting that the United States has a base in Kuwait” where there are no casualties. He predicted that voters would reward Mr. McCain for his “intellectually honest answer.”
857 2008-03-27 Operating an iPod from across the room usually requires three devices: the iPod, a stereo dock and a remote. But Monster, the company best known for its fancy cables, has cut out the middle man. Its iSoniCast Wireless Audio Bridge lets you beam music from the iPod itself to a distant stereo.

The iSoniCast adds a dock to the stereo and a small broadcast card to the base of the iPod. The regular iPod touch wheel controls the music, so you can switch from jazz to blues when the mood strikes, even while circulating at a cocktail party.

The device can transmit up to 30 feet using the 2.4 gigahertz band, although 20 feet is a more reliable distance. It uses some battery power, shortening listening time.

Streaming at 4 megabits per second, the resulting music should sound better than a transmission over Bluetooth, but not up to CD standards.

The iSoniCast, which sells for $100, is compatible with any iPod with a 30-pin connector that fits in a dock — except the iPhone. Sorry, no crank calls over the stereo to amuse partygoers. ROY FURCHGOTT
858 2008-03-27 John McCain believes that “it is not the duty of government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whether they are big banks or small borrowers.”

It is not surprising that President Franklin D. Roosevelt called for — and that Congress passed — the Home Owners Loan Corporation and the Farm Mortgage Refinancing Act, which prevented foreclosures of millions of homes and farms.

But in November 1931, even President Herbert Hoover proposed — and Congress later passed — the Home Loan Discount Bank System to reduce foreclosures and encourage home construction. Hoover also established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to provide liquidity to banks and restore confidence in the banking system.

It is a remarkable feat for a politician running for president to be even more out of touch and indifferent to the economic distress of Americans than President Hoover.

The writer teaches leadership studies at Williams College and is the co-author, with James MacGregor Burns, of “The Three Roosevelts.”
859 2008-03-27 “Commodities: Latest Boom, Plentiful Risk” (front page, March 20) implies that more heavy-handed regulation of oil markets is needed.

In fact, regulators are increasingly prosecuting price manipulation in oil markets with success. Traders have been found guilty of manipulation in physical and over-the-counter markets, not just futures markets that are subject to more regulatory oversight. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission needs no new powers, although it would benefit from an increase in staff and financing.

Heavy-handed regulation would impede market efficiency. Your article repeats ill-founded arguments about so-called regulatory gaps. I disagree that there is “widespread agreement that these regulatory gaps are bad for investors and consumers.”

You give the impression that the oil market is dominated by hedge funds, making small investors vulnerable. This is not the case. By far the biggest participants in energy markets are commercial traders — oil producers, refiners, traders, large consumers and banks that have traded oil for decades. There is far more smart money than stupid money in the oil market.

The writer is editor in chief of Argus Media, an energy news publisher.
860 2008-03-27 “This riot was deliberately manipulated by the Dalai Lama clique, and our government has taken legal actions to return Lhasa and other places to normality,” Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said Wednesday, according to a government statement. “The Dalai Lama is not purely a religious person. For a long time, he wore a religious coat and held the banner of peace while trying to separate China and destroy social stability and national unity.”

The Tibetan government in exile, based in neighboring India, has disputed the Chinese government’s figures, saying at least 140 people have died in demonstrations in the region.

On Thursday, about 30 monks disrupted a government-managed tour by foreign reporters to Lhasa, screaming that there was no religious freedom and that the Dalai Lama was not to blame for the recent violence, according to The Associated Press, which is represented on the tour.

The 15-minute outburst came as the journalists were being shown around the sacred Jokhang Temple.

“Tibet is not free! Tibet is not free!” yelled one young Buddhist monk, who then started crying.

Government handlers shouted for the journalists to leave and tried to pull them away during the protest.

Tibet and neighboring provinces with large Tibetan populations are now under tight military control, with roadblocks and house-to-house searches for suspects. But there have been daily reports of protests and sporadic violence in some regions, people in those areas say.

This week, the Chinese government issued a “most wanted” list with the names of 53 people who it says took part in antigovernment protests, according to the official Xinhua news agency.

The Dalai Lama, who fled Tibet in 1959 and settled in India, has insisted in recent weeks that he had no role in the violent protests and that he does not favor independence for Tibet. He has also said he opposes an Olympics boycott, and he recently offered to resign if Tibetans in western China continued to engage in violence.

Shortly after the March 14 riot, the government began forcing foreign journalists out of Lhasa. Government blockades have also prevented foreign journalists from reaching Tibetan areas in neighboring provinces.

Inside China, the state-owned media are publishing and broadcasting images of Tibetans burning and looting Chinese shops in Tibet and attacking ethnic Han Chinese. The images and reports have helped inflame anger at Tibetans among the Chinese.

To sway international opinion, China invited 26 foreign journalists for a three-day government-supervised trip to Lhasa starting Wednesday to see the damage and interview victims of the riots. Some American news organizations were invited to send representatives. The New York Times was not.

On Wednesday, the reporters on the tour received a detailed schedule for the trip and shown a video about the riots, said one journalist in the group.

For more than a week, however, about 20 journalists from China’s state-controlled media have been allowed into Tibet and other largely Tibetan areas.

The Chinese media have been driving home Beijing’s message: that Tibetan separatists acted as terrorists, while the government responded with restraint in quelling the riots, and that innocent Chinese were the victims of looting, burning and assault.
861 2008-03-27 “We were surprised because there has been all this talk about the financial crisis and how it would affect Germany,” said Klaus Abberger, a senior economist at the Ifo Institute in Munich. “We had a surge in the euro, and yet the firms assessed their export situation as being very good.”

In France, the Insee survey of sentiment among manufacturers rose unexpectedly in March, as did the Belgian BNB monthly survey. Only Italy reported bad news: the ISAE index of business confidence fell in March, to its lowest levels in two years, largely because of a decline in orders.

Natacha Valla, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Paris, said the French survey indicated that French companies — not just German ones — were still competitive in the face of a buoyant currency.

These hopeful signs are likely to fortify the European Central Bank in its refusal to follow the recent rate cuts of the Federal Reserve. The bank’s president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said on Wednesday that cutting rates in response to the financial crisis would only stoke inflation.

“The current monetary policy stance will contribute to achieving our price-stability objective,” Mr. Trichet said at the European Parliament in Brussels, taking note of the optimism in Germany.

Mr. Trichet’s hawkish comments, economists said, suggest the European Central Bank will leave rates unchanged even beyond June, when many bank watchers had predicted it would join the Fed in relaxing policy.

The Bank of England echoed the European Central Bank in its reluctance to adopt emergency measures. In testimony before lawmakers in London, the bank’s governor, Mervyn A. King, warned about inflation, too, and said his bank wanted a “longer term” solution to the crisis.

While both central bankers tried to project a cool demeanor, Mr. Trichet compared the current turmoil to the oil shock of the 1970s and the Asian financial crisis. The Asian crisis, he said, provided lessons for how to respond to this disruption, chiefly the need for greater transparency.

German businesspeople may be optimistic, but its bankers remain a fragile lot. Deutsche Bank warned that further write-downs of assets, and the deterioration of the broader economy, meant that it could fall short of its target of pretax profits of 8.4 billion euros ($13.1 billion) in 2008.

Deutsche Bank’s chief executive, Josef Ackermann, recently stirred up a tempest when he called for state intervention to restore calm to the markets, saying he had lost faith in their “self-healing” power. He later said he was referring only to the American mortgage market.

The European Commission is also nervous about the broader economic fallout of the crisis. In a report issued Wednesday, it said Europe faced increased head winds because of the market turmoil, a weaker American economy, high oil prices and the rise of the euro against the dollar.

Europe’s growth declined to an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007, from 2.6 percent in the third quarter. Growth in exports dropped to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter, from 2.1 percent in the previous quarter. Yet the commission still projects that exports will grow 5.3 percent in 2008, only modestly below their 5.8 percent growth rate last year.

“Europe’s resilience has improved, thanks to structural reforms over the last decade,” Klaus P. Regling, the director-general of economic and financial affairs for the commission, said in a roundtable interview.

Mr. Regling discounted the once-popular theory that Europe had decoupled from the United States. But he said several factors were cushioning it from a trans-Atlantic shock — not least the euro itself, which he said gives its 15 member states more stability in dealing with the crisis.

“The vulnerability of Europe is less than it used to be,” said Mr. Regling, a German economist, “and therefore, we are optimistic that we can weather the problems better than in the past.”
862 2008-03-27 Mr. Obama’s rival for the Democratic nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, said without being specific that “there is much to praise in Senator McCain’s speech.”

But Mrs. Clinton also said that she and Mr. McCain “continue to have a fundamental disagreement on Iraq,” because “like President Bush, Senator McCain continues to oppose a swift and responsible withdrawal from Iraq” and “discounts the warnings of our senior military leadership of the consequences of the Iraq war on the readiness of our armed forces.”

Mr. McCain is not only fighting his prospective election opponents on the issue but also swimming against the tide of public opinion. According to a CBS News poll conducted last week, 6 in 10 Americans think the United States should have stayed out of Iraq, and a majority say that things are going badly there and that they do not believe the United States is safer from terrorism as a result of the war.

Mr. McCain acknowledged the political import of such opinion last month, blurting out to reporters on his campaign bus that if he could not convince the American people that the war was a worthy cause, “I lose.”

The speech Wednesday followed Mr. McCain’s return from travels this month to the Middle East and Europe. During that journey, he visited Iraq and also met with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, both of whom he has praised since returning to the campaign trail as potential diplomatic partners.

His remarks here included long passages that appeared intended to reassure allies in Europe and elsewhere that despite his tough stance on Iraq, he welcomed and would practice what one of his foreign policy advisers later called “robust diplomacy.” The speech also had elements that seemed to urge Democrats and independents, dubious about his stay-the-course position on Iraq, to look beyond it and examine other planks in his foreign policy platform.

Mr. McCain did not refer to the Bush administration by name. But he explicitly criticized policies that the administration has followed in the Middle East, like a “strategy of relying on autocrats,” including those in Saudi Arabia, “to provide order and stability” and the go-it-alone approach that has been applied to issues as varied as global warming and the invasion of Iraq five years ago this month.

“The United States cannot lead by virtue of its power alone,” Mr. McCain said. “We must be strong politically, economically and militarily. But we must also lead by attracting others to our cause, by demonstrating once again the virtues of freedom and democracy, by defending the rules of international civilized society and by creating the new international institutions necessary.”

By contrast, on relations with what he called “a revanchist Russia” intent on regaining lost prestige and territory, he took a much tougher stance than Mr. Bush, who once said he considered President Vladimir V. Putin “very straightforward and trustworthy” after he “looked the man in the eye” during their first meeting. Mr. McCain instead complained of Russia’s “nuclear blackmail and cyberattacks” on its neighbors and recommended that the Russians be expelled from membership in the Group of 8, made up of the world’s largest free-market democracies, and replaced by India and Brazil.

Mr. McCain never mentioned Mr. Bush. Indeed, the only two presidents to whom he referred by name, both in a favorable context, were Democrats: Harry S. Truman and John F. Kennedy. And one day after he was endorsed by Nancy Reagan, he even issued an implied admonition to some of Ronald Reagan’s more enthusiastic partisans, saying that “the United States did not single-handedly win the cold war; the trans-Atlantic alliance did, in concert with partners around the world.”

In a conference call with reporters after the speech, Mr. McCain’s senior foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann, declined to say whether the candidate’s remarks were meant specifically to separate him from the unilateralist policies of the Bush administration that have proved unpopular both abroad and, increasingly, among Americans.

“I’ll leave that to you,” Mr. Scheunemann said, referring to reporters and, as he later made clear, voters.

But he did say that if elected, Mr. McCain would pursue “collaborative relations” with the rest of the world.

And another adviser, Richard S. Williamson, an assistant secretary of state under Mr. Bush’s father and a former representative to several United Nations bodies, said Mr. McCain recognized that in relations with allies, there was a “need to exchange views, not just bludgeon people with our own views.”
863 2008-03-27 LISS--Sylvia. Cherished mother, friend & comrade. We are one heart & one soul. Elizabeth and Marjorie...
864 2008-03-27 A NEW HOUSING WRINKLE As the housing market worsens, home equity loans are becoming the next area of contention in the mortgage crisis.      FINGER-POINTING An in-depth report blames KPMG for condoning ''improper and imprudent practices'' that led...
865 2008-03-28 The Securities and Exchange Commission is out today with a letter to companies that own a lot of financial instruments whose current market value must be reported to shareholders. For more than a few companies, disclosing market values is neither ...
866 2008-03-28 A trailer for The Lost Ring, an alternate reality game that McDonald's commissioned for the Olympics.
867 2008-03-28 Ever the rolling, restless stone, T Magazine is on the move again....
868 2008-03-28 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
869 2008-03-28 From the obituary today for Abby Mann, 80, Oscar-winning screenwriter for the Holocaust trial drama "Judgment at Nuremburg": For all Mr. Mann's success in persuading directors and producers not to fiddle with his work, he was less successful with ...
870 2008-03-28 John McCain has put out his first ad for the general election, a one-minute take on his patriotism and military service....
871 2008-03-28 Davidson is a close-knit team with a coach who has a singular sense of humor....
872 2008-03-28 Even Israeli secret service agents want work/life balance....
873 2008-03-28 Microsoft's hostile takeover attempt against Yahoo may encounter an unexpected hurdle in August after a Chinese antimonopoly law takes effect that will extend the nation's economic influence far beyond its borders. The law, which goes into effect ...
874 2008-03-28 Senator Barack Obama called Thursday for tighter regulation of mortgage lenders, banks and financial houses, even as he spoke of pumping $30 billion into the economy to shield homeowners and local governments from the worst effects of the collapse...
875 2008-03-28 Despite all the headlines in recent months about high-profile hedge-fund collapses and near-collapses, data from the industry publication Absolute Return suggests that 2008 is actually on pace for the smallest number of fund shutdowns in several y...
876 2008-03-28 Credit Suisse Group will allocate at least $300 million to Hudson Capital Management's Hudson Clean Energy Partners fund, the companies announced Thursday. Hudson will provide late-stage investments, from $50 million to $500 million, to renewable ...
877 2008-03-28 SEATTLE (AP) — The Boeing Company agreed on Friday to acquire a 50 percent stake in a South Carolina fuselage subassembly plant in a move that could improve efficiency in the construction of the new 787 airplane.

Under the deal, Boeing will acquire Vought Aircraft Industries’ interest in Global Aeronautica. Terms were not disclosed. Global Aeronautica operates a fuselage subassembly plant for the 787 near Charleston, S.C.

Once the deal is complete, that operation will be a 50-50 joint venture between Boeing and Alenia North America, which is part of the conglomerate Finmecanica of Italy.

Vought will continue to produce the aft fuselage for the 787 at a plant adjacent to Global Aeronautica.

Boeing’s 787 program vice president, Pat Shanahan, says the move is intended to help “overcome supply-chain challenges.”
878 2008-03-28 A defendant in a lawsuit stemming from the exhumation of the Notre Dame great George Gipp’s body in Houghton, Mich., said a judge had dismissed the case. Two men claiming to be Gipp’s cousins sued in November, contending that the remains of the player’s sister, Bertha Isabelle Gipp Martin, were disturbed because workers initially dug in the wrong spot. She was buried next to her brother. The remains of Gipp, who died in 1920 of pneumonia, were dug up Oct. 4 for DNA testing to determine whether he fathered his girlfriend’s child. The results were negative.
879 2008-03-28 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Food and Drug Administration said on Thursday that recent data show patients taking H.I.V. drugs from GlaxoSmithKline and Bristol-Myers Squibb may have increased risk of heart attack.

The F.D.A. said data pooled from a 33,000-patient study of H.I.V. patients showed those taking Glaxo’s Ziagen and Bristol-Myers’s Videx had a greater chance of heart attack than patients on other medications.

Labeling changes could be needed for the drugs, the agency said, though it stressed it was still working with incomplete data. The agency does not have information on heart attack risks of two other drugs in the class of virus-fighting medications.

In an announcement posted to its Web site, the F.D.A. said it would make recommendations on the drugs after it completes its review. Until then, it said, doctors should weigh the risks and benefits of the drugs for patients.

Glaxo and Bristol reviewed their clinical trial data on the drugs and both said they found no increased risk of heart attack.
880 2008-03-28 But the women’s story, like that of the violence that erupted in Tibet and neighboring regions, is more complex than the government suggests.

Four of the women were Han Chinese. The fifth was a 21-year-old ethnic Tibetan named Cirenzhuoga, who supported her relatives. The government, which has spoken often of innocent Chinese victims, mentioned only in passing that she was Tibetan. Her family is as angry as the others at the protesters.

And the riots that claimed their lives did not happen in a vacuum. Some Tibetans who have been able to communicate with the outside world say that in the days before March 14, they heard that monks protesting China’s hold on Tibet had been arrested, maybe even killed. Many Tibetans also say the crackdown that followed the riots has left more than 140 dead and perhaps as many as 1,000 ethnic Tibetans jailed.

Western news media have not been able to verify either version of events because reporters have been banned from traveling on their own to the sites of violence.

But telephone interviews with the families of four of the fire victims offer a more nuanced picture of the women.

They worked at Yishion, a well-known Chinese store that sells casual wear in Lhasa’s tourist area, and thought little about the tensions in Tibet, family members said. They were paid little, but earned more than they could have in most jobs in the countryside.

“Xinxin was a happy, simple girl,” said He Xiaohuan, the brother of He Xinxin, 20, one of the dead. “She never thought about any social or political issues.”

Chen Jia, who was 19, was pretty and outgoing, her family said. Her father was a soldier based in Lhasa in the 1980s who stayed on to work as a truck driver. She grew up with her grandparents in Sichuan Province before moving to Lhasa in 2003. Her first job was as a shop assistant at Yishion.

Liu Yan, who became engaged last year, was 22. She had worked in a clock factory in Fujian Province, in southern China. But after her father died in 2003, her mother found a matchmaker in their village, and she was introduced to Wang Yong, a soldier in Lhasa.

“He wants to be a military officer,” Ms. Liu’s mother, Deng Zhixiu, said Wednesday. “Last August, Wang Yong came to Zhangzhou asking me whether he can take Liu Yan to Lhasa.”

Cirenzhuoga, the ethnic Tibetan, was described as a hard worker who had many friends who were Han Chinese.

“My sister was very frugal,” says Cirenzhuoga’s older brother, Danmuzhen, who lives on the Tibetan plain with his family. “She always bought the cheapest clothes for herself and saved money for the family.”

The family of the fifth victim, Yang Dongmei, 24, was too upset to talk about her or her death.

On March 14, the women were at work when Tibetans rampaged through Lhasa’s old quarter, and tried to get word to their relatives about what was happening.

Cirenzhuoga text-messaged an aunt in Lhasa at 3:30 p.m. about the turmoil: “Don’t go outside. We are hiding in the store.”

Ms. Liu also messaged her prospective mother-in-law at 3:30: “Mom, don’t go outside. Be careful. Some are killing people.”

At 3:42 p.m., Ms. Chen sent her father a warning message, adding, “I am safe at the store.”

There were no more messages.

“We called her twice after receiving her text, but she didn’t answer,” said Ms. Chen’s father. “Her mother was scared to tears, but we couldn’t go outside.”

The families were forced to stay indoors for several days, after thousands of troops were sent to Lhasa to quell the violence.

Cirenzhuoga’s brother, Danmuzhen, said, “We called her for four days. Even though it was power off, we still believed she would pick up the phone somehow, telling us she was safe.”

Ms. Liu’s mother, Ms. Deng, was in Fujian Province, and knew of the violence. But on March 17, she said, she received a call from Wang Yong’s mother, and learned that her daughter was dead: “I almost sank to the ground. I couldn’t believe that.”

The girls’ families said they were traumatized. Wang Yong, the soldier in Lhasa, was denied leave to grieve and see his fiancée’s body, his mother said. Government officials visited each family, promising justice and compensation. Now, they are waiting — and seething. “How can those Tibetans be so cruel, with no humanity at all,” Ms. Deng said.

Danmuzhen said his parents were too distraught to eat: “I hope the government arrests all of them, gives them the heaviest punishment, sentence them to death, pay for my sister. The rioters are so brutal. We are all Tibetans. We are the same.”
881 2008-03-28 Outfielder Elijah Dukes missed the Washington Nationals’ final Florida exhibition game because he had to deal with some matters unrelated to baseball that the team did not specify. Dukes, who had sat out recent games because of a hamstring injury, was to travel to Washington separately from the team later Thursday. The Nationals said that Dukes’s obligations existed before the team acquired him from Tampa Bay in the off-season for a minor league pitcher. He had various arrests and suspensions during his time with the Rays.
882 2008-03-28 Five finalists for the Golf Digest United States Open Challenge were named Thursday, selected from 56,374 entries. The winning finalist will play Torrey Pines Golf Course in San Diego, the site of the 2008 United States Open, on the Friday before the first round of the championship. An hourlong show documenting the round will be broadcast June 15, as a lead-in to NBC’s live coverage of the final round. The winner will be determined by online ballots cast March 28 to April 30 by voters 18 or older at gdopencontest.com.

The finalists are Erik Norton, a hedge fund trader with a degree from M.I.T.; Ross Troike, a former Navy pilot who flew missions over Iraq; Philip Dembure, a former college soccer player who only began playing golf seven years ago; John Atkinson, a 38-year-old medical supplies salesman who was treated for and beat lung cancer; and Matt Rice, a Los Angeles police officer who passed the department physical while on crutches.
883 2008-03-28 “Multinational corporations will need to develop strategies for all the markets they operate in,” he added, “and China is a big market.”

Whether China would seek to review a Microsoft acquisition, and what kind of posture it might take, would be closely watched by regulators and global companies as an indication whether it will play a conciliatory or a nationalistic role on the world stage.

“I don’t think anyone has worked through the issue of where an Internet merger should be reviewed, given that it truly is a World Wide Web,” said Andrew I. Gavil, a law professor at Howard University.

There are potentially dozens of jurisdictions that could claim oversight in such a deal because of the global business interests of the two huge companies and because it could potentially transform the Internet into two megaportals, Google and Microsoft. Other parts of the world that might have an active interest in the outcome of a merger include South Korea, a vibrant Internet economy where an antitrust investigation into Microsoft was previously opened.

Executives at Microsoft and Yahoo declined to comment on the possible effect of the new Chinese law. In rejecting Microsoft’s takeover bid in January, Yahoo’s chief executive, Jerry Yang, said in a letter to employees that the offer substantially undervalued the company, in part because of the significant growth potential of the Alibaba business in China.

The issue of whether the Beijing authorities will harmonize the law with foreign antitrust laws or use it to fire a shot across the bow of global businesses was sharpened last week after an effort by Huawei Technologies to invest in 3Com collapsed in the face of national security concerns in Washington.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States had examined the purchase, through which Huawei would have gained a stake in 3Com. The American company’s Tipping Point subsidiary makes Internet intrusion-detection software, a technology that the United States maintains has national security implications.

Before the attempted investment fell apart, senior Chinese officials were quoted as saying they thought that the deal did not have national security implications, and that American regulatory efforts were a cover for protectionist trade practices.

National security has played a role in other attempted deals involving Chinese companies. In 2005, the Chinese National Offshore Oil Corporation made a high bid to acquire Unocal, leading to a vote in the House of Representatives to block the deal. Soon afterward, the Chinese company, known as Cnooc, withdrew its bid and Unocal was acquired by Chevron.

In the case of the proposed Microsoft-Yahoo transaction, the Chinese have in recent years become more and more alert to the role the Internet plays in their economic and political affairs.

Last week, a vice minister in the State Council Information Office, which oversees the Internet, said there were 230 million Chinese users of the Internet. He said the Internet sector accounted for 7 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, and he expected that to rise to 15 percent in three to four years, according to a Reuters report.

The official, Cai Mingzhao, warned that foreigners should not use the Internet to interfere in Chinese internal matters, according to a report in The Guardian.

Even if the Chinese government did not try to prevent a takeover by Microsoft, a prolonged review could substantially damage the value of the business, a number of Internet industry executives said.
884 2008-03-28 For the ne plus ultra of development delays, we have only three words for you: World, Trade and Center.

IT is not surprising, then, that many New Yorkers are skeptical about some of the grand visions dangled before them.

Doubts seem to be flourishing about the promised benefits of the mayor’s congestion pricing plan, even assuming it is passed by the City Council and wins the blessing of Albany’s Dr. No, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. In a new Quinnipiac University poll of 1,528 New York State voters, fully half deemed it unlikely that the money taken from drivers entering Manhattan would be used, as announced, to improve mass transit.

With the Hudson Yards plan for a dozen commercial and residential towers, one complaint — hardly the only one — focuses on provisions for “affordable housing.” That’s the meaningless term of art for subsidized apartments for low- and moderate-income residents. All housing is affordable if one has the money.

“Affordable housing” is supposed to account for 379 of the 3,200 or so units contemplated for Hudson Yards. But should that number shrink, few would be shocked. Developers have routinely promised low-income housing to win political support, only to make those apartments disappear, like the hidden pea in a shell game, in order to preserve profit margins.

Ester Fuchs, a political science professor at Columbia University, sees Albany’s gnarled hand in the stalled projects. “The state’s role is primarily obstructionist,” said Professor Fuchs, who was a special adviser to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in his first term. “When the city controls the land, things move more quickly.”

Andrea Batista Schlesinger, executive director of the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy, a nonpartisan research center, said that many proposals were simply “not thought through.” Had they been vetted more thoroughly before being announced, she said, they “would not have seen the light of day.”

A similar point was made by Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, who has also advised Mr. Bloomberg. Take transportation, he said; politics encourages big ideas but not the wherewithal to pay for them.

“As a result,” Professor Moss said, “we have lots of projects that are able to get a few million dollars for planning and design work, but not enough to ever get built.”

But let’s not totally despair. Optimism being our default position, we will end on a more hopeful note, this from John H. Mollenkopf, a political scientist at the City University Graduate Center.

None of this is new, he said. Battery Park City took forever to come into being. So did the revitalization of Times Square. There are phases to development in New York, Professor Mollenkopf said. It often starts with what he called “the First Big Plan,” followed by its collapse. That is often good.

Plan No. 2 or No. 3 “may actually be a good bit better or more sensible,” he said, adding: “New York will come back, and we will get another crack at all these things.”

See? All you have to do now is make sure you live another 20 or 30 years.
885 2008-03-28 The indictment ended months of speculation and produced something of a collective exhalation as the island could pass from gossip to the realities of a federal prosecution.

The indictment, from a grand jury investigation that lasted more than two years, also charged 12 associates of Mr. Acevedo on the island and in the United States mainland with participation in illegal fund-raising.

Mr. Acevedo, 48, said he would surrender to the authorities on Friday. He faces up to 20 years if convicted on all counts, the authorities said.

Most of the other defendants were arrested, and federal officials said they were seeking the remaining few.

José F. Aponte Hernández, the speaker of the commonwealth’s House and a member of the New Progressive Party, said the party would decide on Friday whether to proceed with impeachment.

“This is a bad situation for Puerto Rico, not only for the governor, but for the people of Puerto Rico,” Mr. Aponte said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Aponte said that although he and the governor were from different parties “this is not the best situation for Puerto Rico.”

“I can not be happy about it,” he added.

The prosecution may affect the presidential race. Mr. Acevedo is a superdelegate to the Democratic National Convention and a supporter of Senator Barack Obama.

The 27-count indictment accuses the defendants of conspiring to raise money illegally to pay off large debts stemming from Mr. Acevedo’s successful campaigns in 2000 and 2002 to be the commonwealth’s nonvoting member of Congress, a position he held from 2001 to 2005, when he became governor. The reported campaign debt in 2000 was $545,000, the indictment says.

In the scheme, the indictment adds, Mr. Acevedo, with the help of other defendants, solicited and then reimbursed illegal campaign contributions from members of Mr. Acevedo’s family and staff and from the family members and staff of a group of businessmen in and around Philadelphia.

To circumvent contribution limits, the governor and his associates disguised the sources of the contributions by listing them under other people’s names, the indictment states.

In return for the contributions, the indictment says, Mr. Acevedo helped the businessmen obtain contracts from Puerto Rican government agencies for them and their clients.

In the governor’s 2004 campaign, the indictment says, Puerto Rican businessmen made large and unreported donations to the campaign, as much as $50,000 each, by disguising them as corporate payments to a public relations and media company that the campaign had contracted. In fact, those payments were covering campaign expenses.

The indictment accuses Mr. Acevedo of using campaign money for personal use and illegally failing to report it on income tax returns. The investigation had been a lively topic among politicians, political analysts and the news media in Puerto Rico. In the absence of many hard facts, rumor became operative, until the announcement of the indictment.

“It is the talk everywhere, and in general, what you hear is people saying what an embarrassment this is for Puerto Rico,” said Michelle Fabelo, a finance manager in San Juan.

“This is a zoo, you can imagine,” added Luis Dávila Colón, a political analyst in San Juan.

Reaction on the island appeared to hew to the sharp divisions that define commonwealth politics. Mr. Acevedo’s supporters backed his contention that the case was politically motivated. His opponents said the indictment seemed to underscore their long-held contentions that the governor was corrupt.

In a statement circulated by the governor’s office, Thomas C. Green, a lawyer in Washington who represents Mr. Acevedo, called the charges senseless and questioned why the indictment was unsealed “only months” before the election.

“This is an unprecedented and underserved intrusion by the federal government into the affairs and electoral process in the commonwealth,” Mr. Green said in a statement.
886 2008-03-28 Warnings that Medicare spending is growing at an unsustainable rate come with mind-numbing regularity, so it was no surprise that the latest report from the Medicare trustees found that the system is still headed for a financial abyss. Medicare’s problems get scant attention on the campaign trail but will demand strong corrective action by the next president.

The latest report by the trustees, all top officials of the Bush administration, contained the same bad news as last year’s report. The trust fund that pays hospital bills is expected be exhausted by 2019, leaving Medicare to limp along with payroll tax collections that would cover only 78 percent of estimated hospital expenditures. And the trust funds that pay for doctors’ services and prescription drugs will face rising costs that will inevitably drive up premiums and require infusions of money from general tax revenues.

This year’s report again warned that Medicare will soon be violating an absurd Congressional mandate that it can use general tax revenues — mostly generated by the progressive income tax — to pay only 45 percent of the program’s total expenditures, and must rely on the payroll tax and payments by beneficiaries to cover the rest. We have criticized that foolishness before and can only hope that the next Congress eliminates the cap so that Medicare’s financial troubles can be approached more sensibly.

Meanwhile, the Bush Administration has proposed, as required, some steps to stay below the cap. Primarily, it wants to reduce government subsidies for drug coverage for individuals earning more than $82,000 a year, shifting those costs from the government to the beneficiaries. That seems reasonable given that wealthier people already pay more for their coverage of doctors’ bills.

As for broader Medicare reforms, the administration proposed severe cuts in the growth rate of Medicare payments to health care providers, with the biggest cuts imposed on hospitals. Congress wisely balked. Some cuts in provider payments are desirable and could be implemented without much harm. But the administration’s cuts were too deep, and it refuses to consider reducing the unjustified subsidies granted to private health plans that participate in Medicare.

Although political rhetoric often focuses on “runaway entitlement programs,” it is important to recognize that Medicare’s financial woes are not intrinsic to Medicare. The relentless rise in health care costs are driving up premiums for private health insurance and employer-based coverage as well. Medicare will not truly be “fixed” until those costs are brought under control.
887 2008-03-28 “It’s not about just pushing ads out to people,” said Nancy Bhagat, vice president for sales and marketing and director for integrated marketing at Intel in Santa Clara, Calif.

“The main focus of our campaign is the interactive nature of the relationship we’re trying to build with I.T.’s,” she added, not only “listening to what they have to say” but also “creating forums on the discussion boards for I.T.’s to talk among themselves.”

Those aspects of the Internet, often called Web 2.0, present “a different way of looking at the dynamics of marketing,” Ms. Bhagat said.

A traditional tactic like a TV commercial “is one-dimensional,” she added, while Web 2.0 efforts like social-network marketing offer “an opportunity for dialogue, for two-way conversation.”

Except for some emerging markets, Intel has “stopped using TV on the consumer side,” Ms. Bhagat said, referring to campaigns aimed at buyers of PCs and other technology products.

As Intel and its agencies adjust the media mix, Ms. Bhagat acknowledged, there have been high points and low points. “We’re learning a lot along the way,” she said. “I’d rather be a leader and make mistakes than watch others learn and have us trail.”

To underscore the Web 2.0 elements of the campaign, the ads are taking what Ms. Bhagat described as “a conversational tone.” For instance, the home page of intel.com/itopia will offer visitors light-hearted greetings like these: “Welcome to a room full of green lights. To walking the hallways at a casual pace. To virtual servers equaling fewer servers.”

In a similar vein, the print ads will carry headlines like “Viruses fear you more than you fear them” and “Your machines are virtual, your great performance is real.”

The intended audience for the campaign “would far more rather hear something like this than hear sales- or marketing-speak,” said Michael McLaren, president at the McCann Erickson USA division of McCann Erickson in New York.

Intel has “aggressively moved into the digital space,” he added, “and part of that is a challenge to all the agency partners to be as innovative and imaginative as possible on the Web.”

The campaign is centered on “an insight we’ve been working on for a while,” Mr. McLaren said, which is that “a perfect world is the dream of every I.T. guy because in the real world, there are business problems, technology problems” requiring their constant attention.

There will be a section of intel.com/itopia devoted to visitors’ answers to the question “What’s your I.T. utopia?” Sample replies include “Not spending two days on a server upgrade,” “Less phone calls about viruses” and “An end to annoying maintenance visits.”

To help achieve that Xeon version of Xanadu — Xeon being the brand name of an Intel chip — Intel engineers will be available to answer questions and chat with the information technology professionals who visit the ITopia section of the Intel Web site.

“The core tenet is trust,” said Augustine Fou, senior vice president for digital strategy at MRM. “It’s Intel employees earning the trust of I.T. professionals over time.”

The desired audience for the campaign “is online 24/7,” Mr. Fou said, “and they turn to digital to get information from their peers.”

“You can no longer think of digital as a channel,” he added. “It’s part of the landscape.”

Intel is not alone in making a perfect world the centerpiece of a new initiative. Adweek.com reported this week that Quicken Loans, part of Rock Holdings, is working with ePrize to develop a community site called Qtopia, which will offer Quicken customers financial planning tools, podcasts and virtual places to visit, like a Q Cafe.

Hmmm. ITopia, Qtopia, Utopia. Just 23 more to go.
888 2008-03-28 Mrs. Clinton, a New York Democrat, set out a comprehensive approach to her signature issue of health care in three speeches last year, but she has been criticized for not providing details on several crucial components. She largely continued that approach in the interview, saying she would leave particulars like the eligibility criteria for her proposed health insurance tax credits to negotiations with Congress.

But she did discuss her thinking on other questions, including the premium cap, and expressed openness to measures she had not previously embraced.

She said, for instance, that it “might be appropriate” to require insurers to spend a heavy proportion of every premium dollar on health care as opposed to overhead and profit. Several governors, including Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, have proposed requiring that insurers spend 85 percent of premiums on health care.

Without specifying a number, Senator Barack Obama, Mrs. Clinton’s rival for the nomination, has backed that general concept.

Mrs. Clinton also said that if she could not generate the money needed to pay for universal coverage through other means, she would not object to raising the excise tax on tobacco products, which Congress last increased in 1997 to 39 cents a pack.

“I’m a big believer in raising tobacco taxes,” Mrs. Clinton said when asked whether an increase should be on the table. “You know, when we were working on the Children’s Health Insurance Program, that’s the funding stream that the Congress came up with, which was bipartisan, which worked out very well. At some point, there’s going to be diminishing returns. But, sure, why not? I don’t have any objection to that.”

As in her debates with Mr. Obama and other contenders, Mrs. Clinton displayed an easy command of health policy in the 45-minute interview, conducted in a basement meeting room in the Midtown Manhattan tower that houses her Senate office. Her voice hoarse, she conceded some weariness from the lengthy campaign, saying her decision to take off the Easter weekend had only allowed exhaustion to set in. But despite calls by some Democrats for her to abandon the race, she gave no hint that she was viewing her campaign in the past tense.

Mrs. Clinton presented a confident defense of her call for universal coverage, saying it reflected not only a moral imperative, but also the best chance to reduce costs and improve quality.

“I know that there are a lot of experts who may disagree about how to get to universal health care,” she said. “But they agree with me that in the absence of universal health care it’s very difficult to control costs, and it’s extremely hard to incentivize quality improvements at the level you need to really see results.”

Though that view is not shared by Senator John McCain or any of the rivals he vanquished to secure the Republican nomination, Mrs. Clinton said she thought that “the time is right” to build a bipartisan consensus to reorganize the health system.

She pointed to a growing demand for change by businesses, which bear the brunt of rising premiums, and to the support by some Republicans for a Senate bill that, like her proposal, would require individuals to buy policies and toughen regulation of the insurance industry.

“There is going to be increasing pressure, because left alone, we’re going to have more and more uninsured people and more and more underinsured people and continuing costs and decreasing quality,” she said.

Asked whether her proposal reflected the will of the entire country or just the leanings of voters in Democratic primaries, Mrs. Clinton said, “Well, I think it’s where the country can be.”

The proposal to cover all 47 million uninsured people would maintain the private insurance system and mandate coverage for all legal residents. She would require insurers to cover every applicant regardless of age or health status. Government insurance similar to Medicare would be available to all consumers.

Refundable tax credits would help make the newly mandatory policies affordable for low- and middle-income workers. Small businesses would receive tax credits to encourage them to offer insurance to employees. Large companies would either have to offer health benefits or pay into a pool that would finance subsidized coverage.

Mrs. Clinton has pegged the cost of her plan at $110 billion. About half would come from savings generated by improvements in prevention, chronic disease management and electronic record keeping. The remainder would be produced by rolling back President Bush’s income tax cuts on people earning more than $250,000 a year.

Mrs. Clinton’s campaign Web site says she would cover the uninsured “with no overall increase in health spending or taxes.” She said in the interview that rolling back the Bush tax cuts “should not be rightly labeled as a tax increase” because without Congressional action the cuts are to expire on Jan. 1, 2011.

Mr. Obama, of Illinois, also aspires to provide universal coverage, but he would mandate coverage only for children. He has said consumers should not be required to buy policies until costs can be reduced enough to make premiums affordable. He has suggested that affordability is the sole reason people do not buy health insurance.

Mrs. Clinton called that argument “just specious.” She maintains, and many health economists agree, that a share of the uninsured are “free riders,” typically young and healthy workers who can afford coverage but choose to spend on other priorities.

She pointed out that millions of qualified Americans, many of them children, remained unenrolled in government programs that would provide free or heavily subsidized policies. “You can make it affordable, but unless you have some requirement you’re not going to get everybody into the system,” she said.

As in past interviews and debates, Mrs. Clinton refused to specify how she would enforce her mandate. She has previously said that garnisheeing wages would be one option, but has declined to say whether it would be the preferred one. She did say, however, that the uninsured could be detected by employers and government agencies and then enrolled automatically.

There would be “a long grace period” to enroll, she said. At some point, it might be necessary to impose penalties to encourage compliance, as is the case in Massachusetts, the lone state with a mandatory coverage plan. “Probably eventually,” she said, “but I don’t want to set a time frame.”

As with many elements of her plan, Mrs. Clinton’s ability to lower costs so that premiums would not exceed 10 percent of income is speculative. “I think her plan is realistic at close to 10 percent, but I don’t think it’s realistic at 5 percent,” said Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who generally supports her approach.

Mr. Gruber also questioned not varying the premium cap according to income.

Mrs. Clinton said reducing the cost of health care would be crucial to the next president’s ability to keep Medicare solvent. The program’s trustees projected this week that the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund would be exhausted in 2019.

She said she would allow Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices and would “rein in” government subsidies for private Medicare Advantage plans. She said she would resist increasing payroll taxes or cutting benefits until trying a broad range of cost controls.

“We have so much unnecessary cost in our system,” Mrs. Clinton said. “It’s heartbreaking how much we spend on things that don’t produce a doctor at a bedside or a nurse taking care of a patient or any particularly good outcome.

“So I’m reluctant to put more money into a broken system. And it’s not only Medicare. It’s our entire health care system — without significant reforms. I think that would be an unbelievably bad decision.”
889 2008-03-28 The Giants are expected to begin the defense of their Super Bowl championship at Giants Stadium against the Washington Redskins on Thursday, Sept. 4.

The game, televised by NBC, will most likely have an early starting time, perhaps 7 p.m. Eastern, to avoid a conflict with the final night of the Republican National Convention.

It is a league tradition to feature the Super Bowl champions in the first game of the regular season. The rest of the first week’s schedule is expected to be announced Monday at the league meetings. The N.F.L.’s full regular-season schedule will be released later in April.

Besides the Redskins and their other National Football Conference East rivals, the Dallas Cowboys and the Philadelphia Eagles, the Giants will play home games against San Francisco, Seattle, Carolina, Baltimore and Cincinnati.

The road schedule includes games against Arizona, Minnesota, St. Louis, Pittsburgh and Cleveland, plus the division rivals.

The Giants, who were 3-5 at Giants Stadium last season, won three road playoff games to reach the Super Bowl, where they defeated the previously unbeaten New England Patriots.
890 2008-03-28 ST. LOUIS — Heeding concerns of flood-weary Missourians, the Army Corps of Engineers announced Thursday that it would counteract the release of millions of gallons of water into the Missouri River.

The corps, which early Wednesday morning began its planned 48-hour release of water from Gavins Point Dam near Yankton, S.D., said it had begun reducing flow rates at tributary dams on the lower river.

Corps officials said the reduced flow rates would effectively cancel the river’s upstream rise as it enters Missouri, which last week suffered extensive flooding.

The so-called spring rise, a pulse of water released by the corps, is to help the endangered pallid sturgeon, but it met fierce opposition after floods last week displaced hundreds of people and led President Bush to approve federal disaster aid for St. Louis and 70 Missouri counties.

On Tuesday, the state attorney general, Jay Nixon, unsuccessfully petitioned two federal courts to block the water’s planned release.

After winning the court fight, however, the corps changed its mind.

“What we were going to do provided no risk to the people of Missouri,” a spokesman, Paul Johnston, said. “But then we heard the raw emotion of their concerns, so we came up with this plan.”

Mr. Johnston said the revised plan would still benefit sturgeon on the upper Missouri where he said it was most needed but would eliminate the pulse from Kansas City to the Mississippi River.
891 2008-03-28 One of the main questions in the trial is whether the detectives’ shields were visible; another is whether Mr. Bell and his friends saw them.

Mr. Bell was fitted in May 2006 for a contact lens for his right eye, which would have corrected its vision to 20/30, but he never picked up the lens, the optometrist said.

It is unclear whether Mr. Bell was wearing a contact lens the morning he was shot. A doctor who conducted his autopsy has testified that he did not note whether Mr. Bell was wearing a corrective lens.

Meanwhile, a ballistics report placed into evidence on Thursday indicated that either of two of Mr. Bell’s gunshot wounds — one to his neck and one to his torso that left a bullet lodged in his spine — could have been fatal. Both rounds were fired by Detective Oliver, according to the report. A third bullet that hit Mr. Bell was also from Detective Oliver’s gun.

The report was inconclusive as to who fired the fourth bullet; ballistics tests showed only that it came from a 9-millimeter Sig Sauer pistol, a service weapon used by Detective Oliver and by Officer Michael Carey, who fired three rounds in all and who was not charged in the case.

The defense has maintained that Mr. Bell was very drunk — his autopsy showed his blood-alcohol level at least twice the legal limit for driving — when he climbed behind the wheel that night. Witnesses have said Mr. Bell’s car hit an undercover detective’s leg once and an unmarked police van twice. Partial blindness, defense lawyers argued, would have been a further impairment.

Mr. Friedman agreed on cross-examination that alcohol would have affected Mr. Bell’s vision. “You do not see with your eyes; you see with your brain.” he said. “Anything that would impair the brain — and the assumption is alcohol will do that — will make your vision inferior.”

Mr. Bell’s friends who were wounded in the shooting, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, are expected to testify next week that they did not know Detective Isnora was a police officer when he approached Mr. Bell’s car.
892 2008-03-28 When reality seeps in, when the fairway narrows to the width of a French Quarter alley as the United States Golf Association official on the first tee intones, “Play away, please,” how will an amateur golfer respond?

In June, one of five finalists — whose essays were chosen from 56,374 entrees to the Golf Digest United States Open Challenge — will find out.

Will it be a hedge fund trader with a degree from M.I.T. and a penchant for comedy? A former Navy pilot who flew missions over Iraq? A former college soccer player who took up golf seven years ago? A 38-year-old medical supplies salesman who beat lung cancer? A Los Angeles police officer who passed the department physical while on crutches?

The winning finalist will play Torrey Pines Golf Course in San Diego, the site of the 2008 United States Open, on the Friday before the first round of the Championship. An hour-long show documenting the round will air at 2 p.m. Eastern time Sunday, June 15, as a lead-in to NBC’s live coverage of the final round. The winner will be determined by on-line ballots cast March 28-April 30 by voters 18 or older at the website gdopencontest.com. He will be joined by the celebrity threesome of Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo, the singer/actor Justin Timberlake, and Matt Lauer, the co-host of The Today Show.

Can any of these players break 100 on a United States Open setup with ankle-deep rough, formica fast greens, whispering on-course commentators, mini-cams in their backswing and a U.S.G.A. official walking every step to ensure each stroke is played and recorded according to the Rules of Golf?

They seem to think so.

“I believe I would shoot between 88 and 92,” wrote Philip Dembure, a former soccer player. John Atkinson, 38, a lifelong nonsmoker found to have inoperable lung cancer last March, wrote, “If I can beat America’s deadliest cancer, then I can definitely break 100 at its Open.” Matt Rice, the police officer , was nominated by his wife, who wrote: “Break 100? Bet my husband shoots his personal best on TV.”
893 2008-03-28 The new study suggests that, if anything, the genetics of the disorder are even more complex than many had presumed. But if replicated, experts said, the study’s results will significantly alter the course of psychiatric research.

“This paper represents a paradigm shift in the way we think about identifying genes in schizophrenia,” said Dr. Matthew State, director of the neurogenetics program at Yale University School of Medicine, who was not involved in the research. “That is what the authors say in the paper, and it’s true.”

Dr. Samuel Barondes, a professor of psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco, said the new findings in no way disproved the idea that multiple common variations could act together to increase schizophrenia risk. Studies searching for such dark conspiracies of genes are under way and still promising.

“But this new work is not business as usual, in any way, and can lead to real insight,” Dr. Barondes said. “This is a field that has been grasping for straws, and this study is one big straw.”

In the study, a collaboration that included the National Institute of Mental Health, the University of Washington, Seattle, and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, investigators analyzed blood samples from 150 people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia and 268 without a psychiatric disorder. Using new high-resolution techniques that quickly scan the entire human DNA map, the researchers looked for rare variations that disrupted the function of genes. Some of these mutations are inherited; others occur spontaneously during or near conception.

They found 53 such mutations over all and reported that the mutations that disrupted genes were three times as likely to turn up in people with schizophrenia as in those without it. A similar analysis, in 83 people who developed a rare form of schizophrenia that strikes in childhood, found that those patients were four times as likely as healthy people to have a rare gene-altering mutation.

The mutations varied from person to person but were concentrated in genes known to be involved in brain development.

“The take-home message is that there’s a new way to search for genetic links, and this new method goes straight to the underlying biology,” said the senior author, Jonathan Sebat, an assistant professor of genetics at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.

Mary-Claire King, a co-author and a professor of medicine and genomic sciences at the University of Washington, said the findings helped explain several facts about schizophrenia, including why genetic selection has not caused it to disappear.

“A constant influx of new mutations that occur purely by chance, out of the blue, can explain the persistence of schizophrenia in all parts of the world and throughout human history,” Professor King said.

One of the mutations identified in the study, for instance, distorts a protein that is involved in guiding neurons to their proper places during brain development. Another mutation that turned up changes the shape of a molecule that transports glutamate, a chemical that excites neurons and is heavily involved transmitting signals between brain cells.

Both mutations are processes that biologists can explore to learn about the causes of schizophrenia, and possibly other mental problems. The glitches, too, may well act in concert with other gene variations. But gene-scanning technology is improving so quickly that subsequent studies should help clarify those interactions, experts said.

“My dream,” Dr. Sebat said, “is that we’ll do this kind of high-resolution analysis across tens of thousands of people and have full catalogs of variations that will tell us something not only about schizophrenia but about bipolar disorder, autism, depression, all of these disorders.”
894 2008-03-28 Wall Street sank in volatile trading Thursday after the government confirmed a sharp economic slowdown in the last quarter of 2007. For the second consecutive session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell by more than 100 points.

The technology sector was particularly weak after the business software maker Oracle posted worse-than-expected fiscal third-quarter sales and issued a cautious forecast. Data suggesting that Google’s revenue from Internet users’ clicks could slow also raised worries about tech stocks.

Oracle fell $1.51, or 7.2 percent, to $19.43, and Google dropped $14.11, or 3.1 percent, to $444.08.

Financial stocks lost ground Thursday as well, but the sense of panic that emanated from the near collapse of Bear Stearns at the start of last week appeared to have eased. On Thursday afternoon, the Federal Reserve auctioned off $75 billion in credit to investment banks, finding solid demand but not the desperation that some investors had feared.

“G.D.P. was in line, so we’re still expanding, even though we’re expanding at a very small rate,” said David Rovelli, managing director for United States equity trading at Canaccord Adams. “It’s definitely a different mind-set than it was two weeks ago. A lot of smart people are telling us to buy on the dips. I think we’ll be fine as long as there is not another Bear Stearns out there.”

The Dow fell 120.40 points, or 0.97 percent, to 12,302.46.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index declined 15.37 points, or 1.15 percent, to 1,325.76, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 43.53, or 1.87 percent, to 2,280.83.
895 2008-03-28 American Express said Thursday that it would acquire Corporate Payment Services, a commercial credit card and corporate purchasing business, from General Electric for $1.1 billion.

The acquisition is American Express’s latest effort to bulk up its corporate payments business, seen as a relatively stable earnings generator and less prone to recession than consumer credit card lending.

American Express said in January that customer spending slowed in December, a trend it expected would continue. The company also said it was building reserves as expected credit losses rise.

Corporate Payment Services has more than 300 large clients, which tend to pay off their balances in full at the end of each month. The largest customer is G.E., which agreed to become a client of American Express for several years.

G.E. is selling the business as a step to prepare for the company’s planned exit from the private-label credit card business, a spokesman said. G.E. executives said in December that they intended to possibly sell off $30 billion to $50 billion of assets related to that business.

Corporate Payment Services, part of the G.E. Money unit of G.E., handled more than $14 billion in purchases worldwide last year, and extended $1.1 billion in loans. The company has about 350 employees, based largely in Salt Lake City.
896 2008-03-28 The board of the Harold and Mimi Steinberg Charitable Trust announced on Thursday the creation of two theater awards for American playwrights. The first, to be given later this year and every other year afterward, will go to a midcareer American playwright who has received recognition for his work. That award comes with a cash prize of $200,000, making it among the largest ever given in the American theater. The second award, to be given in 2009 and every other year after that, will go to two playwrights in the early stages of their careers. That award comes with $50,000 for each honoree. Among those on the advisory committee nominating playwrights and selecting the winners are André Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater; Oskar Eustis, the artistic director of the Public Theater; and Martha Lavey, the artistic director of the Steppenwolf Theater Company of Chicago.
897 2008-03-28 His cramped cement workroom holds an image of the Virgin Mary and a large crucifix with a bloodied Jesus. A six-pointed star is painted on the floor, with a horseshoe to one side and a St. Andrew’s cross on the other. Candles dedicated to various saints crowd his table, most with photographs lashed to them. Some are photos of men and women whom the client wants to ensnare in love. Others are of barren women who want children. Others are of people with maladies from asthma to cancer.

Beneath the table Mr. Gallegos keeps ragged boxes full of herbs, bark and roots that have been used in these parts for medicinal purposes since before Hernán Cortés was a gleam in his great-great-grandfather’s eye.

He has dead bats, used in certain love charms, and ground-up rattlesnake, for curing illnesses. He uses oils extracted from lizards and turtles, the dried tongues of certain fish, coyote skin, eggs, chickens, holy water from the church and less-than-holy water from the lake. He knows dozens of local plants and their attributes. And he wields the tooth of a venomous snake.

“This goes back to ancient times,” he said. “There were witches here before the Spanish. Here there is a mix of everything, even of God.”

Catemaco is known throughout Mexico as a center for witchcraft and, to the dismay of some hard-core practitioners, magic has become a big tourist draw. The town holds an International Congress of Witches on the first Friday of every March.

During the event, a black mass is held at the mouth of the cave where the devil supposedly loiters. An oversize six-pointed star — they call it a Star of David — is set alight, to the delight of photographers. Politicians show up to receive amulets for good luck at the polls. Believers flock to the town to have their auras cleansed.

Sandra Lucía Aguilar, a 25-year-old cashier, traveled 22 hours by bus from Cancún for the black mass. A few days later she found herself in the waiting room of a popular witch doctor known as “The Crow,” hoping for a little black magic to force her errant boyfriend to return.

“I lived with him for five years, and then, overnight, he ran off with another woman,” she said. “I want him back. He humiliated me a lot and I want to humiliate him.”

The Crow turns out to be a slick-looking fellow named Héctor Betaza Domínguez, who wears white guayabera shirts and sits in a candlelit room among effigies of La Santa Muerte, a Mexican icon resembling the grim reaper in drag.

Mr. Betaza says people come to see him from all over Mexico and from major cities in the United States with large Mexican communities. Many simply want “una limpia,” or cleansing, to ward off evil spirits. But a majority of the complaints are broken hearts.

Asked where he learned his craft, Mr. Betaza, who calls himself a “master of occult sciences,” becomes evasive, muttering something about his mother having practiced magic. “This you don’t learn,” he said. “It’s something that you carry in the blood.”

Not everyone is convinced. The Rev. Tomás Alonso Martínez has the unenviable job of parish priest in a town best known as a haunt of the devil and witches. “It’s farce,” he said, “a lie, a fraud.”

In his five years in Catemaco, Father Martínez says he has seen so-called witches practice all sorts of confidence schemes, extracting money from gullible and vulnerable people.

One common trick is to tell someone he is hexed and then remove the hex for a fee. Another is to tell people they are sick, then offer them a traditional cure for an outlandish sum.

“They attribute to themselves power they cannot have,” the priest said. “The fundamental problem that exists with these people is that there are people who believe them. Anyone can set themselves up as a witch.”

Even Father Martínez acknowledges, however, that mixed in with the questionable practices are vestiges of a pre-Hispanic past. The use of Catholic saints also bespeaks a syncretism of beliefs, he notes.

In his church, an icon of the Virgin Mary sits in an alcove directly above and behind the altar. Before Mass, many go to the shrine and pass herbs over their bodies to cleanse themselves. Some leave pictures of loved ones, amulets and prayers.

That syncretism also emerged clearly when Mr. Gallegos performed a cleansing ritual on a recent afternoon. The client was a taxi driver named Santos Luna Cruz who wanted protection from envious rivals.

Stripped to the waist, Mr. Luna stood on a worn piece of velvet in the center of a chalk Star of David. Candles burned at each point of the star. A horseshoe was to one side, a St. Andrew’s cross to the other. Two glasses of water, believed to absorb evil spirits, were placed in front of him.

Mr. Gallegos sprinkled holy water, garlic and ammonia over him. Then, chanting the common Catholic prayer to “the father, the son and the Holy Ghost” and invoking a long list of saints, Mr. Gallegos held eggs to the man’s head and rubbed them over his body.

He scratched crosses with his serpent’s tooth on Mr. Luna’s face, arms, chest and abdomen. He took a live chicken and passed it over his client. He blew the holy water from his mouth in a fine spray at the man, and beat him with clusters of herbs.

When it was over, Mr. Luna, 34, grinned and ran his hand through his wet hair. “I felt very stressed out at first, but now I feel lighter, better,” he said. “I feel like he is taking away from my body the bad vibrations.”

Mr. Gallegos pointed to two eggs that broke during the ritual. “When the egg breaks, it is because it has absorbed the pain inside the young man,” he said.
898 2008-03-28 In the early and mid-19th century, just about anyone who was anyone, artistically speaking — and many who weren’t — made the trip from Paris. They put up at local inns and set about sketching, painting and, after 1845, taking photographs and trying out the new hybrid medium of cliché-verre, which combined elements of drawing, photography and printmaking.

The place was ripe for painting and rife with photo ops. A royal hunting preserve from the 12th century to the French Revolution, Fontainebleau offered not only stately trees and forests but also rocky plains (visitors often called them “savage”) and farms and villages too. It provided France with lumber and, until the late 19th century, Paris with its paving stones.

The show proceeds from small, luscious oil studies to enormous works aimed at jurors of the annual Salon and is spiked with photographs of many of the same vistas you’ll see on canvas. Bolstered by 19th-century tourist brochures and maps as well as an excellent catalog, it tells a complicated and fascinating story about the role of nature in general and of Fontainebleau in particular in art, work, leisure and progress. And by the show’s end a few more Impressionists start appearing, most irresistibly with Bazille’s painting of Claude Monet, propped up in bed with a leg injury.

The exhibition was organized by Kimberly A. Jones, associate curator of French painting at the National Gallery, and Helga Aurisch, associate curator of European art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, in collaboration with Sarah Kennel, the National Gallery’s assistant curator of photography.

European artists painted from nature primarily while on the Grand Tour, in and around Rome, until the late 18th century. That’s when the French academician Pierre-Henri de Valenciennes in particular started exhorting his students to do the same closer to home. Jean-Baptiste-Camille-Corot, who studied with two of Valenciennes’s students, visited Fontainebleau early and often. It became the wellspring for his art for more than five decades, and he became the leader, along with Theodore Rousseau, of the Barbizon School, named for that small Fontainebleau village.

Of course where artists lead, the public often follows — Provence, Giverny, Santa Fe, the Hamptons, SoHo. By the 1850s railway had reduced the Paris-Fontainebleau traverse to 65 minutes from eight hours. Artists, with Rousseau in the forefront, began to complain about day-trippers ruining the views and to lobby the government to protect their beloved vistas. Thus in 1861, 11 years before the formation of Yellowstone National Park, a portion of Fontainebleau became the world’s first national preserve.

The liberating effects of nature on the history of Western painting cannot be overestimated. Landscapes offered artists distinct topographies yet great latitude in style, paint handling and definition. The views themselves tended toward abstraction, blurring in form and color with each sunset.

This show goes considerably beyond the discreet Romanticism of the Barbizon style to reflect, in its own bucolic way, the range of progressive and conservative impulses of the art of its time.

Rosa Bonheur’s sun-lighted yet sober “Forest of Fontainebleau: Spring in the Woods,” from 1860-65, vouches for Realism to a nearly photographic degree that is at times also approached by Corot and Monet. Her restraint contrasts with the flashier, fussier, more cloying Realism of a Charles-Émile Jacque, whose renderings of sheep all but allow you to watch the wool curl.

To the other extreme is a kind of surface weirdness pursued by Rousseau and Narcisse-Virgile Díaz de la Peña, whose paint textures frequently imbue nature with a second layer of creeping aliveness. Similarly, Gustave Courbet’s gigantic “Gust of Wind” turns one of Fontainebleau’s ponds into a mythic, primordial swamp of slashing brushwork overseen by limp trees and a black cloud, tilting in from the upper-left corner.

A persistent reality check is provided by the show’s 30 photographs, the majority by pioneers like Gustave Le Gray and Eugène Cuvelier (who are both also in the Courbet show at the Met). They made their way to Fontainebleau much the way their American counterparts would later head to the American West, seeking grandeur commensurate with their new medium and its appetite for fact.

Both Le Gray and Monet recorded views of the broad road to Chailly, and you can imagine royal coaches dashing through either work. But Le Gray’s image also includes a stack of paving stones and piles of gravel at the road’s edge. A quarry photographed by Cuvelier is closer to both kingliness and labor: its carapace of piled paving stones might almost be a Mesopotamian tomb.

It may be that the artists simply found themselves or their futures at Fontainebleau. Monet painted an early version of his signature haystack, aglow at sunset, in one of its fields in 1865. The fervent Socialist Jean-François Millet found a ready population of agrarian workers for a series of pious pastels, including his emblematic sower, that form the show’s dullest moment. The photographs of peasants by an anonymous artist working for the publisher Giraudon have greater dignity and individuality.

But Millet also painted a dark sky full of shooting stars and an almost fluorescent pink landscape in which he tried to capture the tint cast by blazing sunset. In his large, unfinished “Solitude,” at dusk, you can see the image’s charcoal infrastructure laid out in the big loose gestures, as if Millet were drawing with the swinging arm of his sower.

Renoir, the Impressionist most partial to social gatherings, found one to depict in “The Inn of Mother Anthony” of 1866, which shows three artists in avid conversation while the innkeeper clears the table. It riffs on Rembrandt’s dour burghers in their black and white garments, but a wall painted with big, ghoulish caricatures (by the artists, of course) lends a demonic air that looks forward to James Ensor.

There was something for everyone at Fontainebleau, and if there weren’t, it could be added. In Corot’s 6-by-8-foot “Forest of Fontainebleau,” submitted to the 1835 Salon, he seems to bow to the jury’s affinity for the female form. A peasant girl lounges on her stomach beside a pool of water, her blouse low on her shoulders. But all is chasteness; she is improbably lost in a very thick book whose print you can almost read yourself.
899 2008-03-28 Since his mother died in 1972 Henry Arnhold has doubled the size of his parents’ collection. Like them he has focused on the first 40 years of Meissen production, when the factory was still experimenting with new shapes and styles. “That’s the period when Meissen was it,” Mr. Arnhold said. “Then it became super-Rococo.” The factory, the first and for 50 years the best porcelain manufacturer in Europe, is still in operation.

The Chinese had been making porcelain for at least a thousand years, but no one in Europe knew how to fabricate it until 1708, when an alchemist attached to the court of August II, elector of Saxony and king of Poland, discovered its most important ingredient: kaolin clay. August, an ardent collector of Oriental porcelain, soon established the Royal Saxon Porcelain Manufacture in Meissen and became its biggest patron, commissioning many of the approximately 150 pieces in the exhibition.

The show occupies three galleries. The Cabinet Gallery has early prototypes, including an unglazed baroque coffeepot in what was called red porcelain from about 1710. It is actually stoneware, precursor to the white, hard-paste porcelain that replaced it, and, like stone, it has been cut and polished. Near the rim is an engraved crown; below it, a concave oval buffed to resemble a gem. Under that are cherry blossoms in bas-relief.

A nearby case displays two shallow baskets. One is made of interwoven strips of silver modeled to look like rattan. The other is a Meissen duplicate that was literally molded on the original. Here the interstices in the pierced openwork have been laboriously punched out by hand.

The stairway to the lower galleries has a large portrait of August II by Nicolas de Largillière, painted around 1714. Opposite it is a huge white bird that was once in the vast menagerie of life-size porcelain animal sculptures the king ordered. A group of his Chinese polychrome porcelains are shown next to fine Meissen productions in blue and white.

The Meissen in the north gallery was chosen to reflect court taste, with artful arrangements of teapots, beakers, cups and bowls, some fitted with silver-gilt mounts made outside the factory by silversmiths in Augsburg.

Cups and saucers with paintings of nobles engaged in secret trysts are among many pieces decorated by J. G. Höroldt, Meissen’s chief painter from 1720 to 1775. “He used porcelain as a canvas,” Ms. Cassidy-Geiger said.

Table decorations include several theatrical figures inspired by prints of Italian commedia dell’arte actors. J. J. Kändler, Meissen’s chief sculptor from 1733 to 1775, modeled them and several other works in the show.

“These are the kinds of things you would see displayed on a table for dining or tea,” Ms. Cassidy-Geiger said. “They replicated functional objects but were never used.” That explains why everything is in mint condition, with one exception: a large vase festooned with crisply modeled, three-dimensional hounds chasing stags that are missing some antlers and limbs.

The south gallery displays figural groups that Mr. Arnhold bought. (His parents didn’t like them.) Nearby are several fascinating dishes painted by independent artists called Hausmaler (house painters), who bought porcelain blanks that Meissen sold when they were damaged or deemed unfashionable. Skilled artists, the Hausmaler painted them in imaginative ways and resold them to an aristocratic clientele. Mr. Arnhold’s parents loved Hausmaler works. Together the figures and Hausmaler pieces perfectly illustrate two generations of Arnhold taste.

Wright, the Chicago auction house, is holding 20th-century design auctions on Sunday and Tuesday, with more than 500 works by major designers, including Charlotte Perriand, Vladimir Kagan, George Nakashima and Tommi Parzinger.

A separate, single-owner sale, also on Tuesday, involves about 150 pieces of furniture and lighting by some top designers, among them Gaetano Pesce, Verner Panton, Joe Colombo, Ettore Sottsass and Marc Newson, as well as others less well known. “The diversity of names is impressive,” said Richard Wright, the auction house owner.

The standout may be Mr. Pesce’s 1972 “Golgotha Chair,” draped in resin-soaked Fiberglas and one of only a few dozen made by the manufacturer Cassina. “The chair would be different each time it was made,” Mr. Wright said. “It was a nightmare for the producer.” It is estimated at $15,000 to $20,000. The sales can be previewed at wright20.com.
900 2008-03-28 Beneath the image of the ice-in-the-veins alpha male that Ernest Hemingway cultivated in his novels, there always lurked a romantic. In “The Fifth Column,” Hemingway’s play about love and espionage in the Spanish Civil War, now being presented by the Mint Theater Company, the tough guy with a heart of gold is center stage.

Hemingway wrote the play in 1937 when he and Martha Gellhorn, the future Mrs. Hemingway No. 3, were in Madrid during its siege by Franco’s troops and their Nazi allies. Philip Rawlings and Dorothy Bridges, the two main characters, happen to be journalists holed up in the Florida Hotel in Madrid, covering that same conflict and eking out an existence on tinned foie gras. Rather, journalism is Rawlings’s cover. He’s really doing mysterious work on behalf of the anti-Franco forces. It’s a romanticized view of a war correspondent’s life that only Hollywood could find credible.

Rawlings and Bridges begin an affair that in days leads them to contemplate giving up their war-groupie life. Suddenly Rawlings begins to pine for domestic bliss behind a white picket fence, or at least for a quiet villa in St.-Tropez. It’s never very clear exactly what Rawlings and his secret band are up to, and one of the problems with the play is that this lack of specificity fails to engage the audience — either with Rawlings’s mission or Bridges’s seduction of him.

A bigger problem is the couple’s characters. Dorothy is vain and spoiled, a daughter of privilege more interested in a wartime bargain on a fox coat than what happens in the war. (Is that really how he saw Gellhorn?) Philip is conceited and arrogant, an incipient alcoholic who drinks his breakfast and has blackouts yet is irresistible to women. Hemingway’s heroes have always been something of a stereotype, and Philip fits the mold.

Yet another problem is that, at nearly three hours, the play is full of repetitions, extraneous scenes and lazy devices, like using telephone calls to advance the plot or having characters take baths to get them offstage. Paging Max Perkins.

A 1940 Broadway production, directed by Lee Strasberg and starring Franchot Tone, used a script that had been doctored, or “adapted,” by the screenwriter Benjamin Glazer, to emphasize the play’s anti-Fascist elements. The Mint Theater has been staging what it regards as neglected plays for more than a decade, but the original version of “The Fifth Column” remains more a literary curiosity than the rediscovery of a dust-covered masterpiece.
901 2008-03-28 That’s because once members sign on to a service, which typically costs $45 to $110 a year, they connect with one another online. So while companies poll customers, they don’t have immediate statistics.

“What I do know is that people who used to do one exchange every year or two are now doing four, five, six or more exchanges within a year,” said Ed Kushins, founder of HomeExchange.com, one of the largest swap services with 20,000 members. “Weekend exchanges are one of the fastest-growing kinds. Even I’ve done it. I live in Hermosa Beach, and I did an exchange in Beverly Hills. It’s only 20 miles away, but it’s like going from one world to another.”

Helen Bergstein, founder of Digsville.com, another service, has seen the same trend. “It’s not just about that two weeks overseas anymore,” she said. “In a survey I did nine years ago, exchangers were mostly middle age and older and went on two-weeks-plus trips once a year. When I did a survey a year ago, the age was lower, with many more families, and they took shorter, more-frequent trips and closer to home.”

Steve and Dian Jahn, of Anacortes, Wash., hadn’t considered doing a weekend swap until they were contacted last year by Greg Cusbert, who lives in Vancouver.

“Greg put forth the idea, and it was a very good one,” Mr. Jahn said. “We enjoy a great getaway in an international city, and Greg enjoys our small bay-front condo in a rural area, so it’s a great change for us both.”

For David and Karen Keane, early retirees who live in Lyme, N.H., short-term swaps are a way to explore New England on a budget. Since joining HomeLink International four years ago, they have traveled overseas once, but also swapped their home, which is near Dartmouth College, for places in Hyannis, Mass., Bar Harbor and Falmouth, Me., and New York City.

“The young lady in Manhattan got sick and didn’t come to our place,” Mr. Keane said. “But to honor her side of the bargain she went and stayed at her mother’s.”

It is because they are not retired that Guillermo Orozco, an architect, and Kent Ducote, a business consultant, self-professed “serial exchangers,” favor short-term swaps.

For the past few years the couple have swapped their 1950s Florida home with period furnishings in Key West, for, on average, two long trips and three getaways within short driving distance. Their close-to-home swaps have been in Hollywood, Delray Beach, at two different homes in Fort Lauderdale, and three times at the same spot in South Beach in Miami.

“Our South Beach exchangers have a 28th-floor condo overlooking the skyline to the west and the Atlantic to the east,” Mr. Ducote said. “We’ve even tried to swap in the Upper Keys or Middle Keys, but people would say that was too close.”

Weekend exchanges are nothing new to Diane Drey, a New Yorker who retired last month. Her 2,800-square-foot condo has “a view of Central Park to die for,” making it even more coveted than the typical Manhattan listing.

“I’ve been doing home exchange overseas and on weekends for 23 years, more than 100 of them,” she said. “I’ve even exchanged kids. I have it all on a spreadsheet.”

Whenever Ms. Drey wants out of the city, she finds a swap. “I went to Philadelphia twice for the weekend, once for an art show and another time to check out restaurants,” she said. “I even went to Darien, an hour away, because the house was on the Long Island Sound. I took my kids and we went kayaking. We do tremendous ski vacations. I used to do so many at one place in Sugarbush that the family admitted that I was using the house more than they were. They sold it, and I was very upset.”

It took Ms. Drey some doing to convince Mel Winokur, her significant other of seven years, to accompany her on his first swap.

“He was like everyone else, very skeptical,” she said. “People always say, ‘Are you out of your mind? You’re going to let a stranger stay in your home?’ So his first time was a long weekend in Cape Cod. It was a good trial run. Of course if he didn’t like home exchanging, I probably would have had to leave him.”

One element of closer exchanges is that what might remain a business transaction long distance has a greater chance of becoming friendlier. While some travelers enjoy meeting to exchange keys and discuss details, and even possibly becoming pals, others prefer to keep their personal lives out of it.

“There’s something about feeling protected from the social rules of acquaintanceship that allows us the freedom to live in other people’s homes without the burden of intimacy,” said Dan Quinn, a psychologist and home exchanger in Berkeley, Calif., who prefers e-mail communication when setting up exchanges. “As a psychologist, this fascinates me.”

So he found what happened on an weekend exchange to Carmel, two hours from home, intriguing. “We were looking around at the bookshelves and things, and then on the refrigerator I saw a photo of someone who looked familiar,” he recalled. “ ‘Holy cow, that’s Josh,’ I said.” Josh was a classmate of Mr. Quinn’s in graduate school. “After looking around, we pieced it together that he was the boyfriend of the daughter of the parents where we were staying.”

Nadia Younes, who swaps her 1920s Spanish-style bungalow in Ventura, holds an opposite view. “I feel like I’ve stayed at a friend’s I don’t know yet,” said Ms. Younes, who has done exchanges as close as Los Angeles, 90 minutes to the south.

She didn’t hesitate to reach out to the HomeLink community when her sister and family had to quickly evacuate their house in the Rancho Bernardo section of San Diego last fall because of wildfires. “She couldn’t get to me,” Ms. Younes said of her sister. “And there were all these places she couldn’t go because of the fires and because the freeway was totally jammed.”

Within hours, Ms. Younes had found a spare apartment in Coronado for the family of two adults, two children and one dog.

While it’s hard to match the drama of Ms. Younes’s tale, Matt Canepa may deserve an award for romance. An American most recently from San Diego, he was living in Todos Santos, Baja, Mexico, when he met Jessica Houts in December 2006. She was on vacation with her family, who were friends of Mr. Canepa’s business partner.

“We were struck by lightning,” Mr. Canepa said. “We had a magical four days, but she was going to law school and was pretty much established in San Francisco.”

So Mr. Canepa “moved” to San Francisco for a couple of months by setting up a total of six home stays in exchange for the oceanfront villa he and his partner had built as a vacation rental.

“I stayed in six neighborhoods around San Francisco,” Mr. Canepa said. “Some of these were fair exchanges, but others were just hovels. I didn’t care. It allowed me to be near Jessica. It gave us the opportunity to know if something was worth pursuing.”

One of his favorite swaps was for the home of Mr. Bollozos, who equally enjoyed his 10 days in Mexico. The two became friends after Mr. Canepa relocated to San Francisco last November.

“Mark came to the engagement party, and he’s invited to the wedding,” Mr. Canepa said. “He’s part of the whole story.”

They’ve also talked about going up to Lake Tahoe to celebrate. Mr. Bollozos has just the place in mind.
902 2008-03-28 “We do not have a clear understanding of what is driving these episodic instances,” said Prof. Scott H. Irwin, one of three agricultural economists at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who have done extensive research on these price distortions.

Professor Irwin and his colleagues, Prof. Philip T. Garcia and Prof. Darrel L. Good, first sounded the alarm about these price distortions in late 2006 in a study financed by the Chicago Board of Trade. Their findings drew little attention then, Professor Irwin said, but lately “people have begun to get very seriously interested in why this is happening — because it is a fundamental problem in markets that have generally worked well in the past.”

Market regulators say they have ruled out deliberate market manipulation. But they, too, are baffled. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates the exchanges where these grain derivatives trade, has scheduled a forum on April 22 where market participants will discuss these anomalies and other pressure points arising in the agricultural markets.

The mechanics of the commodity markets are more complex than selling toothpaste, however. The anomalies are occurring between the price of a bushel of grain in the cash market and the price of that same bushel of grain, as determined by the expiration price of a futures contract traded in Chicago.

A futures contract is an agreement to deliver a specific amount of a commodity — 5,000 bushels of wheat, say — on a certain date in the future. Such contracts are important hedging tools for farmers, grain elevators, commodity processors and anyone with a stake in future grain prices. A futures contract that calls for delivery of wheat in July may trade for more or less for each bushel than today’s cash market price. But as each day goes by, its price should move a bit closer to that day’s cash price. And on expiration day, when the bushels of wheat covered by that futures contract are due for delivery, their price should very nearly match the price in the cash market, allowing for a little market friction or major delivery disruptions like Hurricane Katrina.

But on dozens of occasions since early 2006, the futures contracts for corn, wheat and soybeans have expired at a price that was much higher than that day’s cash price for those grains.

For example, soybean futures contracts expired in July at a price of $9.13 a bushel, which was 80 cents higher than the cash price that day, Professor Irwin said. In August, the futures expired at $8.62, or 68 cents above the cash price, and in September, the expiration price was $9.43, or 78 cents above the cash price.

Corn has been similarly eccentric. A corn futures contract expired last September at $3.36, which was a remarkable 55 cents above the cash price, but the contract that expired in March 2007 was roughly even with the cash price.

“As far as I know, nothing like this has ever happened in the corn market,” said Professor Irwin.

Wheat futures had been especially prone to this phenomenon, going back several years. Indeed, the 2007 study by Professor Irwin and his colleagues concluded that wheat price distortions reflected a “failure to accomplish one of the fundamental tasks of a futures market.”

And while the situation improved sharply for wheat futures in Chicago late last year, it deteriorated for futures traded in Kansas City. And it has gotten worse for corn and soybeans, Professor Irwin said. Many people have a theory about why this is happening, but none of them seem to cover all the available facts.

Mary Haffenberg, a spokeswoman for the CME Group, which owns the Chicago Board of Trade, where these contracts trade, said the anomalies might be a temporary result of “a lot of shocks to the system,” including sharp increases in worldwide food demand, uncertainty about supplies and surging commodity investments.

Veteran traders and many farmers blame the new arrivals in the commodities markets: hedge funds, pension funds and index funds. These investors and speculators, they complain, are distorting futures prices by pouring in so much money without regard to market fundamentals.

“The market sends a sell signal, but they don’t sell,” said Kendell W. Keith, president of the National Grain and Feed Association. “So the markets are not behaving the way they otherwise would — and the pricing formula for the industry is a lot fuzzier and a lot less efficient than we’ve ever seen.”

Representatives of the new financial speculators dispute that. Their money has vastly increased the liquidity in the futures markets, they say, and better liquidity improves markets, making them less volatile for everyone.

And, as Professor Irwin noted, if new money pouring into the market has been causing these distortions, they probably would be occurring more consistently than they are.

Some experienced commodity analysts think the flaw may be in the design of the contracts, said Richard J. Feltes, senior vice president and director of commodity research for MF Global, the world’s largest commodity futures brokerage firm. If futures were settled based on a cash index, it would eliminate these odd disparities, Mr. Feltes said.

Ms. Haffenberg at the CME Group said cash settlement had “not been ruled out,” but it raised the question of finding the appropriate cash index. Other modest contract changes are awaiting approval of the futures trading commission, she said.

“We are continuing to have industry meetings to discuss what we need to do,” she said. “But we want to be careful, before we undertake any changes, that above all, we don’t do any harm.”

Moreover, defenders of the exchange’s current contract design note that these widely used agreements have gone largely unchanged for some time — and yet, have only begun to display this odd and inconsistent behavior in the last few years.

Some economists are exploring whether some unperceived bottlenecks in the delivery system explain what is going on. But traders say that such bottlenecks would eventually become known in the market and prices would adjust. Professor Irwin, whose research is continuing, said there might not be a single explanation for the price distortions.

Markets may simply be responding to the uneven impact of new financial technology, which allows more money to flow in and out, and to investors’ growing but fluctuating appetite for hard assets.

“Those factors may be combining to create this highly volatile environment for discovering prices,” he said. “But for now, that is pure conjecture on my part.”

What is not happening in these markets is equally mysterious. Normally, price disparities like these are quickly exploited by arbitrage traders who buy goods in the cheap market and sell them in the expensive one. Their buying and selling quickly brings the prices back into balance — but that is not happening here.

“These are highly competitive markets with very experienced traders,” he said. “Yet they are leaving these profits alone? It just doesn’t make sense.”
903 2008-03-28 SAN FRANCISCO — California regulators cut by 70 percent the number of emission-free vehicles that automobile manufacturers must sell in California in the three years beginning in 2012. At the same time, the regulators effectively required, for the first time, that tens of thousands of plug-in hybrid vehicles be sold in those years.

The cutback in the requirement for either all-electric or fuel-cell vehicles dismayed some environmentalists. But their pleasure at the likelihood that the decision will mean a new infusion of research dollars in plug-in hybrid technology, which is still more of a curiosity than a market force, largely made up for it.

The unanimous vote on Thursday by the California Air Resources Board to change its mandate for what it calls zero-emission vehicles did not take the cutback as far as its staff members had recommended. Earlier this year, they had called for a 90 percent cut in the requirements that were originally set in the early 1990s.

The board estimated that the new mandates would cost auto manufacturers more than $1 billion annually for those three years.

David Barthmuss, a representative of General Motors, said after the vote that those in attendance “are still scratching our heads” to understand the full implications of the new mandates. But he said that two cars on the company’s drawing boards, the Chevrolet Volt and the Saturn Vue, would probably be sold in large numbers in California as a result of the vote.

The Volt, which uses some gasoline, but only to power its battery, not to turn its wheels, could be counted as part of GM’s obligation under the mandate, he said, as would the Saturn Vue, a plug-in hybrid.
904 2008-03-28 “Instead of establishing a 21st-century regulatory framework, we simply dismantled the old one,” he said, “aided by a legal but corrupt bargain in which campaign money all too often shaped policy and watered down oversight.”

Mr. Obama also took shots at Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. Mr. McCain argued this week against a vigorous federal intervention to address the crisis, saying Washington should not bail out banks and homeowners who in his view had knowingly taken on risky mortgages.

Mr. Obama argued that such a response offered too little. “While this is consistent with Mr. McCain’s determination to run for George Bush’s third term,” he said, “it won’t help families who are suffering.”

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York also focused on the ailing economy Thursday while campaigning in North Carolina. She announced a $2.5-billion-a-year proposal to retrain laid-off workers.

“We’ve had enough of a president who didn’t know enough about economics and didn’t do enough for the American middle class,” Mrs. Clinton said in Raleigh. Referring to Mr. McCain, she added, “I don’t think we can afford four more years of that kind of inaction.”

Mrs. Clinton’s speech made no mention of Mr. Obama. Instead, she wanted to train voters’ minds on a general election matchup between her and Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain “recently admitted, ‘The issue of economics is not something I’ve understood as well as I should,’ ” Mrs. Clinton said. “And it turns out he’d rather ignore the credit crisis and mortgage crisis — or blame middle-class families instead of offering solutions on their behalf.”

The speeches of the Democratic candidates for the presidential nomination served as a reminder of the thin wall that separates their policy views. (Mrs. Clinton gave a speech this week in Philadelphia on the housing crisis.) Both candidates have talked about spending billions to help homeowners at risk of foreclosure, and are moving so closely in step that their subordinates have shouted about stolen ideas.

Both warned of a national credit crisis and advanced proposals to amend bankruptcy laws to aid those facing housing foreclosure. Each endorsed Democratic legislation — sponsored by Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts — to create a housing security program in the Federal Housing Administration that would provide incentives to refinance mortgages carrying onerously high interest rates.

“They are very close; they are pointing to very similar proposals,” said John Irons, research and policy director for the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research center. “There are minor differences, but when you compare their proposals with McCain, that’s night and day. The Democrats are more like noon and 12:30.”

Still, differences of emphasis exist. Mrs. Clinton says the nation’s financial difficulties are rooted in the housing slump. Mr. Obama took pains to cast the blame on what he said was decades of weakening of the nation’s regulatory apparatus, and talked of more oversight of credit-rating agencies and requiring stronger capital requirements for complex financial instruments like mortgage-backed securities.

Two of Mr. Obama’s chief advisers for his speech served under President Clinton: Joseph E. Stiglitz was chairman of the president’s Council of Economic Advisers, and Robert B. Reich was secretary of labor.

Mr. Obama said the housing slump was a result of another of the bubbles that have distorted the economy in the past decade. Few doubted, he noted, that the nation needed to reform the 1930s-era law — the Glass-Steagall Act — that had erected a wall between commercial and investment banks. But, as Mr. Obama’s aides noted, the banking and insurance industries spent more than $300 million on a successful effort to repeal that act in 1999.

The resulting changes, Mr. Obama said, granted far greater freedom to investment houses without modernizing the regulatory regime and demanding transparency. The same pattern played out in regulation of home mortgages to bad effect, he said.
905 2008-03-28 Here is a sampling of home-exchange Web sites:

DIGSVILLE www.digsville.com: 2,600 listings in 55 countries. Listing your home costs $44.95 per year. List viewing and contact is free.

HOMEEXCHANGE.COM www.homeexchange.com: 20,000 listings in 110 countries. Listing and contact privileges cost $99.95 per year. List viewing is free.

HOMELINK INTERNATIONAL www.homelink-usa.com: 13,000 listings in 70 countries. Listing and contact $110 per year. List viewing is free.

INTERVAC www.intervacusa.com: 10,000 listings in 52 countries. Global listing and contact costs $95 per year. List viewing is free.

CRAIGSLIST www.craigslist.org: While this free service is not a home-exchange site, it does list a house-swap section in many cities.
906 2008-03-28 To the Editor: Those of us whose only home is in Vermont might be a bit miffed by second-home owners complaining of high taxes (Havens: Plymouth, Vt.; March 21). I think second-home owners in Vermont need to be aware that they too must contribute their tax share to Vermont for its schools, infrastructure, health care, human services, etc.
907 2008-03-28 PALUMBO--Anthony, painter, renowned drawing instructor at the Art Students League of New York died February 29, 2008 age 85. He was an innovative art teacher who will be dearly missed by all who were graced by this gentle giant, talented soul. He ...
908 2008-03-28 IDEOLOGICAL CLASHES Faced with a crisis on Wall Street and soaring home foreclosures on Main Street, Republican and Democrats are divided over whom the government should try to rescue.      MARKET ANOMALY Economists are at a loss to explain the pr...
909 2008-03-28 LISS--Seymour Harding, March 3rd, 1921 to March 24th, 2008, of NYC and Southampton. Surrounded by his family, he peacefully left wife Judith; children Jan (Jim Coddington), Jon (Ann); grandchildren Jack and Doris; brother Stanley (Ruth). They are ...
910 2008-03-29 My Sunday column is about the drift over the last thirty years toward anti-intellectualism in public life. I'm always struck that Asian politicians pretend to be more scholarly than they truly are, while American politicians pretend to be more fol...
911 2008-03-29 Is the possibility of all four No. 1 seeds advancing to the Final Four a good thing?...
912 2008-03-29 Images found here and here....
913 2008-03-29 In remarks last week, Senator John McCain offered an olive branch to Europe, but for Russia, he was flinging rocks....
914 2008-03-29 We invite you to leave your responses to the Saturday, Mar. 29 column....
915 2008-03-29 NEW DELHI — About 20 Tibetan high school students scaled a brick wall surrounding the United Nations compound in Katmandu on Friday morning, carrying a small home-made sign that read "Free Tibet" and asking for the United Nations to help their cause, according to a United Nations spokesman.

They were served a lunch of steamed dumplings, called momos, instead.

John Brittain, a spokesman for the United Nations, described the teenagers as polite intruders who sat on the grass inside the compound, were asked to write their grievances for United Nations officials and were treated to lunch. No one has been arrested, Mr. Brittain said, and agency officials would make sure they all were escorted home safely.

"They were very nice," Mr. Brittain said by telephone from Katmandu.

"They sat down on the grass and chatted and they were asked to put down their grievances."

The students were not available for comment.

The Associated Press reported from Katmandu, the capital of Nepal, that police had arrested 60 demonstrators outside the compound.

Nepal has been at the cross hairs of the protests inside Tibet and the swift Chinese crackdown. Its government, at the request of its large and powerful neighbor, China, announced earlier this month that it would seal off access to the summit of Mount Everest from the Nepali side of the mountain to avert potential anti-Chinese protests. China plans to send the Olympic torch to Mount Everest in early May.

Since then, Nepalese authorities have diligently sought to stamp out Tibetan demonstrations, saying that they cannot brook agitations against friendly nations. Tibetans fleeing Chinese rule usually cross into Nepal on foot, before moving to India, which hosts the largest number of Tibetan refugees in the world, including the leader of Tibetan Buddhists, the Dalai Lama.

Nepal, itself no stranger to pro-democracy protests, has been criticized for its crackdown on Tibetan protests. Human Rights Watch this week accused government forces of "pre-emptively arresting Tibetans" in the capital and threatening several with deportation to China.
916 2008-03-29 DETROIT — It is a good thing that college teams bring pep bands and cheer squads to basketball games because, without them, there would not have been much sound in Ford Field toward the end of Kansas’ 72-57 victory against Villanova on Friday night.

The Jayhawks, seeded first in the Midwest Region, took a 19-point halftime lead and methodically eliminated the 12th-seeded Wildcats. A crowd of 57,028 was announced in this football stadium for this Round of 16 doubleheader, which opened with 10th-seeded Davidson upending third-seeded Wisconsin, 73-56. Kansas will play Davidson on Sunday for a spot in the Final Four.

But about half the crowd had left by halftime of the dreary second game, and the audience at the end could have fit into a more conventionally sized arena or, perhaps, a few buses. The final score, however, was closer than the level of competition had been.

Villanova cut the Kansas lead to 66-54 with a little more than a minute to play. Perhaps because the Wildcats did not quit, Kansas Coach Bill Self still had many of his best players on the court at the end, including Brandon Rush, Mario Chalmers and Russell Robinson.

The Jayhawks (34-3) were led by Rush with 16 points. Robinson added 15 points and Chalmers 14.

The leading scorer for Villanova (22-13) was Scottie Reynolds, with 11 points. Shane Clark and Dante Cunningham each had 10.

Villanova shot 3 of 17 from 3-point range; Kansas was 8 of 19 from long distance.

The Jayhawks will be heavily favored to beat Davidson (29-6), led by one of the tournament’s hottest players in Stephen Curry.
917 2008-03-29 Novak Djokovic often bounces the ball more than a dozen times before serving, and the tedious ritual may have cost him a match Friday. Djokovic, the defending champion at the Sony Ericsson Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., went into a funk after being warned for taking too much time between points, then blew a third-set lead to lose his opening match. The qualifier Kevin Anderson, a 6-foot-7 former N.C.A.A. doubles champion at Illinois, beat the third-ranked Djokovic, 7-6 (1), 3-6, 6-4. Djokovic won his first Grand Slam title at this year’s Australian Open and was coming off a title at Indian Wells last week.
918 2008-03-29 Giants middle linebacker Antonio Pierce pleaded guilty Thursday in Monroe Township, N.J., municipal court to neglecting his pet pit bulls and agreed to pay a $1,300 fine. Authorities said one of the dogs was severely underweight and had a respiratory illness. They also said Pierce and his girlfriend let the dogs run loose and failed to get them rabies shots. Pierce’s girlfriend, Jocelyn Maldanado, also pleaded guilty and was fined $1,300. A lawyer for the couple said the dogs were given away as part of the plea agreement. The dogs were discovered running around a neighbor’s yard in late January, the week before the Giants upset the Patriots in the Super Bowl.
919 2008-03-29 Mr. Batheja, who had himself been caught trying to bribe an undercover agent and was trying to please prosecutors by hooking them a bigger fish, was happy to promise Ms. Gordon whatever she wanted. And she seemed to want a lot.

On tape after tape made in 2004 and 2005, Mr. Batheja and Ms. Gordon discuss her dream home and what might have sprouted from at least one of those foundations: granite and cherry-wood fixtures, a vast entertainment salon, Jacuzzis. He shows her blueprints. She shows him a keen appetite for walk-in closets.

“Look at your bathroom,” Mr. Batheja tells Ms. Gordon as he proffers a sketch. “Your bathroom is 8 foot by 14 foot. That’s a room.”

“That is a room,” Ms. Gordon responds. “Raj, you’re making me so excited. Oh, my Lord.”

But just as Ms. Gordon’s dream was deferred by her 2006 arrest on charges of bribe-receiving, the advent of sophisticated suburban living at Cobblestone Estates seems to have been indefinitely postponed.

The internal streets with names like Spring Hill Lane and Stone Ridge Lane; the retaining wall to spare residents a view of the Getty station on Linden; the rows of pine and arborvitae with nearby electric outlets for Christmas lights; the Arizona brick facades — all of it, so far, exists only on paper, or in Mr. Batheja’s fevered aria for hidden camera.

There are many possible reasons for this. Cobblestone Estates is hardly the only development site lying fallow in the city as the demand for new housing cools, even in hotter neighborhoods than the no man’s land that divides southeast Brooklyn from southwest Queens. City officials said that the developers ran afoul of their permits to remove contaminated soil from the site.

And Mr. Batheja has certainly had his hands full lately. His lawyer, Nicholas A. Marino, who is helping him prepare to face charges of grand larceny in Nassau County unrelated to his misadventures in New York City, declined to make Mr. Batheja available for an interview. Gary Marcus, Mr. Batheja’s business partner at Stoneridge Homes in Queens, did not return calls either.

In a way, Cobblestone Estates fits in better with its surroundings now than the finished version might. It is bounded on the south by the eight lanes of Linden Boulevard and on the north and east by Conduit Avenue, the unpretty highway that moves Brooklyn traffic to Kennedy International Airport. To the west is the low-lying, desolate, off-the-sewer-grid neighborhood known for many reasons as the Hole. It last achieved prominence in 2004 when the skeletal remains of three made men turned up across the street from Mr. Batheja’s property.

Still, some neighbors remain guardedly hopeful that the estates will rise from the rubble.

“It’s going to be kind of like Seagate,” said Rufus Earle, proprietor of Leatherworks by Rufus, a cowboy shop on the ground floor of a balconied flat-faced house on 78th Street that looks like it blew in from a Western movie set. “This is a very valuable piece of land, and it’s just been laying up for years.” Seagate is the upscale waterfront enclave on the other end of Brooklyn that juts into Gravesend Bay.

Doug Policano, proprietor of the sausage truck, said that a gated community might help business. Certainly, he said, he missed the construction workers who used to pop out from behind the gate for a sausage-and-pepper sandwich.

“The only time you ever really see anybody is when the fence blows down,” he said. “Or when somebody breaks through the gate and they come in and fix it, and sometimes they’re pretty tardy on things.”

Liz Watt, president of the local Jewel Streets Civic Association, said that though she lived in constant fear of a rock slide from the other side of Mr. Batheja’s fence, perhaps Cobblestone Estates could make one of her own modest dreams come true.

“We were hoping if they build maybe we could tap into the sewer here and we could get some type of relief,” she said. “But I don’t think it’s going to happen in my lifetime.”
920 2008-03-29 “Prairie Fever,” an original western on the ION network on Saturday night, opens with a gunfight that is almost comic in its intensity. Challenged by a villain holding a woman hostage, Sheriff Preston Biggs (Kevin Sorbo) shoots — and kills his own wife.

In a subtler movie this scene would be the climax. Here, it’s a flashback, mere back story to explain why Biggs has become a lost soul, not unlike Ray Milland in “The Lost Weekend” or Tom Selleck in the Jesse Stone movies.

After his wife’s death, Biggs turns in his badge and spends most of his time in the local saloon. That’s where he is on the day a beautiful cardsharp named Olivia (Jamie Anne Allman) walks in and steals his heart.

The sheriff doesn’t know his heart has been stolen. He’s still drowning in existential nausea (or self-pity) and cheap whiskey. When he gets a job to pay off his bar bill — escorting three women to Carson City, Nev. — “Prairie Fever” becomes a bullet-riddled road trip.

The women are mail-order brides who, in the local argot, have caught “prairie fever.” One reads the Bible obsessively, one is a hysteric, and one is so violent that she has to be tied down. Soon enough we learn their histories and realize they are all victims of a cruel and paternalistic society. And we see them healed by Biggs’s taciturn kindness, even as he is healed by healing them.
921 2008-03-29 CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. — Hours before his court-martial was set to begin, all charges were dismissed Friday against one of two remaining enlisted marines involved in a combat action that killed 24 Iraqis in Haditha in 2005, the Marine Corps announced.

With little public explanation, a Marine general in charge of the prosecution dropped the charges against Lance Cpl. Stephen B. Tatum, who was among four enlisted marines originally charged with murder in the case.

The charges against him had been reduced to involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and aggravated assault for what prosecutors said was his role in shooting a group of unarmed women and children.

As a result of the dismissal, Corporal Tatum’s squad leader, Staff Sgt. Frank D. Wuterich, is the only remaining enlisted marine, and the only infantryman who was involved in the Haditha killings, still facing charges in the case. His trial is likely to begin this summer, lawyers said.

Charges against the other two enlisted marines were dropped previously.

A court-martial of an officer, Lt. Col. Jeffrey Chessani, in charge of the battalion Sergeant Wuterich and Corporal Tatum were part of, is to begin in late April. Colonel Chessani is charged with dereliction of duty for failing to properly investigate the Haditha killings.

The killings occurred on Nov. 19, 2005, when a squad of infantrymen from Third Battalion, First Marines, swept through a group of Iraqi homes in search of attackers after a roadside bomb exploded near their convoy, killing a marine. Over a period of hours, marines assaulted four Iraqi homes, killing 24 people, almost all unarmed.
922 2008-03-29 S.E.C. NOMINEES President Bush will nominate two Democrats to join the all-Republican Securities and Exchange Commission, an administration official said Friday.

Mr. Bush will name Elisse B. Walter, a brokerage regulator, and Luis A. Aguilar, a securities lawyer, to succeed the former Democratic commissioners, Annette Nazareth and Roel Campos, both of whom stepped down in the last seven months. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) CAPITAL REQUIRED Fremont General, the former subprime lender that raised doubt about its survival this month, faces a 60-day deadline from regulators to get new funds for the company’s bank or find a buyer.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation called Fremont Investment and Loan undercapitalized and ordered management to take “prompt corrective action,” the company said Friday. The F.D.I.C capped interest rates Fremont can pay customers and banned raises or bonuses to officers and directors. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

LOSS AT HOME BUILDER KB Home, one of the nation’s biggest residential home builders, said on Friday that it posted a loss of more than $268 million in the fiscal first quarter as weak home sales amid a worsening housing market forced the company to take a large write-down related to falling home prices. For the quarter ended Feb. 29, the company posted a loss of $268.2 million, or $3.47 a share, in contrast to a profit of $27.6 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier. (AP)

U.A.W. NUMBERS United Automobile Workers union membership has fallen below 500,000 for the first time since World War II, reflecting the huge restructuring undertaken by Detroit’s automakers. The union reported Friday in a filing with the Labor Department that it had 464,910 members by the end of 2007, compared with 538,448 at the end of 2006. U.A.W. membership peaked in 1979 at 1.5 million but has been dropping ever since. (AP) HIRE AT CITIGROUP Citigroup hired Terri Dial from the Lloyds TSB Group to lead the bank’s American consumer unit and replaced the co-heads of prime brokerage, extending a management shakeup after Vikram S. Pandit’s appointment as chief executive officer.
923 2008-03-29 The new data, part of a survey of patient experiences and perceptions of hospital care, is posted at a government Web site, www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov.

Richard J. Umbdenstock, president of the American Hospital Association, which helped develop the measures, said they allowed “an apples-to-apples comparison” of hospitals at the state, local and national levels.

But the results provide cause for concern, said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, a unit of the Public Health Service.

“Poor communication is a major source of medical errors,” Dr. Clancy said. “If doctors are not listening carefully, patients may not bring up important information. Patients who do not understand discharge instructions are more likely to be readmitted to the hospital or end up in the emergency room.”

Nancy E. Foster, a vice president of the American Hospital Association, agreed that many hospitals needed to do a better job of controlling pain and communicating with patients.

Pain control keeps patients comfortable and can speed healing and reduce complications after surgery.

Many large teaching hospitals scored below the national average on questions about the cleanliness and quietness of the hospital environment. Patients were asked: “How often were your room and bathroom kept clean? How often was the area around your room quiet at night?”

Consumer groups, employers and labor unions hailed release of the data, saying it would make hospitals more accountable.

Dr. Doug Salvador, the patient safety officer at Medical Center in , said: “Forty years ago, hospitals were looked at as trusted friends. But there has been a relative decline in positive feeling about hospitals, because of all the attention to medical errors, the fear of hospital-acquired infections and the commercialization of medicine.”

The has previously published hospital mortality rates and clinical measures of performance, indicating whether hospitals appropriately treated heart attacks, and other conditions. On Friday, the government provided comprehensive data on consumer satisfaction for the first time.

In the New York area, Hackensack University Medical Center, in , appeared to do particularly well, with 78 percent of patients saying they would definitely recommend it. Comparable figures were 73 percent for NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, 72 percent at in the , 60 percent at Lenox Hill Hospital in and 44 percent at Sound Shore Medical Center of , in New Rochelle.

States showed substantial variation on that particular measure. The average for all hospitals reporting data was 79 percent in , compared with 76 percent in , 74 percent in Maine and , 69 percent in , 64 percent in New Jersey, 62 percent in New York, 61 percent in , 60 percent in and 56 percent in .

Nationwide, at the average hospital, 63 percent of patients gave the hospital an overall rating of 9 or 10. Alabama ranked high, with an average score of 73 percent, and Hawaii was relatively low, with an average of 52 percent. The average was 57 percent for New York, 59 percent for New Jersey and 62 percent for Connecticut.

The data came from questionnaires completed by a random sample of patients treated at more than 2,500 hospitals from October 2006 to June 2007. Some hospitals chose not to cooperate, but they will soon have a financial incentive to do so.

Herb B. Kuhn, a official, said that if hospitals did not report the data, their Medicare payments could be reduced, by about $100 for a typical case.
924 2008-03-29 The scandal that threatens that lucrative business began when German authorities obtained secret financial data from Liechtenstein, Switzerland’s tiny neighbor with similar banking laws. The information in hand, investigators fanned out across Germany to seize documents thought to be related to tax evasion by hundreds of wealthy Germans. Cases are now being prepared based on the information, a process likely to take years. The fallout has claimed the job of one top executive, Klaus Zumwinkel, who had headed the German postal service, and has given the German left a political boost.

But Switzerland is the bigger prize. And its continuing refusal to help other countries catch tax cheats hiding their money there appears to have hardened Europe’s resolve to force change.

“If a car is stolen in Germany and taken to Switzerland, the Swiss help find it,” said Hans Eichel, a member of the German Parliament and a former finance minister. “But when it’s about tax evasion — and much larger sums — they do nothing. No one outside Switzerland understands that.”

To Thomas Borer, a former Swiss ambassador to Germany, few inside Switzerland understand the depth of foreign discontent.

“It is obvious,” said Mr. Borer, now a lobbyist, “the government and the banks, really, are heavily underestimating the impact of this scandal.”

“There may be an avalanche coming, and we are not ready,” he added.

Mr. Borer compares the coming storm to the debate Switzerland faced in the late 1990s over dormant bank accounts belonging to Holocaust victims and their families. When first faced with demands for restitution, Swiss banks dismissed the claims despite urgent warnings from some Swiss diplomats that the issue would not go away.

After an international blowup that sullied their reputation, the banks settled the matter by creating a $1.25 billion restitution fund.

Last month, Germany threatened to delay a new passport-free travel arrangement with Liechtenstein, the clearest sign that Germany is willing to hold other policies hostage to its goal of cracking banking secrecy laws.

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, is due to visit Switzerland in late April and is expected to press demands for more investigative assistance from Swiss authorities in tracking down German tax dodgers — and less secrecy generally.

The official Swiss reaction has been self-conscious detachment, which they hope will deflate the issue.

No one expects Swiss banking secrecy to dissolve overnight. What European governments are aiming for is a middle ground between Switzerland’s being a banking black hole and the openness of other major countries.

One compromise might be for the Swiss to agree to provide greater assistance to foreign authorities investigating suspected crimes. But that kind of move could breach the discretion so many Swiss clients value.

Under current agreements with the 27-nation European Union, Switzerland imposes its own capital gains tax on people who invest here but live in European Union countries, and remit the money to the appropriate national authorities. Some countries, including Germany, believe the current system gives them less money than they are owed.

European officials believe they can seize this moment to rally public opinion against the Swiss, German officials said. France, which will take over the rotating presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year, has agreed to take up the issue.

Even American leaders are taking note. Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, has announced his own inquiry into tax evasion by Americans in Liechtenstein, and both he and Senator Barack Obama are pushing legislation that would give the federal government new powers to track down money in Switzerland and elsewhere.

The concept of bank secrecy is deeply rooted in Switzerland, akin to the confidentiality rules governing doctors and lawyers in other countries, and a 1934 law makes it a crime for bankers to disclose client information. For foreigners, this combination is an effective shield against authorities at home.

Generally, treaties on mutual legal assistance between sovereign nations apply only to matters that would be deemed a crime in both countries.

Mr. Hummler is unusual only in that he openly admits Swiss banks manage lots of money that escapes taxation elsewhere. But he makes no apologies. Recently he wrote a widely read eight-page tract defending Europeans who put their money in Switzerland as engaging in “financial self-defense” against high taxes at home.

Most analysts say big Swiss banks like UBS and Credit Suisse, which make most of their money outside Switzerland, would do just fine without banking secrecy. But Mr. Hummler said such secrecy is vital for the small private banks, a stable business with fat margins even in bad times.

Polls consistently show that 80 percent of Swiss support the banking confidentiality law — but that number drops into the 40s when it is applied to foreigners, suggesting the Swiss care much less about the privacy of non-Swiss citizens.

Mr. Hummler experienced that reality first hand a few weeks ago. During a meeting of his Rotary Club in Zurich, his fellow members were appalled that Swiss bankers might be managing the money of foreign tax evaders. “We had no idea,” Mr. Hummler recalls them saying, “that you did things like that.”

Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, has brushed aside notions that Switzerland will water down banking confidentiality, a cornerstone of the financial system. Jean-Michel Treyvaud, a spokesman for Mr. Merz, called the debate “a media phenomenon” and declined an interview request.

But bankers here said Swiss authorities’ worries actually run deeper. The quandary they face is that even discussing the issue could unnerve foreign clients.

Mr. Hummler said clients were already unnerved, since the dangers facing secrecy are obvious.

“You don’t want to say Swiss banking secrecy is in danger because of marketing issues,” he said. “But when it is so obvious, as it is now, it does not do much for marketing.”
925 2008-03-29 The decision by a Michigan judge to dismiss a lawsuit over the exhumation of the remains of George Gipp did nothing to quiet the main parties on either side of the case.

The circuit court judge, Garfield W. Hood, granted summary judgment to the defendants Wednesday in a two-paragraph decision that said the Gipp cousins did not have the standing to bring their claims.

The cousins, Karl and Ronald Gipp, had claimed they were subjected to “extreme shock, fright, humiliation and mortification” through what they called the “illegal” exhumation of Gipp, a Notre Dame halfback, and, inadvertently, his sister, Bertha. George Gipp died in 1920.

The Gipps also said that Rick Freuh, a great-nephew of George Gipp’s, falsely claimed that he was the spokesman for the living Gipp relatives when he filed the exhumation request with the county medical examiner.

Michael Bynum, who is writing a biography of George Gipp and who was accused in the lawsuit of conspiring with Freuh, said in an e-mail message that he and Freuh, “and hopefully many of the defendants, will soon seek legal sanctions against Karl and Ron Gipp and their families” and the cousins’ lawyer, Torger Omdahl.
926 2008-03-29 Yellowstone National Park bison, executed when they migrate outside the boundaries of the park, have plenty of company. Around the world, animal migrations are disappearing because of conflicts with development, agriculture and other human activities.

In the greater Yellowstone ecosystem alone, over half of the elk migratory routes and three-quarters of the antelope routes have been destroyed by sprawl, oil and gas development, and farming.

Earlier this month, NASA released new satellite photographs showing continued illegal cutting of the Mexican fir forests where virtually all of eastern North America’s monarch butterflies spend the winter.

And bird watchers across the United States and Canada face the prospect of a quieter, less colorful spring as a combination of climate change, tropical deforestation, mountaintop mining in the Appalachians and other activities destroys key wintering, breeding and stopover habitats.

The loss of migration is of more than aesthetic importance. Migratory birds protect forests and crops from insect pests; butterflies, bats and other migratory species are important pollinators.

Indeed, migratory animals are useful indicators of the health of the global environment; their safe passage is in our best interest.
927 2008-03-29 Then he is joined for a long duet by a companion. (Alcibiades? Phaedrus? Don’t go there.) When Ms. Brown, Mr. Cunningham’s most celebrated and long-term stage partner, danced the 1970 premiere of this, she was distressed by a look of anguish in Mr. Cunningham’s eyes and assumed he had injured himself. Later John Cage, the composer of the score and the choreographer’s closest artistic colleague, explained to her what she had never known during rehearsals — that in “Second Hand” Mr. Cunningham was Socrates approaching his death.

We now know that Mr. Cunningham had planned to use Erik Satie’s “Socrate.” When the Satie estate prohibited this, Mr. Cage composed a piano score, called “Cheap Imitation,” that fit the work’s structures while — mainly picking out one note at a time — pursuing separate melodies. Mr. Cunningham’s title “Second Hand” reflected this process.

Much of this duet has something of the mood of a Socratic dialogue, though both dancers are moving at the same time, mainly in separate solos. The sense of two different characters is beautifully achieved: she seems winged and rapturous, he weighted, more limited, darker. There are brief incidents in which, like Socrates, he sees his energies seem to fail; but then, like Giselle in Act II of that ballet, she seems to bring him new energy.

Holley Farmer performed this role on Thursday. Though she has been a central Cunningham dancer of great range for more than 10 years, I was amazed to see the fluency of her dancing here, especially in one series of gamboling jumps. The duet ends with the couple running together round the stage, arms around each other’s waists, eyes locked.

The protagonist never leaves the stage in “Second Hand.” In the third and final section, he is joined by nine dancers, among whom the female companion of the duet is present but no longer pre-eminent. The costumes — which suggest a community of equals, with each dancer wearing tights of a single color, and which add up to a spectrum from red to yellow and green to blue — are by Jasper Johns, who at one time was artistic adviser to the Cunningham company. It’s a complex ensemble, of contained, calm and devout energies, in which solos sometimes lead to duets or trios.

Here the most dramatic feature is that the others almost never seem to see the protagonist. There are brief moments of vision and recognition across the stage, usually as if across a crowded room, but they pass. Yet he always sees them; moves among them; often does the same movement as they; weaves through them. (He even partners a woman or two, but they seem unaware of the fact.) At one point he repeats the slow, singing proclamation from his opening solo.

It’s easy to read this as the dead Socrates living on among the philosophers and friends who took up his teaching (Plato, Xenophon, et al.), which gives another point to the title “Second Hand,” but it might be the spirit of Christ dwelling among the apostles (and the dance might be about the disciples becoming apostles). And it could also be the story of any teacher-choreographer whose work is continued by those who no longer have direct access to the fount. But none of these meanings press themselves upon you as you watch.

In fact “Second Hand” has less “drama” — less pathos, contrast, urgency — than Mr. Cunningham’s “Quartet” (1982), in which he passed in intense but limited two-dimensional ways among four young dancers who, moving in impersonal, three-dimensional terms, never saw him, even when two sandwiched him. But “Second Hand” is a richer, more ambiguous and poetic work. At one point the nine form a tableau, a beautiful diagonal chain or garland across the stage; the protagonist observes them.

The company’s program in Washington is a triple bill. Even Mr. Cunningham’s “eyeSpace” (2006), though it is my least favorite work in the current repertory, continues to yield fascinating new details at each viewing. And “CRWDSPCR” (1993), which once struck me as the most robotic piece Mr. Cunningham had ever made, now looks blithe. Its intricacies are full of wit, suspense and breakthrough beauty.
928 2008-03-29 David Brooks says I’m not paying attention to John McCain’s “nuanced and ambitious” speech. Right. Mr. McCain assured us that the surge is working as the violence explodes again and we reach the 4,000 mark on dead American service members. He demonstrated a lack of knowledge about who is fighting and had to be corrected by Joe Lieberman.

Last year, he showed off the safety of a stroll through the streets of Baghdad, as long as you’re protected by hundreds of heavily armed troops.

Mr. Brooks and his hero are part of the same crowd who have been disastrously wrong for the last six years. Who’s not paying attention?

Re “The Maverick and the Media,” by Neal Gabler (Op-Ed, March 26):

Although John McCain’s media approach may work for him as a candidate, it is indeed perilous for the nation. The public deserves more. We deserve objective, unflinching scrutiny to help us select the best candidate for these very dangerous, complicated times.

We certainly don’t need an adoring media, rife with blind spots and willing to save the candidate from himself!

Who will then save us if he is president? Haven’t we suffered enough destruction at the hands of someone the press chose to give a pass to because he offered a feel-good moment over a beer?

The media should remove anyone “blinded by love” from covering Senator McCain.

To the extent that Neal Gabler is right when he states that John McCain is “a darling of the news media,” it’s not so much because he shares their sense of irony. It’s because he’s a Republican who is not reliably conservative.

So here’s a prediction from someone who’s been a full-time working journalist since 1967: The love affair will end as soon as soon as the general election begins (if not sooner). That’s when every gaffe by Mr. McCain will be portrayed by the media as “evidence” that he’s old — really, really old. That’s when every grimace will be “proof” that he’s got a hair-trigger temper.

When the Democrats stop beating each other over the head, and one of them starts running in earnest against John McCain, the media will no longer find their “darling” nearly as “ironic” — or nearly as lovable.

From a media point of view, it’s one thing when Senator McCain sticks a finger in a fellow Republican’s eye, quite another when he’s taking aim at a liberal Democrat.

The writer is the author and former CBS News correspondent.

Neil Gabler’s article, while insightful, implies an extreme contrast between John McCain as ironic and Barack Obama as idealistic, and yet both are treated well by the press. And more significantly, both are what Marshall McLuhan called “cool” characters, tailor-made for cool electronic media like television.

Both have a soft, indistinct personable image that the cameras love as well as reporters, and that allows audiences to project their own hopes and desires onto them. Expect the general election to be all about which of the two is the coolest of them all.

The writer is a professor of communication and media studies at Fordham University.

It would be nice if one of the charmed-by-McCain reporters whom Neal Gabler describes would ask him the following question and tell us his answer.

“If winning in Iraq is absolutely critical to American security, will you raise taxes to pay for the victory?” If his answer is yes, the follow-up question could be: “Whose taxes?” If the answer is no, the follow-up question could be: “From whom are you going to borrow the money?”
929 2008-03-29 NEW DELHI — Roughly 20 Tibetan high school students scaled a brick wall surrounding the United Nations compound in Katmandu, Nepal, on Friday morning, carrying a small homemade sign that read “Free Tibet” and asking the United Nations to help their cause, according to a United Nations spokesman.

They were served a lunch of steamed dumplings, called momos, instead.

John Brittain, a spokesman for the United Nations, described the teenagers as polite intruders who sat on the grass inside the compound, were asked to write their grievances for United Nations officials and were treated to lunch. No one was arrested, Mr. Brittain said, and agency officials would make sure they all were escorted home safely.

“They were very nice,” Mr. Brittain said by telephone from Katmandu. “They sat down on the grass and chatted, and they were asked to put down their grievances.”

The students were not available for comment.

The Associated Press reported from Katmandu, the capital of Nepal, that the police had arrested 60 demonstrators outside the compound.

Nepal, which has about 25,000 Tibetan refugees, has been drawn into the crisis that began with protests inside Tibet and a swift Chinese crackdown two weeks ago. Its government, at the request of its large and powerful neighbor, China, announced this month that it would seal off access to the summit of Mount Everest from the Nepali side to avert potential anti-Chinese protests. China plans to send the Olympic torch to Mount Everest in early May.

Nepalese authorities this month have diligently sought to stamp out Tibetan demonstrations, saying they cannot brook agitations against friendly nations. Tibetans fleeing Chinese rule usually cross into Nepal on foot, before moving on to India, host of the largest number of Tibetan refugees in the world, including the spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists, the Dalai Lama.

Nepal, itself no stranger to pro-democracy demonstrations, has been criticized for its crackdown on Tibetan protests. Human Rights Watch this week accused government forces of “pre-emptively arresting Tibetans” in the capital and threatening several with deportation to China.
930 2008-03-29 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea drove up tensions on the Korean Peninsula on Friday, test-firing short-range missiles off its western coast, threatening to slow down its promised disabling of nuclear weapons facilities and accusing South Korea of sending warships across a disputed border, which it said could lead to naval clashes.

South Korea played down the missile launchings, saying that they were part of routine military training. “We are closely monitoring the situation,” said South Korea’s presidential spokesman, Lee Dong-kwan. “We believe North Korea, too, does not want a strain in inter-Korean relations.”

In Washington, a White House spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said the missile launchings were “not constructive.”

Experts here said the North was escalating tensions to improve its bargaining power in negotiations with Washington and with South Korea over economic cooperation.

“By launching the missiles, North Korea wants to put pressure on South Korea and the United States,” said Baek Seung-joo, an analyst at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in Seoul.

The Yonhap news agency in South Korea quoted government sources as saying that North Korea had launched three to six missiles.
931 2008-03-29 THE American stock market endured a first quarter of vastly increased volatility, with prices collapsing one day and soaring the next. When the period ends on Monday, share prices will have suffered their worst losses in more than five years.

And American investors will have done better than most.

Stock market volatility has soared around the world, and losses in many countries have been far worse than in the United States, where the Standard & Poor’s index of 500 stocks was down 10.4 percent through Friday.

That decline is horrid by historical standards, but it is not bad compared with the performance in many other countries.

The United States stock market had 12 sessions in which share prices rose or fell more than 2 percent in one day — something that did not happen even once in 2004 or 2005.

The biggest one-day change in the S.& P. 500 came just last week, when it soared 4.2 percent on March 18 as the Federal Reserve sharply cut interest rates and some investment banks reported better-than-expected profits. That was the largest daily move for the index since Oct. 15, 2002, when it soared 4.7 percent a few days after the end of the bear market that followed the bursting of the technology stock bubble.
932 2008-03-29 We also have a lot of expenses coming up this year, and I’m not sure it’s a wise financial move, in these times, to bring another mammal in the house.

So I decided to find out how much it costs to get and raise a dog or a cat. First, there is the act of getting a dog. My sister-in-law, Anne Marie, who lives in Northern California, initially adopted a shelter dog, but he ended up being too aggressive around her small niece. So she went to a breeder recommended by a veterinarian.

She bought an adorable Cavalier King Charles spaniel for $1,500, which was almost double what she had planned on spending.

“Trust me, I questioned my sanity at that price,” she said.

There are much cheaper options, of course. Pet stores sell dogs and cats; I have friends who have been very happy with the puppies they bought at pet stores. Many people, however, worry that a dog sold in a pet store may come from a puppy mill.

According to the Humane Society of the United States, such mills — which breed purebred puppies in large numbers — are cruel and the puppies sometimes end up with health problems and perhaps genetic diseases that surface years later.

My friend Carol, whom I turn to in all matters related to pets, and who has volunteered at an animal shelter for years, suggests going through rescue groups if you are eager for a specific breed but also want to help a dog who has been abandoned or abused. A page on the American Kennel Club’s Web site, www.akc.org/breeds/rescue.cfm, provides information on such groups.

If you are less choosy, a local shelter is a great option, but you cannot just walk in and pick up a dog or cat. You have to prove that you will provide a good home. At the Mount Vernon Animal Shelter in New York, the shelter where Carol works, cat and dog adoptions cost about $40, although prospective pet owners may be asked to contribute toward spaying or neutering.

Shelter policy is that all cats and dogs are up to date on their shots, Carol said.

“You’re getting an incredible deal,” she said. “If someone balks at the cost, that’s a big red flag.”

But buying a pet is only the beginning. The American Pet Products Manufacturers Association asked 580 dog owners and 402 cat owners to record the amount they spent in the last 12 months on specific pet-related items.

The dog owners spent almost $2,000; cat owners about $1,200. If you want a real deal, small animals came in at just under $300.

Spending can run even higher in the first year, since dogs need training, and whacking them with a newspaper is no longer an option. Private trainers can run over $800 for a package of lessons, while an obedience school is about half that.

“With dogs, so much depends on the size and age,” said Bob Vetere, president of the association. Annual costs “can vary from $400 to $500 a year to thousands.”

“If you start worrying about cataracts or tumors, you could get into thousands without breaking a sweat.”

Mr. Vetere said a relative of his had her mastiff’s two hips replaced at the cost of $10,000.

Far too many people underestimate the cost of raising a dog or cat, Mr. Vetere said, and “I think that’s what fills up shelters.”

The national average for a veterinarian visit in 2006 was $135 for dogs and $112 for cats, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association.

That is why many people are turning to pet insurance. Grant Biniasz, the spokesman for Veterinary Pet Insurance, the largest and oldest pet insurance company in the country, says an average plan costs $300 a year and covers accidents and illness. Like insurance for people, there is a deductible — $50 in this plan — and the insurance pays up to 90 percent of what is allowed.

The company also offers an add-on well care plan to pay for routine visits, and the good news is it will cover not just dogs and cats, but birds, snakes, potbellied pigs, reptiles — and hamsters!

The bad news is that dogs getting up in years may not be eligible. Mr. Biniasz says that while dogs already covered can continue receiving insurance after 10 years of age, his company will not accept new pets after they reach the 10-year mark.

Food is another big expenditure. Although my local Stop & Shop sells 13.2-ounce cans of generic dog food at the low price of five for $3, the fancy pet store a town away offers the same size organic cans for $1.80 each. I actually had to ask the saleswoman if I was holding a can of dog food or human food. With no indications on the can, the ingredients and photo looked as good as anything I serve my family.

Another potential expenditure is room and board when you go away. The average price of boarding a dog, varying slightly by the size of the dog, is $25 a night, said Joseph Lyman, the chief executive of the American Boarding Kennels Association.

But you can go up from there. Even for pets, there are the equivalent of Comfort Inns and Ritzes, and you pay accordingly. The trend now is for “add-on services,” Mr. Lyman said. A friend of mine who left his dog in a kennel over Thanksgiving could have paid extra if Stanley wanted a little turkey for his evening meal.

More, um, lavish, is a “tuck-in service,” in which workers will read a bedtime story until Spot’s eyes are drooping.

“At first, this seems kind of ridiculous,” Mr. Lyman said. “But in most families, when it is time to read a story, the dog jumps up on the bed. The dog doesn’t know you’re reading to the child — he thinks you’re reading to him or her. It calms them down.”

In addition to overnight care, many places offer play care, where your pet can romp around with friends during the day.

Professional dog walkers have also become a mandatory expense, especially if you work a full-time job.

My neighbor Robin has a booming business, charging $20 a walk. But she doesn’t just trot them around the block. She loads four or five dogs into her van and lets them off-leash in the woods where they play for about an hour.

“I’ve also started doggy play groups,” she said.

I could go on and discuss the cost of burials or setting up a living trust in case you predecease your pet. But, unfortunately, I have run out of space.

For non-pet-lovers, this has all gotten out of hand. For those who treasure their dogs or cats, it makes complete sense.

As far as our decision — well, maybe I can teach Marbles a few tricks. If I can wake her up.
933 2008-03-29 No fair! He got to start first! Why aren’t the Republicans required to use primary rules that allocate delegates in a fair, proportional way that makes it impossible for anybody to actually win? If McCain were still running against Mitt (Available for Vice President) Romney and Fred (Available for “Law & Order” Cameo) Thompson, he would, of course, still be sounding like a divorced-from-reality loon. But once a Republican clinches his party’s nomination, he moves to the middle, stops dropping Ronald Reagan’s name every five seconds and begins describing himself as a “Roosevelt Republican,” hoping that older working-class voters will think he means Franklin.

Fortunately for the quivering Democrats, McCain has also felt compelled to speak about the mortgage crisis. His economic thinking — which is, in any form, a brand-new phenomenon — harks back to the time when Republicans all seemed to be elderly rich guys who muttered a lot about bonded indebtedness. The public’s deep lack of enthusiasm for this worldview was what encouraged Reagan to change the subject to optimism and abortion.

The theme for his mortgage speech this week was basically McCain to Homeowners: Drop Dead. It was, he said sternly, “not the duty of the government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly.” The good news, he noted, was that out of 80 million American homeowners, only 4 million are in the tank, while everybody else is “working a second job, skipping a vacation and managing their budgets” the way Countrywide Financial intended them to.

He did, however, leave the door open for some vague, amorphous, undefined aid to good homeowners, as opposed to irresponsible ones who ... did something irresponsible. Like taking that vacation.

McCain then suggested that the federal government ought to do something about getting regulations off the back of the financial markets and concluded with a call to reduce the corporate tax rate. It was not exactly a rallying cry for the masses.

Imagine what Mitt (Really, Really, Really Available) Romney would have been saying about mortgages if he had the nomination in hand and was repositioning his deeply flexible self for the general election. Can you see the “Wall Street Is Broken” banners? He’d probably have sent a son bearing a certified check to every mortgage defaulter in a swing state.

McCain also favors privatizing parts of the Social Security system, an idea so deeply unpopular with actual people that it never flew in Congress, even when the Republicans were in control and the nation had not yet deduced that the president was permanently out to lunch.

And at bottom, his economic vision makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. He’s going to keep the Bush tax cuts, continue our $3-trillion-and-counting war in Iraq and decrease corporate taxes. And how is he going to pay for it? By getting rid of pork-barrel earmarks. And I am planning to remodel my house by purchasing a tube of Elmer’s glue.

But give the man credit for telling it like he thinks it is. So far, he’s only alienated the homeowners, retirees and vacation-takers.
934 2008-03-29 BONJEAN--Emile. Beloved Emile, native of France, and resident of Long Island, NY, was a tender and treasured part of our family for 50 years. His dedication and brilliance transformed Greentree from a personal home into a ''House of Peace,'' where...
935 2008-03-30 Dr. Tom DeVincentis, a veterinarian with a practice on East 75th Street, has lived on the Upper East Side since 1971, but he has never taken the subway or bus to work....
936 2008-03-30 CHICAGO — Two widely prescribed cholesterol-lowering drugs, Vytorin and Zetia, may not work and should be used only as a last resort, The New England Journal of Medicine said in an editorial published on Sunday.

The journal’s conclusion came as doctors at a major cardiology conference in Chicago saw for the first time the full results of a two-year clinical trial that showed that the drugs failed to slow, and might have even sped up, the growth of fatty plaques in the arteries. Growth of those plaques is closely correlated with heart attacks and strokes.

Merck and Schering-Plough, the companies that make Vytorin and Zetia, said on Sunday that despite the results of the trial, they would continue to promote their medicines as first-line treatments for high cholesterol.

The medicines are among the top-selling drugs in the world, with total sales of about $5 billion last year. About four million Americans take them.

But some scientists, including many of the same doctors who criticized Merck over the arthritis drug Vioxx and were eventually proved correct about Vioxx’s risks, say the companies are overstating the evidence of the drugs’ effectiveness and that doctors should not prescribe the drugs.
937 2008-03-30 Christian Gomez scored on a penalty kick and the Colorado Rapids beat David Beckham and the Los Angeles Galaxy, 4-0, in Commerce, Colo., on a day when Major League Soccer opened its season. Beckham flew back from Europe after playing for England against France on Wednesday.
938 2008-03-30 New American open-wheel era or not, it was business as usual in the IndyCar Series race at Homestead-Miami Speedway in Florida. A Target Chip Ganassi Racing entry, this one driven by the former series champion Scott Dixon, won the season opener for the third straight year. None of the newcomers making the transition from the Champ Car World Series to the newly unified IndyCar series were able to compete with the leaders.
939 2008-03-30 Christian Gomez scored on a penalty kick and the Colorado Rapids beat David Beckham and the Los Angeles Galaxy, 4-0, in Commerce, Colo., on a day when Major League Soccer opened its season. Beckham flew back from Europe after playing for England against France on Wednesday.
940 2008-03-30 The agency was Flexpetz, which rents dogs that have been rescued from animal shelters in the hope that they will eventually be adopted. Flexpetz operates out of the Wet Nose Doggy Gym at 34 East 13th Street, which provides day care and boarding for dogs. The company started in San Diego and opened in Los Angeles in June and in New York in October. It plans to expand to Boston, Washington, San Francisco and London.

“There are a lot of people out there looking for companionship,” said Chris Haddix, 28, who runs the New York branch of Flexpetz. There are usually five or six dogs available for rent, many of them on display in the Wet Nose storefront window, attracting crowds.

Ms. Stevenson explained why she was a customer: “I’m single and moved here from Scotland two years ago, and it’s been difficult to meet people because everyone in New York just kind of goes about their business. But when I’m walking around with Oliver, I seem to get into so many conversations about him. It becomes a nice way to meet people.”

But it isn’t cheap. A monthly membership, which includes four one-day rentals, costs $279.95. Additional rentals cost $45 for a day, or part of a day.

Anyone interested must first register at www.flexpetz.com before meeting Mr. Haddix. “I ask them a lot of questions,” he said. “I want to know if they have ever owned a dog, why they can’t own a dog full time, how renting a dog benefits them, stuff like that.”

If the head office in San Diego gives the go-ahead, there is a mandatory one-hour training session on handling and training. Then members can choose one of the dogs pictured on the Web site for rental.

Mr. Haddix said his customers were a mixed bunch.

“There are people from other states and other countries who couldn’t take their dogs with them when they were transplanted to New York,” he said, “and there are families with small children who enjoy taking these dogs on vacation with them.

“There are also people who live in places that do not allow pets, and a lot of single people who wouldn’t mind just hanging out with a pal every now and then. There are all sorts of reasons for renting dogs,” said Mr. Haddix, who is studying for a master’s degree in philosophy at the New School for Social Research when he is not studying the qualifications of prospective renters.

Mr. Haddix noted that big dogs are rented out on the West Coast, where the dogs generally have more room to roam, and smaller dogs are rented in New York, where, as he put it, “many people live in apartments the size of coat closets.”

Stacy Faulkner, 39, is a Flexpetz client in San Diego. She has been married for 10 years and does not have children, she said, so “renting a dog can really fill a void.”

“When you don’t have kids,” Mrs. Faulkner explained, “your animals are like your own children, or a new best friend.”

“Kaya was a great dog, and I really miss her,” she said. “I’m not ready yet to get another full-time dog — I can’t make that kind of emotional commitment.”

To fill the void, Mrs. Faulkner has been renting for the past eight months. She has returned time and again to rent Charlie, a 4-year-old black dachshund. When she visits New York, she rents a 2-year-old miniature Doberman pinscher named Nixon, who was rented on a recent Friday to a family in Port Jefferson, N.Y.

After Mr. Haddix handed Oliver to Ms. Stevenson, along with a leash and a bag filled with kibble, he closed shop for the night and said that he was going home — to his cat.

“I love my cat,” Mr. Haddix said of Stoli, his 6-year-old Maine coon, before turning out the lights, “and no, he’s not for rent.”
941 2008-03-30 “They were more of a winner than we were,” Harkness, a two-time all-American, said Friday. “It took a long time for me to realize all that they went through. Today, I think that game was bigger than winning the national championship.”

Loyola had won its first-round game against Tennessee Tech by a record 69 points but did not know if its second-round game would be played. McCarthy; Mississippi State’s president, Dean Colvard; and its athletic director, Wade Walker, made sure that it was.

In three of the previous four seasons, their all-white teams had been forced to decline N.C.A.A. invitations because an unwritten Mississippi law forbade play against integrated programs.

In 1963, Mississippi State, the sixth-ranked Southeastern Conference champion, changed basketball history, thanks to a perfectly run play to get out of the state.

“Babe McCarthy was one wonderful person,” Bobby Shows, a Bulldogs player, said Friday. “And when he told us to jump, we said, ‘How high?’ We were just kids. We obeyed our coaches. So when Babe said, ‘Boys, if we win it again, we’re going to play in that tournament, come hell or high water!’ we believed him.”

Mississippi’s governor at the time, Ross Barnett, was not about to let that happen. Nor was State Senator Billy Mitts, a former Mississippi State student body president and cheerleader.

Mitts even got an injunction prohibiting the team from leaving the state.

But before the papers could be served, Colvard left the state for a speaking engagement in Alabama, while Walker and McCarthy drove north, across the state line to Tennessee.

Early the next morning, the trainer Dutch Luchsinger and several reserves drove to a private airport in Starkville, Miss. When they saw the path was safe, a call was made for the assistant Jerry Simmons and the starters to hurry and join them.

The plane took off without incident, stopped in Nashville to pick up Walker and McCarthy and headed to Lansing and a warm reception.

Back in Mississippi, the Ku Klux Klan and segregationists stewed while many others cheered their team’s stance.
942 2008-03-30 Re “With More News of Abuse, a Harder Search for Homes for Pit Bulls” (Westchester and the Region, March 16):

As a member of the League of Humane Voters of Westchester, I thank you for covering the efforts by the police and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals to stop the dog fighting and animal cruelty in Westchester County.

The Westchester chapter of the league is calling on the county executive, Andrew J. Spano, and the mayor of Yonkers, Philip A. Amicone, to establish a task force dedicated to ending the dog-fighting in Westchester, and specifically in the City of Yonkers, site of most of the fights.

Yonkers prides itself on its gentrification and revitalization efforts. It is a blight on Westchester to have a city consistently in the news for such an odious activity.

The Michael Vick case shed light on the disgrace of those who cause dogs to fight each other, an event often accompanied by drug sales and prostitution. The animals are forced to fight through beatings, starvation, being thrown at each other, being made to attack smaller animals thrown at them, and worse.

We are tired of our dogs being bloodied, broken, scarred, crippled, killed and thrown into garbage cans. We are tired of our Westchester community being shown on TV in such an ugly light.

Let’s send a message to dog fighters: You are not welcome here.
943 2008-03-30 “What If a Flu Like 1918’s Broke Out Now?” (regional sections, March 23) ends with a comment by New York’s deputy commissioner for public health that the decrease in pandemic flu financing for local health departments “means the system is a little bit thinner.”

Speaking for a local health department, I think this reduction in financing is less like skipping dessert and more like a starvation diet.

For our department, it’s the difference between having one (or two) full-time staff members working on local pandemic planning versus using other minimal resources.

Pandemic planning is both costly and complicated. If we are at all serious about being prepared, local planning efforts must be supported.
944 2008-03-30 In truth, vodka is vodka, and much of what makes this particular brand feminine is marketing. Damskaya, which is about $12 a bottle, comes in five flavors, but otherwise tastes about the same as similar, midprice brands. It is still 40 percent alcohol, as required by Russian law to carry the vodka label, and is meant to be consumed neat rather than in cocktails.

Still, the trend is indicative of a changing dynamic in relations between men and women here.

With an infusion of new wealth, women have gained financial independence unheard of during Soviet times and the economic chaos that followed. The English word “shopping” has entered the Russian lexicon to mean a recreational activity often associated with women, many of whom are increasingly seeking products tailored specifically to suit feminine tastes.

“We are leaving — but not quickly — the idea of men supporting women and the idea of women seeking men who will support them,” said Lena Vasilyeva, the editor-in-chief of the Russian edition of Cosmopolitan magazine.

Unlike in the Soviet era, when husbands and wives traditionally kept their money in a single account, women are increasingly creating bank accounts separate from their husbands’ and saving a portion of their salaries to spend on themselves without input from their families, Ms. Vasilyeva said.

In large cities, Russian women have indeed grown more active in business and politics — there are two female cabinet ministers on the federal level — but are as disinterested in breaking from traditional roles as wives and mothers as shedding their patent-leather spike heals and miniskirts.

“Society is dictating new goals like making a career, et cetera, but the core still remains,” Ms. Vasilyeva said. “For a Russian woman the family will always come first, I am certain, but this won’t interfere with her building a career.”

These are the women that Deyros covets. The distillery says it has aimed its marketing at women age 25 to 45 with average incomes and surplus cash, and focused on their families rather than wealthy, upper-class careerists who have been cultivating a taste for dry wine.

“This is not some super businesswoman, simply a girl who wants to visit her friend and relax a little because her husband is home with the children,” Ms. Shumilina said.

The concept is a radical one for Russia and violates a golden rule of alcohol marketing: never advertise solely to women.

“You alienate the men, and women think it’s too girly and feminine,” said Adrian Goldthorpe of FutureBrand, a global branding consultancy that counts Russian vodka distributors among its clients.

Yet Mr. Goldthorpe violated the rule with Damskaya, helping to lead the team that developed the bottle design and label.

“It felt like it was a golden taboo in alcohol that we could actually break,” he said by telephone from his London office. “When we look at Russia, we look at a very machismo society on the surface, but there is also a very, very strong matriarchal undercurrent that runs through it.”

In a country awash in vodka, however, any new brand will have difficulty breaking in, said Oleg Yegorov, a press secretary for Russky Standart, a leading Russian vodka company. To be successful, he said, the company would need to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising to compensate for the small market of female vodka drinkers. Deyros has an $8 million advertising budget for 2008.

Others worry that the product could be too successful and claim that promoting vodka to women could turn a bastion of sobriety in a country with a fondness for alcohol into hard-core drunks.

“Most likely, the next step will be infant’s vodka for infant consumption,” said Gennady Onishchenko, Russia’s head sanitary doctor, the nation’s equivalent to the surgeon general, in a recent interview about Damskaya with the Interfax news agency. He called the creation of a vodka for women “nothing more than refined cynicism” and said Russia’s consumer protection agency would look into filing charges against Deyros for violating consumer rights laws.

Russian women do tend to be more conservative drinkers than men, one reason why they tend to live into their 70s, compared with men, whose average life expectancy is about 60.

Yet, vodka drinking is and nearly always has been part of the nation’s tradition for both men and women, said Victoria B. Tochieva, director of the Vodka Museum in Moscow.

“I’m a follower of Peter the Great, who told people to cut their beards and enjoy vodka in lovely bars,” she said.

In the early 18th century, Peter the Great granted women permission to drink vodka in public for the first time and even mandated that husbands take their wives to the bars of the new capital, St. Petersburg.

Three hundred years later, Damskaya has taken men out of the equation. Ms. Shumilina said she envisions women gathered around a bottle of Damskaya at the kitchen table, rather than at a bar, chasing shots with homemade snacks and giggly banter.

And, while pretty packaging might be more alluring than the actual product, the women-only market is expected to keep growing, Ms. Vasilyeva from Cosmopolitan said. (Damskaya is an advertiser.)

“We will not soon escape the color pink,” she said. “To the contrary, these products will decorate our lives more and more.”

And if Russia’s men feel slighted by this revolution in rose, the Russian affiliate of Nestlé has come up with a consolation prize: a chocolate bar called simply “For Men.”
945 2008-03-30 When the economy is falling down all around you, it is only natural to want to protect yourself with some austerity measures. Thoughts of walking that 30 miles to work, using a washboard instead of a washing machine, and sewing clothes out of old curtains may come to mind.

But then you realize that there is a much easier thing you could do to prevent your financial ruin: stop eating out. The average restaurant meal, after all, costs three times as much as one cooked at home, according to the NPD Group, a consumer research firm.

Restaurants have reason to dread this line of thinking, but data shows that, ultimately, convenience and enjoyment can overcome fear and penny pinching.

According to a report from NPD, restaurant traffic does not always fall during a recession. So even if we are in one now, if a restaurant pays close heed to quality — along with price, portions and promotion — it may still be able to win out against the kitchen stove.
946 2008-03-30 Ryan Church is the new right fielder, and Brian Schneider the new catcher.

The Mets’ collapse last season presented the Phillies with an opportunity, but they still had to capitalize on it. And they did, winning 13 of the last 17 games. Until then, they had not really shown they were capable of finishing first, and no one would have been surprised had they settled for second.

But a team with the league most valuable player Jimmy Rollins (30 homers, 94 R.B.I.), Ryan Howard (47, 136) and Chase Utley (22, 103) will pose a legitimate threat again this season.

The Phillies have made some changes for their repeat run. Pedro Feliz is the new third baseman, Shane Victorino has replaced Aaron Rowand in center, and Geoff Jenkins is in right. Brett Myers has returned to the rotation after serving as the emergency closer last year, and Brad Lidge plans to be the closer despite starting the season on the disabled list after having knee surgery Feb. 25.

More of an unknown quantity is the Braves. They have missed the playoffs the past two years after their 14-year run of division titles, and they are eager to get back to the playoffs.

Their pitching will be critical to their chances.

John Smoltz, their No. 1 pitcher, developed tightness in his right shoulder late in spring training but shrugged it off and said he would be fine. Mike Hampton, one of those perennially injured pitchers, had a strained groin but was determined to pitch after missing the past two seasons with injuries.

The Braves are without Andruw Jones for the first time in 12 years, so they acquired Mark Kotsay to play center.

The Marlins have created a pattern of winning, then shedding their best players and winning again. Now that they have traded Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis, it would be premature to expect them to win so soon. Wait a few years.

But two of the five players the Marlins got in the deal will start right away: Mike Rabelo behind the plate and Andrew Miller in the rotation.

In making their two significant trades, the Mets gave up two of their three promising young outfielders. One, Lastings Milledge, is the Nationals’ center fielder. One of his new teammates is catcher Paul Lo Duca, whom the Mets did not re-sign.
947 2008-03-30 A map with the “Living In” article on March 16 about Woodside, Queens, referred incorrectly to a subway line in the neighborhood. The G, R and V line does not carry E and F trains. (Within Woodside, E and F trains run on a separate line, not s...
948 2008-03-30 While consumer affairs officials say there is nothing illegal about the routinely high prices, Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., Republican of Sag Harbor, has asked the attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, to investigate what he termed the “discriminatory pricing practices of wholesale distributors of gasoline.”

“Such higher prices cannot be legitimately explained by any acceptable economic factors such as taxes, transportation costs or other legitimate costs of doing business,” Mr. Thiele wrote in a Nov. 12 letter to Mr. Cuomo.

He contends that the major gasoline distributors have created a separate pricing zone for the South Fork in the belief that it is a “high wealth area with a tourist-based economy” that can afford to pay more. But, citing 2000 census income data, Mr. Thiele said that although visitors to the South Fork may often be wealthy, year-round residents “are a far more diverse and middle-class group” for whom the higher prices “are an economic insult they should not be forced to live with.”

A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, John Milgrim, said Mr. Thiele’s request was under review.

Kathryn Odessa, executive director of the Long Island Gasoline Retailers Association, which represents about 800 retailers, said an investigation would mean “taking on the oil companies,” which she would welcome. “Retailers often get blamed for the high prices because people yell at the person they see,” she said. “But retailers have to charge more because they are not getting the traffic the North Shore gets.”

Cathy A. Kenny, associate director of the New York State Petroleum Council, a division of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents major gasoline suppliers, said most of the price differences were caused by the level of competition. Because there are fewer gas stations on the South Fork than the North Fork, she said, “the retailer can charge what he wants.”

“That’s true everywhere, and the lack of competition can set the price artificially high,” Ms. Kenny said.

While South Fork residents are paying a steep price, some municipalities are protected because they buy fuel under a state contract with lower prices.

Edward W. Hults, budget director for the Town of East Hampton, said the town “pays substantially less than the public.” Nevertheless, he said, gasoline costs have prompted the town to ask its police officers who patrol the eastern end of the town to refill their gas tanks at the fire department in Montauk, rather than about 20 miles back in East Hampton Village.

For some residents, the solution is to buy gas elsewhere.

“All of us go to Riverhead for Wal-Mart and the other discount stores and we gas up there,” said Andrea Gurvitz, executive director of the Hamptons Visitors Council, a group representing six chambers of commerce in the Town of Southampton. “If you are really on empty and out in Springs, put in $5 until you can get to the next station.”

Marina Van, executive director or the East Hampton Chamber of Commerce, said an investigation of the South Fork’s high gas prices was warranted.

“I was at the Amoco in Lake Ronkonkoma and paid $3.65 for premium,” she said. “As I drove to Bridgehampton, the price was $3.89. And there was one station in Sag Harbor where premium was $3.99. Why?”
949 2008-03-30 IN 1992, Paul Lustig Dunkel, the music director and conductor of the Westchester Philharmonic, commissioned the composer Laura Kaminsky to write a piece for the orchestra. Sixteen years later, Ms. Kaminsky, now the dean of music at the Purchase College Conservatory of Music and the interim artistic director of the Performing Arts Center at Purchase, has delivered. Her composition, “Terra Terribilis,” a 30-minute concerto for percussion and orchestra, will have its world premiere on April 5 and 6 when it is performed by the Philharmonic, now commemorating its 25th anniversary and Mr. Dunkel’s final season.

Ms. Kaminsky, 51, has composed dozens of commissioned works that have been performed throughout the country and the world; most are ensembles and solos, sometimes incorporating vocals. “Terra Terribilis” is her first composition for a full orchestra.

“Over my lifetime, I’ve made a commitment to chamber music,” she said. “I like writing for specific performers, and knowing that those people will be engaging with one another when they play. I respond to the intimacy of chamber music.”

In “Terra Terribilis,” Ms. Kaminsky extended that intimacy to the entire orchestra. “I have tried to make the orchestra as democratic as possible within orchestral conventions,” she said. “Terra Terribilis” presents three percussion soloists who are Philharmonic members rather than “superstars hired for the performance,” she said.

In the concert program notes, Ms. Kaminsky, who is also the curator of music programs at Symphony Space in Manhattan and the co-founder and artistic director of Musicians Accord, the ensemble-in-residence at the City College of New York, described her five-movement concerto as “a musical outcry against the despoliation of our planet, and a plea for vigilance and reparation.” It moves from the prelude, “Exuberant Earth,” into the three solo movements, “Glacier,” “Ozone” and “Fauna.” In the finale, the soloists perform together. “Water, air and animal,” Ms. Kaminsky said. “Somehow we will repair the earth, and all will coexist.”

Political and social themes are common in her work. She wrote “And Trouble Came: An African AIDS Diary” after living in Ghana in the early 1990s, working at the National Academy of Music in Winneba. Her “Vukovar Trio for Violin, Cello and Piano” was written in 1999 after a performance in that war-ravaged village in Croatia, and is dedicated to the victims of ethnic cleansing. She composed the string quartet “Transformations II: Music for a Changing World” in 2002, in the aftermath of 9/11.
950 2008-03-30 As an uncommonly outspoken business leader who was appointed secretary of the Treasury in 2001, then forced out in short order after challenging President Bush’s tax cuts, are you surprised by the recent flurry of depressing financial news? Not really. We’ve been creating this pass of events for several years.

Do you think it was appropriate for the Federal Reserve to lend a helping hand to Bear Stearns and save a private investment company from its own bad decisions? I would say they didn’t save Bear Stearns. They saved the financial system from a panic collapse. I reject the notion that they helped Bear Stearns. Bear Stearns was destroyed.

No it wasn’t. It was purchased by JPMorgan, which will keep it alive. They’re going to keep the book alive. But the institution of Bear Stearns has been destroyed. They’ve gone from $158 to $2 of equity. It’s wallpaper. It’s not even good wallpaper. It’s butcher paper.

It’s so hard to understand how the subprime mortgage crisis has triggered a financial crisis of global proportions. If you have 10 bottles of water, and one bottle had poison in it, and you didn’t know which one, you probably wouldn’t drink out of any of the 10 bottles; that’s basically what we’ve got there.

Instead of helping Bear Stearns, why doesn’t the Fed help out homeowners? It’s too late now. Going back a year ago, if the Fed and the Treasury had set out to help the institutions provide clarity and differentiate between good loans and bad loans, we wouldn’t have gotten to this freeze condition.
951 2008-03-30 To read a Tobias Wolff story is to sink into the soft seat of your grandfather’s strong, modest old Buick and let yourself be carried through an America of small towns, small joys, small struggles and small despairs — a landscape so familiar as to be invisible, the landscape of homeland. As each tale proceeds, unhurried, unjudging, the car slows, the turn signal makes its reassuring clicks, and the car glides without resistance into the drive, delivering you, consoled yet strangely disquieted, to the place you came from — a place you thought you’d left behind.

The well-chosen title of Wolff’s latest collection, “Our Story Begins,” is also the name of one of his early works of short fiction, published in 1985 in “Back in the World.” That story (not included here), set in San Francisco on the “10th straight day” of heavy fog, forecast the writer’s long, seemingly preordained career. In it, a busboy named Charlie who wants to be a writer sits at a coffeehouse, eavesdropping on two men and a woman whose conversation dances around their true subject: two of these people have betrayed the third. As they finish their first round of drinks, one of the men begins a new anecdote, saying grandly, “Our story begins.” Wolff shows the lie from the start: their story precedes them. Leaving the cafe, musing on the nested tales he’s overheard, Charlie hears a foghorn in the night. Exhilarated, he imagines himself on a boat on the water, disregarding the sound of the “solemn warning,” angling toward the harbor in the dark, “too watchful to be afraid ... eyes wide open, ready to call out in this shifting fog where at any moment anything might be revealed.”

For decades, Wolff has kept this self-appointed vigil. For readers who aren’t acquainted with his writing (even if they know the movie inspired by his memoir “This Boy’s Life”) this book can function as a “Portable Wolff,” concentrating some of his best work in one place and reflecting the breadth of his gifts in the short form. Readers who have tracked Wolff’s output all along may grouse at finding so many of the usual suspects rounded up in these pages, but Wolff is in the enviable predicament of a pop star who will disappoint too many in the audience if he gives a concert for a new album and leaves out hits that won him his fans in the first place.

Here you’ll find the unforgettable “Hunters in the Snow,” in which three men, Tub, Frank and Kenny — friends of the bruise-leaving-shoulder-punch variety — go deer hunting on a miserably cold winter day, setting out in a truck with a broken window. The simplicity of the language and the brutishness of the men’s interactions resonate as disturbingly in 2008 as they did in 1980, the year the story appeared. A farm dog creates lasting, disturbing mental images: as the men tromp through the snow, they pass a barn, and “a large black hound with a grizzled snout ran out and barked at them. Every time he barked he slid backward a bit, like a cannon recoiling. Kenny got down on all fours and snarled and barked back at him, and the dog slunk away into the barn, looking over his shoulder and peeing a little as he went.” The men’s (and dog’s) misadventures have the archetypal impact of another American classic of doomed machismo, Jack London’s “To Build a Fire” (not to mention shades of “Lord of the Flies” and, lately, “South Park”).

In a markedly different mood and climate, Wolff’s “Desert Breakdown, 1968” draws pathos from a young husband’s craven, though understandable, impulse toward flight. When his Bonneville breaks down in the desert en route to Los Angeles, the man leaves his toddler son and heavily pregnant wife at a desert gas station and sets out for a nearby town to buy a spare part. Hitchhiking in the heat, he yearns to ditch his family and relaunch his dreams. “He could leave them,” he tells himself. “People left each other, and got left, every day. It was a terrible thing. But it happened and people survived as they survived even worse things.” Is he too cowardly to do it or too decent? And how can he know the difference? Is it braver to keep someone by your side whom you can blame for your failures or to cut free and risk learning you might fail anyway, without them?

In these and other stories — about husbands and wives, rich kids and poor kids, military men and working mothers, compromised academics and callous businessmen, all brought by circumstance to some crux of moral reckoning — Wolff’s voice is unfailingly authentic, while his embrace of the variety of American experience is knowing, forgiving and all-encompassing. Most of the 10 “new” stories in this book (one, “Awaiting Orders,” has already been collected in “Best American Short Stories 2006”), first appeared in The New Yorker, except for “A White Bible,” an O. Henryish parable about a teacher and a lackluster student, which ran in The Atlantic; “A Mature Student,” an intrigue about political repression, published in Playboy; and “Her Dog,” from a magazine called Walrus, about a man taking a walk with a dog he likes more than he admits. In these stories of hope, disappointment and rationalization, Wolff shows that more than 30 years after he published his first story, his writerly instinct remains vital, hardy and basically unchanged — deeply sourced in the well of its first origin.
952 2008-03-30 “It was in the back of a lot of our minds,” he said. “One thing about tonight, there was a point where they went on that run and I think the difference this year is we handled the run better and stayed poised and came back.”

North Carolina’s program is stronger and deeper than ever. Williams is in a good place, personally and professionally.

Now his decision to come home to Carolina — as vexing as it seemed at the time — looks like a stroke of genius. Williams left Kansas for North Carolina in 2003; his departure remains a harrowing juncture in a career that includes a national championship.

When his controversial departure from Kansas was raised, Williams acknowledged that he was still shaken by his decision.

“I felt like that was a lose-lose,” he said, “because I was going to disappoint some people that I cared about regardless of what I did. It was a horrible decision in 2000 when I decided to stay. And it was a horrible decision in 2003 when I decided to leave.

“Roy Williams has felt pretty dog-gone good about Roy Williams most of my life, but when I stood up in front of those kids at Kansas and told them that I was leaving, and the feeling that I had when I walked out of that room, that’s a feeling I hope I never have again.”

He said he felt, as he put it, “dirty,” then added: “If I had known that I was going to feel that way, and knowing how smoothly things have gone, I wouldn’t have left. Because that’s the worst feeling I’ve ever had in my life.”

And the feeling after Saturday’s victory may be one of the best — rivaled only by the national championship moment in 2005.

My perception of Williams changed in 1989 when he was perceived as being a radical member of the college coaching fraternity. A volatile battle was brewing between the Black Coaches Association and the N.C.A.A. over proposed changes in standardized test scores, which the coaches felt would have a bad impact on minority student-athletes.

John Thompson, the Georgetown coach at the time, called for a boycott of coaches at the N.C.A.A. tournament. Williams was front and center in support, although a compromise was reached and the boycott was called off.

On Friday, Williams recalled a meeting of coaches when Thompson singled out Williams.

“One of the great thrills in my life was John Thompson standing up in front of a bunch of coaches saying this was not just African-American coaches standing up and saying what they would do, it’s a little, old white dude from the mountains of western North Carolina willing to stand up with us,” Williams recalled. “And that was a great thrill for me, because I did make the decision that something was wrong.”

Twenty years later, Williams is content to be a good-natured thorn in the N.C.A.A.’s side.

On Friday, during the news conferences, Williams pulled out a bottle of Coca-Cola in clear violation of the N.C.A.A.’s 11th commandment: Thou shalt have no unapproved commercial products before me. He drew attention to the act by saying, “I’d better put this away before the N.C.A.A. sees me.”

Last week he complained about the slippery N.C.A.A. logos at center court, saying they posed a danger to players. The regional and Final Four games were never scheduled to have decals pressed onto them, but largely because of Williams’s complaints, the issue of decals will be discussed after the tournament.

“I try to base my life on ‘Is this right?’ and then I’m willing to stand up for anything,” Williams said. “But somebody telling me I can’t bring a Coke in here, I’m just going to have fun with that.”

Roy Williams, the reluctant conformist, with an ever-present needle. His team is back in the Final Four — and we’re still waiting for it to be tested.
953 2008-03-30 For many Americans, Mr. McCain’s rhetoric sounded almost like a trip back in time, to the days of the cold war, when major foreign policy addresses by American presidential aspirants always included the requisite bashing of the Soviet Union.

Foreign policy experts say that in many ways, Mr. McCain’s strong words about Russia reflect a chill setting in on the previously warm relationship which President Bush purportedly had with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin. Forget about Mr. Bush’s now-famous remark that, upon meeting Mr. Putin back in 2001, he “looked the man in the eye” and “was able to get a sense of his soul.”

These days, the Bush administration is spending a lot of time trying to manage what some administration officials now refer to as their Russia problem. Mr. Putin’s opposition to the Bush administration’s missile defense plans; his truculence about toeing the American line on Iran; the Kremlin’s crackdown on democracy activists and nongovernmental organizations; and Mr. Putin’s decision to run for prime minister after leaving his post as president — all have increased the frustration within the American diplomatic community, both at the White House and the State Department, over U.S.-Russian relations.

Mr. McCain was reflecting that frustration in his speech, but was also going a step further, foreign policy experts say. Not only did he frame his most provocative Russia comments around the question of NATO enlargement and Europe, but he did it in a speech which was otherwise conciliatory.

“It shows you something of the way that the U.S. and Europe view Russia right now that Russia-baiting rhetoric is not seen any more by Europe as a combustible, trigger-happy America,” said Stephen Sestanovich, the George F. Kennan Senior Fellow for Russian and Eurasion Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. “It’s an example of putting down a marker about how he feels about Europe and how he plans to keep Russia in the spotlight.”

Mr. Sestanovich, who advises the Hillary Clinton campaign, along with other foreign policy experts, said it is unlikely that Mr. McCain will try to follow through on his threat to kick Russia out of the Group of Eight if he is elected president. Europe probably would not go for that, and the United States needs Russia on too many separate issues, including attempts to rein in Iran’s nuclear ambitions, to risk alienating them over something like membership in the G-8.

And besides, presidential candidates are notorious for trying to sound tough on international issues on the campaign trail and then making nice when they are elected and have to engage in the horse-trading aspects of diplomacy. Mr. Bush himself made tough sounds about Russia before he was elected president and looked into Mr. Putin’s soul.

But don’t expect a return to the euphoria of the 1990s after the cold war ended. Mr. McCain is not the only one who is mad at Russia these days. Mr. Putin angered many American and European policymakers recently when he threatened to re-target nuclear missiles toward Ukraine if it joins NATO. Mr. Putin’s comments — which he made while standing next to Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko — so infuriated Senator Richard G. Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, that Mr. Lugar questioned whether NATO was right to invite Mr. Putin to the NATO summit next month in Bucharest, when membership for Ukraine and Georgia will be considered.

“To invite President Putin into this situation, I suspect, is to give him a meeting in which he intimidates them further,” Mr. Lugar said at a Senate Foreign Relations Committee meeting on NATO. “In this context this seems to be very dubious.”
954 2008-03-30 Elsewhere in the industry it was very different, recalls Muriel Siebert, who started on Wall Street in 1954 as a research trainee at Bache & Company. She eventually became the first woman to own a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and founded the firm that bears her name.

There were few, if any, women or Jews in leadership positions at the time. At one point, Ms. Siebert applied at Morgan Stanley, and “they told me I’d have to wear a hat and white gloves in the elevator.”

Although she never worked at the firm she still calls “the Bear,” as many old-timers do, she says, “It was unique.”

“It didn’t matter what your last name was,” she added. “They had a mixture of all kinds of people and they were there to make money.”

As chairman, Mr. Greenberg always sat on the trading floor, not in a secluded corner office, and was known as much for his magic tricks as his trading smarts. He stepped down as chairman in 2001 after 52 years at the firm but is still a familiar presence at Bear’s Madison Avenue headquarters.

Mr. Greenberg’s predecessor, Cy Lewis, was even more colorful. He was 6-foot-4 “and had played professional football,” Mr. Kohlberg recalls of Mr. Lewis, who ran Bear from the mid-1930s to the mid-1960s. A famous bit of Bear lore is that Mr. Lewis died at his own retirement party in 1978 at the Harmonie Club.

As Wall Street changed, Bear changed with it.

Morgan Stanley and other white-shoe firms dropped old hiring restrictions and opened their doors to women and minorities. And more executives at Bear came from elite schools; Alan Schwartz, a Duke graduate, is the current chief executive.

But Bear never strayed that far from its roots as a trading house, especially in bonds. Indeed, it’s not coincidental that scrappier firms like Bear or Lehman Brothers relied more on trading, since underwriting and merger advice was the original province of elite places like Morgan Stanley. “Trading was seen as plebeian,” says Charles Geisst, a professor of finance at Manhattan College and a Wall Street historian.

While Lehman has diversified, the combination of Bear’s fixed-income focus and its relatively small size proved fatal in today’s fast-moving market.

"It was a damn shame,” Mr. Kohlberg says. “It didn’t have to happen. They took too much risk."

MAYBE some of Bear’s senior managers should have more closely read “Memos from the Chairman,” a collection of Mr. Greenberg’s idiosyncratic notes to employees that was published in 1996.

“We want people at Bear Stearns to cry wolf,” he advised. “Forget the chain of command! That is not the way Bear Stearns was built. If you think somebody is doing something off the wall or his/her decision-making stinks, go around the person, and that includes me.”
955 2008-03-30 PALUMBO--Anthony , painter, renowned drawing instructor at the Art Students League of New York died February 29, 2008 age 85. He was an innovative art teacher who will be dearly missed by all who were graced by this gentle giant, talented soul. He...
956 2008-03-30 SCHNEIWEISS--Hynda Lessman , survived by husband Saul, brother Morton, many nieces, nephews and cousins. Born 1925, Chicago. Lived in Midwood, Brooklyn, last 66 years. Active in community. On community Board 14, 70th Precinct Council. 22 years fif...
957 2008-03-30 BONJEAN--Emile . Beloved Emile, native of France, and resident of Long Island, NY, was a tender and treasured part of our family for 50 years. His dedication and brilliance transformed Greentree from a personal home into a ''House of Peace,'' wher...
958 2008-03-31 The most volatile clash of sports and fashion since Flo Jo's one-legged unitard? It may be the April 2008 cover of Vogue, featuring Gisele Bundchen and the NBA superstar LeBron James (the magazine's first African-American male cover subject). For ...
959 2008-03-31 A few amusing notes in the Yankees' pre-game package that we'll share as we wait for actual play to begin....
960 2008-03-31 Rain is falling, it is raw and chilly and the tarpaulin is covering the field....
961 2008-03-31 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
962 2008-03-31 Soft Serve scans newspapers, magazines and Web sites for "soft news" - coverage of products, trends and matters of style. Just the fluff, ma'am. Soft Serve doesn't envy the New York Magazine reporter who had to test a new Geisha Facial. Its secret...
963 2008-03-31 The Republican candidate is concerned about demands by an Iraqi insurgent leader....
964 2008-03-31 These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors and reporters.

Q. Will David Carr and The New York Times be covering the FullFrame Fest in Durham, N.C., this weekend?

A. Sioux, Raleigh-Durham and the amazing Full Frame documentary festival will have to limp along without me this year. Apparently, after taking a look at the panel I ran there last year — it had all of the élan and grace of a hostage video — the organizers decided to book in some fresh talent. Have fun without me!

Would Anyone Buy This Book?

Q. Are you willing to give advice? If so, here goes a statement and the inevitable question.

As a college professor of theater and film who will turn 69 this year, I’ve been thinking and “Googling” about those films that first made me fall in love with the movies; i.e., those films that were released between 1946 and 1953. As you know, those dates “bookend” eight tumultuous years in Hollywood — beginning with the most financially successful year the studio system had ever produced, through the 1948 “Paramount decision,” the actions of the H.U.A.C. against the “Hollywood Ten,” the coming of TV, and the attempts to regain the audience via Cinerama, 3-D, Cinemascope, et al. And yet, as far as I’m concerned, the studio system, while obviously fading, produced a corpus of work during that time that was in many ways more distinguished, more innovative, more adventuresome (and God knows, given the number of films produced, more horrible) than any other time before.

Now the question. Would a book — not necessarily a history — about these years be of interest, of value, of “note” to anyone? As of now, I’m thinking about concentrating on the producers — both those employed by the studios and the independents — who chose/guided the noteworthy properties for the constantly dwindling American audience. Any advice would be very much appreciated.

A. Gosh, David, after I get done figuring out what kind of material, historical or otherwise, actually connects with book audiences, I will get to work on sectarian violence in Iraq. Go easy on me, it's the second question of my temporary tenure as the answer guy, and if I choke, they could pull the plug at any minute.

I love the frame of your book — nice and tidy, crossing between politics and cinema with alacrity. I'd read a book about how good pictures actually squeezed through the apparatus at that inflection point in cultural history, but keep in mind, I'm a movie fan. Then again, Mark Harris's wonderful new-ish book "Pictures at a Revolution," about the back story behind the five best-picture nominees in 1968, has been wonderfully reviewed and people seemed to be buying it. (I did.)

David, why not write what you want and forget the market analytics? Anybody who tells you that they know what today's readers want is full of beans.

Q. I used to watch you on the Minneapolis Community Network with Brian Lambert and Erik Eskola. Do you consider that the big break that catapulted you to The Times?

A. Um, that wasn't me. O.K.. it was, but I've grown so much since then. If, as you suggest, "The Facts as We Know Them," as it was called, was my big break, it should be mentioned that Al Gore had to invent the Internet for me to finally get some more face time in front of the camera. During the awards season, I make weekly videos about the Oscars and movies. My time on the chair lift in Sundance with Tom Arnold is, well, classic, in sort of a Three Stooges minus one guy sort of way. With a face that looks as if were crafted out of mashed potatoes and a voice that sounds like a trash compactor that needs oil, I'm not a natural for television, but Web TV? Hey, real is the new beautiful. I have incredibly fond memories of "The Facts as We Know Them," if for no other reason that in all of my job travels, I have yet to come across two journalists who are as talented and fun to work with as Erik Eskola and Brian Lambert.

Q. Hello! I have a couple of questions for David Carr.

1) When you interview people for your Carpetbagger segments in Times Square, do you identify yourself as a New York Times reporter, or not?

2) What has been your favorite Carpetbagger interview of all time and why?

A. 1) It varies. Some people are immediately drawn to the camera light and they don't care if you are the king of Siam or a reporter for Danish TV. The fact that my last name is "New York Times" has an amazing effect on people when I am calling about a news story, but doing Man (or Woman) on the Streets in Times Square? Not so much. Anytime that people seem interested or ask, I always tell them where I work and give them a card with the URL on it so they can find the interview.

2) This is probably trite, but I love when regular people say something completely unexpected. In the 2006-2007 season, the Oscar statues came to a studio in Times Square so people could get their hands on one and make a little speech. The Bagger got a number of cute little interviews with both tourists and locals and then stepped up to a very prim, proper, Nice English Lady.

"Where would Oscar live in your house?" asked the Bagger.

"In my bedroom," said the Nice English Lady.

"It would?" the Bagger asked incredulously.

"It's where I do some of my best performances," said the Nice English Lady.

When the Bagger Is on Hiatus

Q. Do you miss "being" the Bagger during the rest of the year, or is it a welcome respite from all the Oscar craziness? And how often during this "off season" do you find yourself wanting to say something as the Bagger after seeing a certain film or reading about a movie or a performance, etc.?

A. Not one little bit, to be honest, Cristina. The metabolism of the Carpetbagger blog — pretty much file and face-plant every single day — really means the assignment is about durability as much as voice, and I get worn out by the end. I love all of my Oscar friends and the loyal, smart cadre of commenters, but you are talking about an awards season that has all of the trappings and demands of a national election, but results not in The Leader of the Free World, but a best picture. This year, frankly, was kind of a bummer. Not because of the movies — I thought all five were worthy and amazing in their own way — but because of the strike, there was never enough momentum for a running story about the awards themselves. With all of those people out of work, sometimes the award stuff felt a little silly and beside the point.

And in terms of weighing in on this or that film, I am a film fan, not a critic, at heart. I grab that sixth-row aisle seat with a jumbo bucket of popcorn and sit there open-mouthed, waiting to be amazed. I read Manohla, Tony and Stephen, real, actual critics, with an acute interest because they watch a film with much more of a gimlet eye.

Where Do You Sit? What Do You Like?

Q. As a student studying abroad your articles and blog (and The Times in general) have served as a tether back to American news, movies and media. Let me ask though, why do I have to venture in to the business section to get at your articles? Your articles seem to cross all provinces of cultural reporting and your reporting is delivered in a variety of forms and mediums. Where do they keep your physical desk? Do you have license to work on what you want? Also, I'd be remiss if I didn't ask for some favorite films.

A. I live on the fourth floor, which is the home of the culture section, which is run by Sam Sifton. I file my Monday columns to Bruce Headlam in business and culture stories to the various section heads up here. I reside in a corner next to Charles McGrath and end up with a lot of the stories they can't talk him into. We had a soaring view of the Duane Reade at 42nd and Eighth Avenue before the new office building next to us began to soar.

In terms of a tendency toward nothing in particular regarding platform and subject, it is partly because I have the attention span of a gnat and partly about doing my bit to support The New York Times's seriousness about meeting readers where they live: At home, with a newspaper plopping at the doorstep, on the Web for a quick read on Oscar news, and at work where they sometimes get so bored that they are willing to watch one of the videos that I occasionally do. I have been granted a great deal of latitude in terms of topic and form, and I've tried to respond in kind, filing in different ways to meet different needs, but trying in each instance to uphold the paper's reputation for efficacy and fairness no matter where it ends up.

Movies? Glad you asked. I saw "American Teen" the other night, a documentary from Paramount Vantage. It was showing at Sundance when I was there, but I was too busy (see paragraph above) to see many films. Sorry I missed that one and thrilled that I caught up with it. It is an amazing piece of filmmaking, remarkable both in form and narrative, a miniature about a year in the life of a Midwestern high school. All of the high school tropes are there — the popular Gossip Girl, the hapless, hopeless nerd, the jock whose future depends on a single shot — but it quietly explodes out in unforeseen ways. "Trouble the Water," which Manohla Dargis highly recommended, was a film I actually saw and loved at Sundance, partly because the aftermath of Katrina continues to be such an important story, and partly because it incorporates citizen media to such profound effect. And I did catch "The Counterfeiters" last weekend, which won best foreign film last year. The kind of story that is too remarkable to be true, and yet it is, and in this instance, is rendered with grace and complexity. I caught "La Misma Luna" as well, also known as "Under the Same Moon." Not my cup of treacle precisely, but a moving, telling story about a country that is changing under our collective feet and the immigrant ardor that renews it.

Not Exactly "Uma, Oprah" but Close Enough

Q. If Mark Urman of ThinkFilm married Uma Thurman, would she be Uma Thurman-Urman? Sorry, couldn't help myself. Enjoy your posts — especially the challenge to play with NCFOM.

A. And if they had a baby boy, they could name him Herman Thurman-Urman. Because Mark is a Montclair guy, I happen to know that he is not available. He is married to Deborah Davis, the lovely author of "Party of the Century," a riveting deconstruction of the social dynamics behind Truman Capote's black-and-white party, and "Strapless," a detailed historical work about Virginie Amelie Gautreau, the muse and subject of the painter John Singer Sargent. All due respect to Ms. Thurman, she's no Deborah Davis.

How Do You Rate as a Timesman?

Q. Are you the greatest Timesman of your generation?

A. I am a total middle guy at The Times. If you look at what someone like Andrew Ross Sorkin did on Bear Stearns or Lydia Polgreen is writing from Darfur or William Rashbaum manged to do with the Eliot Spitzer story, I have never done that kind of work here. But a boy can dream, no? I read and am amazed like many other people who subscribe to The New York Times. Make no mistake, I am an earner here — I file a lot — but the bosses generally keep me away from breaking news or stories requiring nuance or subtlety. I am happy to be in the boat and rowing on any given day and will do so unless they wise up and throw me overboard.

The Brains Behind the Operation

Q. Is it true that Lorne Manly is actually the brains behind the operation and ghostwrites all your columns?

A.Lorne Manly, as some of you might not be aware, is the film editor of The New York Times. While it is true that the story I wrote for him Tuesday was his idea, and yes, he may have suggested some of the sources, and yes, he put a very vigorous edit on it, and sure, the animating central idea was his, I really did some of the actual typing. Conspiracy theorists may have noticed that when I came to work in New York in 2000, Lorne Manly was my editor at Inside.com. And yes, when I got hired at The Times in 2002, it was as part of a package with Mr. Manly. And O.K., he eventually became my boss and editor in the media section in business. And now that I come to think of it, after I moved up to culture, he was appointed movie editor and manages a lot of my copy here. But ignore the fact that we seemed to be tied together with yarn and that I seem to be in need of constant minding. He's Canadian, so he's used to trying to anneal some of the rougher edges on his clanky American neighbor. If Lorne writes something smart into one of the pieces that I file to him and I happen to get a compliment about it, I always say the same thing:

"Thanks man. That stuff just comes to me. It's all very mysterious."

Q. Do you think your conscience enlightens your work, and if so, how?

A. I'm a journalist, so I am by definition a moral and ethical eunuch, so what would I know of conscience? Kidding, Susan.

I think the issue of conscience has never had a more important role in my work. For years, I worked at a variety of publications where the metric on excellence, or at least getting noticed, was being willing to say things in transgressive ways. At The New York Times, the instrument is big enough and the stakes are high enough, so that even if you only land a glancing blow through imprecision, carelessness, or a desire to aggrandize, you can ruin someone's life, or at least their career. When I first arrived here, I was paralyzed by both the worry that I would get something wrong or that I would make a mistake in judgment that would land hard on someone. Gradually, over time, I began to realize that if I did my part and played fair and square with my sources and subjects, the apparatus would do the rest. I think you and other readers would be surprised how often the issue of fairness and rectitude comes up when editors are going over copy. If we casually throw grenades over our shoulders every time we do a story, there will soon be no bridges left.

When I was the editor of Washington City Paper, I often told my reporters to put both their conduct and their copy to the "Mom test." If they could not explain the what's and why's they did to their mother in a short conversation, they were probably making a deep, irretrievable mistake. When I go to church on Sunday — yes, some of us are women and men of faith — and they ask us to bow our heads and pray for forgiveness of our sins, I'd just as soon that none of my professional choices be on that list. Nothing is more distressing as a reporter to do a story, come in the next morning and see a phone message from someone who is reasonable, thoughtful, and clearly appalled by your work. You have to be able to defend those choices with a clear head, and yes, a clean conscience.

It's the Economy, Right?

Q. If two of every three jobs is created by small business and small business can't get capital, especially with home equity shut off, how can the economy grow? Why is so little done for small business?

A. Stanford, I took college micro-economics from Walter M. Heller, but my cluelessness around the fundamentals earned some stern lectures from my teaching assistant, so I'm hardly a savant. But in this contraction, I think the scurry to prop up the markets without actually working to enhance the apparatus of job creation is something we will rue. I just brought my taxes in to an accountant who has a client base of contractors, restaurants and small business owners. And he told me that his gang is off 10 to 20 percent from last year. This is where American greatness is actually forged and I think that the bottleneck in capital for businesses like yours is going to have a very long and punishing tale.

Where Are We in Economic Contraction?

Q. Why do the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq all surge after news of multibillion-dollar write-downs at Wall Street investment firms? Are we at the end of the financial meltdown or still in the early innings in your opinion?

A. Listen hard to what I say about the markets and then go the other way. That's what my wife and financial planner do and it's worked well for them. The fundamentals scare me. As a nation, we have been exporting jobs and debt, and not funding innovation at home. The amount of leverage that other nations will have over our collective future in the coming decades is daunting. And Wall Street? It is, to paraphrase Spalding Gray, located on an island off the coast of America, unconnected to both reality and the rest of the country. It's like a casino where big players win and lose, but if they lose big enough, the government is forced to use the not so invisible hand to prop them up. Commodities of all sorts are jumping, with oil companies booking record profits and farmers fighting off efforts to curb subsidies even as price and demand grow.

As I said, my own grasp of the issues is somewhat tenuous, but I work alongside a couple of people who have won Pulitzers, or may soon, for figuring out what the past means and what the future holds for the economy. Anybody who has stayed with our Gretchen Morgenson's amazing ongoing coverage of the lack of consequence on Wall Street could tell you the same thing. And David Cay Johnston has done a fantasic job of demonstrating how wealthy individuals and big companies have "innovated" their way out of paying anything resembling a fair share of taxes. And for my money, what little of it I have, David Leonhardt has the clearest grasp on some very complicated times where rhetoric is colliding with some grim realities. Never mind macro-economics, common sense says that you can't overheat markets with cheap credit, prop them up when the party ends, and then expect to rationalize the mess without losing ground as a nation and a people. The economy's currency as an issue in the current presidential campaign is a clear indication that a lot of regular people worry that when the Dow goes up 400 points, as it did Tuesday, the exuberance is clearly irrational.

Q.Maybe you could talk to Mr. Frank Rich and Ms. Maureen Dowd to tell them not to be so mean to Mrs. Clinton. You could encourage them to write more balanced columns.

A. You think that Maureen Dowd or Frank Rich need my input? Long before I ever typed a word here, they were annotating the American political narrative with myriad insights from pop culture and a firm grasp of realpolitick. The op-ed apparatus is its own kingdom here and they take their cues from the news of the day, not from hacks like me in the newsroom. And yes, Frank did light Mrs. Clinton up last Sunday, but in his umbrage, he seems to reflect a common concern among many voters whom I know. The opinion pages do their own thing, but there is hardly a reflexive skepticism when it comes to Mrs. Clinton. Let's not forget that our editorial page endorsed her candidacy for the nomination. The fact that it came with a portion of tough love from our opinionaters should surprise no one.

Q. I'm a big fan of your blog every Oscar season. It's hard to shake the post-Oscar ennui when your blog ceases to update shortly after the big show. My questions go to your weekly videos. How long does each video roughly take to make? How many out-takes and the like does the process involve? How many people does it take to shoot? Are we going to see a Carpetbagger blooper reel anytime soon? Who picks the topics? And lastly, how do you keep yourself entertained in the off-season?

A.Andrew, there are no scripts, no takes, no nothing on site. The aesthetic of the Web — that which is best is that which is real — dictate that we just hit it and quit it. The fact that cracks are visible in the end product is part of what adds to verisimilitude and appeal. There are two of us, shoots rarely go longer than an hour, and no, no blooper reel, which is so full of expletives from blown lines that it would have more bleeps than an episode of "The Hills."

Just because we shoot them in a hurry, doesn't mean they are not a bear to edit and put together. During Sundance, I was rooming with my videographer/producer Jeremy Beiler and I was horrified at how long it took to make a package. Hours and hours of knitting and hondling, cutting and pasting. I may not be qualified to be in front of the camera, but I am going to stay there. The other side of it can be pretty grim once the shooting stops.

Q. Word is that you've been working on a warts-and-all memoir of your scurrilous past. What can you tell us now? (Can't wait to see you on Oprah!)

A. Just about every New York Times writer with children of college age — I have twin girls in college and the tuition bills to show for it — has some kind of book they are nudging along. Mine has nothing to do with The Times, so the less said about it here, the better. Let's just say that we all contain wart-marked multitudes.

Q. This is a totally trivial question, but I have to know: Why is your voice so darn hoarse? Is it from smoking?

Q. Or is it a result of all those Carpetbagger segments? (No offense, but you are one loquacious dude.)

A.And yes to that. Combo is deadly. Am in good voice right now, not totally off the ciggies, but have the miracle quit-smoking drug Chantix on the shelf and I am edging toward doing the right thing. Thanks for adding public embarrassment to my list of reasons for quitting, Darryl.

Q. Any second thoughts about how you thought Murdoch would destroy The Wall Street Journal? What are your Wall Street Journal colleagues saying about his rule or misrule?

A. This is what I said when he bought it:

This is what I said on Feb. 11:

And then I added later in the column:

Neither position seems in need of emendation at this point. The folks I know at the Journal are jumpy, but fundamentally happy. And none of them have given any indication that Mr. Murdoch is reading into the news process in untoward ways. Jack Shafer, a ferocious critic of the purchase, said as much recently, but suggested that in an effort to broaden the paper's portfolio, the editors and writers may be neglecting the Journal's historical sweet spot. But I am not one to underestimate the people who work there — most of us here are readers and admirers of the paper no matter who owns it — and I would be the last one to suggest that the paper has been damaged in some way. It was and is a great paper.

Q. Here's the adoring fan part: I think you have the most wonderful writing style; I am happy to read anything you write about anything. You're right up there with Benchley as far as I'm concerned. "The Carpetbagger" is the only blog I have ever read regularly.Here's the middle-aged crank part: Why does your blog have typos so often? Is it because you file it in such an ultra-timely fashion? May I copy edit it for you?

A. So Leah, a little bitter with the sweet, huh? You're right, I am prone to typos and some of them sneak through. The metric on the Web is speed and while we try to stay on tempo with as much efficacy as possible, the blogs don't have the layers upon layers of copy editing that catches everything. The entries are edited, but we push them out as quickly as we can and then attempt to remediate if something is glaring or obvious. Again and again, we get notes about how there can be a misplaced apostrophe in THE NEW YORK TIMES, but these are new and different muscles we are exercising. There are people here who can generate pristine, grammatically correct copy right off the top of their noggin. I just don't happen to be one of them.

Q. Do you find much overlap between your print and your Web audience? And what does it all mean?

A. I was shopping for skis the other day and a guy next to me said, "Hey, I really liked your videos from Sundance."

That doesn't happen much with the print version of me. Other than that, I think that consumers share the platform agnosticism of the newspaper itself. That satisfying plop on the doorstep followed by grazing the organized serendipity of The Times's editorial decisions is still one of the great joys of this age, if you ask me. And I think the new navigational elements on Pages 2, 3 and 4 are smashing. Very Webby, allowing you to surf through all manner of topics and guide you through the paper. And as the day progresses, The Times is there on your desktop, sometimes in a version that has little to do with print. (Check out Melena Ryzik's chat with Bjork about her "Wanderlust" video for an example of institutional muscles and sensibility arrayed over digital realms.) I use both — although there is some truth to the fact that you can either write for the paper or read the paper ... there is not always enough time to do both.

Q. And what does it all mean?

A. Wow, Peter, are you watching those "Kung Fu" vids on Netflix again? Lemme see, what it means is that information, if it is valuable enough, will always perform a jailbreak on any constraints and find a way to the consumer's eyes and ears.

And the 'Reason' Is ...

Q. Hello from Scotland! Before I ask you my question may I thank you for all the great videos you put out during the Oscars. The New York Times is not the same without your personal visits! I would like to please ask you what is the "reason" they call it Times Square?

A. Ali, you get a pass here, because you are not a local, but the reason they call it Times Square is that this piece of iconic American real estate was named after a little daily newspaper that moved its headquarters to what was then Longacre Square in the early 1900s.

Q. It is wonderful that we get a chance to ask the Bagger a question. But I was scanning the list of those who have answered questions previously and I noticed that the obituaries editor, Bill McDonald, was one of them. (I've always been curious about how one can get a bold-faced obit in The New York Times. O.K., I know the answer, "When you're dead, give us a ring and we will see what we can do.") Bill McDonald is a hard act to follow. Well anyway, my question for you is, does your position as a media reporter for The New York Times have any special meaning for folks. I mean do you ever hob nob with the stars; share e-mails with Gwyneth, Steven, Jack, Tom? Have to give bid tips? Meet Roger Ebert? What's it like to be a culture reporter and business columnist?

A. I just came from Robert Downey Jr.'s house in Brentwood. He hugged me at the end of the interview and said that the process was deeply meaningful, that we were going to be friends forever. Well, the second part is a lie, but I did spend two hours talking with him about "Ironman" and "Tropic Thunder," two movies he has coming out.

The job title and prerogatives have limits, probably because of whom they are stapled to. Rupert Murdoch does not take my calls, I've had lunch with Gwyneth, but she couldn't pick me out of lineup. Tom Hanks was enormously gracious and genial to me in a video interview — in the precise way he is to everyone. A lot of my bigger celebrity interactions — Angelina Jolie — have been over a hedge on a red carpet, which tends to cut down on the intimacy. I generally don't have a bone that vibrates to celebrity — contrary to what US Weekly says, they are not Just Like Us, they are often oddlets who live in a cocoon built of publicists and they enjoy the sound of their own voices and little else. Celebrities are your pretend friends while you have business in common and most good journalists know that when actors are acting all warm and friendly, they are, well, acting. There are exceptions. I had a drink with George Clooney at the Four Seasons during Oscar week and he called me by name (his publicist had no doubt briefed him, but why quibble?). I took a walking tour of New York historical sites with David McCullough that was mind-bendingly wonderful. Laura Linney shows all journalists genuineness and warmth, and I did get a bite at Sundance with her "John Adams" co-star Paul Giamatti and we talked about normal things. Don't get me started about Kate Winslet. Amazing talent, amazingly nice. And a few years ago, I finished an interview with Clint Eastwood on the studio lot and started packing up and he said: "What's your hurry? Let's talk for a while." O.K., Mr. Eastwood. I mean, Clint.

Q. Could you comment on my supposition that movies increasingly reflect a cartoon mentality? Originally, directors came out of a theatrical background, with a strong sense of character and narrative ... postwar, film schools produced a horde of technicians with minimal or no exposure to "live" audiences ... today, the action and characters are more like Looney Tunes types, people get shot and spring back to life, others "scream" in a stereotyped reaction mode, and of course, there's the prolonged "N-o-o-o-o!", signifying distress.

A. Maybe you're asking the wrong guy. I wrote a story a while ago about why animated films are so much funnier than live-action films, but I get your gist and think there is merit in what you say. The willingness of live-action films to go over the top and stay there — to parody themselves as they go — can be nauseating and punishing to behold. And I am no fan of filmmakers who always want to put the audiences in on the joke. I like movies that are magical, that transport to another place using the fundaments of dialogue and story. (I mentioned "The Counterfeiters" in an earlier post and "The Lives of Others" was my favorite of 2006, so maybe the great American film is actually being made elsewhere.

Part of what is going on is that so many films are conceptually driven and, as you point out, become the work of technicians who attempt to build a movie rather than tell a story.

One point I would add though: If you're looking for a great story with characters who behave and act in logical, but interesting ways, the writer/director Brad Bird is worth checking out. Okay, so he makes animated movies, but I would set the scripts for "Ratatouille" and "The Incredibles" side by side with any of the classics. That guy knows how to write — he received an Academy Award nomination for script this year — and direct.

The Digital Newspaper of the Future

Q. I would subscribe to the digital newspaper of the future. It's basically a news clearinghouse that provides a service to readers and eliminates the practice and dependence of newspapers on free links via Web sites. It works like Google, but it's designed like an elegant, efficient, highly searchable and continuously updated database that I can interface with and pull reports from to appear on my computer screen in any number of formats. And because it's a modern service, blogs are in the database, too. And yes, it would have ads and links to the sources. I'm afraid first generation news gathering will die if subscription service doesn't make a comeback, it's not just page views and unique visitors. What do you think? I'm tired of this one-way conversation.

A. Holly, I know from talking to the mad scientists upstairs that we are looking at any number of interfaces on any number of platforms, but our primary value added comes from brand — one that stands for efficacy and reliability — and not as a utility. Subscription models? Well, I was part of one really grand experiment in 2000 at Inside.com that had great journalism, but was waaay ahead of its time. And in the current environment, consumer willingness to take the time to even sign up for an information feed — other than clicking an RSS button — seems low, let alone paying for the opportunity. Maybe there is something out there compelling enough to alter a consumer expectation that all information will be free and infinitely customizable — see my column last Monday for my take on the current environment — but we will have to wait and see. I can envision an organic evolution toward seamless micropayments for something as wonderful as what you describe, but I think that for now, the buy-in would be too limited to give up the model of selling advertising against accumulated eyeballs. Our Times Select product had much to commend it — Frank Rich for starters — but in the end, our leadership decided that it was in our long-term interest to throw open the gates and build audience.

Q. For starters: Your various and diverse columns are always enjoyable. My question is this: Although I discount comparisons to Ancient Rome and generalizations of "Empire Ending" as narrow and shortsighted, do you think that this country has reached a cultural, spiritual and business low-point in its history from your vantage point of writing on so many different topics? Having lived through the '60s and the era of Picasso, The Beatles, Leonard Bernstein, Hitchcock, and, let's say, "The Prisoner" on television (or Monty Python), are we experiencing a very, very broad malaise in the arts? And while the stock market always resembled a casino, now it is looking more like a Ponzi scheme and ethics and standards seem to be based on what one can get away with (but of course this is not true of many honest businesses). Have you thought about this at all?

A. Bernard, not riding with you on this one. Cullen Murphy, once of the Atlantic and now of Vanity Fair, wrote a wonderful book on this very topic titled, "Are We Rome?" I think not, but sometimes I worry that we are not what we think we are either. There is a hubris, an expecation that inertia will prevent our loss of status as a nation, but there are so many more powerful nations in play as the world reiterates. Our political apparatus remains functional and democratic, our makets may have lost some fairness and taxation seems to be in need of rationalizing, but I don't hear violins playing or the edifice of American greatness on fire. Culturally, I am not one of these people who thinks that it was so much richer and deeper back in the day. (Not a huge Beatles fan, for one thing.) I think culture is being democratized and enabled by the Web, as is the political discussion, although there is a coarsening in the discourse I find disconcerting.

Q. Why is the industry so impatient with the films it releases? Many an intriguing offering will come and go from theaters near me so quickly that I have no realistic chance to see it or even hear about it before it's too late. No one seems willing to try to build a picture with word of mouth any more. It's not like there is any shortage of screens; in many cities and suburbs, people have 10 or 20 multiplexes — a hundred screens or more — to conveniently choose from. What would be the harm in letting a promising little picture like "CJ7" or "The Band's Visit" stay on one of those screens for a few extra weeks and letting it find its audience, instead of yanking it if it doesn't pack the house on the first weekend?

A. Hey Pat, is there room for two on that hobbyhorse? Great movies, including "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead" and a host of others this past fall got pushed out from behind because there were just too many serious movies trying to edge into exhibition space. The multiplexes are preoccupied by movies that have huge marketing budgets behind them and the chance of frantic opening weekends. The advent of digital technologies has made movie production more ubiquitous than ever, and there was a great deal of private equity money coming into the picture financing new product. The result was a lot of great small movies, and the clutter to match. I am hoping that the growth of alternate pipelines — day and date release, straight to digital with cable release, or in a few years, a big wide world of digital distribution on the Web. In the meantime, maybe you and I should upgrade our Netflix accounts so we can catch up on what we are missing.

Q. Growing up in Detroit in the '60s I enjoyed reading classical music reviews in The Detroit News/Free Press from a “Carr.” Was that your father? If so, where is he now and doing what?

A. Not my dad, although he is a brilliant writer — prone to typos like his son, but he can throw down some blarney. My dad owned and managed clothing stores in Minneapolis and is incredibly well turned out. It is a source of mystery and sadness for him that none of his four sons can dress. We are all schlubs compared to him.

Something for the Ride Home

Q. It is nice reading The Times on the way to work or at work online in the morning but readers are without a newspaper for the commute home. Would the Times ever consider publishing an afternoon paper or a Times "lite" type publication for commuters on the way home?

A. Mike, my feeling is that within three to five years, there will be an embedded and growing base of digital readers that are cheap, lightweight and constantly updated. (I know, that future never seems to arrive, but I think the iPhone multitouch interface is going to spark a huge wave of innovation in all formats.) And in that environment, an afternoon feed of Times journalism as it develops through the day will be a natural. (And in the meantime, I never hit the bus without a copy of the paper I thought I read that day. It's amazing how much I missed.)

Q. I love your video reports. They are insightful as well as entertaining. I have three questions: Do you script them in advance or storyboard sequences before shooting?

A. We wing it, talking on the way to the shoot, but I never rehearse and never write. They count me down and I start blabbing.

A. Jeremy Beiler, poor soul, who is left to graft together the hodgepodge into a coherent narrative.

Q. How labor intensive is shooting, editing and producing a video report, versus writing a column?

A. Easy for me, because I am treated as talent. The back end is where all the work is. It can get onerous when the ideas are not coming or when a shoot goes bad, but most of the time, it is fairly contained and let's me do the rest of my job.

There's a Lot of News Out There

Q. As a journalist who covers a wide berth, how do you stay current on the myriad subjects you cover? Does the Bagger hit the blogs as soon as his slippered feet hit the floor? Do you have a suite of sources you stick to or do you make an effort to sniff out new ones?

A. When that dreaded bell tolls in the morning — I stay up too much — I often start at the back end of The Times and work my way forward. I also get The New York Post, The Wall Street Journal and The Star-Ledger at my house.

I have RSS feeds set up for entertainment and media news. In heavy current rotation on my bookmarks? Romenesko, natch, for journalism stuff. And iwantmedia.com is a great, quick resource for convergence issues. Women's Wear Daily and Mediabistro are frequent stops.

Culture? I read BoingBoing to keep in touch with stuff I never thought of, Vulture and Defamer because they are so beautifully written and frequently have high news value. I find the blogs at the trades — Variety and The Hollywood Reporter — to have real value. Movie City News has great taste in links. Anything having to do with awards, I swear by Awards Daily. Some thing have to be sacrificed, so I don't follow the political blogs like I should and am not up on box scores or the latest op-ed pieces. In an age where everyone wakes up to a firehouse of information, some things have to go, so I will step up to the Final Four with no idea of what is going on.

Hanging Out in the Culture Department

Q. Who are the true arbiters of culture at The New York Times? Is there an overall culture editor ?

A. Yeah, his name is Sam Sifton and he manages to see everything. As in, I came in last week with my daughter for a Saturday matinee of "Passing Strange," the rock musical on Broadway. And when I proudly mentioned that we got cheap tickets at TKTS, Sam said, "Yeah, that's great. I saw it when it was downtown."

Q. Do you and Melena, Manohla, A.O. and the others ever get together and discuss current trends and movies?

A. Other than the fact that I never see them in the same place — Manohla lives in L.A. — I think they have a ton of secret meetings where careers are brokered and reputations made, but then I wouldn't know for sure would I? I never get invited.

Q. ...and agree most of the time?

A. Hardly. I have never seen anybody talk Manohla into anything in her life.

Q. Given your propensity to wear only black, and ill fitting at that, where do you get off labeling your brothers as schlubs? I know of one who is a great dresser when the occasion calls for it. That he is a midlevel captain of industry dictates very few circumstances that require sartorial splendor. Comfort is the coin of the realm.

A. Thanks for writing and straightening that out. You forgot to mention that my black clothes are not only ill fitting, but generally soup stained.

Q. I'm an avid consumer of news about the business of media, but disappointed in The Times's coverage. And now I realize that you, my favorite writer on that beat, may be part of the problem. Woe is me.

Your byline always draws me to articles that I might otherwise pass over based on the headline, although I must confess that The Carpetbagger just didn't interest me this year. (Although I watch every minute of the Oscars, I found the movies this year too depressing or morally obnoxious. I'm talking about "Juno," whose light-hearted approach to teen pregnancy was loathsome to this father of a 20-something daughter.)

I've always been confused and slightly annoyed by The Times's coverage of the business of media. Sometimes pieces appear in the Business section, sometimes in the Arts. Sometimes the pieces rival (but never quite equal) those of Ken Auletta in The New Yorker (with all the time and space he needs), and sometimes they are weak and sketchy, mostly when written by beat reports and buried.

And now I realize after reading some of your earlier replies to questions here, you may be the problem!

Their best business/media writer is ensconced in a den of cultured critics.

I say The Times should move your desk, focus media business coverage on the business pages and let the Arts section deal with ratings for "Dancing with the Stars" and revivals of "Camelot," and reviews of the latest tomes of B-list literary authors

A. I read and enjoy Ken Auletta — he leverages access into several remarkable pieces a year, but while they are a joy, they are not designed to keep the reader up to date on the shifts in platforms, deals and marketing that is driving the media business at such a rapid pace.

I can't swing with your dismissal of the daily culture report — we take that stuff VERY seriously around here and so do our readers — and the suggestion that a story off the desk of a beat reporter is somehow less-than. We have veteran reporters with deep sources and history on their subjects — Bill Carter, Stuart Elliot, Gerry Fabrikant — and it shows up every single Monday in the section edited by Bruce Headlam and Jennifer Kingson. If a media story breaks, it is probably breaking in The Times. It is true that the paper and the broader culture has wrestled with where the "show" ends and the "business" begins in show business, but I don't think anybody matches our horsepower or commitment. Add in the new folks we have added — Brian Stelter has a generational understanding of how media is used, Louise Story has done amazing work about the intersect between data and marketing, and Tim Arango may be the best sourced corporate media reporter around — and I don't think it much matters where I sit.

Q. What was your favorite interview — time, place, person, feeling afterward? And what is your favorite New York Times piece? Thanks for the streams and interviews. Fun and interesting.

A. Couple of things. During the Republican convention in New York, I started just wandering around our temporary bureau at Madison Square Garden. Nobody asked me — we had plenty of talent on hand — but I just wanted in. And the metro editors eventually worn down by my presence — think Donkey boucing around in the back of the pack in "Shrek" saying "Pick me, pick me" — eventually gave me a story to work on about how New York had done with all of the incoming visitors. And a pal of mine who is a reporter from Minnesota, Pat Kessler, told me about a woman who would not come to New York until she first wrote her will because it is such a dangerous place.

And speaking of Minnesota, a bunch of Brooklyn artists went there to build a raft out of recycled junk and pilot it down the river. As you might imagine, it took them a while to get going — something about the motors that ran on fry grease — but sitting at the top of the human-powered ferris wheel taking notes with "Strange Fruit" blasting out of the speakers below me and the river spreading out in front, I felt like my whole life had been some kind of wonderful caper.

In a very different way, the stories I did at the end of the Mississippi during Katrina were important for me personally. When big things happen, there is an institutional impulse at The Times to get all hands on deck and then help each other as much as possible to get at the greater truth. I saw award-winning photographers jumping out of boats and pulling them through the muck so someone else could get the shot. And I was able to lock up an important column about media misinformation because a colleague I didn't even really know — Shaila Dewan — was able to use her sources to get real actual information. After spending a lot of my professional life as a free agent, it is a wonderful feeling to be part of something larger and sometimes noble.

Q. The Times and the media report poll results for everybody but themselves. Public trust in newspapers has fallen to a record low of 22 percent, according to the annual Gallup Confidence in InstitutionsPoll for June 2007. Is the lack of coverage caused by ignorance or a coverup?

A. George, I'll take a whack, but why would you trust the likes of me to answer? Kidding. According to the results I read, the actual percentage of people who expresed "a great deal" of confidence in newspapers and television was 28 percent, which put journalism above big business and Congress — 22 percent, btw — but below the military, the police, organized religion and for all I know, phone solicitors. Much of it is self-inflicted. Competitive pressures, metastasized by the competition fostered by the Web, pushes news organizations into some fiascos. (I wrote about the recent problems The Los Angeles Times had in its reports about who was behind the murder of Tupac Shakur. As everyone knows, The New York Times has had some problems of its own — Jayson Blair was a friend of mine and I was caught completely flat-footed by what he did, as were the previous leaders of the institution. So I get it.

What I never understand is the amount of motive that is assigned to both our judgments and mistakes in the political arena. I don't end up writing about politics much, but when I do, it doesn't matter who it is about, all manner of fire-breathing e-mailers come storming over the hill to suggest that I am on the take, or in somebody's pocket, or am a liberal/fascist/Klan member. Conspiracy is the coin of the Web, and The New York Times resides at the fulcrum of many of the theories, but if our current leadership has a political agenda, I have failed to discern it. On any given day, we vote the story, best as we see it, with fear and favor toward none. That doesn't mean that there are not judgments to argue over — a lot of people took issue with our McCain story recently. But the pat answer that we will throw someone under a bus to sell papers or push an agenda is nonsense.

Q. Who is your favorite up and coming director?

A. Finally, an easy one. Did you see "Away From Her"? The woman who made it is 28 years old. I dunno about you, but when I was 28, I was perfecting my Frisbee throw and shopping for cheap 12-packs. Sarah Polley, a Canadian actress with great credits at a tender age, read Alice Munro's "The Bear Came Over the Mountain" and adapted it into a screenplay that became a complicated, gorgeous little movie. (See my video interview with her here.) The movie is almost perfect in mood and execution, something a lot of first-time directors don't come near. (You can see the other aspects of Ms. Polley's skill set in "John Adams," the HBO series where she plays Mr. Adams's winsome daughter.)

Others? Dito Montiel, made a crazy, beautiful first movie called "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints." Don Roos, who makes a living writing movies, directed a gorgeous, underseen gem, "Happy Endings." (Bonus for clicking on the link: My most embarrassing correction ever. Let's just say it involves transposing "foreign" and "porno." The list goes on ... Bennet Miller, who directed "Capote," is going to be making great films for many years to come. And El Gordo, Guillermo del Torro is on a tear, following up the marvelous "Pan's Labyrinth" with another "Hellboy" film and his own take on "The Hobbit."

More About Storytelling, Please

Q. Dear David (and isn't it a mixed blessing that your approachable style puts all of America on a first-name basis with you?) — A bit of clarification, please, on what Prof. Clay Shirky was driving at in your column last month when he said:

Isn't that just a nice way of saying that the storytellers will still be around, but because they are not part of a big business infrastructure with factories and transmission towers and yes, The Virgin Megastore, they just aren't going to make enough money to live on anymore?

A. Donald, I felt my massive net worth dropping as Professor Shirky spoke. So-called disruptive technologies create dynamism and change, but they create a lot of misery as well. I do think that certain types of storytelling — say covering a five-year-old war that is characterized by dangerous assymetries — require the participation of the consumer in terms of paying the freight. And the price of everything dropping to free has other implications: During the writers' strike, all sorts of wonderful work popped out on the Web, but came from an embedded base of writers who had been built up by the system of residuals. There have been some work arounds in the music business — using free or cheap recorded product to kick up sales of live shows and ancillary products — but you wonder if great music can be financed over the long haul by T-shirt sales. (Don Frazier was the mayor of Minneapolis, a wonderful politician I covered, but you probably aren't that guy. If you were, we would be on a first-name basis, right?)

Q. In response to a question, you wrote in part: "And in the meantime, I never hit the bus without a copy of the paper I thought I read that day. It's amazing how much I missed."

While I don't hit a bus, I keep it with me during the day and always find something to read. The columnists alone, Friedman, Dowd, Rich, Collins, et al, are worth the subscription price. Yes, I like picking up the paper, flipping the pages, getting that New York Times ink on my hands. The Saturday paper seems, much like the day, a more leisurely, though no less satisfying, read.

Yet, I am 53 and I foresee, within my lifetime and much to my sincere regret, the complete demise of the printed version of The New York Times, that thing that goes splat on the driveway at about 6 a.m. I know that the 20-somethings, save probably for those going into journalism, are simply not buying a print newspaper. But I don't want to read The New York Times only online. What to do??

A. I do not see the printed product going away or simply serving as a brochure for the online version. A certain set of consumers and advertisers are always going to want to consume in that form and will pay a premium to do so. The rest of the readers will come in hybrid forms, but I think you and I can depend on the plop for some years to come.

Q. As someone who has worked for what I would call "alternative media," in Minneapolis, do you think that's a legitimate (easy, boy) stepping stone in a journalism career toward working for papers like the Old Grey Lady? Will alt. print media be replaced by electronic methods more easily or rapidly than national outlets (nytimes.com and washingtonpost.com)? Care to speculate about the future of alternative media? Did you find your locally based alternative media jobs more engaging than your lofty national post? Why? Bonus question: Are you a Minnesota Twins fan, or has New York corrupted you with it's pinstripe and/or orange-black-and-blue allure? Are you a baseball fan at all?

A. It is weird to look around the august confines of The Times and see how many of us altie refugees there are. Terry Tang, an editor from metro, who came from the Seattle Weekly, Sam Sifton, who runs the culture department put in a lot of time at The New York Press. And there are tons of folks here from The New York Observer. The alt weeklies are getting worked over, in part because Craig's List has a natural appeal and utlity to their traditional audience. And the amount of consolidation in the space — Village Voice Media owns 17 papers — means that some of the idiosyncracies, like local film criticism, are getting rubbed out even as they finance and execute serious news in their respective markets. The lessons that we learned in those jobs — I was both a writer and an editor at weeklies for a long time — are now part of the mainstream: character and narrative are sturdy rails to run information on. I think it would be horrible if they were supplanted by local blogs built on snark and very little in the way of phone calls.

And in re, my beloved Twins. I have not gone native. There is a security guy at the front desk who is a huge Mets fan and he never misses an opportunity to rub in the Santana trade. I always push back, saying if you can't build, you have to buy, but I think the Twinkies are in for a pretty grim year.

What Does the Future Hold?

Q. I am a soon-to-be 25-year-old young woman ... is myworld going to be O.K.? Excuse me for my subjectivity ... my strength for objectivity is bleak right now.

A. Jera, I have 19-year-old twin girls and after I rail about how the world is going to hell in a handbasket, I always remind them that my parents told me precisely the same thing. It is a glorious, scary, dynamic time to be taking over the world. Do a good job with it.
965 2008-03-31 Another theory on R.F.K. Several dismissed on Princess Diana....
966 2008-03-31 Is Iceland the victim of a financial conspiracy? Such things really do happen. During the 1997-1998 financial crisis there was, almost certainly, a financial conspiracy against Hong Kong. According to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, several majo...
967 2008-03-31 Sgt. Keith Matthew Maupin was captured in 2004....
968 2008-03-31 Joe Girardi was at the Stadium more than five hours before the first pitch of his Opening Day as Yankees manager....
969 2008-03-31 The stage has been set for a Final Four featuring all No. 1 seeds....
970 2008-03-31 Barack Obama will pick up another superdelegate's vote when Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota formally endorses him today....
971 2008-03-31 Like Paul Revere, Konrad Hummler sounded the alarm last week as he made his way by train and by plane to his bank's branches across Switzerland. This country's storied role as secret banker to the world's wealthy is under threat like never before,...
972 2008-03-31 Back in the days of ticker tape, when Wall Street firms like Morgan Stanley hired young men with pedigrees from colleges like Princeton and clubs like Piping Rock, Bear Stearns was the kind of place where hardscrabble Brooklynites could get a job....
973 2008-03-31 The Chicago Stock Exchange said Thursday that it hired an investment bank to help it evaluate a possible merger or new partnerships, after some shareholders said the company needed new leadership and direction. The announcement of the hiring of Sa...
974 2008-03-31 The financial market crisis could cause losses of up to $600 billion at banks and other financial institutions worldwide, a German magazine reported on Saturday, citing an internal report by German financial watchdog BaFin. The $600 billion figure...
975 2008-03-31 Lehman, the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, said it can sell up to another $450 million of additional convertible preferreds to meet extra demand.

The convertible securities are expected to be sold with a dividend yield of 7 percent to 7.5 percent and a conversion premium of 30 percent to 35 percent, according to investors looking at the deal.

Lehman Brothers, an investment bank beset by speculation that it did not having enough funding, said Monday that it was issuing $3 billion of convertible preferred shares.

Several large institutional investors have agreed to buy at least $2.5 billion of the offering, and smaller funds looking at buying into the deal said demand is strong.

Lehman’s shares fell 2.8 percent to $36.60 in after-market trading after the planned convertible preferred share offer was announced, since it could result in more shares being issued. During regular trading, shares fell 23 cents to $37.64.

The chief financial officer Erin M. Callan told Reuters that the deal was meant to end questions about the bank’s balance sheet, and the capital was not needed to offset the impacts of write-downs or losses.

Mike Holland, who oversees more than $4 billion at Holland & Company, is not trying to buy the convertibles, but says if the sale goes well, it could put fears about Lehman to rest.

“If investors thought there were real problems at Lehman, you couldn’t find buyers for $3 billion of securities at any price,” Mr. Holland said.

Lehman’s shares have fallen 40 percent since the start of February, worse than the broker-dealer sector as a whole, despite the company posting stronger-than-expected quarterly earnings and discussing at length with investors the sources of its funds.

The investment bank says it can sell or borrow against some $200 billion of assets if necessary, and like other investment banks can now borrow from the Federal Reserve.

Lehman has not lost any access to short-term secured debt markets, known as repo markets, nor has it lost major trading counterparties in recent weeks, but its share price has suffered nevertheless.

Lehman has been one of the few major investment banks to avoid raising additional capital. The other one is Goldman Sachs Group. But Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley have each raised billions of dollars of capital in recent months.
976 2008-03-31 Investors also examined a government plan to overhaul the way Wall Street is regulated. Wall Street appeared unmoved by a plan to reorganize oversight of Wall Street; details of the 218-page plan have been widely reported in recent days. It would give the Federal Reserve increased power to protect the stability of the entire financial system while merging day-to-day supervision of banks into one agency, down from five under the existing system.

A senior equity strategist for A. G. Edwards & Sons, Scott Wren, said Monday’s trading showed investors were generally waiting for other economic data this week on the manufacturing and service sectors as well as employment. Investors are prepared for weak economic data, Mr. Wren said, but could become unnerved if there is unwelcome corporate news.

“The market is already pricing in a ton of bad economic news,” he said. “Bad economic news is not going to drive the market. What’s going to drive the market is headline news.”

The quarterly performance was the worst since the July-September period of 2002, when the aftermath of the dot-com bust, recession, the terrorists attacks and corporate wrongdoing combined to send stocks spiraling downward. At that time, the Dow and S&P 500 each tumbled nearly 18 percent and the Nasdaq fell almost 20 percent.

Many analysts have suggested that the market has been seeking a bottom in recent weeks. But it will take some time — and a long period of at least stable trading — before anyone can feel secure that Wall Street is ready to resume an upward track.

One reason for the uneasiness is that many on Wall Street expected the first quarter to be much stronger for stocks than it turned out to be. The theory was that big financial firms had taken their hits in the final three months of 2007. But as the first quarter has shown, the fallout from investments in risky and possibly worthless mortgage-backed securities has continued along with the uncertainty in the credit markets.

The Fed, with a series of interest rate cuts and steps to make more credit available to banks and investment houses, helped restore some sense of calm to the Street. However, worries about recession and the health of consumers have also undermined the market’s attempts to recover, and as recently as last week, bad economic news sent stocks tumbling.

The dollar rose Monday against several other major currencies, easing pressure on commodities such as oil and gold. Light, sweet crude fell $4.04 to settle at $101.58 in New York trading, while gold fell $14.40 to finish at $916.20 an ounce.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.41 percent from 3.45 percent late Friday.

The drug maker, Merck & Company, fell $6.56, or 15 percent, to $37.95, and Schering-Plough declined $5.06, or 26 percent, to $15.41 after medical researchers said the companies’ joint cholesterol drug, Vytorin, failed to improve heart disease. The researchers’ findings, published by the New England Journal of Medicine, urged a return to more established treatments for cholesterol. Merck is one of the 30 stocks that comprise the Dow industrials and, as a result, dragged on the blue chips.

Citigroup Inc. rose 59 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $21.42 after announcing plans to split its consumer banking unit from its credit card business as part of a broader reorganization to cut costs and simplify the large financial institution’s structure. The company suffered billions of dollars in losses from investments in poor-quality mortgages.
977 2008-03-31 Continental Europeans, generally lacking the faith in free markets that prevails in places like the United States or Britain, seldom try to address the problems of capitalism with more free-market solutions.

Recent gyrations on global markets have done nothing to change that view. For example, Josef Ackermann, chief executive at Deutsche Bank, issued a public call in March for “concerted action from governments and central banks” to “stop this downward spiral.”

Yet governments in Austria and Germany are devising legislation that takes inspiration from pioneers like Voestalpine, and they are using tax law to encourage employee stock ownership.

More stock in the hands of workers could help compensate for wages that have stagnated in much of Europe even as stock markets have staged a long-term rally, the recent turmoil notwithstanding.

The politics are appealing as well.

For much of the last decade, European politicians have felt pressure to loosen hire-and-fire rules and cut unemployment benefits, changes that pleased business but alienated labor. Now, as fears of a slowdown mount after several years of relatively strong growth, the time appears ripe for a new approach, one that offers employees more financial security and aligns their interests more closely with management.

But not all European unions are enthusiastic about the project. With financial markets unnerved by a credit crisis and the slowdown in the United States, they are well aware that being a shareholder has its disadvantage.

“The question was always making a system stick, politically speaking,” said Wolfgang Filc, a former German deputy finance minister and a professor at the University of Trier. “This has the potential to build bridges.”

Because German and Austrian labor contracts tend to focus almost exclusively on wages — and sometimes on profit-sharing — only 6 percent to 7 percent of employees in the two countries own shares of their own companies, according to several organizations that have collected data. The ratio is 20 percent to 30 percent in Britain, Ireland and the United States.

In the 1960s, France became a lone exception in Europe by nurturing some employee ownership as a national drive to ease class divisions.

The Austrian government, a coalition of conservatives and Social Democrats, is working on a system that will raise tax exemptions — currently at 1,400 euros, or about $2,200 — to enable workers to buy company stock. It will also include measures aimed at increasing employee ownership at smaller companies as well, Austrian officials said.

The Austrian effort reflects a broad consensus that the country has made enormous strides in 20 years. Success in tapping into new markets in Eastern Europe and Asia has lifted corporate profits and share prices, but also kept wages down.

“We are on the way to full employment in this country,” said Martin Bartenstein, the economy and labor minister from the conservative Austrian People’s Party. “But on the other hand — and you see this elsewhere in Europe — employees are happy that there are jobs, but they are not happy with the cash that they are getting in their hands.”

At Voestalpine, Mr. Eder, who was then head of its steel division, led the creation of its program.

Rather than workers holding stock directly, Mr. Eder worked out a deal with the union where a small part of each employee’s annual wage goes to buying stock, which is held in a foundation administered by union officials. Employees get back what they put in — plus the corresponding change in value — when they leave Voestalpine or retire.

Mr. Eder said that employees “think much more strategically” than typical investors.

“They ask where we are going to be in 10 or 15 years,” he said. “They place more value on the long-term elements than the professionals.”

With a share price that has risen from around 6 euros in early 2001 to about 43 euros now, their investment appears to have been a wise one.

Employee ownership also has another benefit from management’s perspective, helping deter potential hostile takeovers, according to observers like Marc Mathieu, secretary general of the European Federation of Employee Share Ownership, an advocacy group in Brussels.

In Germany, however, the debate over promoting employee ownership has run into resistance from unions.

The debate began last year when Kurt Beck, chairman of the Social Democrats, said his party would work out a plan. Beck, who heads the government of a small western German state, Rhineland-Palatinate, has sought to bridge the gap between traditional Socialists and the more centrist wing of his party.

Conservative Christian Democrats, who form the other half of the coalition government in Berlin, responded positively, but Mr. Beck found it much harder to convince his party’s traditional allies in the labor movement.

Having seen real wages fall in the last four years, German unions rejected substituting stock ownership for wage increases.

“Employee ownership cannot come at the cost of wages,” said Dietmar Hexel, a board member of DGB, Germany’s union federation. “Employees cannot afford an additional loss of income.”

German unions have often accepted profit-sharing — as opposed to stock ownership — as a substitute for regular wages. Volkswagen, the largest automaker in Europe, for example, this month gave 86,000 German employees a bonus of 3,700 euros that was linked to its operating earnings.

To make a system of employee shareholding stick, the two main political parties in Germany are considering tax incentives to promote employee ownership as an addition to wages. Social Democrats are also proposing that employees buy into funds of different stocks to mitigate the risks created by a concentrated holding of a single stock.

Rainer Wend, a Social Democratic member of the German Parliament involved in negotiating the plan, said he believed the two sides would reach an agreement this year. But he cautioned that employee ownership was not a political panacea.

“It’s an illusion to think we will solve our problems about rich and poor via this legislation,” Mr. Wend said. “If we’re talking about social justice, we need wage increases and limits on executive pay. That makes more sense to me.”
978 2008-03-31 Business activity in the Midwest contracted in March for the second consecutive month, a report released Monday showed, highlighting worries of recession and inflation.

The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago business barometer rose to 48.2 from 44.5 in February. That was below the level of 50 that separates contraction from expansion but better than the result of 46 foreseen in a Reuters poll.

February’s result was the weakest in six years.

The report showed improvement on the jobs front but also the persistence of entrenched inflation amid recessionary conditions.

“Apparent improvement from a less negative value was tempered by the dual facts that the barometer remained below neutral and did so for the second consecutive month,” the report said.

“The presence of recflation — recession and inflation — provides consumers, business professionals, policymakers and politicians with a host of challenges and no simple answers,” the report added.

The good news for economic bulls came in the form of a sharp rise in the employment index to 44.6 in March from 33.5 in February. That was the biggest one-month employment gain since February 2002.
979 2008-03-31 While the plan promotes a long-term goal of reducing the alphabet soup of agencies that regulate financial institutions, in the shorter run it may achieve the opposite effect.

The blueprint listed as one short-term goal the creation of a mortgage commission led by top regulators to set new minimum licensing standards for mortgage brokers and otherwise unregulated financial institutions. That proposal would require legislation, and some lawmakers predicted it could be adopted this year.

Officials said that, as part of the plan, President Bush was preparing an executive order to expand the membership and the reach of an interagency committee called the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets.

The group was created in 1988 after the stock market plummeted a year earlier. The group is also expected to consider ways to broaden the authority of the Federal Reserve to lend money to nonbanks as needs arise.

But other than those relatively modest proposals, most elements are not likely to be adopted anytime soon, if at all. Senior lawmakers, while praising the administration for raising important issues for discussion, said the odds were long for a major overhaul in the remaining days of the Congressional session.

“Since this is opening day in baseball, I might as well make a baseball metaphor,” said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Senate banking committee. “This is a wild pitch. It is not even close to the strike zone.”

Mr. Dodd and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said in a telephone conference call that overhauling the regulatory structure was not a priority. Instead, they said, they were hoping to quickly move legislation that would help homeowners facing higher mortgage rates and foreclosure.

“In time, we will hold hearings on reorganizing the regulatory structure,” Mr. Dodd said. But he also said that many members of his committee “have serious concern” about expanding the authority of the Federal Reserve by letting investment banks have access to cheaper borrowing at the Fed’s discount window.

He said that at a hearing later this week, he planned to sharply question the decisions by the Fed as it went about forcing the sale of Bear Stearns to JP Morgan Chase in March.

In a speech in the historic cash room at the Treasury Department, Mr. Paulson disputed critics who have complained either that the plan was deregulatory or would impose greater regulation.

“Those who want to quickly label the blueprint as advocating ‘more’ or ‘less’ regulation are oversimplifying this critical and inevitable debate,” he said. “The blueprint is about structure and responsibilities — not the regulations each entity would write. The benefit of the structure we outline is the accountability that stems from having one agency responsible for each regulatory objective. Few, if any, will defend our current balkanized system as optimal.”

But, in fact, the fine print of the 218-page plan features both regulatory and deregulatory elements. The creation of a mortgage origination commission, for instance, was expected to impose new and higher nationwide standards to encourage mortgage brokers not to promote unsuitable or abusive loans. Such a move would require new regulations or laws.

Other elements of the plan are clearly deregulatory. The plan proposes, for instance, to reduce the enforcement authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission in several ways and hand that authority to industry groups. It also recommends that investment advisers no longer be directly regulated by the S.E.C., but instead be supervised by an industry regulatory organization.

Major elements face fierce resistance from powerful industry groups that like their current regulators, and have over past decades defeated similar proposals.

The American Bankers Association attacked a provision to eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision.

Daniel A. Mica, president and chief executive of the Credit Union National Association, said he was “astonished and angered” by the plan, which he said would add up to more choices for Wall Street and less for consumers — and turn credit unions into banks.

Several features were criticized by regulators appointed by the Bush administration.

John M. Reich, the director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, said that the savings and loan industry regulated by his agency remains vibrant in large part because of the effectiveness of regulators. In an e-mail message to agency employees, he said proposals similar to the one made by Mr. Paulson are floated all the time — and typically rejected.

“Although none of these proposals became reality, many of you might be wondering whether financial services restructuring is an idea whose time has finally come,” Mr. Reich wrote. “I don’t think so, at least as it pertains to the four federal banking agencies, and I am writing to tell you why.”

John J. Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, which represents chief executives at many large companies, said the plan “represents a timely response to the current state of our country’s aging regulatory system.”

“We believe the plan as outlined will increase the competitiveness of our financial markets, provide greater efficiencies for our companies, and therefore increase shareholder value,” Mr. Castellani said.

T. Timothy Ryan Jr., president of Wall Street’s biggest trade group, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said the plan was “thoughtful” and “very wise.”

“Our present regulatory framework was born of Depression-era events and is not well suited for today’s environment where billions of dollars race across the globe with the click of a mouse,” said Mr. Ryan, who earlier in his career was a director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, an agency the Paulson plan proposes to eliminate.
980 2008-03-31 PARIS — Stocks fell in Europe and most of Asia on Monday amid expectations of more losses in the banking sector, as investors prepared to close out a dismal quarter. Futures prices showed Wall Street was set to open lower.

“We’re afraid we’re going to see some emergency capital-raising measures from the banks,” said Valérie Cazaban, a fund manager at Stratège Finance. “For the moment, we are very pessimistic.”

Shares of UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, fell 3.9 percent, giving it a loss for the year of about 47 percent. Merrill Lynch analysts predicted that UBS, which has already written off billions of dollars in losses related to the United States housing market, would have to write off another $11 billion for the first quarter.

Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in a note to clients that UBS would likely have a loss for the quarter of more than $8 billion and that a new round of capital increases there was “a real possibility.” Dominik von Arx, a spokesman for UBS, declined to comment on the Merrill report, but he said that investors would have a clearer picture of the bank’s plans this week when UBS publishes the agenda for its annual shareholders meeting.

The FTSE 100 index in London was down 0.8 percent in late morning trading, which would give it a loss of 13 percent in the first three months of 2008. The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of blue-chip euro zone companies, was down 1.3 percent, putting it on track for a quarterly loss of 18 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris, down 0.8 percent, was heading for a quarterly loss of 17 percent, while the Dax in Frankfurt was off 1.4 percent and headed for a 20 percent quarterly loss.
981 2008-03-31 The dearth of Pioneers and Rangers, the elite fund-raisers for Mr. Bush who collected more than $100,000 or $200,000 respectively for his re-election bid in 2004, is illustrative of just how far Mr. McCain has to go to build up his financial operation.

Several former Bush fund-raisers said in interviews that they believed many more Rangers and Pioneers would mobilize for Mr. McCain, now that he was the presumptive nominee. But some also said they might not, citing reasons like personal circumstances, a lack of enthusiasm for Mr. McCain (especially compared with Mr. Bush) and exhaustion.

“It takes an enormous amount of passion,” said Joyce Haver, a Phoenix businesswoman who was a Bush Pioneer in 2000 and a Ranger in 2004 and who said she was unlikely to plunge in again. “I probably don’t have the passion I had last time.”

Ms. Haver, who said she still believed that Mr. McCain would make a far better president than either of the Democratic candidates, said her lack of enthusiasm stemmed from a number of factors, including her frustration with politics in general and with Mr. McCain’s support for the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law that many conservatives revile.

Other former Bush fund-raisers said they were simply tired after working for other Republican presidential campaigns in this lengthy contest.

Patrick Oxford, a Houston lawyer who was the chairman of Mr. Giuliani’s campaign and was a Bush Pioneer in 2000, said he was unlikely to throw himself back into raising money.

“It’s not because I’m not a supporter of Senator McCain,” Mr. Oxford said. “I’m just worn out.”

Several veteran fund-raisers for Mr. Bush also pointed out that Mr. McCain’s campaign organization was forced to retrench after his candidacy stalled over the summer and is now straining under the burden of expanding into a national operation — it is still, for example, operating with just four finance staff members.

“I would hope they might be a little better organized by this point,” said Bruce Bialosky, an accountant and former Bush Pioneer from Los Angeles who has not yet committed to raising money for Mr. McCain. “They geared down so much it’s almost difficult for them to gear back up.”

As Mr. McCain has focused on building up his campaign treasury in recent weeks, there are signs that the pace of fund-raising has begun to pick up. A recent event in New York City, led by former Senator Alfonse D’Amato, brought in $2 million, as did another one earlier this month in Florida.

Campaign finance records also show that contributions from former Bush bundlers increased significantly after Mr. McCain’s candidacy began to catch on, and donations typically tend to pour in as the summer party convention nears.

Mr. McCain’s advisers insisted they were on schedule for expanding their financial operation, including recruiting those who collected checks for Mr. Bush. They also pointed out that there was invariably turnover of fund-raisers from one election cycle to the next.

“We are meeting every deadline we have and exceeding them,” said Wayne Berman, a former Bush Ranger and the deputy finance chairman for the McCain campaign.

Poor fund-raising nearly forced Mr. McCain from the race last summer, but it began to improve after his candidacy gathered momentum in January, helping him bring in almost $12 million that month. But he brought in slightly less in February, about $11 million, according to the latest filings to the Federal Election Commission.

In comparison, on the Democratic side, Senator Barack Obama raised $55 million in February and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton collected $36 million. As of the end of February, Mr. McCain had collected about $60 million in contributions over all, while Mr. Obama has raised the most of any candidate with nearly $200 million.

The New York Times compared a list of 548 Pioneers and Rangers from 2004 assembled by Texans for Public Justice, a watchdog group that tracks the influence of money in politics, against a list of roughly 500 McCain fund-raisers assembled by Public Citizen, another public interest group that tracks names that emerge in news articles and campaign press releases. The analysis found that only slightly more than a tenth of Bush Pioneers or Rangers were working for Mr. McCain (though some newly minted McCain fund-raisers may not have been publicly identified yet).

In terms of personal donations, at the end of last year before the nominating contests began, Mr. Giuliani had received the most money from people who were Bush Pioneers and Rangers in 2004, followed by Mr. Romney and then Mr. McCain.

By the end of February, Mr. McCain had surged ahead, with the number of former Bush fund-raisers donating to him growing by 50 percent, to about 125 from about 85.

It appears, however, that about half of the former Bush fund-raisers did not contribute to any Republican candidate.

Figures are not yet available for March, when Mr. McCain became the presumptive nominee and embarked on a major fund-raising blitz. It is also not clear if the former Bush bundlers are giving generously to other Republican groups and candidates, especially with Mr. Bush holding a series of highly successful big-money events in recent weeks.

On April 1, the McCain campaign will set up a joint fund-raising committee with the national party, McCain Victory 2008, which will have the dual tasks of raising money for Mr. McCain and the party, which is now working on his behalf.

The McCain campaign is also rolling out its own version of a Pioneers and Rangers program, offering the title of Trailblazer to anyone who raises at least $100,000 and Innovator to those who collect more than $250,000. Campaign officials are also in the midst of selecting state chairmen and assigning them fund-raising goals.

In what was seen as an important step, the McCain campaign recently signed up Mercer Reynolds, a Cincinnati businessman who was Mr. Bush’s chief fund-raiser in 2004. Mr. McCain’s advisers said Mr. Reynolds had already started to bring many former Bush fund-raisers and donors in his network into the fold.

McCain officials have been in discussions for several weeks with fund-raisers from the Giuliani and Romney campaigns to discuss how to integrate their respective networks.

In an unusual move, a group of McCain fund-raisers is planning to help Mr. Giuliani raise money to settle about $2 million in campaign debts, Mr. McCain’s advisers said.

The campaign has not yet established a significant fund-raising presence online, as the Democrats have, but last week alone Mr. McCain courted high-dollar donors in Salt Lake City and Las Vegas and in California in Palm Springs, Newport Beach, Los Angeles and Pebble Beach.

A fund-raising event last week at the Bel-Air mansion of Jerry Perenchio, the former chairman of Univision and a Bush Pioneer, drew about 500 people, including former top Bush fund-raisers and Jon Voight, Clint Eastwood and Nancy Reagan.

“They’re calling up the old network, and we’re all plugging in,” said Matt Fong, a former California state treasurer and 2000 and 2004 Bush Pioneer who had not committed to any candidate until he agreed to help with the Bel Air event. “It’s late, but it’s happening.”
982 2008-03-31 By the end of the evening, Nationals Park would be inaugurated in grand fashion before a crowd of 39,389. The star third baseman Ryan Zimmerman, 23, would win the game, 3-2, for the home team with a home run delivered with two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning. The first victory in the stadium would go to Jon Rauch.

Here along the banks of the Anacostia River, where great earthmovers have intruded lately among modest row houses, some found little solace in baseball.

“Baby, I’m homeless around here,” said Cheryl Stover, who was standing across from the stadium the other day at Leo’s Deli & Grocery, where chicken wings are sold from behind bulletproof glass. “I think they have done a little bit too much.”

Though the game would not begin until sundown, the ballpark opened in midafternoon, beckoning with bunting of red, white and blue. Behind picture windows high above home plate, desks held places for The Washington Post, Sports Telenoticias, The Voice of America, The Falls Church News-Press and dozens more.

Along the corridors, outsized images paid tribute to greats of the long-departed Senators ball club. Distractions included a playground, a video arcade and a Capitol Candy stand.

Another said, “We don’t know if it’s good money yet.”

More than 40,000 tickets had been sold, and their owners arrived in sweatshirts and parkas, with fielder’s mitts and ball caps emblazoned with the cursive W, once signifying the Senators, now the three-year-old Washington Nationals. There was Ellen Hayes of Fairfax, Va., who had attended an opening day at the Polo Grounds in New York. There were Kirk Nawrotzky, 20, and his father, Nick, taking seats in the upper grandstands. There were Ron Ohringer, 45, and Jim Sullivan, 53, from Maryland, strolling the grounds for inspection or warmth. It was 49 degrees.

“It’s probably a once-in-a-lifetime chance to see opening day in a new stadium,” said Mike Kvartunas, 13. “It’s good to have a baseball team in my hometown.”

On a field decorated with the logos of the team, the major leagues and an exceedingly popular brand of beer, the players took batting practice. Soldiers in camouflage watched from the first-base line, waiting to unfurl flags.

“I’m enjoying being a piece of history,” said Sgt. First Class William Dixon of the D.C. Army National Guard.

Night fell, and the rosters of the Nationals and the Atlanta Braves were called, and the American flags were displayed, and four F-16s of the 121st Fighter Squadron cut the sky over center field. The mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves began to sing:

Oh, say can you see, by the dawn’s early light

What so proudly we hailed at the twilight’s last gleaming?

Then President Bush, dressed in a team jacket, walked over a red carpet and across the infield to the pitcher’s mound, carrying the ball in his right hand. As the skylights and the dancing electronic displays replaced the dying light of the day’s gunmetal sky, the pitch left his right hand and wobbled a little and carried high and outside into the catcher’s mitt. And the players took the field.
983 2008-03-31 “People sign up for food stamps when they lose their jobs, or their wages go down because their hours are cut,” said Stacy Dean, director of food stamp policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, who noted that 14 states saw their rolls reach record numbers by last December.

One example is Michigan, where one in eight residents now receives food stamps. “Our caseload has more than doubled since 2000, and we’re at an all-time record level,” said Maureen Sorbet, spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of Human Services.

The climb in food stamp recipients there has been relentless, through economic upturns and downturns, reflecting a steady loss of industrial jobs that has pushed recipient levels to new highs in Ohio and Illinois as well.

“We’ve had poverty here for a good while,” Ms. Sorbet said. Contributing to the rise, she added, Michigan, like many other states, has also worked to make more low-end workers aware of their eligibility, and a switch from coupons to electronic debit cards has reduced the stigma.

Some states have experienced more recent surges. From December 2006 to December 2007, more than 40 states saw recipient numbers rise, and in several — Arizona, Florida, Maryland, Nevada, North Dakota and Rhode Island — the one-year growth was 10 percent or more.

In Rhode Island, the number of recipients climbed by 18 percent over the last two years, to more than 84,000 as of February, or about 8.4 percent of the population. This is the highest total in the last dozen years or more, said Bob McDonough, the state’s administrator of family and adult services, and reflects both a strong enlistment effort and an upward creep in unemployment.

In New York, a program to promote enrollment increased food stamp rolls earlier in the decade, but the current climb in applications appears in part to reflect economic hardship, said Michael Hayes, spokesman for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. The additional 67,000 clients added from July 2007 to January of this year brought total recipients to 1.86 million, about one in 10 New Yorkers.

Nutrition and poverty experts praise food stamps as a vital safety net that helped eliminate the severe malnutrition seen in the country as recently as the 1960s. But they also express concern about what they called the gradual erosion of their value.

Food stamps are an entitlement program, with eligibility guidelines set by Congress and the federal government paying for benefits while states pay most administrative costs.

Eligibility is determined by a complex formula, but basically recipients must have few assets and incomes below 130 percent of the poverty line, or less than $27,560 for a family of four.

As a share of the national population, food stamp use was highest in 1994, after several years of poor economic growth, with an average of 27.5 million recipients per month from a lower total of residents. The numbers plummeted in the late 1990s as the economy grew and legal immigrants and certain others were excluded.

But access by legal immigrants has been partly restored and, in the current decade, the federal and state governments have used advertising and other measures to inform people of their eligibility and have often simplified application procedures.

Because they spend a higher share of their incomes on basic needs like food and fuel, low-income Americans have been hit hard by soaring gasoline and heating costs and jumps in the prices of staples like milk, eggs and bread.

At the same time, average family incomes among the bottom fifth of the population have been stagnant or have declined in recent years at levels around $15,500, said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington.

The benefit levels, which can amount to many hundreds of dollars for families with several children, are adjusted each June according to the price of a bare-bones “thrifty food plan,” as calculated by the Department of Agriculture. Because food prices have risen by about 5 percent this year, benefit levels will rise similarly in June — months after the increase in costs for consumers.

Advocates worry more about the small but steady decline in real benefits since 1996, when the “standard deduction” for living costs, which is subtracted from family income to determine eligibility and benefit levels, was frozen. If that deduction had continued to rise with inflation, the average mother with two children would be receiving an additional $37 a month, according to the private Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

Both houses of Congress have passed bills that would index the deduction to the cost of living, but the measures are part of broader agriculture bills that appear unlikely to pass this year because of disagreements with the White House over farm policy.

Another important federal nutrition program known as WIC, for women, infants and children, is struggling with rising prices of milk and cheese, and growing enrollment.

The program, for households with incomes no higher than 185 percent of the federal poverty level, provides healthy food and nutrition counseling to 8.5 million pregnant women, and children through the age of 4. WIC is not an entitlement like food stamps, and for the fiscal year starting in October, Congress may have to approve a large increase over its current budget of $6 billion if states are to avoid waiting lists for needy mothers and babies.
984 2008-03-31 BATAVIA, Ohio (AP) — The father of a soldier listed as missing-captured in Iraq since 2004 said Sunday that the military had informed him that his son’s remains were found in Iraq.

The man, Keith Maupin, said at a news conference in suburban Cincinnati that an Army general told him DNA testing had identified the remains of his son, Sgt. Keith Matthew Maupin, or Matt, as he was known.

Lt. Lee Packnett, an Army public affairs officer in Washington, confirmed that the Maupins were notified Sunday that their son’s remains had been identified. Lieutenant Packnett said an official statement about the identification would be released Monday.

Sergeant Maupin was a 20-year-old private first class when he was captured on April 9, 2004, after his fuel convoy, part of the 724th Transportation Company, was ambushed west of Baghdad. A month after his capture, he was promoted to the rank of specialist. In April 2005, he was promoted to sergeant.

A week after his capture, the Arab television network Al Jazeera broadcast a videotape showing Sergeant Maupin sitting on the floor surrounded by five masked men holding automatic rifles.

That June, Al Jazeera broadcast another tape purporting to show an American soldier being shot. But the dark and grainy tape showed only the back of the victim’s head and not the actual shooting.
985 2008-03-31 DEEPER PROBLEMS As Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. lays out his blueprint to avert new crises by overhauling financial regulations, signs of new stress are bubbling up.      CHOLESTEROL DRUG WARNING Two widely prescribed cholesterol-loweri...
986 2008-03-31 BONJEAN--Emile . Beloved Emile, native of France, and resident of Long Island, NY, was a tender and treasured part of our family for 50 years. His dedication and brilliance transformed Greentree from a personal home into a ''House of Peace,'' wher...
987 2008-03-31 CHAMBERLAIN--Narcisse , a highly respected cookbook editor and writer, died on Saturday, March 22, 2008, in New York City following a long illness. She was 83. In her more than 20 years as a senior editor at William Morrow and Company, Ms. Chamber...